
    
      The proposed study will use a 2 group randomized controlled clinical trial design. The two
      groups are: 1) standard care in the rehabilitation center with control computer exposure
      (SCCE) and 2) standard care plus computer-based self-management pain (CBSM) intervention. The
      study will examine the short- and long-term effects of these interventions on pain and
      physical and psychosocial functioning and productivity (DAW, RWD, WC costs and re-injury) in
      200 completing patients with strain/sprain MSID. Outcome data will be collected at baseline,
      after treatment, and at 3 and 6 month follow-up. All outcome assessments will be administered
      by computer.

      Pain Management Following Musculoskeletal Injury Study. The study is comprised of two phases:
      Phase I Planning/Development and Phase II Intervention.

      During Phase I Planning/Development, the study investigators 1) identified technology partner
      to aid in computerization of intervention; 2) identified sites for study implementation; 3)
      developed consent forms and tracking procedures; 4) developed computer based self-management
      (CBSM) pain intervention; 5) developed computer based educational materials for the control
      condition; 6) beta tested intervention materials; 7) developed recruitment materials; 8)
      developed outcome assessment procedures measures.

      During Phase II Intervention, the study investigators will 1)complete IRB review at each of
      the study sites; 2) train study personnel, and upon approval from each of the IRBs; 3)
      initiation of study subject recruitment and intervention. Phase II will begin June 2011 and
      be completed by June 2013.

      During Phase II a total of 200 patients will be enrolled in the study.

      Control Group Individuals with acute MSID, in the employers with on-site rehabilitation
      centers, are initially seen by the plant medical office and, if appropriate, referred for
      rehabilitation services. Patients are given an initial evaluation by the treating physical or
      occupational therapist and a treatment plan is implemented. The typical patient is seen for
      an average of approximately 9 visits over a four-week period. However, patients can be seen
      as long as indicated. SCCE is seen as the appropriate control condition for several reasons.
      First, denying patients care is not ethically appropriate. Second, this is type of
      rehabilitation and injury education is the care typically received by acute MSID patients and
      is the current standard of practice. Currently the education is provided in written brochures
      and handouts. The addition of computer interaction for presenting this education controls for
      threats related to differential time spent in treatment and the novelty of computer
      supplement to care. The computer exposure will be administered over 8 sessions during the
      average 4-week period patients are receiving their standard on-site rehabilitation care.
      Patients will come to the center to receive their standard care and then interact with the
      computer for the 25-30 minute control condition. The primary goal of this condition is to
      provide a control for computer exposure. Briefly, the first session will concentrate on
      establishing the patient's ability to interact with the computer. The materials will provide
      general education regarding the injury and methods for preventing re-injury. This condition
      will not provide teaching and practice of specific pain management and coping management
      skills. This control computer education activity will equalize the computer exposure of the
      two groups and the duration of time devoted to injury care.

      Intervention Group: Will receive the same medical care and physical therapy treatment as the
      control group. In addition the computer-based self-management program (CBSM) intervention
      will be administered over 8 sessions during the average 4 week period patients are receiving
      their standard on-site rehabilitation care. Patients will come to the center to receive their
      standard care and then interact with the computer for the 25-30 minute CBSM intervention. The
      primary goals of treatment include developing skills for managing acute injury and related
      pain including: reducing fear avoidance beliefs and catastrophizing, improving mood,
      increasing perceptions of control and self-efficacy, maintaining activity and reducing pain.
      The intervention materials are based on the investigators work in the a self-management
      program for persons with limb loss and those shown effective in other secondary prevention
      studies in MSID, specifically the Pain Disability Prevention Program (PDPP) develop by
      Sullivan. While the PDPP has been evaluated on persons who have been out of work for six
      weeks or more and this study targets individuals who are more recently injured, the content
      of the intervention is appropriate for the study population. Each session focuses on specific
      topics and sets of skills. Skills are presented and modeled by computer-based video during
      sessions, audio will be used to explain models and teach skills such as relaxation training.
      This will supplement any written materials and minimize the need for reading. Patients are
      instructed to practice and apply skills between sessions. Patients will also be given
      specific feedback about their progress in working through the CBSM modules. As all CBSM takes
      place within the on-site rehabilitation center, staff are available to provide assistance if
      necessary. The sessions initially focus on pain, which is a primary motivator to the patient,
      expand the focus to cognitive and emotional factors related to pain and disability and
      finally move to increasing activity. A home activity will be assigned at completion of the
      session. The home activity will be printed out for the patient to take home and will be
      available to the participant through the study website from remote locations. The study
      intervention and home activities will be refined using focus group and pilot testing methods.
    
  