
    
      Objective: to evaluate the influence of low-calorie diet on serum and urinary metabolic
      parameters of obese adults with urinary calculi and lithogenic metabolic abnormalities.

      Method: prospective study of 50 patients, aged over 18 years, with a body mass index above 30
      kg/m2, urinary calculi and lithogenic metabolic abnormalities. Will be excluded from the
      study patients with psychiatric diagnoses other than depression, patients with inability to
      attend to clinical follow-up, patients with nephrocalcinosis, patients with urinary tract
      infection, patients with cystinuria and patients subjected to previous surgeries to treat
      obesity. Each patient will be evaluated monthly on the same day by urologist and
      nutritionist. On the first evaluation, will be done anamnesis, anthropometric measurements of
      weight, height, waist, bioimpedance and requested total serum calcium, phosphate, sodium,
      potassium, urea, creatinine, uric acid, and PTH, pH venous blood, urine tests type I, culture
      of urine and urine tests of calcium, oxalate, phosphate, sodium, potassium, citrate,
      magnesium, creatinine, uric acid, cystine and computed tomography for evaluation of urinary
      calculus. In the second evaluation, 30 days after, anthropometric measures will be repeated,
      bioimpedance and nutritional assessment will be made with recommendation of daily ingestion
      of 2500 ml of water and low-calorie diet of 16 Kcal/kg bw/day and requested total serum
      calcium, phosphate, sodium, potassium, urea, creatinine, uric acid, and PTH, pH venous blood,
      urine tests type I, culture of urine and urine tests of calcium, oxalate, phosphate, sodium,
      potassium, citrate, magnesium, creatinine, uric acid, cystine. Patients will be monitored
      monthly for 3 months with anthropometric measurements, bioimpedance and strengthening of
      nutritional recommendations. By the end of the third month, patients will be submitted to two
      series of serum and urine tests as before the diet. The results of serum and urine tests from
      the beginning of dietary treatment will be compared to those of the end of the treatment with
      Student T test. P<0.05 are considered significant.
    
  