
    
      This will be a pragmatic, randomized, blinded trial comparing a rapid-wean intervention (15%
      decrements from the stabilization dose) to a slow-wean intervention (10% decrements from the
      stabilization dose) to determine whether rapid weaning will reduce the number of treatment
      days among infants receiving morphine or methadone orally as the primary treatment for NOWS.
      Participating hospitals must provide pharmacologic treatment to at least an average of 12
      opioid exposed infants each year, use a scoring system to assess for signs of NOWS (original
      or modified Finnegan Neonatal Abstinence Scoring system, Eat-Sleep or Console), and provide
      opioid replacement therapy with either morphine or methadone as the primary drug for treating
      NOWS. Hospitals may change use of these two opioids during the trial period. The
      investigators will stratify randomization by hospital.

      The study protocol will commence after NOWS signs have been controlled with an opioid
      (stabilization) and weaning of pharmacologic treatment is to be started. At or before each
      24-hour interval, clinical team members will evaluate and score infants, per hospital
      practice, for signs of NOWS to determine if the infant will tolerate weaning of the study
      drug. After study drug cessation, the clinical team will observe infants in the hospital for
      at least 48 hours prior to discharge, which is similar to clinical practice. A trained
      examiner will administer the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Network Neurobehavioral
      Scale (NNNS) to assess neurobehavioral profiles after infants cease study drug and prior to
      discharge.

      At one month post discharge, primary caregivers will complete the Brief Symptom Inventory
      (BSI), the Maternal Postnatal Attachment Questionnaire (MPAQ) and a caregiver questionnaire.
      The site research team will contact the primary caregiver(s) to update contact information
      and/or complete questionnaires when the infant is 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24
      months of age. The questionnaires will assess infant wellness, neurobehavioral functioning
      and development, postnatal attachment and bonding, and caregiver well-being. At 24 months,
      the infants will be seen during which a, certified developmental specialists, blinded to the
      intervention, will administer the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, Fourth
      Edition (Bayley-4) to assess infant neurodevelopment. The BSI and the Brief Infant Toddler
      Social Emotional Assessment (BITSEA) will also be administered during the 24 month visit
      along with measures of growth.
    
  