
    
      PRIMARY AIMS:

      This is a randomized trial testing a peri- and post-discharge pharmacist-led medication
      management intervention on post-discharge utilization, including both readmissions and
      emergency department visits within 30 days of discharge. The reason for targeting utilization
      as the primary outcome is that the investigators believe prior work has already established
      the efficacy of this type of intervention in preventing adverse drug events, but that it has
      not been widely implemented because there is currently no business case for these types of
      services, from the perspective of the hospitals and health systems who would need to fund
      them. The intervention incorporates evidence addressing three main areas: medication
      reconciliation, medication adherence, and polypharmacy. This study uses a pragmatic trial
      randomized at the patient level and conducted in two large hospitals to achieve the following
      aims (stratified by site):

      Aim 1: To test the effect of this intervention on post-discharge utilization among patients
      most at risk for post-discharge adverse drug events: recently discharged older adults taking
      ≥10 medications or ≥3 high-risk medications using a prospective, randomized, pragmatic
      multi-site study.

      Aim 2: To study barriers and facilitators of implementing this intervention using a
      qualitative study.

      Aim 3: To analyze the costs of this intervention, including the incremental cost per
      readmission averted and the net incremental cost from the health system perspective using a
      time-and-motion study and a cost-effectiveness analysis.

      The study population includes individuals being discharged from the hospital at high risk for
      adverse drug events. Two sites will participate in this study: an academic medical center
      (Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts) and a university-affiliated community
      hospital (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California) that has some community
      physicians.

      Eligible pharmacists (those with training in transitions of care) at the two sites will
      receive a list of patients currently admitted to the hospital who have been randomized to the
      intervention. Randomization is stratified by site. Intervention patients will be offered
      intensive pharmacist services during and after discharge, most notably a chart review,
      in-person or phone visit(s) during hospitalization, medication reconciliation at hospital
      discharge, and a post-discharge phone call. Some or all of these activities may take place
      over the phone. Other intervention components (e.g. phone calls to community pharmacies and
      primary care physicians) may also be offered when indicated.a SECONDARY DATA ANALYSIS:
      EXAMINE EFFECTS OF PHARM-DC INTERVENTION ON INITIATION AND DEPRESCRIBING OF
      BENZODIAZEPINE-RECEPTOR AGONISTS

      The following secondary analyses of trial data are planned to examine effects of the PHARM-DC
      intervention on (1) the initiation of new outpatient prescriptions of benzodiazepine-receptor
      agonists (BZRs) and (2) the deprescribing of BZRs among patients taking BZRs prior to
      hospitalization:

        1. Among patients without a BZR prescription on admission, the investigators will examine
           the difference in adjusted predicted probability of having new BZR prescriptions from
           admission to discharge between the intervention group and the control group. The
           investigators will use logistic regression using a generalized estimating equations
           approach and estimate adjusted predicted probabilities. The investigators will
           hypothesize that among patients without a BZR prior to hospitalization, the
           risk-adjusted probability of having a new discharge BZR prescription will be
           substantially lower (e.g. 35% lower) among patients who are enrolled in the PHARM-DC
           intervention compared to the control group.

        2. Among patients taking BZRs prior to hospitalization, the investigators will use logistic
           regression to estimate the adjusted predicted probability of dose intensification among
           patients in the PHARM-DC intervention and the control group. The investigators
           hypothesize that among patients with BZRs prior to hospitalization, the risk-adjusted
           probability of experiencing a dose increase will be substantially lower (e.g. 35% lower)
           among patients who are enrolled in the PHARM-DC intervention compared to controls.

      Outcome measures: The investigators will create two measures: (1) a dichotomous variable for
      a new discharge prescription of BZRs among patients not taking BZRs prior to admission, and
      (2) a dichotomous variable for an increased dose prescription among patients taking BZRs
      prior to admission.

      SECONDARY DATA ANALYSIS: EXAMINE EFFECTS OF PHARM-DC INTERVENTION ON FALL-RELATED INJURIES
      AMONG OLDER ADULTS WITH ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND RELATED DEMENTIAS:

      The following secondary analyses of trial data are planned to examine effects of the PHARM-DC
      intervention on post-hospitalization fall-related injuries among all trial participants and
      among the subgroup of older adults with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD):

        1. The investigators will investigate whether the intervention reduces the severity of
           fall-related injuries by using a two-sided Z test to compare the proportions of severe
           injuries (e.g., hip fractures) and acute care utilization (hospitalization and ED
           visits) between the intervention and control groups. The investigators hypothesize that
           the PHARM-DC intervention reduces the severity of fall-related injuries by mitigating
           medication-related risk factors.

        2. The investigators will use a two-sided Z test to compare the proportion of those who
           have post-hospitalization healthcare utilization for fall-related injuries within 30
           days among all trial participants and among individuals with ADRD. The investigators
           hypothesize that the PHARM-DC intervention reduces fall-related injuries among
           individuals with ADRD. The investigators also hypothesize that the benefit of the
           intervention is larger among individuals with ADRD compared to individuals without ADRD
           by addressing both general and ADRD-specific medication-related risk factors for falls.

        3. The investigators will examine the effect of the intervention among individuals with
           dementia with Lewy bodies (ICD-10-CM code: G31.83) and individuals with an ADRD
           diagnosis code associated with the ICD-10-CM code for Parkinson's disease (G20), because
           previous literature suggests that these patients have a much higher incidence of
           fall-related injuries, as compared to individuals with Alzheimer's disease.

        4. The investigators will describe the difference in the nature of falls among individuals
           with and without ADRD using external causes of morbidity codes (e.g., falls from bed vs.
           falls while walking).

      Variables: The investigators will check for balanced demographics and comorbidities across
      arms in all analyses. In cases with imbalance, the investigators will consider post-hoc
      adjustment, including by considering sex as a biological variable. Individuals with ADRD will
      be identified by the ICD-10-CM codes based on hospital claims, adapting the algorithm from
      the Chronic Conditions Data Warehouse.

      Outcome measures: The investigators define post-hospitalization fall-related injuries as
      healthcare utilization (hospitalization, ED visits, urgent care visits, or office visits) due
      to fall-related injuries within 30 days of discharge of the index admission. The
      investigators will link Medicare claims data to trial data to track this outcome at the
      individual patient level.

      Sensitivity analysis: It is possible that the investigators under-detect individuals with
      ADRD diagnoses if the ADRD diagnoses are not coded diligently on hospital claims. To mitigate
      this issue, the investigators will conduct a sensitivity analysis by using electronic health
      record (EHR) data prior to the index admission, so that the investigators can include those
      who were diagnosed with ADRD in the outpatient setting. Because this can only be done for
      patients who receive outpatient care from doctors using the CSMC EHR, it would introduce bias
      if used as part of the overall analysis. However, it can be done among this group to test the
      sensitivity of detecting ADRD via claims.
    
  