
    
      This treatment model, new for Puerto Rico, should improve compliance with ART and health
      outcomes for Latino patients who have largely been excluded from efficacy and effectiveness
      studies, and thus have not benefited from these advances. The proposed research lays the
      groundwork to provide the benefits of theoretically grounded, culturally adapted, and
      evidence-based treatment to reduce self-stigma and increase drug and HIV treatment adherence
      among Puerto Ricans that may also apply to other Spanish-speaking patients.

      The investigators work is guided by the Stage Model for Behavior Therapy that recognizes that
      the scientific study of behavior therapies involves a systematic developmental process that
      progresses from feasibility (Stage I) to efficacy (Stage II) to effectiveness (Stage III).
      The proposed research focuses on Stage Ib where the investigators propose to conduct a pilot
      randomized control trial to compare the outcomes between a novel CBT-based intervention and
      treatment as usual (TAU) among HIV/DUD+ Latinos reporting self-stigma who are receiving care
      in a primary care health setting. Assessments of self-stigma and HIV and drug treatment
      adherence for all participants will be collected pre-treatment and post-treatment. This model
      allows to lay the groundwork for a larger effectiveness clinical trial.

      The investigators plan to enroll 16 patients who will be randomly assigned to the CBT (n=8)
      or to TAU (n=8). Sample size considers a 35% attrition rate as based in previous research
      experiences among similar population. Patients will be recruited in primary health care
      clinics in PR. Participants will be randomly assigned to (a) treatment as usual or (b) a
      Cognitive and Behavioral Therapy. This intervention is a theoretically-based efficacious
      treatment for self-stigma and related depression. It consists of weekly 60-minute sessions
      for 6-8 weeks; is flexible and can be modified to fit the needs of individual clients. The
      intervention is designed to help individuals to employ acceptance and values-directed
      behavior change strategies in order to increase psychological flexibility, a process that is
      at the core of behavioral health and retention in treatment.

      Overall, analyses will allow generating an effect size that can be used to calculate the
      number of subjects needed for adequate power to detect significant differences between
      groups.
    
  