
    
      The American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS) 2011 report states that the market for
      cosmetic procedures has shown significant growth over the past two years, with 13.8 million
      cosmetic plastic surgery procedures performed in the United States in 2011, up 5% since 2010.
      While surgical cosmetic procedures significantly increased from 2010 to 2011, the overall
      growth in cosmetic procedures is primarily driven by a substantial rise in minimally-invasive
      procedures that increased 6%, with nearly 12.2 million cosmetic minimally-invasive procedures
      having been performed in 2011. This highlights the growing consumer demand for non- or
      minimally-invasive cosmetic procedures that do not involve surgical procedures such as
      liposuction and the associated risks, potential complications and lengthy and painful
      recovery processes.

      Low level laser light therapy (LLLT) offers a simple, non-invasive, safe, effective and
      side-effect free alternative to achieving body circumference reduction. Erchonia low level
      lasers, including the Erchonia® Verju™ Laser, have been determined safe and effective by the
      FDA for application for body circumference reduction indications for multiple body areas.

      The Iskra Medical Green PRESS 8 is a manual lymph drainage system that is also a simple,
      non-invasive, safe and side-effect free alternative to achieving body circumference reduction
      that has demonstrated optimal effectiveness when used in combination with other established
      alternative non-invasive means of body circumference reduction such as LLLT application.

      LLLT, as applied with the Erchonia® Verju™ Laser, effects a transitory pore in the adipocyte
      cell membrane that enables the fat to pass from the intracellular space into the
      extra-cellular space. The Green PRESS 8 operates according to the principle of manual lymph
      drainage, employing pumping of air under controlled pressure into inflatable cuffs according
      to pre-set pressure, compression pause duration and therapy time parameters. The alternating
      release and compression of the different vascular and lymphatic structures effects and
      enhances lymphatic drainage that results in an influx of blood along with nourishing
      elements, and the elimination of fluids and metabolic waste products. When used in
      combination with LLLT, this process enhances and accelerates the process of reduction in the
      size of adipocyte cells through increased liquefaction and emulsification of the fat through
      the transitory pore in the adipocyte cell, which has been initiated by the preceding
      application of LLLT.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if green diode LLLT as applied with the Erchonia®
      Verju™ Laser is more effective on reducing the circumference of the hips, waist and upper
      abdomen when used in combination with the Green PRESS 8 manual lymph drainage system twice
      weekly for six weeks than when used alone.
    
  