
    
      Title:

      Observational Digital Biomarker Discovery in Respiratory Virus Challenge Studies

      Study Description:

      Wearable and sensor digital devices have the potential to be important tools in infectious
      diseases surveillance. In this study, digital devices will be used to evaluate responses
      before and after respiratory virus challenge on a separate NIH protocol. Participants already
      enrolled in a challenge study are eligible. All devices will be worn and/or used during the
      inpatient hospitalization and at outpatient follow-up visits. Participants will not be
      discharged home with any devices. These devices will be used to identify biomarkers
      associated with respiratory virus infection. We hypothesize that sensor collected data will
      correlate with symptom severity obtained by clinician assessment and participant report.

      Objectives:

      Primary: To correlate continuous cough sensor data to cough severity after challenge.

      Secondary: To correlate continuous and noncontinuous vital sign sensor data to routine vital
      signs obtained by clinical staff.

      Exploratory: To evaluate facial and body sensor data after challenge.

      Endpoints:

      Primary: Cough quantity:

      1.Continuous cough measurements

      Secondary: Vital signs:

        1. Heart rate

        2. Respiratory rate

        3. Temperature

        4. Pulse oximetry

      Exploratory: Facial and body sensor data via quantitative measures of:

      1. Forced nasal inspiration

      2 Forced cough

      3. Facial imaging

      4. Sleep monitoring

      5. Activity monitoring

      6. Reading aloud

      7. Blood pressure

      Study Population:

      N=50 adult healthy volunteers enrolled in LID CSU respiratory virus challenge studies.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      Participants will be enrolled at the NIH Clinical Center (CC). This study will take place at
      the NIH CC in the Special Clinical Studies Unit or other appropriate designated clinical area
      for the inpatient hospitalization and in the OP8 clinic or other appropriate designated
      clinical area for outpatient visits.

      Study Duration:

      Approximately 3 years from start of enrollment to completion of data analyses.

      Participant Duration:

      Approximately 10 weeks through 1 year depending on the challenge study. This includes a
      minimum 9-day inpatient hospitalization for respiratory virus challenge through the follow-up
      visit 8 weeks to 1 year after discharge.
    
  