
    
      The expression of P-glycoprotein, a transporter protein present in enterocytes as well as
      other cells involved in the absorption and distribution of HIV protease inhibitors, has been
      linked to a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in exon 26 of the MDR1 gene, C3435T.
      Individuals homozygous for the T allele have reduced P-gp expression compared to CC
      individuals. Preliminary studies by other investigators to determine the influence of MDR1
      genotype on HIV protease inhibitor pharmacokinetics have yielded inconclusive results. The
      primary purpose of this study is to determine the relationship, if any, between MDR1
      genotypes and plasma concentrations of the HIV protease inhibitors indinavir and saquinavir.
      Secondary objectives of this investigation will (1) assess the relationship between CYP3A4
      activity and indinavir and saquinavir exposure and (2) characterize the relationship, if any,
      between P-gp expression on lymphocyte surfaces and MDR1 genotype. Up to 150 subjects will be
      screened to enroll a total of 63 healthy volunteers (21 subjects each in the CC, TT, and CT
      groups). Each subject will have blood drawn for P-gp expression analysis and MDR1 genotyping
      at screening. Next, subjects will receive oral midazolam 8 mg for CYP3A4 phenotyping; a
      single blood sample will be collected 4 hours after midazolam administration for
      determination of midazolam and 1-hydroxymidazolam. Between 7 and 28 days after midazolam
      administration, subjects will receive indinavir 800 mg every 8 hours for one day and a single
      800 mg dose the next morning (dose #4). Between 7 and 28 days after indinavir administration,
      subjects will receive saquinavir soft-gel capsules 1200 mg three times daily for 3 days and a
      single dose on the morning of day 4 (dose # 10). Post-dose blood samples will be collected
      over 8 hours following dose #4 of indinavir and dose #10 of saquinavir. Indinavir and
      saquinavir pharmacokinetic parameters (primarily AUC and Cmax) will be compared across MDR1
      genotype groups using ANOVA with post-hoc testing. 1-hydroxymidazolam: midazolam ratios will
      be correlated to indinavir and saquinavir AUCs as well as compared across MDR1 genotype
      groups. P-gp expression on lymphocyte surfaces will be determined by flow cytometry,
      quantified, and compared across MDR1 genotype groups. Data from this investigation will
      determine whether MDR1 genotype influences protease inhibitor plasma concentrations.
    
  