
    
      Materials and Methods

      Study Setting: Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, Advanced Pediatric Centre, Postgraduate
      Institute of Medical Educational Research

      Study Period: Jan 2016 to Dec 2016

      Study design: Prospective Cohort Study

      Study Population: Children of 2 years to 12 years of age

      Study flow

      All consecutive patients between the age group 2 years to 12 years admitted in Pediatric
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in Advanced pediatric Centre with PRISM score of more than 20 will
      screened for inclusion in the study.Those found eligible would be included after an informed
      consent. Baseline clinical and demographic profile will be recorded on a proforma.

      Entry Examination

      Clinical Evaluation

      It would include history and examination. A clinical evaluation will be performed at the time
      of patient recruitment and then daily till discharge from ICU. It would also include
      assessment of the Glasgow Coma Scale, the Sequential Organ System Failure score (SOFA) and
      tendon reflexes. The muscle strength of the main muscle groups will be graded using the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) scale in cooperative children.

        -  Upper Extremity: Wrist Extension, Elbow Flexion, Shoulder Abduction

        -  Lower Extremity: Ankle Dorsiflexion, Knee Extension, Hip Flexion

      Scoring & Interpretation:

        -  Maximum Score: 60 (4 Limbs, Maximum of 15 Points Per Limb) = Normal

        -  Minimum Score: 0 = Quadriplegia

      Severity of multi organ failure will be assessed by mean SOFA scores during ICU stay, highest
      SOFA scores and sum of 28-day total SOFA scores in every patient.

      The total dose and duration of drug therapy like steroids, muscle relaxants, sedatives and
      inotropes will also be entered. Laboratory parameters like serum creatine kinase, albumin,
      total protein, serum electrolytes and plasma blood glucose will also quantified.

      Electrophysiological Evaluation

      Twenty fours after admission, entry examination in the form of complete nerve conduction
      study from 4 motor nerves (median, ulnar, tibial and common peroneal nerve) and 2 sensory
      nerves (median and sural nerve) will be performed. These will consist of Compound Motor
      Action Potential(CMAP) measurement from motor nerves and Sensory Nerve Action Potential
      (SNAP) assessment from sensory nerves. Before the electrophysiological tests, heat packs will
      be applied to the skin if its temperature is below 33°C.

      Serial Examination

      Following the detailed entry evaluation, daily simplified electrophysiological tests in the
      form of conduction velocity and amplitude of the sural SNAP and common peroneal CMAP in one
      leg using surface electrode stimulation and recording electrodes will be assessed. To
      minimize artifacts, the same electrode site will be marked and similar size electrode will be
      used for each patient on a daily basis. A 25% decrease from baseline SNAP and CMAP measured
      at ICU admission will be taken as the minimum consistently detectable reduction.If SNAP or
      CMAP decreases by more than 25% on two consecutive days, a complete electrophysiological test
      will be performed. Complete electrophysiological testing includes nerve conduction study and
      electromyography.Electromyography will be recorded using a coaxial needle electrode in the
      tibialis anterior and first dorsal interossei.If the complete electrophysiological test is
      consistent with critical illness weakness, complete weekly tests will replace daily tests
      until ICU discharge.
    
  