
    
      Objective: To discern the potential mechanism(s) by which high saturated fat feeding disrupts
      normal skeletal muscle metabolism. Our working hypothesis is that high saturated fat feeding
      increases gut permeability and blood endotoxin, which elicits pro-inflammatory signaling in
      skeletal muscle and alters the normal adaptive response to a meal. Preliminary evidence using
      a model of acute (5 days), high saturated fat feeding, isocaloric to habitual intake, in
      healthy, non-obese humans is presented herein to support this hypothesis.

      Background: The inability for skeletal muscle to adapt fuel oxidation to fuel availability is
      termed metabolic inflexibility, a well characterized feature of disease states such as
      obesity, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes (T2D). The mechanism(s) responsible for
      skeletal muscle metabolic inflexibility are not known. Recently, there has been growing
      interest in the role of gut permeability and blood endotoxin in the pathology of metabolic
      derangements associated with obesity and T2D. Rodent studies have revealed direct links
      between the gut microbiome and metabolic disease, as well as associations between elevated
      blood endotoxin and metabolic dysregulation, both at the whole body and tissue level. High
      fat feeding in rodents is known to elicit elevated levels of blood endotoxin, a phenomenon
      that is termed metabolic endotoxemia. In humans, obesity and T2D are associated with
      increased blood endotoxin and single meals have been shown to elevate blood endotoxin, but to
      date, there is no evidence in humans that high fat feeding results in metabolic endotoxemia.
      Moreover, there are no established links between gut permeability, metabolic endotoxemia, and
      skeletal muscle metabolic function in humans.

      Approach. We are proposing to utilize a model of acute high fat feeding in healthy humans to
      study the interplay between gut function, blood endotoxin, and skeletal muscle
      pro-inflammatory signaling and metabolic adaptability. We will employ a two-week lead-in
      period, during which research participants will be fed prepared meals that are isocaloric to
      their habitual diet, followed by five days of high saturated fat feeding. The high saturated
      fat feeding period will consist of prepared meals that are isocaloric to habitual diet with a
      macronutrient composition of 50% fat (45% of which will be saturated fat), 35% carbohydrate,
      and 15% protein. Studying healthy, nonobese humans in this context is an innovative approach
      on two levels: 1) any confounding influences associated with metabolic disease (obesity,
      diabetes, or metabolic syndrome) are eliminated, e.g., insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia,
      impaired gut function, pre-existing metabolic dysfunction and inflammatory tone; and 2) the
      isocaloric feeding design negates the confounding influence of a positive energy balance and
      allows us to specifically examine the effects of acutely increasing dietary saturated fat.
    
  