
    
      Definition:

      Human alpha-mannosidosis is a rare genetic disorder, caused by the lack of lysosomal
      alpha-mannosidase, resulting in mental retardation, skeletal changes, hearing loss and
      recurrent infections. The lack of alpha-mannosidase causes a disorder of glycoprotein
      catabolism associated with abnormal levels and excretion of small mannose-rich
      oligosaccharides.

      Prevalence:

      Alpha-mannosidosis belongs to a group of lysosomal storage disorders that includes more than
      50 different diseases, with a cumulative frequency of about 1:10.000 world wide. The
      incidence of alpha-mannosidase disease has been estimated to be 1 in 500.000 (Australian and
      Norwegian study). The disease is not specific to any ethnic group.

      Etiology and Pathogenesis:

      Lysosomal alpha-mannosidase (LAMAN), in the following called mannosidase, is an enzyme that
      cleaves alpha-mannosidic linkages during the ordered degradation of oligosaccharides. Only
      after degradation, can the sugars leave the lysosomes, the cell and later the body. The
      deficiency in mannosidase activity causes a block in the degradation of glycoproteins
      resulting in lysosomal accumulation of mannose-rich oligosaccharide chains. Consequently,
      these sugars accumulate in the lysosomes as they are too large to leave. Finally, the
      lysosomes increase in size, producing vacuoles and impaired cellular function is induced by
      an unknown mechanism.

      Clinical Findings:

      Affected children are usually born apparently normal and their condition worsens
      progressively without any possible treatment available to prevent this evolution. The
      clinical findings in alpha-mannosidosis include a broad range of symptoms, from an early
      lethal form to less symptomatic, chronic forms often initially diagnosed in childhood.
      Alpha-mannosidosis is frequently associated with corneal opacities, aseptic destructive
      arthritis, metabolic myopathy and immune deficiency. In the past alpha-mannosidosis was
      classified into two forms. A more severe infantile (type 1) phenotype that include rapid,
      progressive mental retardation; hepatosplenomegaly; severe dysostosis multiplex; and often
      death between 3 and 12 years of age. The juvenile-adult phenotype (type 2) is characterized
      by a milder and more slowly progressive course with survival into adulthood. The distinctions
      are not absolute, and symptoms and lethality may vary. In affected children that are born
      healthy, there is a window of opportunity for a therapy initiated at an early age to
      contribute to normal development and the prevention of other disease related complications.

      Study objectives:

      To assess the short-term, natural history of subjects diagnosed with Alpha-Mannosidosis To
      establish the range and diversity of clinical symptomatology To evaluate short term (24
      months) changes in disease parameters
    
  