
    
      Cervical cancer is the fourth cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, being one of the
      most important threats to women's health. More than 83,000 women were diagnosed with cervical
      cancer and 36,000 died in the Region of the Americas in 2012. This phenomenon will increase
      by 45% for 2030.

      During the natural history of Cervical cancer, and as a consequence of therapeutic
      approaches, a certain proportion of the patients may have emotional reactions leading to
      psychological disorders, as severe as those disease complications, which also deteriorate
      their quality of life. The most frequent reactions are anxiety and depression. These may vary
      depending on different psychosocial factors, including coping and social support, mostly
      provided by the Primary Caregiver, who has a fundamental role in hospital and home care,
      helping on therapeutic adherence.

      Therapeutic adherence is essential in order to obtain optimal results of the given
      oncological treatment, representing a mediating variable with important implications for
      survival, disease progression and in the improving of quality of life.

      Response to treatment has been widely evaluated by tumor size, OS and DFS. Nevertheless, in
      the past tree decades the evaluation of Quality of Life has risen as an indicator of
      therapeutic response. Quality of life is an indicator that measures the general well-being of
      the patients according to the overall effects of the oncological treatments. Scientific
      evidence reports that cervical cancer survivors may have a worst quality of life as well as
      other physical and emotional symptoms than those observed in other cancer populations. Hence,
      it is necessary to focus on psychological interventions aimed to improve the quality of life
      and to decrease the psychological morbidity in cervical cancer patients.

      During the last four decades a special interest in psychosocial interventions in oncology
      population has risen, establishing that Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy is beneficial in the
      reduction of physical and emotional symptoms of patients, promoting the adaptive coping and
      improving the quality of life.

      Few evidences exist about psycho-social factors prevalence on gynecological cancer patients.
      The current available studies have grouped different types of gynecological cancer including
      breast, ovary, endometrium and vulva, but cervical cancer has been included only in a small
      proportion of those studies producing a certain degree of bias at the time of interpreting
      the results. Moreover, most of the studies has focused in breast and ovarian cancer patients.
      However, it has been proposed the existence of differences in psychological morbidity in
      women with cervical cancer, therefore is essential to focus our efforts in this particular
      population due to its high morbidity and mortality.

      Hypothesis Patients with locally advanced and advanced cervical cancer receiving "A"
      psychological intervention will have a greater decrease in anxiety, depression, better coping
      responses, sexual satisfaction, therapeutic adherence and quality of life compared with the
      "B" psychological intervention.

      The general aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of two cognitive-behavioral
      interventions on psycho-social factors and quality of life of cervical cancer patients with
      locally advanced and advanced disease.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To identify and to compare the degree of the psychosocial variables: anxiety,
           depression, coping responses, therapeutic adherence and sexual satisfaction at different
           evaluation phases (pre-intervention, post-intervention and follow-up) in cervical cancer
           patients.

        2. To evaluate and to compare the health-related quality of life perceived at different
           evaluation phases (pre-intervention, post-intervention and follow-up) in cervical cancer
           patients.

      Exploratory objectives:

        1. To evaluate the degree of anxiety, depression, quality of life and the presence of
           Caregiver Burden Syndrome in primary caregivers before the psychological treatment given
           to cervical cancer patients.

        2. To evaluate the association between psychological variables of the primary caregiver and
           the emotional distress and quality of life of their locally advanced and advanced
           cervical cancer patients.

      METHODS

      Study Design: This a prospective, experimental, longitudinal, open and randomized study

      Study population: patients will be divided into two treatment groups ("A" and "B") for
      pre-intervention, post-intervention and a three months follow-up evaluation treated at the
      National Cancer Institute from Mexico.

      Sample size:

      According to the criteria of two proportions, a sample of 92 cervical cancer patients (two
      intervention groups) and their matched primary caregivers (92) was obtained.

      Statistical analysis:

      The processing and analysis of the database will be carried out with the SPSS version 22.0®
      package for Microsoft.

        -  Univariate analysis will be carried out to describe the study population. Descriptive
           statistics will be used to obtain measures of central tendency and dispersion, for
           continuous variables depending on their distribution, mean and standard deviation
           (parametric) or median and interquartile range (non-parametric) may be reported. For
           qualitative variables, the distribution of absolute and relative frequencies will be
           reported.

        -  Group homogeneity analysis: the general characteristics of the patients in both
           intervention groups will be evaluated to asses the balance and homogeneity. For
           quantitative variables t-Student of independent samples or U of Mann-Whitney will be
           used. For qualitative variables Chi-Square or Chi-Square trends will be used.

        -  To estimate the change in the variables of interest throughout the measurements in both
           intervention groups, ANOVA analysis of repeated measures or Friedmand will be carried
           out.

        -  To determine the clinical intra-subject changes, an analysis of individual replicates
           will be performed analyzing the pre-intervention, post-intervention and after
           three-month follow-up evaluation.

      Procedure:

      Patients affiliated to the MICAELA Program referred to the Psychooncology service will be
      considered as candidates for the study.

      Informed consent obtention: after reading the Informed Consent, patients will be informed
      that their participation will consist on answering questionnaires for psychological
      assessment and psychological attention, if required. If the patient agree to participate, she
      will sign the Informed Consent document. A semi-structured interview will be applied to
      obtain socio-demographic and familiar psycho-pathological disorders history. Then,
      psychometric instruments will be applied.

      Patients who are detected with distress or maladaptive coping will be randomized to one of
      the two interventions groups.

      There will be scheduled ten weekly sessions of one hour approximately in with "A"
      Intervention or "B" Intervention will be applied according the group assigned by
      randomization. Then, patients will be scheduled for psychological treatment appointments and
      for evaluation after finishing treatment.

      Ethical considerations:

      Participants will be informed about details regarding the study, through the Informed Consent
      process. Patients that desire to participate will express their willingness with the sign of
      the Informed Consent document. Patients could leave the study at any time when desire.

      The study will be conducted according to the ethical principles established in the documents
      adopted by the international community as declared at the Good Clinical Practices, the
      Nuremberg Code, the Declaration of Helsinki as well as the Guide of Good Clinical Practices
      of the Conference Harmonization International and anyone who represents the greatest
      protection for the individual.

      According to the regulations of the General Health Law on Health Research, the second title
      on the Ethical Aspects of Research in Human Beings, Chapter I, Article 17, paragraph III, the
      proposed interventions on this study are considered as risk-free.

      Protocol and Informed Consent have been approved by Institutional Research and the Ethics
      Committees.
    
  