
    
      Excisional surgery is the recommended treatment for ovarian endometrioma because of higher
      pregnancy rate and lower recurrence rate compared with ablative techniques. From the
      standpoint of ovarian reserve, the efficiency of cystectomy remains a topic of considerable
      debate: in recent years, cystectomy has been questioned as an ideal surgical approach for
      endometriomas because it is associated with excessive removal of ovarian tissue and loss of
      ovarian follicles with subsequent reduction of ovarian reserve. According to a recent report,
      absence of follicular growth was observed in 13% of operated ovaries, although this event
      never occurred in the contralateral gonad.

      In San Raffaele Scientific Institute, fear of ovarian failure after cystectomy resulted in
      the introduction of an ablative technique involving CO2 laser technology, which posses the
      ability to deliver energy with little thermal spread. More than 80 patients were treated with
      CO2 laser at this Institution during three-year experience. This surgical procedure was
      inspired by the one employed by Jacques Donnez for more than 20 years, in which CO2 laser is
      used to ablate endometriomas' inner wall, after 3-months GnRHa therapy. Laser vaporization,
      according to the ''three-step procedure", has also been proposed as the best method to
      preserve ovarian function; moreover, reassuring data on the rate of long-term recurrence
      after laser vaporization have recently been published.

      However, no data are available about the single use of CO2 laser fiber vaporization (without
      GnRHa therapy) with respect to the ovarian reserve.

      Since 2015, the investigators have continuously evaluated the benefits of CO2 laser
      vaporization through a clinical trial assessing the postoperative changes in ovarian reserve
      as indicated by antral follicle count (AFC) and anti-mullerian hormone (AMH); the results of
      this pilot study support the positive effects of CO2 laser on ovarian reserve as demonstrated
      by higher AFC and no change in AMH at 3-month follow-up. In order to provide more conclusive
      data about the potential advantage of CO2 laser ablation with respect to ovarian cystectomy
      in terms of fertility outcomes a prospective randomized trial has been planned; the aim of
      this prospective randomized study is to determine whether and to what extent the two surgical
      procedures for ovarian endometrioma (cystectomy versus C02 laser vaporization) affect ovarian
      reserve.
    
  