
    
      The following is a multicenter, observational, cross-over study intended to apply an easy and
      simple system for the quantitative determination of menstrual losses in women with apparently
      normal menses. The problem of heavy periods is associated to an high social and physical
      morbidity rate; till now there are not routine methods available for the quantitative
      determination of menstrual discharge, some objective methods have been applied exclusively
      for research purposes because they are very difficult to perform. If we consider the
      scientific data available and the frequent application of inadequate procedures for the
      treatment of this problem, it seems essential to apply a practical system for the accurate
      quantitative determination of menses.

      The system adopted for the determination of menstrual losses, called QUEM (QUantitative
      Evaluation of Menses), is based on the collection of tampons and pads in standard bags which
      are readily vacuum sealed with a simple device for the whole of woman's period. QUEM has
      already been validated in preliminary in vitro and ex vivo studies (both in healthy women and
      in women with CBDs), by comparing it with the gold standard, the Alkaline Haematin Method. A
      correlation coefficient close to 1 was obtained.

      In the current study QUEM will be applied to at least 100 women in the fertile age (between
      20 and 45 years) with apparently normal menses and a negative bleeding history. The
      evaluation will be performed for the whole of one period and the analysis will be performed
      in comparison to the classical reference method, the Alkaline - Hematin Method, which is
      still considered the golden standard. At the enrollment each woman will be tested for
      complete blood cells count and ferritin levels in order to exclude unknown menorrhagia. The
      bleeding history (bleeding score) will be performed by applying an international reference
      method, already validated for von Willebrand Disease type 1 (vWD1). The aim of the study is
      to make a "normal range" and validate the effective practicality of QUEM as a preliminary
      step to the clinical studies in patients suffering from menorrhagia and affected by
      hemorrhagic disorders.

      The current study will involve many Italian and International Centers. All the needed
      materials and equipments will be provided by the Coordinator Centre; patients will be
      carefully informed about the objectives of the study and they will follow a short course
      illustrating the use and the characteristics of the method proposed (QUEM).
    
  