
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take sunitinib capsules
      by mouth every day for 2 weeks, followed by 1 week in which you do not receive any study
      drug. This will then be repeated every 3 weeks.

      Every 6 weeks will be 1 study cycle.

      If you have any side effects tell the study doctor right away. The study doctor may change
      your dose of the study drug.

      Study Visits:

      Every day during the first week, and then at least 1 time each week during the study, your
      blood pressure will be checked (either at home, at the clinic, or by your local doctor). You
      will need to write down your blood pressure in a blood pressure diary each time you check it
      and bring the diary with you to each clinic visit.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine and biomarker testing.

        -  You will fill out a questionnaire about the quality of your life and about how you are
           feeling. This should take about 5 minutes.

      On Day 42 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 42 of every even-numbered cycle (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on):

        -  You will have a CT scan of your chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your thyroid function.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing. (Cycles 2 , 4, and 6
           only)

        -  You will fill out the questionnaire about the quality of your life and about how you are
           feeling. (Cycles 2 , 4, and 6 only)

      At any time that the doctor thinks it is needed, additional blood (about 1 tablespoon) may be
      drawn to check your thyroid function, and you may need to have a bone scan and CT scan or MRI
      of the brain to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the study doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest. You will be taken off treatment if the disease gets worse, intolerable side
      effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation in this study will be over after the follow-up visit. However, the study
      team may perform a medical record review or follow-up call to check on how you are doing. If
      you are called, this should last about 5-10 minutes.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      After you are no longer receiving the study drug, you will have an end-of-treatment visit.
      You will have a physical exam and blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine and
      biomarker testing.

      End-of- Treatment Follow-Up Visit:

      About 30 days after your end-of-treatment visit you will have a follow-up visit and the
      following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have CT scans of your chest, abdomen and pelvis to check the status of the
           disease.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat advanced kidney cancer. The dosing schedule being used on this study is
      investigational.

      Up to 60 participants will be enrolled in this study. Up to 60 may take part at MD Anderson.
    
  