
    
      The pre-study evaluations include a medical history, physical examination, blood laboratory
      evaluations, and scans to evaluate disease. A CT scan will be performed to measure the size
      of the subject's tumor(s). The treatment phase of the study includes: 1. Administration of
      Paclitaxel as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour on Days #1, 8, 15, and 22. 2. Cisplatin
      will be given as an intravenous infusion after Paclitaxel over 1 hour on Days #1 and 22. 3.
      Radiation treatments twice per day with each dose separated by more than 6 hours, on Days
      1-5, 8-12 and 15-19.

      The subject's esophagus will be surgically removed (esophagectomy) on approximately Day #50.

      Approximately four to six weeks after surgery, the subject will start taking
      Tetrathiomolybdate, one pill a day by mouth, for two years or until treatment is no longer
      working to control your cancer. The dose may need to be increased by 1 pill every 2 weeks,
      depending on the results of blood tests that are given on a routine basis to help guide the
      dosing.

      Dietary Restrictions: Subjects may not eat shell fish or liver (organ meat) while on study
      due to high copper content.

      Blood draws (approximately 1-2 tablespoons) will be taken weekly while the subject is
      undergoing chemotherapy and radiation prior to surgery. Prior to your surgery a CT scan will
      also be administered. Four to six weeks after surgery (when the subject is starting to take
      Tetrathiomolybdate), a blood test (approximately 1 teaspoon) will be performed every other
      week for 2 times, and monthly thereafter. This blood test will check for the amount of copper
      in the subject's blood. When the level of copper has been lowered sufficiently (which will be
      determined by your physician) an additional blood test and a baseline chest x-ray will be
      obtained.

      Additional blood will be drawn (approximately 1-2 tablespoons) and tested every 6 months for
      the first 2 years.

      There are circumstances under which treatment may be discontinued whether the subject agrees
      or not. These circumstances include: the subject's tumor gets worse despite the treatment;
      side effects of the treatment are too dangerous for the subject; new information about the
      drug becomes available and this information suggests the drug will be ineffective or unsafe
      for the subject.
    
  