
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effect of an electronic tool for monitoring symptoms and syndromes
           associated with advanced cancer (E-MOSAIC) and a Longitudinal Monitoring Sheet (LoMoS)
           on global quality of life (G-QOL) of patients with advanced incurable cancer receiving
           palliative anticancer treatment.

      Secondary

        -  Determine if this tool affects communication between these patients and their treating
           physicians.

        -  Determine if this tool affects the symptoms and syndromes reported by these patients.

        -  Determine if this tool impacts symptom management performance.

      Tertiary

        -  Identify factors influencing changes in G-QOL.

        -  Determine how patients adapt to illness and burden of treatment.

        -  Describe patients' decision-making preference.

      OUTLINE: This is a controlled, randomized, longitudinal, multicenter study. Physicians are
      stratified according to participating center. Physicians are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. All
      patients allocated to a physician undergo the same intervention.

        -  Arm I: Patients complete a weekly symptom assessment and nutritional intake using a
           Palm-based monitoring tool. Nurses record weight and Karnofsky performance status (KPS)
           scores weekly. A proof of electronic transfer sheet is printed and stored.

        -  Arm II: Patients complete a weekly assessment comprising visual analogue scales (VAS) of
           pain, fatigue, drowsiness, nausea, anxiety, depression, shortness of breath, loss of
           appetite, and overall well-being; up to 3 optional symptoms selected by the patient; and
           an estimated nutritional intake using an electronic tool for monitoring symptoms and
           syndromes associated with advanced cancer (E-MOSAIC). Nurses record the patient's
           weight, KPS score, body mass index, and assessment of current medication for pain (i.e.,
           morphine-equivalent daily dose), fatigue, and anorexia/cachexia syndromes weekly. A
           Longitudinal Monitoring Sheet (LoMoS) is printed (comprising VAS of pain, pain
           medication, fatigue, KPS, medication for fatigue [i.e., methylphenidate hydrochloride or
           epoetin alfa], anorexia, weight change, nutritional intake, medication, supplements,
           counseling for anorexia, VAS of individually selected symptoms) and stored.

      In both arms, patients are assessed for outcome criteria at baseline and at weeks 3 and 6
      (end of study).

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 physicians and 192 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  