
    
      Habitual sleep duration varies greatly among individuals. The biological meaning of this
      variation is unknown. The present project proposes that differences in habitual sleep
      duration are associated with differences in the output of the endogenous circadian pacemaker,
      which programs the 'internal biological night'. The protocol hypothesizes that the duration
      of the internal biological night as defined by the nocturnal intervals of detectable plasma
      melatonin levels, low body temperature, low EEG activity in the high-frequency alpha band,
      increasing sleepiness and increasing plasma cortisol levels is longer in habitual long
      sleepers (sleep duration greater than 9 hours) than in short sleepers (less than 6 hours).
      Since recent results in healthy subjects suggest that melatonin has some soporific or
      hypnotic properties, we furthermore hypothesize that the level of nocturnal melatonin
      secretion is higher in long sleepers than in short sleepers. The circadian rhythms of plasma
      melatonin, body temperature, waking EEG activity, subjective sleepiness and plasma cortisol
      will be assessed in a ~40-hour constant routine protocol. In addition, a 36-hour extended bed
      rest protocol will be carried out in order to study spontaneous sleep duration and sleep
      structure under ad lib conditions while time cues and social cues are absent. It is
      hypothesized that as a consequence of differences in the circadian output, long sleepers will
      sleep more, have a different sleep structure, and spontaneously wake up on a lower level of
      homeostatic sleep pressure than short sleepers. Finally, we intend to determine whether
      differences in habitual sleep duration between long and short sleepers are associated with
      dysthymic and hypomanic characteristics of mood, respectively. We are asking to study a total
      of 15 long sleepers and 15 short sleepers. Given that we have already studied 9 long sleepers
      and 9 short sleepers, we anticipate that 72 patient-days per year for one year would be
      required to complete the study.
    
  