
    
      Overview

      This study is a prospective, four-group cluster randomized controlled trial. The participants
      will be followed up for 6 months at the community sites or Hua Mei Clinics of the Tsao
      Foundation.

      The 4 groups are:

      i. Control group receiving routine care from their healthcare provider/ clinics of Tsao
      Foundation

      ii. Intervention group 1 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme without supply of glucometers and
      accessories

      iii. Intervention group 2 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme as well as 3 months' supply of
      glucometers and accessories

      iv. Intervention group 3 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme as well as 6 months' supply of
      glucometers and accessories

      A staff of Tsao Foundation will recruit community-dwelling adults with diabetes from the 68
      community sites around Singapore. After which, the research associate (RA) or Fellow
      appointed to represent the Site Principal Investigator will screen the individuals
      participating for eligibility to join this research study. Alternatively, potential
      participants will be referred to the RA or Fellow to be screened for eligibility. Eligible
      individuals will be invited to participate in the research study, of which interested
      individuals will be explained with the study procedure and informed consent will be taken by
      the RA.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus

        -  Aged 55 to 99 years old (both inclusive)

        -  Community-dwelling

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Individuals with Type 1 diabetes mellitus

        -  Unable to communicate independently in English or Mandarin

        -  Mentally incapacitated individuals

      The 68 sites will form the cluster sites for the study and will be assigned to any one of the
      4 groups via a randomisation process (control, intervention group 1, 2 and 3). The
      randomisation process will be generated by the research team before recruitment begins using
      a computerised programme. Each group will thus consist of 17 sites. All the participants
      belonging to each group of 17 sites will be invited to participate in the study if they meet
      the inclusion criteria until we have reached the target number of 80 for each group.

      Questionnaire administration

      Questionnaires to elucidate the humanistic outcomes will be administered at baseline, 3 and 6
      months from baseline respectively for all 4 groups. Each questionnaire administration will
      last for around 45 minutes.

      The questionnaire will be used to assess participants' self-efficacy, diabetic self-care
      activities, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), diabetes knowledge and medication
      adherence. Participant demographics, anthropometric parameters, past medical history, and
      current medication use will be collected. A staff from Tsao Foundation will provide the
      clinical data and laboratory test results (HbA1c, blood pressure, TChol, LDL-C, HDL-C, TG,
      BMI and adherence to yearly eye and foot screenings) to the RA or Fellow of the project.
      Consent will be obtained from the participants before Tsao Foundation releases the clinical
      data and laboratory test results to the research team. The data and test results will be
      printed out by the staff of Tsao Foundation and handed over to the RA or Fellow in an opaque
      sealed envelope. Only the RA or Fellow, Co-Investigators and Principal Investigators of the
      study are authorised to open the sealed envelope and retrieve data. A representative of Tsao
      Foundation may call the subject for care- and administrative-related matters if needed such
      as reminding the participants to attend the SCOPE-DM programme or to follow up on the
      questionnaire administration.

      Process Evaluation

      The purpose of the process evaluation is to assess the acceptability, strengths and
      weaknesses of the 'SCOPE-DM: Live Well with Diabetes' programme based on the participants'
      perspectives. A qualitative approach using individual face-to-face audio-recorded interviews
      will be adopted. The RA will conduct these interviews after the completion of the study
      intervention and upon the participant's consent. A purposive sample of 30 participants will
      be recruited from intervention groups to participate in the interviews to share their
      experiences while in the programme as well as obtain their opinions and suggestions to
      improve the programme.

      All interviews will be audio-recorded. An interview guide will be developed based on the
      overall aim of the SCOPE-DM program. The participants will be reminded not to reveal any
      information that may identify themselves before the interview commences as interviews will be
      audio-recorded. The qualitative interview will last for about 1 hour.

      The administration of the questionnaires and conduct of the interviews will be done at a room
      with privacy and confidentiality maintained at the Hua Mei Clinics or any of the community
      sites. The venue to administer the questionnaires and interviews are appropriately equipped
      with tables, chairs and rooms to ensure the privacy and confidentiality of participants.

      Details of SCOPE-DM intervention programme

      Tsao Foundation's trained diabetes nurse educators will commence the SCOPE-DM intervention
      programme once 8 to 10 participants agreed to participate. Tsao Foundation will be
      responsible for training 20 diabetes nurse educators to deliver the programme. The SCOPE-DM
      programme will be conducted at Hua Mei Clinics or any of the community sites. Each session
      will last around 2 hours.

      The programme aims to support motivation and enable capability for managing diabetes. To this
      end, the session will integrate the knowledge and practical skills components offered in
      traditional diabetes education with psychological techniques and principles for behavioural
      change: problem solving, goal-setting and monitoring. The programme offers the potential for
      older people to learn about their condition and treatment in a psychologically-motivating and
      confidence-enhancing structure - as such the emphasis is on empowering individuals to make
      choices and lifestyle changes in line with treatment recommendations through the use of
      problem solving, goal setting and feedback, and not just on knowledge transfer which has not
      been shown to be successful in behavioural change. The content and delivery format will
      largely be informed by motivational interviewing (MI).

      Motivational interviewing is a well-recognized person-centered counselling approach aiming at
      eliciting and strengthening motivation to change. It is designed to guide towards a specific
      goal by eliciting and exploring the person's own reasons for change, goals and values within
      an atmosphere of acceptance and empathy.There is now a wealth of evidence from randomized
      trials for the effectiveness of MI in health behavioural change.To facilitate engagement and
      rapport with the participants, MI will be blended with guided autobiography as means to share
      life experiences and meaning and hence allowing for better alignment of health behavioural
      changes with participants' personal goals and values.

      The 2-hour weekly sessions will apply the strategies of group-based activities, problem
      solving, motivational building and goal setting, vicarious experience, enactive attainment
      and physiological feedback. Themes will include dealing with the medical management of the
      disease (medical management); maintaining, changing, and creating new meaningful behaviours
      or life roles (role management), and dealing with the emotional consequences of having a
      chronic condition (emotional management).

      These topics are taught by means of skills mastery through goal setting and feedback on
      progress, modelling of self-management behaviours and problem-solving strategies, and social
      persuasion through group support and guidance for individual self-management efforts.
    
  