
    
      The Purpose of the Study

      This study aimed to explore the employment outcomes of the In-House Vocational Training (
      IHVT) programs by examining participants' employment rates at the 1st-, 3rd-, and 6th-month
      follow-ups as well as their overall sustainability of employment during the first 6 months
      post-training. In addition, we attempted to determine the program parameters (e.g.,
      pre-training screening and evaluation, therapist training and experience, cross-disciplinary
      initiative, and counseling service) that had a significantly positive effect on the
      employment outcomes.

      Research Design

      This was a multicenter retrospective cohort study utilizing data retrieved from the files of
      the IHVT participants in four regional psychiatric hospitals of Taiwan.

      Recruitment of Participants

      The retrospective cohort study utilized data of 323 participants from four regional
      psychiatric hospitals in Taiwan who met the following criteria: (a) being 18 year-old or
      older, (b) having a diagnosis of DSM-V psychiatric disorder for a minimum of 12 months, (c)
      being a newly discharged inpatient (< 3 months) or current outpatient of one of the
      aforementioned psychiatric hospitals in Taiwan, (d) having completed the entire IHVT program
      described below as well as the 1st, 3rd-, and 6th-month follow-up interviews, and (d) having
      signed participant informed consent. The Institution Review Board and Research Ethics
      Committee of the project sponsor (Tsaotun Psychiatric Center, Ministry of Health and Welfare,
      Nantou County, Taiwan) approved the project proposal and oversaw the procedures of
      participant recruitment, intervention (training) programs, and data collection and analyses.

      Intervention: In-House Vocational Training Programs (IHVT)

      The IHVT programs were government-funded services offered to newly discharged inpatients or
      current outpatients with chronic psychiatric disorders (CPD) in four regional psychiatric
      hospitals of Taiwan. Each program was staffed with occupational therapists (including the
      program direct, case managers and on-site therapists) and paid or volunteer job coaches,
      along with cross-disciplinary support from psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers,
      nurses, vocational specialists or others. The programs emphasized the utilization of the
      hospitals' existing spaces, facilities and manpower alongside the community sources and
      networks to train their participants in a range of job options including bakery training,
      culinary skill, barista training, computer data processing, auto wash and detailing,
      janitorial training, and wash and fold laundry service. The job placement for each
      participant was determined jointly by the participant's interest, the demands of local job
      markets and the results of evaluation by the case manager or a cross-disciplinary team. The
      IHVT programs generally covered 6 to 10 months in length (varying with the job options), 5
      days a week and 4 to 6 hours a day.

      The IHVT programs contained three sessions throughout the entire course of training: (a) the
      work-related behavior training session, (b) the on-the-job skill training session, and (c)
      the life balance counseling session. The work-related behavior training session included a
      rich array of lectures and discussion, group activities and presentations, and take-home
      assignments. The topics may include, but are not limited to, proper appearance and attire;
      punctuality, attendance and responsibility; communication and self assertion; engagement,
      concentration, and work completion; workplace social skills and etiquette; problem solving
      and conflict resolution; and job searching and interview skills. The on-the-job skill
      training session took place in the hospitals' facilities or affiliations, such as the
      hospitals' bakeries, coffee shops, restaurants, cafeterias, offices, janitorial departments,
      laundry facilities and car wash/detailing workshops. These facilities were all housed in the
      hospitals or their vicinity and many were open to the public (e.g., bakeries, coffee shops,
      restaurants, and car wash/detailing workshops). It was a half- or full-day unpaid internship
      where the participants gained job-specific training and hands-on experience from the job
      coaches and, at the same time, received necessary supervision, guidance and interventions
      from the on-site occupational therapists. Moreover, the life balance counseling session
      consisted of individual and group counseling that aimed to enhance the participants' ability
      to tackle potential hardships and barriers to work. Stress management and relaxation
      techniques, coping strategies, work and leisure, time management, medication issues,
      self-advocacy, and community outreach and resources were the common areas for counseling
      offered by occupational therapists (case managers) or cross-disciplinary initiatives (e.g.,
      psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, nurses or other). Finally, post-training
      vocational counseling services provided by the IHVT case manager or other vocational
      specialists in community settings were also available to the participants so as to
      continuously promote their employment capacity. Of note, while incorporating all the
      essential sessions and components of the IHVP, the four participating hospitals demonstrated
      variations in some program parameters (e.g., length, staffing, job training options,
      post-training counseling services) due to their inherent differences in infrastructure,
      manpower and resources.

      Research Variables

      Outcome/dependent variables: The outcome variables of this study were employment rates and
      employment sustainability. Employment rates were the percentages of participants who were
      employed at the 1st-, 3rd-, and 6th-month follow-up interviews, respectively. For the purpose
      of this study, participants were deemed "employed" if they had a full-time paid job (a
      workload of 30 hours or more per week) in any of the following work placements: sheltered,
      supported, or competitive employment. In turn, the employment sustainability during the first
      6 months post-training was graded into five levels: (a) high sustainability (5 points), (b)
      medium sustainability (4 points), (c) medium low sustainability (3 points), (d) low
      sustainability (2 points), and (e) very low sustainability (1 point). The detailed
      definitions of the employment sustainability levels will be described in Results.

      Independent variables: Independent variables were the related program parameters that might
      significantly correlate with participants' employment outcomes. A total of 8 program
      parameters were identified: (a) participant's pre-training screening/evaluation, (b)
      therapist's obtaining a specific job certification/licensure, (c) case manager's length of
      time in practice, (d) case manager's experience in community settings, (e) cross-disciplinary
      support for life balance counseling, (f) the amount of life balance counseling (hours per
      week), (g) type of professionals available for post-training vocational counseling, and (h)
      time parameters post-training (1st, 3rd or 6th month). The detailed definitions of these
      program parameters will be described in Results.

      Control variables. In order to determine which of the aforementioned program parameters
      (independent variables) could significantly support participants' employment outcomes, we
      treated "client factors" as control variables to offset their potential confounding effects
      on the outcomes. These client factors included participants' demographics (i.e., gender,
      educational attainment, marital status, and age), diagnostic characteristics (i.e., major
      diagnosis, age of onset, and length of time since onset) and functional levels (i.e., hand
      function, attention span, and activities of daily living [ADL] skill). The instruments used
      to measure participants' functional levels are described below.

      Instrumentation

      Data regarding participants' functional levels were collected through Chu's Occupational
      Assessment Inventory that consists of Hand Dexterity Test, Attention Test, and Activities of
      Daily Living (ADL) Test - 2nd ed. These tests were purposefully developed and validated for
      use with individuals diagnosed with psychiatric disorders. The administration of Chu's
      Occupational Assessment Inventory has been a routine, standard evaluation procedure in many
      psychiatric occupational therapy settings in Taiwan. Norms for the three tests were
      established through the national samples of Taiwan. Functional levels assessed through each
      of the three tests were calibrated into: 5 - Good, 4 - Fair, 3 - Mild Impairment, 2 -
      Moderate Impairment, 1 - Severe Impairment, and 0 - Very Severe Impairment. Reliability and
      validity of the three tests have been well supported in previous studies.

      Data Analysis

      Data were analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics 22. Descriptive statistics and frequency
      analysis were first conducted to summarize the data sets. Univariate analyses for the
      categorical independent variable (employed or unemployed) including Chi-square test and
      simple logistic regression, and univariate analyses for the continuous dependent variable
      (employment sustainability) including one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and correlation
      (Pearson's r) were used to preselect independent variables (program parameters) and control
      variables (client factors) that could have an effect on participants' employment outcomes.
      Subsequently, we performed the generalized estimating equation (GEE) to analyze our 1st-,
      3rd- and 6th-month longitudinal employment data with the preselected independent variables
      offset by the control variables to conclude the program parameters significantly predictive
      of participants' employment rates and employment sustainability, respectively.

      Research Questions

        1. What were the participants' employment rates at the 1st-, 3rd-, and 6th-month follow-ups
           post training, respectively?

        2. What was the participants' overall sustainability of employment during the first 6
           months post-training?

        3. What were the program parameters (e.g., pre-training screening and evaluation, therapist
           training and experience, cross-disciplinary initiative, and counseling service) that had
           a significantly positive effect on the employment rates and the sustainability of
           employment?
    
  