
    
      Both the incidence and severity of Herpes Zoster (HZ) or "Shingles" increase markedly with
      increasing age, is a painful condition, due to a decline in Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV)
      specific immunity. Considerable evidence further shows that psychological stresses salient in
      the older adult correlate with impairments of cellular immunity.

      The investigators have observed that Varicella Zoster Immunity is always decreased in
      individuals with major depression. Moreover, our preliminary data indicates that the presence
      of depressive symptoms in older adults is associated with a decline of VZV responder cell
      frequency (VZV-RCF). Taken together, the untoward effects of age and depressive symptoms on
      VZV immunity raise the question as to whether an alternative medicine intervention might
      augment VZV specific immunity in the older adult. We have preliminarily shown that
      administration of a relaxation-response based intervention, Tai Chi Chih (TCC), results in
      improvements in health functioning and VZV immunity in older adults as compared to controls.
      TCC is a slow moving meditation comprised of twenty separate standardized movements for use
      in elderly populations.

      This proposed controlled clinical trial aims to: 1) determine whether the practice of TCC for
      16 weeks influences Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) immunity; 2) demonstrate that TCC can
      produce significant changes in psychological adaptation, health behaviors, and health
      functioning and well-being; and 3) assess whether changes in psychological adaptation, health
      behaviors, and health functioning correlate with changes in VZV immunity following TCC in
      older adults.

      We hypothesize that this behavioral intervention that prioritizes treatment of excessive
      physiological arousal can influence one's affective state with effects on cellular immunity.
      By standardization of training and practice schedules, TCC offers an important advantage over
      prior relaxation response based therapies. Focus on older adults at increase risk for HZ and
      assay of VZV specific cellular immunity has implications for understanding the impact of
      behavioral factors and an alternative medicine intervention on a clinically relevant endpoint
      and the ability of the immune system to respond to antigens of infectious pathogens.
    
  