
    
      Pregnancy of unknown location (PUL) is a term used to describe a situation where there is no
      evidence of a gestation either intra-or extrauterine on transvaginal sonography (TVS) in
      women seeking medical attention for various reasons in early pregnancy. The principal tool in
      PUL management besides TVS is the interpretation of the change in serial serum human
      chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels. A recent meta-analysis concluded that there is not
      enough evidence to recommend a specific strategy using hCG when managing PULs. In a NICE
      (National Institute of health and care excellence) guideline however women with a PUL
      acceptable for outpatient surveillance, where the rate of change in rising hCG levels
      surpassing 63 % in 48 hours (h) highly likely represents an IUP and the patient is triaged to
      a TVS after one week. Those with a decline in hCG levels of more than 50 % are predicted to
      be failed PULs and a urinary pregnancy test (UPT) after two weeks is appropriate. If the rate
      of change in hCG levels fail to meet these cut-offs a re-visit within 24 h is warranted in
      order to possibly diagnose an EP and suitable treatment selected. In a previous study; an hCG
      based logistic regression model, M4 classified 70 % of all PULs as low risk of being an EP,
      hence qualifying for a reduced follow-up while correctly identifying 88 % of EPs. A study
      from Sahlgrenska University hospital (SU) evaluated the M4 model with similar results, where
      also the cut-offs by NICE similarly identified 86 % of EPs but to a lesser extent correctly
      classified low risk PULs. Another finding in the study was that EPs identified by M4 mainly
      depicted rising hCG levels opposed to the NICE model identifying mainly EPs with declining
      hCG levels which could have clinical consequences since EPs with rising hCG levels more often
      seem to necessitate laparoscopic surgery and maybe a postponed diagnosis could be deleterious
      in these cases. Hence, the M4 model potentially would be better than the NICE cut-offs for
      PUL management. None of these findings however have been evaluated in a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT). An updated version of M4 named M6 was first published 2016 and has not been
      externally validated. Neither has prior cut-offs of declining hCG levels currently used to
      define a failed PUL.

      The handling of these women is often lengthy with a high level of uncertainty before a final
      diagnosis can be made. The psychological morbidity in this group is largely unknown, while
      well acknowledged in women following miscarriage, were up to 41% self-reporting clinically
      significant levels of anxiety and 36% reporting depression within 1 month. In a recent study
      24 % (CI 21-28) and 11 % (8-14) respectively of women with either a miscarriage or ectopic
      pregnancy experienced moderate or severe anxiety and depression according to the Hospital
      Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), compared to 13 % (7-21) and 2 % (1-8) in a control group
      without complications in early pregnancy. We aim to determine the presence and severity of
      psychological distress and quality of life among women with a pregnancy of unknown location.

      A secondary objective is to test following hypothesis: Women with an early normal pregnancy
      starting as a pregnancy of unknown location have twice as high probability of having
      HADS-scores above or equal to eight on both subscales, than women with an early normal
      pregnancy.

      We calculated that we would need 121 women in each group to reach a power of 80 % to detect
      an absolute difference of 15 percentage points after one week, with a 15 % incidence of HADS
      anxiety score ≥ 8 among control subjects and 30 % among IUP starting as a PUL at a two-sided
      alpha level of 0.05 (20). For protection against that 10 % of patients will be lost to
      follow-up a total of 130 women are included in each group. In a second calculation based on
      using HADS as a continuous scale, 94 women would need to be included in each group to detect
      an absolute two points difference on the anxiety subscale of the HADS assuming a mean score
      of 6.0 and a standard deviation of 3.4 in control subjects, at a significance level 0.05 and
      power 0.80. This minimally important difference is based on mean scores on the HADS anxiety
      subscale reported for women in early pregnancy in prior studies (20-22). We plan to include a
      total of 210 women with a 1:1 ratio to account for an expected 10 % loss to follow-up.
    
  