
    
      The surgical management of breast cancer has evolved over the last few decades, with cancer
      extirpation becoming less aggressive in parallel with advances in breast reconstruction.
      Preservation of the nipple-areolar complex (NAC) at time of mastectomy (nipple-sparing
      mastectomy, NSM), represents a natural progression within reconstructive and surgical
      oncology to preserve maximum native skin as is oncologically feasible. NSM is associated with
      improved satisfaction, body image and psychological adjustment. NSM has received increased
      attention in the lay media, because the ability to preserve the entire breast envelope
      appeals to patients facing the decision to undergo mastectomy.

      Clinician attention regarding NSM has focused on the oncologic implications of the residual
      breast tissue. Several systematic reviews of prospective and retrospective studies (level II
      to IV) have concluded that NSM does not impair overall or breast cancer specific survival
      outcomes compared to skin-sparing mastectomy. This has fostered the adoption of NSM within
      North America and Europe. The rate of occult NAC involvement ranges from 6 - 30%.

      However, the intended purpose of NSM to preserve the NAC may be circumvented if a tenuous
      sub-dermal blood supply compromises NAC viability. Rates of NAC necrosis are variable, from
      0% to nearly 50% of cases 5,6. Few studies explored strategies to prevent this potentially
      devastating complication. Recent case series employ the use of the surgical delay phenomenon
      to improve vascular supply and reduce NAC necrosis during NSM 9,10, however this strategy has
      not been directly compared with standard NSM.

      There have been no controlled studies to investigate mechanisms to reduce the chance of
      potentially devestating complication of NAC necrosis or minimize the clinical impact of
      occult tumor involvement in the NAC. Because our study is a pilot feasibility study, we have
      3 specific rationale to support our design using a pilot study first:

        1. : Given lack of evidence to support impaired cancer outcomes, there has been greater
           interest in NSM within our breast cancer community. Prior to initiating a full trial, it
           is paramount to determine the extent to which the intervention can be provided as
           intended.

        2. There are a number of well-described challenges to undertaking a RCT of a surgical
           intervention, and the extent to which women consent to participate, maintain randomized
           treatment allocation and adhere to study protocol will inform whether this study is
           feasible at a larger scale. It has not been determined whether candidates for NSM would
           accept an additional surgical procedure to reduce the risk of NAC necrosis. Lastly,
           there is the opportunity to identify and revise organization and protocols prior to
           execution within a full trial.

        3. : Given there is wide variation in reported rates of NAC necrosis, it is important to
           determine the incidence of NAC necrosis within our institutions and use this information
           to generate and inform sample size calculation. The direction of benefit and preliminary
           estimates of the effect of the intervention will clarify the choice of primary and
           secondary outcomes and feasibility for a larger scale study.

      The overarching hypothesis driving the main trial is that patients who are allocated to
      nipple-delay will have a lower rate of NAC necrosis. Additionally we hypothesize may be of
      benefit to identify the small proportion of women with nipple-areola complex involvement, in
      order to optimize the ultimate cancer ablation.

      Aim 1: To assess treatment fidelity and acceptability to surgeons of the intervention
      Hypothesis: This pilot RCT will be acceptable to surgeons, and surgeons will adhere to the
      treatment group (surgical procedure) to which their patient is randomly allocated. Aim 2: To
      determine feasibility and acceptability to patients of randomization, treatment uptake and
      retention and data-collection Hypothesis: This pilot RCT will be feasible to implement and
      acceptable to patients, and the results will inform planning of the main study. Aim 3: To
      estimate the proportion of patients in the treatment and control groups that develop NAC
      necrosis (primary outcome) and a preliminary estimate of the effect of the intervention on
      NAC necrosis (primary outcome), occult cancer and intra-operative NAC perfusion (secondary
      outcomes). Hypothesis: This pilot study will provide important information regarding
      treatment effect estimate and variability (standard deviation) that will be used to guide the
      design and sample size calculation for the main trial. The overarching hypothesis driving the
      main trial is that patients who are allocated to nipple-delay will have a lower rate of NAC
      necrosis.

      Pilot outcomes: Treatment fidelity and acceptability to surgeons: We will record the
      proportion of participants who received their randomly allocated treatment assignment to
      monitor participant adherence to treatment allocation. We will record reasons why any
      deviation from study protocol occurred (patient or surgeon-driven), and other organizational
      barriers to meeting usual care (ex: > 21 days between nipple-delay and NSM for
      experimental-group patients). Feasibility and acceptability of randomization, treatment
      allocation and data-collection procedures: Patient recruitment and attrition rates will be
      recorded. We will measure the proportion of participants that generate complete primary and
      secondary outcome measurements and baseline questionnaires.

      Trial outcomes:

      Primary outcome: We will compare the proportion of patients in each group that develop NAC
      necrosis, defined as necrosis requiring local wound care with dressings or surgical
      debridement. The proportion of patients in each group that develop total (> 75% of NAC) and
      partial (25 to 75% of NAC) NAC necrosis will be measured at 2 week and 4 weeks after the
      definitive NSM procedure by the treating plastic surgeon and surgical oncologist,
      respectively. We will take photographs to provide objective documentation.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. The proportion of women in each group who require secondary NAC excision due to positive
           pathology review after NSM after the retro-areolar and nipple core biopsy during
           surgical delay (intervention group) or definitive NSM (control group).

        2. To include an objective and immediate measure of NAC perfusion, we will compare the mean
           perfusion score of the NAC between groups using indocyanine green infusion and the SPY
           Imaging System (Lifecell Corp.) immediately after tissue expander or implant placement
           and skin closure during the NSM. We will use this as an objective measure of perfusion
           but will not influence clinical decision making with regards to NAC viability.

      For the pilot, this study is significant to generate high-quality evidence-based data and to
      determine the feasibility to undertake and complete a full-scale RCT. The overarching study
      has the potential to influence clinical practice and is very contemporary in the management
      of patients undergoing mastectomy for breast cancer or risk reduction. If nipple-delay is
      effective in reducing the rate of NAC necrosis, then our proposed intervention has the
      potential to change clinical practice for surgeons who treat women with breast cancer or at
      high risk for development. Furthermore, the identification of occult malignancy within the
      NAC prior to planned NSM may contribute to improved cancer outcomes by not sparing the NAC at
      the time of mastectomy. We hypothesize a positive outcome would engender support within the
      breast cancer community to uptake an additional stage. Therefore, our proposed study can be
      used as a model to incorporate level I evidence into the plastic surgery research community,
      as well as provide robust data to support a change in clinical practice to improve patient
      outcomes among women undergoing NSM for breast cancer risk-reduction.
    
  