
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the pharmacokinetic disposition of vorinostat (SAHA) in patients with metastatic
      or unresectable solid tumors or lymphoma and varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction.

      II. Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of vorinostat
      in groups of patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction (mild, moderate, or
      severe).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Document the non-DLTs associated with administration of vorinostat in patients with
      hepatic dysfunction.

      II. Determine the association of the Child-Pugh classification of hepatic dysfunction with
      the observed toxicities, plasma pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of vorinostat
      administration.

      III. Document any antitumor activity associated with vorinostat treatment in patients
      enrolled on this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a parallel-group, dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according
      to level of hepatic dysfunction (normal vs mild vs moderate vs severe). (closed for accrual
      as of 04/05/2010)

      PART I: Vorinostat (SAHA) will be administered as a single oral dose on day -6 for all
      patients. Blood samples are obtained periodically on day -6 for pharmacokinetic studies.

      PART II: One week later (day 1), the first course of oral vorinostat will be initiated on a
      continuous daily oral regimen. Each treatment course will consist of 21 days of therapy.
      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Dose escalation will proceed within each hepatic dysfunction group (except in the normal
      group). Only dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) that occur during the first cycle of treatment
      will be used to guide dose escalation. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is the highest dose
      at which no more than one instance of DLT is observed (among 6 patients treated). Once the
      MTD has been determined for a given hepatic dysfunction group, a maximum of 12 patients will
      be accrued to this dose level.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.
    
  