
    
      This is a non-randomized, prospective, single-center pilot study to evaluate the feasibility
      and safety of creating an intestinal anastomosis using the Magnamosis Magnetic Compression
      Anastomosis (Magnamosis) device under FDA IDE G130046. Ten, otherwise healthy, subjects, ages
      18-60 years, with a disease process necessitating open or laparoscopic surgical anastomosis
      for re-establishment of intestinal continuity that would otherwise be performed using sutures
      or stapling devices will be enrolled. Participation in the study requires a time commitment
      of three months. The total duration of the study is 18 months to ensure three-month follow-up
      on each subject, with long-term follow-up of each subject at one and two years postoperation.
      The primary outcome measure will be the incidence of anastomotic leaks related to the use of
      the Magnamosis device. Anastomotic leakage will be defined as clinical symptoms such as
      fever, sepsis or peritonitis within 30 days postoperatively leading to a clinical and/or
      radiological interventional procedure or reoperation that confirms that the leakage is
      related to the device. Secondary outcome measures will include the rate of occurrence of
      other device-related complications during hospitalization and post-procedure, including the
      rate of bleeding, perforation, retention of foreign body, and anastomotic stricture
      documented by symptoms or imaging within three months of procedure. The duration of
      hospitalization, number of days to passage of Magnamosis device (found in stool or absent on
      x-ray), and number of days to the first postoperative bowel movement will also be measured.
      Post-operative administration of the pain scale will also yield study data. Subject follow-up
      will be conducted after discharge at 2 weeks (in person, in clinic), and at 1 month, 3
      months, 1 year and 2 years either in person, via email, telephone, Skype, or other non
      in-person method.
    
  