
    
      Investigators propose a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to
      investigate the effects of preoperative oral methadone on postoperative pain. The trial will
      be conducted in compliance with the protocol, Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and University of
      Saskatchewan Research Ethics Committee principles using an intent-to-treat model. The primary
      endpoint will be postoperative pain in the ICU, and secondary outcomes will include morphine
      requirements as measured by Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA). Secondary endpoints include
      opioid consumption at 15 minutes and at 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours post extubation.
      Other secondary endpoints include the following: pain with cough (using a 0-10 verbal pain
      scale) measured at the time of extubation then daily until post-op day three. Secondary
      outcomes that will be recorded from nursing assessment records include: incidence of nausea
      and/or vomiting requiring antiemetics, pruritus, hypoventilation (respiratory rate less than
      8 breaths/min), hypoxemia (oxygen saturation less than 90%), time to extubation, and sedation
      (Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale of -4 or -5).

      Patients will receive a dose of either oral methadone or placebo prior to entering the
      operating room. The dose given will be 0.3 mg/kg (to a maximum of 30 mg) or equivalent volume
      of placebo. An blinded research assistant will receive an envelope the morning of surgery
      outlining if the patient is in group A or B as well as their weight in kg. For the methadone
      arm the research assistant will prepare the appropriate amount of methadone, which is
      dispensed as 10 mg/mL, and dilute it to a total volume of 5 mL in sugary syrup to mask its
      taste. For the placebo arm a similar volume will be mixed at a 0.3 mg/kg volume and diluted
      to a total volume of 5 mL of sugary syrup. The methadone or placebo will be given to the
      researcher in a syringe. The researcher will give syringe to the patient and the patient will
      administer the solution to themself orally prior to entering the operating room.
    
  