
    
      MDS typically occurs in elderly people and a portion of these subjects evolve into acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML). The natural history of MDS is highly heterogeneous, and therefore a
      risk-adapted treatment strategy is mandatory.

      The presence of mutations in a given individual has only limited predictive power, as
      conversion to MDS is rare regardless of mutation status. In addition, in patients with overt
      MDS, genetic abnormalities explain only a proportion of the total hazard for survival,
      meaning that a large percentage is still associated with clinical and non-mutational factors.
      Comprehensive analyses of large patient populations are warranted to correctly estimate the
      independent effect of each mutation on clinical outcome and response to treatment.

      Moreover, environmental factors influencing the development of MDS and the probability of
      response to specific treatments are to be characterized. They include alterations in the
      immune system. In this context, a significant association was found between autoimmune
      disorders and MDS, and activation of the inflammasome may contribute to MDS development

      AIMS 1- Investigate gene mutations, niche factors and immune dysfunctions influencing the
      development of MDS, and define biomarkers for early identification of individuals at risk; 2-
      Develop prognostic models for MDS patients through integration of comprehensive
      genomic/clinical information; 3- Define biomarkers to better stratify the individual
      probability of response to specific treatments

      EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN

      AIM1

      1a) The investigators will analyze the genomic features of clonal dominance and ineffective
      hematopoiesis in elderly subjects enrolled in different population-based studies.

      Peripheral blood samples will be available for biological investigations. A low-cost,
      high-throughput platform for mutation screening of 72 genes known to be relevant in MDS will
      be used.

      1b) In order to gain further insight into the MDS genetic heterogeneity, the investigators
      will perform DNA sequencing in hematopoietic progenitors single cells to clarify the clonal
      architecture of marrow dysplasia in HSC, the dynamics of clonal establishment and expansion
      during hematopoietic differentiation, and their relationship with the disease phenotype and
      evolution

      1c) In selected elderly individuals, the investigators will study the transcriptome (RNA
      sequencing) of isolated mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) and marrow microenvironment (i.e.,
      innate ad adaptive immunity) with the aim to identify niche factors that may influence the
      development of a MDS phenotype in elderly subjects with clonal hematopoiesis. Moreover, in
      patients suffering from both MDS and autoimmune disorder, the investigators will analyze
      immunological parameters. They will be compared with those of patients with MDS but without
      immune disorder, and patients with immune disorders without MDS

      AIM2

      In myeloid malignancies, it was shown that large knowledge banks of matched genomic-clinical
      data can improve clinical decision-making.

      In the present project, basing on large MDS populations with comprehensive genomic and
      clinical data available within EuroBloodNet network (data on >3000 patients will be
      available), the investigators will develop inclusive, multistage statistical models (Bayesian
      network analysis and clustering) to accurately predict clinical outcomes in MDS at
      individual-patient level. The investigators plan to define 2 homogenous clinical cohorts in
      order to define distinct patterns and genetic groups within MDS and to independently validate
      their predictive value. As a research tool, the investigators plan to create a prototype
      portal within our EuroBloodNet website that allows outcome predictions to be generated based
      on this data set for user-defined constellations of genomic features and clinical variables.
      The reliability of this tool on clinical decision making will be tested in a prospective
      observational trial in the context of EuroBloodNet

      AIM3

      The investigators will analyze the mutational status and immune landscape associated with
      response to HMA in MDS patients enrolled in prospective clinical trials conducted within the
      EuroBloodNet network. Patients treated with azacitidine from prospective studies will be
      available for biological investigations to define biomarkers associated with clinical
      response. Validation of biomarkers will then be performed in an independent cohort. In all
      these studies, biobanking of bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) samples has been
      systematically performed, providing a unique resource to be investigated within this
      proposal. Data on mutational screening and immune profiles are already available in most
      patients, and were obtained by comparable methods. For mutation screening, a NGS approach
      covering key genes involved in myeloid malignancies and the response to HMA was used. For a
      comprehensive immunological characterization of T lymphocytes, NK cells and ILC cells,
      standardized flow cytometric protocols were used, which will provide novel insights into
      frequency, differentiation and activity of these cells in response to therapy. Complementary
      immunoassays based on Luminex technology will be used to quantify secretory proteins
      (cytokines, chemokines, growth factors) in BM and PB plasma samples.
    
  