
    
      Subjects will undergo preliminary screening procedures for the study up to 28 days before
      [14C]-NT-814 administration. Subjects will be admitted in the evening on the day prior to
      [14C]-NT-814 administration (Day -1) at which time further screening procedures will be
      undertaken to confirm eligibility. Subjects will be dosed in the morning of Day 1 following
      an overnight fast of a minimum of 8 hours.

      It is planned that subjects will be released as a group when all subjects have achieved a
      mass balance cumulative recovery of >90% and <1% of the dose administered has been collected
      in urine and faeces within 2 separate, consecutive 24 hour periods.

      This may result in the subjects being discharged as a group prior to completion of the
      planned residency period. If the mass balance discharge criteria are achieved during the
      planned residency period, collection of all samples (blood, urine, and faeces) will be
      stopped and subjects will undergo discharge assessments. If mass balance discharge criteria
      have not been met by all subjects by Day 15, the residency period for the subjects not
      achieving the mass balance discharge criteria may be extended up to a maximum of 48 hours
      (i.e., up to Day 17). Blood, urine and faeces will be collected for 24 hour intervals during
      the extended residency period whilst the subjects are resident in the clinic.

      If the mass balance discharge criteria are still not met by Day 17, subjects will enter a
      home collection phase during which they will collect 24-hour urine and faeces on a daily
      basis up until Day 24 (or until the criteria are met) and then on a weekly basis starting on
      Day 31 (until criteria met or Day 45 reached). During the period of weekly collection, mass
      balance cumulative recovery will be estimated by means of interpolation.

      No additional collections will be performed for subjects who still do not meet the criteria
      on Day 45. Subjects entering the home collection phase will return on Day 19 ± 12 hours for
      blood sample collection. Discharge safety assessments will be performed at the time of actual
      discharge from the clinical unit.
    
  