
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease is characterized by chronic bacterial colonization and
      recurrent infection of the airways. Disruption of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
      conductance regulator chloride channels in subjects with CF results in altered fluid and
      electrolyte transport across the airway epithelium thereby initiating infections.

      These infections eventually destroy the lungs and contribute to significant morbidity and
      mortality in patients with CF. It is well known that antibacterial activity of innate immune
      mediators such as lysozyme and beta defensins in human airway surface liquid (ASL) is
      salt-sensitive; an increase in salt concentration inhibits their activity.

      Conversely, their activity is increased by low ionic strength. Lowering the ASL salt
      concentration and increasing the ASL volume might therefore potentiate innate immunity and
      therefore decrease or prevent airway infections in subjects with CF.

      Xylitol, a five-carbon sugar with low transepithelial permeability, which is poorly
      metabolized by bacteria can lower the salt concentration of both cystic fibrosis (CF) and
      non-CF epithelia in vitro. Xylitol is an artificial sweetener that has been successfully used
      in chewing gums to prevent dental caries; it has been used as an oral sugar substitute
      without significant adverse effects. It has also been shown to decrease the incidence of
      acute otitis media by 20-40%; nasal application to normal human subjects was found to
      decrease colonization with coagulase negative staphylococcus. The investigators found that
      aerosolized iso-osmolar xylitol was safe in mice, healthy volunteers and stable subjects with
      CF when administered over a single day. In a recent study, the investigators observed that
      single doses of 10% followed by 15% xylitol was well tolerated by subjects with cystic
      fibrosis who were stable.

      In this study, the investigators plan to study the safety and efficacy of 2 weeks of inhaled
      xylitol compared to 2 weeks of hypertonic saline in a randomized crossover design in stable
      subjects with cystic fibrosis
    
  