
    
      Problem of Interest:

      Current treatments for ulcerative colitis are not always effective, and often have serious
      side effects. Therefore, there is considerable interest in finding alternative treatments for
      this disease. Physiologic data suggest that melatonin is important in gastrointestinal (GI)
      tract physiology and health, and data from in vitro studies, animal experiments, and some
      studies in humans suggest that supplemental melatonin may have an ameliorative effect on
      colitis. However, experimental data on the ability of melatonin to improve ulcerative colitis
      in humans are lacking. The long-term goal of this proposal is to examine whether melatonin
      supplementation helps alleviate mild-to-moderate colitis symptoms. To this end, we plan to
      conduct a pilot randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (n = 60) that will obtain
      preliminary data about the effectiveness of melatonin supplementation as a treatment for
      ulcerative colitis in adult men and women with mild to moderate flare-up of the disease. The
      specific aims of the trial are: (i) to estimate the effect of 12 weeks of 5 mg/day
      supplementation with melatonin on ulcerative colitis remission, (ii) to estimate the effects
      of melatonin supplementation on tissue levels of cytokines and other markers of inflammation,
      (iii) to determine whether melatonin's effects vary according to baseline (endogenous)
      melatonin levels, (iv) to determine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a sufficient
      number of ulcerative colitis patients for a larger, more definitive study, and (v) to
      determine whether melatonin supplementation has any adverse side-effects when taken daily for
      12 weeks in adults with ulcerative colitis.

      How the Problem Will Be Studied:

      The overall study design of this trial is that of a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial. Patients will be recruited from those seeing their IBD
      clinicians at one of three study sites: Emory University, Atlanta Gastroenterology
      Associates, or the Atlanta VA Medical Center. Eligibility will be based first on the severity
      of disease, determined by physician exam, and through sigmoidoscopy (as part of the Mayo
      Scoring System). The Project Coordinator will meet with patients to further determine
      eligibility, as there are restrictions based on age, medical history, medications taken,
      pregnancy, and others. Willing patients who are otherwise eligible at that point will undergo
      a one-week placebo run-in to assess compliance and any reported side-effects. Eligible
      patients will undergo their first study sigmoidoscopy, will provide biological samples for
      processing (blood, urine, and rectal biopsy tissue), and will be randomized into treatment (5
      mg/d at bedtime) or placebo (also at bedtime). They will be given sleep logs and symptoms
      logs to fill out weekly during the trial, and they will fill out a colitis-related quality of
      life questionnaire. They will be called once per week by the Project Coordinator to check on
      the study participants, to assess compliance and side-effects, and to answer any questions.
      There will be a clinical visit two weeks after randomization, to assess symptoms and any side
      effects. The next scheduled clinical visit is at the end of the trial, where another
      sigmoidoscopy and sample collection will take place. Any other interim clinical visit will be
      at the discretion of the patients and his or her study physician. Lastly, patients will
      complete a questionnaire about colitis-related quality of life during the trial and will be
      asked as to whether they suspected which treatment arm they were in. The following period
      will be devoted to data analysis, publication of study results, and closeout. Please see
      attached protocol for details.

      Importance of the Knowledge to be Gained:

      The proposed research will have both public health and scientific importance. Ulcerative
      colitis is not a rare condition, and sufferers often deal with debilitating symptoms. Thus, a
      greater understanding of ways of treat ulcerative colitis would be of potential relevance to
      a great number of people.

      How the Research Will Advance Scientific Knowledge and/or Human Health

      UC is a common gastrointestinal disorder in adults, one that can have debilitating symptoms
      and severe health consequences. Current treatments are not always effective, and often have
      serious side effects. Therefore, there is considerable interest in finding alternative
      treatments for this disease. Physiologic data suggest that melatonin is important in GI tract
      physiology and health, and data from in vitro studies, animal experiments, and some studies
      in humans, suggest that supplemental melatonin may have an ameliorative effect on colitis.
      Given our newly-funded pilot clinical trial was awarded the maximum funding available from
      the Broad Foundation, with no funds allocated to explore potentially important biological
      mechanisms, we feel that this is an excellent opportunity to validate potential clinical
      benefits of melatonin as an adjunctive therapy for UC in humans, with mechanistic insights
      into the various levels of the inflammatory process that may be influenced by melatonin in
      vivo. Thus, the proposed study is a) innovative, b) supported by experimental data, and c)
      may ultimately lead to improved treatment of UC based on clinical and mechanistic knowledge
      gained through this study conducted in human patients.

      To date, there has been no formal clinical trial of melatonin therapy for UC in humans, and
      there have been few mechanistic investigations into the potential mode of action of this
      compound on the pathomechanisms identified thus far. Given the very low toxicity documented
      for even high levels of melatonin in animals and human subjects, this relatively inexpensive
      treatment may represent an attractive alternative for patient suffering from mild to
      mid-grade UC given the low incidence of side effects.
    
  