
    
      BACKGROUND Acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) are of major importance since they are
      associated with adverse effects on morbidity, health status, and costs. Conventional
      treatment includes the use of antibiotics and oral corticosteroids (OCS). However, OCS is
      associated with significant side effects. This is of considerable importance since
      exacerbation occurs on average 2 to 4 times per year in COPD patients. Alternative treatment
      such as high dose inhaled corticosteroids has also been shown to be effective in the
      treatment of AECOPD. Recently, studies have clearly demonstrated the effect of combination
      therapy (SFP) on key inflammatory cells and a marked enhance anti-inflammatory effect when
      compared to inhaled corticosteroids alone. Inhaled corticosteroids have a high level of
      topical anti-inflammatory activity and a low level of systemic. Additionally, combination
      therapy with inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2-adrenoceptor agonists (SFP) appears
      to produce significant anti-inflammatory effects in COPD airways that are not seen when
      inhaled or oral steroids are used alone. This could offer a potential for an alternative
      treatment to oral corticosteroids in AECOPD.

      RATIONALE None of the inhaled treatments is likely to be adopted and to replace the use of
      OCS for the treatment of AECOPD unless it is used promptly at the onset of symptom worsening.
      Early treatment has been shown to have clinical importance in accelerating symptom recovery
      and reducing hospital admission. Recently, the investigators have demonstrated that the early
      treatment of AECOPD can be achieved by the implementation of a written action plan as part of
      a self-management education.

      The use of action plans helps COPD patients recognize symptom changes, implement self-care
      and self-initiate a customized prescription (antibiotics & oral steroids) in the event of an
      exacerbation. Self-management education programs with a written action plan that includes
      standing prescriptions with combination therapy (SFP) in the event of an exacerbation may be
      promising in reducing the use of prednisone in AECOPD, the conventional treatment.
    
  