
    
      We will make iC9-GD2 T cells by infecting normal T cells with a retroviral vector containing
      the iC9-GD2 gene. After the new gene has been put into the T cells, the cells will be tested
      to make sure that they kill GD2-positive neuroblastoma cells and then will be either given
      fresh or frozen until the patient is ready for their infusion.

      First, patients will receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine intravenously (through a needle
      inserted into a vein or your port-a-cath) for 2 days and then fludarabine alone for one day
      (Day -4, -3,-2). On the next day (Day -1) patients will receive the drug called pembrolizumab
      intravenously. Finally on Day 0 patients will be given an infusion of iC9 GD2 T cells into
      the vein through an IV line at the assigned dose.

      The iC9-GD2 T cell infusion will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas
      Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital. The infusion will take between 5 and 10
      minutes. Patients may need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion so we can
      monitor them for side effects.

      On Day 21 (at the time of the week 3 visit), if the treatment was well tolerated, patients
      will receive another dose of pembrolizumab intravenously.

      There will be follow-up visits every 1-2 weeks during the first 2 months and then they will
      be spaced out over a total of 15 years. Because the cells are modified with a new gene we
      must follow patients for at least 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of
      gene transfer. During the visits, we will see how the patients are doing and during certain
      time points we will obtain extra blood samples to learn more about the way the iC9-GD2 T
      cells are working and how long they last in the body.

      After disease re-evaluation, if disease has not gotten worse, or if in the future it seems
      that patient might benefit and they have not had a severe side effect caused by the infusion
      of their iC9-GD2 T cells, patients may be eligible to receive up to 2 additional doses of
      their T cells. Each dose will be at the same dose level as their first infusion and separated
      by at least 6 weeks such that we can make sure patients have no severe side effects between
      infusions. If patients receive additional doses of iC9-GD2 T-cells, they may need to stay in
      Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion as well so we can monitor them for side effects.
      If there were no severe side effects from pembrolizumab, patients will receive pembrolizumab
      again with the iC9 GD2 T cells on the day before the T cell injection and 21 days after the T
      cells.
    
  