
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      This is an investigator-initiated, single site (MCG only), single-blinded prospective study
      comparing the efficacy of Lubiprostone and 4L PEG (Nulytely) to 4 Liters (4L) PEG alone on
      preparation quality in patients with known diabetes undergoing colonoscopy. Diabetic
      outpatients who require a colonoscopy will be randomized to one of the two groups of 60
      (total of 120 patients):

      Control Group: All patients in the study will receive a standard oral 4L PEG colonoscopy
      preparation the day prior to their scheduled colonoscopy.

      Lubiprostone Group: The lubiprostone group will receive an additional two 24 mcg lubiprostone
      capsules, which will be taken orally the morning and evening of the day of the 4L PEG prep
      (before and after the oral 4L PEG preparation).

      Randomization Scheme: Subjects will be assigned to the Control Group or Lubiprostone Group,
      on an odd/even basis. After research informed consent has been obtained, subjects are given a
      study Identification (ID) numbered 1 through 120. Subjects with an odd number will be
      assigned to Control Group, and subjects with an even number will be assigned to the
      Lubiprostone Group. Subjects then will be given a randomization package consisting of the
      preparation orders, supplies, instructions and the date of their procedure by the
      investigator obtaining informed consent. The colonoscopist will be blinded to which
      preparation was given.

      Only diabetic patients who require an outpatient colonoscopy by a gastroenterologist at the
      outpatient MCG Clinic will be eligible for the study. Patients will be presented with a
      separate consent form for the colonoscopy procedure itself.

      Standard of Care Procedures

        -  Colonoscopy Procedure Consent

        -  Colonoscopy

      Study Procedures

        -  Research Informed Consent

        -  Disbursement of randomized preparation order and supplies, instructions, and date of
           procedure to subjects

        -  Adverse Events

      After the procedure, the physician who performed the colonoscopy will complete a form that
      rates the quality of the subject's colonoscopy preparation on a 1-5 rating scale.

      The subject's study participation duration is two days (day of preparation and day of
      procedure). No follow-up visits will occur.
    
  