
    
      Study Design:

      The investigators will start trial after our institution's Clinical Research Ethics Committee
      approval. The protocol conforms to CONSORT guidelines for parallel-group randomized trials
      and the protocol is designed to conform to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Participant :

      A literature review revealed that the surgical site infection rates after posterior
      instrumentation to be around 13-15%. Being a non-inferiority trial, the investigators
      hypothesized that the 90-day surgical site infection rates after posterior lumbar
      instrumentation should not be more than 1%. In order to find the difference of 14.0% between
      the two groups statistically significant, the minimum number of subjects required in each
      group was determined to be 55. (Power of 80 % and significance level at 0.05). To account for
      missing data, the drop-out rate was set to 10% and therefore, a total of 60 participants will
      be randomized.

      The investigators will be included participants with spinal stenosis, LDH(Lumbar Disc
      Hernia), degenerative scoliosis or spondylolisthesis who did not respond to conservative
      treatment and participants in whom operation will be planned in the only lumbar spine. The
      investigators will be excluded participants with a history of malignancy, systemic
      inflammatory disease, severe cardiac insufficiency, morbid obesity (>40 kg/m2 or 35 or more
      and experiencing obesity-related health conditions) and participants who had undergone spine
      surgery previously. An informed consent form will be obtained from all participants.

      The schedule for randomization will be randomly generated using a computer before the
      initiation of the trial. Participants will randomly be assigned in a 1:1 ratio. The
      investigators planned our study as double-blinded. Neither participants nor assessors will
      know about randomization results. The outcome assessor will be blinded to group allocation
      and won't be involved in providing the interventions. The statistician performing the
      statistical analyses will be blinded to group allocation.

      Surgical procedures:

      All surgeries will be performed by one surgeon under general anesthesia. The investigators
      will be used rod and pedicle screws of the same brand in all participants (Tasarım Med,
      Turkey)- using a standard posterior midline approach. All participants will be given 2 g
      cefazolin for infection prophylaxis and 1 g tranexamic acid for blood loss prophylaxis
      intravenously 30 min before the incision. In group 1 Teicoplanin powder will be placed on the
      rod and pedicle screws. The investigators will be added 200mg. teicoplanin powder around the
      instrument for each level. Hemovac drains will be used in either group. The drains will
      remain closed for 6 hours post-operatively for teicoplanin powder penetration in a surgical
      site.

      All participants will be undergoing the same post-op rehabilitation protocol.
    
  