
    
      Introduction: Pain is a public health condition, which causes great functional disability.
      Its consequences pervade the personal and social life of the patient, leading to significant
      changes in their interpersonal relationships, including work, family and social spheres,
      reducing the ability to perform daily activities. Conventional treatment modalities have been
      show a very poor therapeutic response, in that most individuals end up becoming polymedicated
      patients and refractory to treatment. Among non-pharmacological techniques with promising
      analgesic effects it includes both the hypnotic analgesia and the transcranial stimulation of
      direct current (tDCS). Objective: To evaluate the synergistic effect of hypnotic analgesia
      associated with tDCS under metabolites parameters and pain levels in healthy individuals
      before a nociceptive stimulation pattern. Methods: it will be performed a blinded crossover
      sham controlled randomized clinical trial. It will be included 32 woman healthy subjects,
      Susceptible to the hypnosis technique according to the Scale of Hypnotic Susceptibility
      (WSGC) Scale of Hypnotic Scale score. aged 18 to 65. They will be allocated in one of the
      following groups: active tDCS + hypnotic analgesia, sham tDCS + hypnotic analgesia, hypnotic
      analgesia and tDCS . After a 7 days interval, the groups will be crossed in order to receive
      the opposite intervention of the first week. The primary endpoints will be the
      electrophysiological brain parameters, such as changes in the Theta, Alpha and Gamma waves,
      as measured by EEG. The secondary endpoints will be the level of pain, measured against
      nociceptive induced by the cold test and stimuli standardized pressure through algometry
      pressure and power down system modulatory pain, pain using the subject test - CPM - task. The
      intra and inter-group comparisons will be made by means of two-way ANOVA followed by
      Bonferroni. A p significance level of <0.05 was established. Expected results: This study
      hypothesizes that a synergistic effect of analgesic techniques in pain levels in healthy
      subjects compared to isolated character.
    
  