
    
      In-vitro fertilization has been used since 1978 to treat women with infertility. It involves
      controlled ovarian stimulation, egg maturation, egg collection, fertilization and embryo
      culture and finally embryo culture. The luteal phase is the latter phase of the menstrual
      cycle which begins with the formation of the corpora lutea and ends in either pregnancy or
      luteolysis. The main hormone associated with this stage is progesterone, which is
      significantly higher during the luteal phase than other phases of the cycle. In the IVF
      setting, however, luteal phase deficiency is present and over the last 40 years various
      regimens have been used to support luteal phase of the cycle. Progesterone is currently
      widely used for this purpose and has shown to be effective in improving pregnancy and live
      birth rate (Van der Linden 2011).

      There have been various other regimen used for luteal support in an attempt to further
      enhance luteal phase support such as oestrogen, HCG and GnRH agonist. The recent Cochrane
      study showed a significant benefit from addition of GnRH agonist to progesterone versus
      progesterone alone for the outcomes of live birth, clinical pregnancy and ongoing pregnancy.
      (Van Der Linden 2011) However, the conclusion derived from the metaanalysis were derived from
      limited number of studies that used various types additional luteal phase support, which also
      included a myriad of agonist and antagonist IVF cycles. Only ICSI cycles were included in the
      antagonist cycles.

      A gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist is a synthetic peptide that interacts with
      the GnRH hormone receptor to elicit its biologic response, the release of the pituitary
      hormones, FHS and LH. The exact mechanism of how GnRH could potentially increase pregnancy
      rate is unknown. Tesarik et al performed a randomised study in which addition of GnRH agonist
      increases implantation rate in donor recipient discounted the theory that GnRH acted on
      corpora lutea. It is suggested that GnRH acts directly on embryo to secrete BHCG hence
      enhances implantation. A prospective randomised study that was performed by Isik et al showed
      a promising result of use of GnRH agonist administration in the luteal phase of GnRH
      antagonist cycle (n=164). In this study, cases received 0.5mg leuprolide acetate in addition
      to 600mg micronised progesterone day 6 after ICSI compared to control group who received
      micronisd progesterone only. The study showed clinical pregnancy rate of 40% in cases vs 20%
      in control group. The increased number of multiple pregnancies in these studies could be
      partly explained by multiple embryos transferred. Answer is needed to determine if multiple
      pregnancy rate is higher if single embryo transfer is executed.

      The studies performed by Tesarik et al and Isik et al showed promising increase in live birth
      rate and clinical pregnancy rates in antagonist cycles. Both studies were performed in
      clinical settings that were vastly different from Australia: multiple embryos were
      transferred, multiple luteal phase support were used in addition to progesterone and multiple
      pregnancy rates were high. Given the significant increase in pregnancy rate (>10%) were
      observed in these studies, if the increase is real, a RCT in Australia setting is needed
      prior to implementation of this intervention.
    
  