
    
      Background

      Proper pain relief is a major concern of patients worldwide. Pain concerns the surgical team
      as well, because of its correlation with clinical outcomes and patients' satisfaction rate.
      Studies have shown that negative clinical outcome with regard to pain control includes
      decreases in vital capacity and alveolar ventilation, pneumonia, tachycardia, hypertension,
      myocardial ischemia, transition into chronic pain, poor wound healing, and psychological
      sequelae. Pain has been found to be one of the three most common medical causes of
      delayed/aborted discharge after ambulatory surgery, the other two being drowsiness and
      postoperative nausea/vomiting. Despite progress that has been made with regard to
      postoperative pain control, and the development of new standards for pain control, many
      patients continue to experience intense pain after surgery.

      Recent advances in the understanding of the particularities of central sensitization indicate
      that it plays an important role in post surgical and post traumatic pain and therefore should
      be avoided. We now distinguish postoperative pain, which is mostly nociceptive, and which
      perceives pain following surgical insult, from the exacerbation of acute nociceptive pain
      that leads to neural sensitization, when sensations that are not normally painful, are
      perceived as painful, as in hyperalgesia and allodynia. Thus, acute pain may transform into
      subacute or chronic pain, conditions that are harder to control when more persistent
      (chronic) they become. Better pain control, possibly using drugs that affect both acute and
      chronic pains, seems therefore the current optimal choice.

      Multimodal analgesia Advances in knowledge of the neuropharmacological molecular mechanisms
      of pain have led to the development of "multimodal analgesia" practice.

      The concept of multimodal analgesia is now a well established clinical practice. For example,
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications combined with intravenous patient-controlled
      morphine administration, may decrease nausea and sedation in patients when compared with that
      using patient-controlled morphine analgesia alone. Multimodal analgesia also can produce
      opioid sparing effects. Our group has shown repeatedly, that multimodal analgesia spares
      postoperative morphine consumption and increases level of patients' satisfaction. However,
      they may not improve postoperative outcome in terms of faster recovery, reduced hospital
      stay, and decreased length of convalescence.

      Analgesic adjuvant Adjuvants are compounds, which by themselves may have undesirable side
      effects or low potency but in combination with opioids allow a reduction of narcotic dosing
      for postoperative pain control. They are needed due to side effects of opioid analgesics,
      which hinder recovery, especially when increasingly utilizing ambulatory surgical procedures.
      One of the newer groups of products that are non-analgesic substances, therefore named
      "adjuvants", are anticonvulsants (e.g., pregabalin).

      Pregabalin (PGL) Interest has been focused on the analgesic, sedative, anxiolytic, and
      opioid-sparing effects of pregabalin (PGL) (S+ 3-isobutyl GABA), a structural analog of GABA
      (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid) and a derivative of gabapentin in various pain settings, including
      postoperative pain. Of a similar mechanism of action, it is thought to possess a superior
      pharmacokinetic profile than gabapentin. Pregabalin has a variable role in neuropathic pain
      conditions, such as post-herpetic neuralgia, painful diabetic neuropathy, central neuropathic
      pain, and fibromyalgia. Some studies had not demonstrated a significant analgesic effect in
      the acute, postoperative pain; others propose PGL to have effective sedative and
      opioid-sparing effects , both useful characteristics for the control of acute pain. Opioid
      sparing effects and improved pain scores have been seen after abdominal and pelvic surgery.
      Its many potential actions such as reducing opioid requirements, prevention and reduction of
      opioid tolerance, improvement of the quality of opioid analgesia, decreased respiratory
      depression, relief of anxiety, and gastric sparing, make it an attractive drug to consider
      for control of pain in the post operative period.

      Population characteristics The orthopedic oncological patients are a specific group of
      individuals whose demand for antinociception starts rather before surgery because of the bone
      tumor-generated pain that usually signals the first existence of pathology. Subsequently,
      these patients would require postoperatively more analgesics than after general surgery and
      for a longer period of time. We have demonstrated previously that acute pain that is
      superimposed on an already aroused CNS (central nervous system), i.e., the presence of
      central sensitization, would create a situation where complete antinociception is hard to
      obtain, as in these patients, and therefore the efficacy of the antinociceptive protocol is
      best tested, comprised the possible transformation of acute into chronic pain.

      preemptive drug has been pointed out as a beneficial tool for reducing perioperative pain.
      Various techniques have been employed for this purpose; different drugs were used as well.
      The beneficial effects of preemptive PGL were documented in patients who had undergone lumbar
      discectomy, both immediately and 1 and 3 months after surgery.
    
  