
    
      Rationale of the present study For several decades, the systemic management of metastatic
      renal cell cancer (mRCC) was confined to the use of interferon (IFN) and interleukin-2
      (IL-2). Recently, options for the medical management of mRCC have been improved through the
      introduction of agents targeting tumour angiogenesis or intracellular pathways mediating
      growth and proliferation. Among these agents are the small molecule inhibitors sorafenib
      (Nexavar), sunitinib (Sutent), temsirolimus (Torisel) and everolimus, and the monoclonal
      antibody bevacizumab (Avastin). All these targeted agents have been shown significantly to
      extend progression-free or overall survival or both when compared with placebo or IFN therapy
      in the treatment of mRCC.

      Adverse events are commonly observed in clinical practice by using these small molecule
      inhibitors in mRCC patients. Concerning the use of bevacizumab the most commonly observed
      adverse events are hypertension, proteinuria, bleeding and thrombosis. For sunitinib the most
      frequent adverse events include hand-foot syndrome, stomatitis, diarrhea, fatigue,
      hypothyroidism and hypertension.

      Most common adverse events with sorafenib are hand foot skin reaction (HFSR) rash,
      desquamation, fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, hypothyroidism and hypertension.Several studies and
      recommendations have been published in order to suggest how to manage sorafenib adverse
      reactions and in particular the HFSR.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate if patients education programs for the prevention of
      dermatological events (HFSR, rash, desquamation) can reduce the onset these adverse events
      (all grades). The reduction of dermatological adverse effects would concomitantly limit the
      frequencies of sorafenib dose reduction and interruptions in mRCC patients not suitable for
      cytokines or anti-angiogenesis (bevacizumab or sunitinib) therapy as first line treatment.

      Treatment Administration Sorafenib will be orally administered at a daily dose of 400 mg
      taken twice daily without food, at least one hour before or two hours after eating. Four
      weeks of treatments will be considered as a cycle. Each patient enrolled in the study will
      received medications for topical therapy. Dermatological medications will be provided free.

      In case of toxicities, dose reduction/interruption is permitted according to the flow
      charts/dose modifications.

      In case of disease progression, or unacceptable toxicities Sorafenib administration will be
      discontinued.

      The patient will be considered "out of treatment" if Sorafenib intake is stopped for more
      than 30 consecutive days and the patient will be considered for survival.
    
  