
    
      Background:

      It is estimated that 30-50% of patients with CLL have tumors that express cluster of
      differentiation 25 (CD25) (Tac or IL2R). Normal resting T-cells are not sensitive to LMB-2
      due to insufficient CD25 expression. LMB-2 is an anti-CD25 recombinant immunotoxin containing
      variable domains of MAb anti-Tac and truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin. A phase I trial at
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) found that the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of LMB-2 was 40
      microg/Kg IV given every other day for 3 doses (every other day (QOD) x3) with prophylactic
      IV fluid. The most common adverse events were transient fever, hypoalbuminemia and
      transaminase elevations. In that trial, one of eight patients with chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia had a partial remission. The other seven CLL patients had stable disease. In
      addition, four of four patients with hairy cell leukemia had responses (1 complete response
      (CR), 3 partial response (PRs)) and 3 other patients had PRs (1 cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
      (CTCL), 1 healthy donor (HD), 1 acute T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL)). Because LMB-2 is
      cytotoxic to cells expressing CD25, CD25+ CLL patients are good candidates for further
      testing with LMB-2.

      Objectives:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the activity of anti-Tac(Fv)-PE38 (LMB- 2) in
      patients with Tac-expressing Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL). The primary endpoint of this
      trial is response rate. We will also evaluate response duration, LMB-2 immunogenicity,
      pharmacokinetics, toxicity, and monitor soluble Tac levels in the serum.

      Eligibility:

      CD25 positive CLL or prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) confirmed by flow cytometry of blood, with
      either lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, hemoglobin less than 11 g/dl,

      or platelets less than 100,000/ul.

      Patients must have progression following purine analog or alkylating agent.

      Labs required: alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) less than
      or equal to 2.5- time upper limit,

      albumin greater than or equal to 3, bilirubin less than equal to 2.2 (unless unconjugated
      greater than or equal to 80%)

      and creatinine less than or equal to 1.4 (unless creatinine clearance greater than or equal
      to 50 ml/min).

      Design:

      Patients receive LMB-2 40 ug/Kg QOD x3 every 4 weeks in absence of neutralizing antibodies or
      progressive disease. 1st stage is 16 patients, to expand to 25 if greater than 1 of 16
      patients respond.
    
  