
    
      Peripheral venous catheterization is the most commonly performed invasive procedure in
      healthcare. Care practices and the use of technologies may influence the results of the use
      peripheral intravenous catheters (PIC), contributing to the reduction of complications and
      adverse events. Phlebitis is characterized as one of the most serious complication related to
      the use of PIC and this study has as hypothesis to analyze if the occurrence of phlebitis
      associated with PIC is influenced by the use of sterile dressing. Objectives: To verify the
      effect of using sterile dressing and sterile adhesive tape compared to non-sterile adhesive
      tape in PIC on the occurrence of phlebitis in adult patients attended at a hospital from the
      Western Brazilian Amazon. Methods: Pragmatic, randomized, controlled and single-blinded
      clinical study conducted in Rio Branco, Acre. The sample was calculated in 330 patients, aged
      18 years or older and who met the inclusion criteria. Data collection took place between June
      2018 and September 2019, after approval of ethical merit. To identify the type of sterile
      transparent dressing to be studied, was carried out an implementation study with a final
      sample of 71 patients, focusing analysis from the perspective of the patient, professional
      and clinics. The patients of the clinical study were randomly allocated to one of the study
      groups: Experimental group (sterile transparent dressing) or Standard Group (non-sterile
      adhesive tape). Phlebitis was diagnosed by the bedside nurse, according to presence and
      severity. If present, the nurse removed the CIP and an external evaluator was called to
      perform a diagnose of phlebitis with blindness regarding the intervention. Variables related
      to patient characterization, intravenous therapy, peripheral venipuncture, reasons for
      withdrawal and length of PIC stay, reasons for removal and length of coverage, and associated
      complications were investigated. For the statistical analysis, Chi-square, Fisher's Exact,
      student t test, and Mann-Whitney U tests were used. The multiple analysis was performed using
      the logistic regression model to estimate the Relative Risk (RR) and the Kaplan-Meier model,
      Cox regression, for survival analysis. RR calculation for 95% Confidence Interval (IC) was
      applied to estimate the degree of association between variables. In all tests, the
      significance level of 5% was considered.
    
  