
    
      VA Cooperative Study #574 is designed to prospectively evaluate the efficacy of prolonged
      glucocorticoid (methylprednisolone) treatment on short- (in hospital) and long-term (after
      hospital discharge), morbidity and mortality in Veteran patients admitted to the Intensive
      Care Unit (ICU) (including intermediate care unit) with severe community-acquired pneumonia
      (CAP).

      CAP is the sixth most common cause of death (acute mortality) in the United States and the
      leading cause of community-acquired infection requiring intensive care unit (ICU) admission.
      Despite significant advancements in medical care, there has been little change in crude
      mortality from respiratory tract infection for more than 5 decades (1950-2000). In the United
      States alone, over 1.3 million people were admitted to the hospital in 2002 with severe CAP
      (262 per 10,000 population) with an estimated inpatient cost of approximately $4.4 billion.
      In addition, severe CAP patients surviving hospitalization experience a significant increase
      in long-term morbidity (cardiovascular complications, impaired functional status, and
      recurrent hospitalizations) and a sizable mortality up to 1 year (up to 25%) that is
      independent of patient's chronic health condition.

      Dysregulated systemic inflammation, characterized by persistent elevation in circulating
      inflammatory cytokine levels over time, is the central pathogenetic process contributing to
      short- and long-term morbidity and mortality in patients with severe CAP. Even when patients
      survive ICU and hospital admission, elevation in inflammatory cytokine lasts for greater than
      3 weeks, and interleukin (IL)-6 levels at hospital discharge predict subsequent mortality.
      Endogenous and exogenous glucocorticoids are the most important physiologic inhibitors of
      inflammation. In a meta-analysis of four, small, published studies that included a total of
      198 patients with severe CAP, prolonged glucocorticoid treatment was associated with a
      significant reduction in short-term mortality (RR = 0.40, 95%CI 0.18-0.89; p = 0.03; I2 12%).
      This Cooperative Studies Program (CSP) study will be the first large-scale, prospective,
      randomized clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of prolonged methylprednisolone in the
      treatment of severe CAP.

      In this study, at each site, patients with severe CAP will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive methylprednisolone or placebo in a double-blind fashion. The investigators have
      chosen a total duration of treatment of 20 days (7 days full dose followed by slow reduction
      over 13 days) to forestall relapse of systemic inflammation and allow recovery of the
      suppressed hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. All patients will also receive
      standardized management of CAP in accordance with current practice guidelines. Randomization
      will be stratified separately within each participating site by whether or not the patient
      requires mechanical ventilation at the time of randomization. Patients will be followed
      clinically for 180 days. The primary outcome is all cause 60-day mortality. Secondary
      outcomes are (1) in-hospital morbidity-mortality, including ventilator-free days, multiorgan
      dysfunction syndrome (MODS)-free days, duration of ICU and hospital stay, and hospital
      discharge; and (2) posthospital discharge morbidity-mortality, including cardiovascular
      complications, functional and general health status in the first 180 days, rehospitalization,
      and mortality at 1 year. Serial blood samples will also be collected and stored for future
      translational research relating longitudinal inflammation markers to clinical outcomes.

      Based on published studies and VA Decision Support System, the investigators estimate the all
      cause 60-day mortality in severe CAP patients admitted to ICU is 28%. The investigators
      hypothesize that prolonged methylprednisolone treatment will reduce the 60-day mortality from
      28% to 21% (a 25% relative reduction). A total of 1406 patients (703 per group) will be
      required to give 85% power to detect this hypothesized improvement, using a two-sided 5%
      significance level test. Adjusting for 1% attrition, the target sample size is 1420. Assuming
      5 years of accrual and an intake rate of 8 patients per year per Veterans Affairs Medical
      Center (VAMC), the investigators will need 36 participating VAMCs.

      Treatment of severe CAP is of particular importance to the VA health care system because of
      the large patient population and because a single episode of severe CAP is associated with
      significant short- and long-term morbidity and mortality. In fiscal year 2006, 17,890
      patients were admitted to the VA hospital system with a diagnosis of CAP. Of these, 3727
      (21%) required ICU admission during their hospital stay. For ICU-admitted patients, mortality
      rates in the hospital at 60, 90, 180, and 365 days were 26%, 34%, 37%, 44%, and 51%,
      respectively. They had on average a hospital stay of 17.7 days with hospital costs of
      $49,936, and 48% of them were readmitted within 12 months of hospital discharge. This study
      will investigate the effects of an off-patent, inexpensive treatment that, based on strong
      experimental and translational evidence and the encouraging findings of preliminary trials,
      has the potential of significantly decreasing mortality and morbidity. Equally important,
      this study will advance knowledge on the relationship between inflammation and long-term
      outcome in severe CAP. Given that methylprednisolone is off-patent, there is little incentive
      for the pharmaceutical industry to fund this study. The VA system with its Cooperative
      Studies Program is uniquely suited to conduct the study.
    
  