
    
      Research plan The study population will include patients diagnosed with GAS invasive
      infection following delivery or gynaecological procedures (such as endometrial biopsy, D&C or
      IUD insertion) at Hadassah university hospitals, and patients in whom an isolation of GAS
      from the vagina without infection was reported. The study will consist of two parts,
      prospective and retrospective.

        1. Retrospective study

             1. The records of all patients diagnosed with GAS infection/isolation in the past 3
                years (2003-2005) will be reviewed. The estimated occurrence of GAS isolation from
                the genital tract in Hadassah hospital is 15 cases every year (Moses personal
                communication).

             2. Patients' files will be reviewed for demographic and clinical variables associated
                with the development of GAS infection (age, parity, obstetric history), its
                clinical course and subsequent progress to septic shock, and the site of GAS
                isolation (blood, vaginal discharge, wound etc).

             3. Additional information will be obtained from the patients in order to evaluate the
                incidence of gynaecological infections and risk factors for such infections. These
                include events of pelvic inflammatory disease, contraceptive methods, subsequent
                deliveries or D&C (a questionnaire is attached).

             4. Vaginal cultures and pharyngeal swabs will be taken from all women with previous
                gynecological GAS infection/isolation participating in the study, in order to
                evaluate whether carriage of GAS in the vagina occurs.

        2. emm typing Since we have the original isolates from women with invasive disease (those
           presenting with bacteremia) we will be able to compare the specific type isolate
           obtained in consequent cultures with the original isolate. Isolates will be compared by
           several known bacterial attributes such as emm type, T type, and the presence of genes
           for the different exotoxins. emm typing PCR of streptococcal isolates will be performed
           as previously described [11], according to the recommendations of the Division of
           Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases, Streptococcus pyogenes emm sequence database
           (http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/biotech/strep/doc.htm).

        3. Prospective study- In addition to the above patients, women presenting from the
           beginning of the study for two years, with an isolation of GAS from the vagina (even
           without overt disease), will be followed in order to evaluate the significance of such
           isolates. These isolates will be collected for comparison with surveillance cultures
           which will be taken in the future. Vaginal cultures and pharyngeal swabs will be taken
           every 2 months during the year.
    
  