
    
      Background: Atherosclerosis and its consequences - coronary heart disease and stroke - are
      principal causes of mortality in developed countries. Being able to accurately predict an
      individual's risk of vascular disease is needed for preventive strategies and measuring the
      effectiveness thereof. Current risk assessment tools are imperfect at best. It is possible
      that information from gene expression profiling of peripheral white blood cells may add
      predictive information about vascular risk. We previously identified a panel of 78 genes in
      the peripheral blood that correlated with an individual's future risk of stroke. We
      hypothesize that gene expression in white blood cells will be modified by an intervention
      that has been shown to reduce vascular risk via anti-inflammatory mechanisms: the
      3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMGCoA) reductase inhibitor class of lipid lowering
      drugs, known as "statins". The vascular protective effects of statins appear to be due in
      part to immune modulation and to be dose-dependent. Statin administration has been shown to
      modulate gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in vitro.

      Objectives: Overall: To determine if atorvastatin modulates gene expression in peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells in a dose dependent manner in a cohort of subjects at risk of
      vascular disease. Specific: To determine if: (1) Inflammatory genes are specifically and
      temporarily modified by atrovastatin in a dose dependent manner; (2) A previously defined
      panel of 78 genes is included among the genes modified by atorvastatin; and (3) Gene
      expression changes correlate the degree of gene expression modulation by atorvastatin with
      the degree of lipid lowering and other inflammatory parameters such as high sensitivity
      C-reactive protein.

      Study Design: Dose-response randomized, blinded study of atorvastatin treatment of 120
      volunteer subjects with at least two conventional vascular risk factors who are not currently
      taking a statin. In the first and primary phase of the study, subjects will be administered
      atorvastatin in a blinded fashion in one of four doses (0mg, 10mg, 20mg or 40mg) for a period
      of three months. Block randomization will stratify on age and risk factor status. In the
      second and validation phase of the study, the subjects randomized to 0mg of atorvastatin in
      phase 1 will receive 40mg of atorvastatin for a further 3 month period. The remaining
      subjects will not be randomized to study drug in phase II of the study. Lipid profiles, liver
      function tests and muscle enzymes will be measured prior to enrollment, and during the
      treatment phases of the study. Gene expression profiles in the peripheral blood will be
      measured using Affymetrix microarrays pre treatment and at the end of phases I and II.

      Outcome measures: (1) Gene changes induced by statin treatment by dosage and over time; (2)
      Accuracy of vascular gene panel for defining gene expression changes induced by statin
      treatment; and (3) Correlations of gene expression changes with conventional vascular risk
      factors, changes in lipid and inflammatory markers and determination of best vascular risk
      prediction paradigm.
    
  