
    
      A randomized, controlled, blind crossover study will be conducted at the Laboratory of
      Pediatric Studies (LEPED) located in the Physiotherapy Department of the Federal University
      of Pernambuco (UFPE), from January 2017 to November 2017. The study will be composed infants
      diagnosed with microcephaly associated with Zika virus Syndrome of the state of Pernambuco
      (PE), recruited for convenience of both sexes, aged 3 to 24 months of life.

      Initially randomization of these children will be performed through randomization.com. and
      allocation in two groups (experimental and control) for the first session. After a period of
      one week (washout period), the groups are reversed so that everyone receives both
      interventions. Children in the experimental group will be submitted to a session of aquatic
      physiotherapy and the group control the immersion in water, described later. The study will
      be composed of two main researchers, the researcher 1 responsible for the intervention and
      the researcher 2 responsible for the evaluations, who will be blind to the intervention.

      The collection of the clinical and sociodemographic data of the responsible person and the
      child will be done through the evaluation form developed for the research. Before the
      intervention, the child and the caregiver will be accommodated in a room with temperature,
      luminosity and controlled noises so that they can rest and thus minimize the effects of the
      route to the place of data collection. The evaluation begins with the assessment of muscle
      tone of the upper limbs and lower limbs, physiological parameters, postaral evaluation and
      application of questionnaires about maternal perception about the behavior of the and the
      level of stress. Immediately after the intervention will be reassessed muscle tone,
      physiological parameters and applied a questionnaire of maternal satisfaction about the
      therapy applied and perception of stress level.
    
  