
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare levels of apoptosis in patients with basal cell skin cancer treated with vs
           without imiquimod 5% cream.

      Secondary

        -  Compare levels of apoptosis in patients treated with this drug on two different
           administration schedules.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.

      Patients undergo fine needle aspiration and punch biopsies of the target lesion. Patients are
      then randomized to 1 of 8 treatment arms and begin therapy within 30 days after biopsy.

        -  Arm I: Patients apply topical imiquimod to the target lesion once every 12 hours on days
           1 and 2 for a total of 4 doses.

        -  Arm II: Patients apply topical placebo to the target lesion once every 12 hours on days
           1 and 2 for a total of 4 doses.

        -  Arm III: Patients apply topical imiquimod to the target lesion once every 24 hours on
           days 1-4 for a total of 4 doses.

        -  Arm IV: Patients apply topical placebo to the target lesion once every 24 hours on days
           1-4 for a total of 4 doses.

        -  Arm V: Patients apply topical imiquimod to the target lesion once every 12 hours on days
           1-4 for a total of 8 doses.

        -  Arm VI: Patients apply topical placebo to the target lesion once every 12 hours on days
           1-4 for a total of 8 doses.

        -  Arm VII: Patients apply topical imiquimod to the target lesion once every 24 hours on
           days 1-8 for a total of 8 doses.

        -  Arm VIII: Patients apply topical placebo to the target lesion every 24 hours on days 1-8
           for a total of 8 doses.

      All patients undergo excision of the target tumor within 18-30 hours after the last topical
      treatment.

      Patients are followed at 7-14 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 48 patients (8 per treatment arm and 4 per placebo arm) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  