
    
      Pesticide self-poisoning kills over 300,000 people every year (1). Most deaths occur in rural
      Asia where widespread use of pesticides to boost food production allows easy access at
      stressful times. The WHO now recognizes pesticide poisoning to be the single most important
      global means of suicide (2) Amongst pesticides, organophosphorus (OP) and carbamate
      insecticides are of most concern, causing about 2/3 of deaths (1,3). These insecticides
      inhibit the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE), producing an 'acute cholinergic crisis' with
      reduced consciousness, bradycardia, hypotension, and acute respiratory failure. On arrival at
      hospital, patients are resuscitated with atropine and, for OPs, an oxime AChE reactivator
      (4). Unfortunately, this treatment is often inadequate and many still die (5). A recent
      Bangladeshi RCT showed that rapid resuscitation of patients with atropine saves lives (6).
      This study compared a faster 'doubling dose' method of atropinisation with a standard bolus
      method during resuscitation. It reported quicker stabilisation and a 14% absolute reduction
      in mortality.

      Rationale: Atropine only stops production of fluid and does not speed its removal from the
      lung. Therefore a treatment that increases removal, to complement atropine-induced cessation
      of production, could reduce fluid in the lungs and speed return effective oxygen exchange. A
      single nebulised dose of the beta-adrenergic agonist salbutamol may increase removal since it
      increases alveolar fluid removal via the epithelial sodium channel. A pilot clinical study is
      required to test the hypothesis and to provide data for powering a large phase III RCT.

      Research question: Will addition of the beta-adrenergic agonist salbutamol to atropine during
      resuscitation improve oxygenation, reduce the need for atropine, and speed stabilisation?

      Objectives:General Objectives: To test the efficacy of salbutamol at increasing oxygenation
      and speeding resuscitation.

      Specific Objectives: To test whether salbutamol alters dose of atropine administered and
      incidence of tachydysrhythmias.

      Total duration of the study will be one year and all patients aged 12 years or older with
      clinical features of OP/carbamate poisoning requiring oxygen and atropine will be enrolled.
      The study will be done in three arms.
    
  