
    
      I. Subject Selection Subjects will be recruited at the Partners MS Center, 60 Fenwood Road,
      Boston, MA during routine clinical appointments by their physician or one of the other
      co-investigators listed on the protocol.

      II. Study Procedures Subjects will be required to come for 3 visits for this study.

      Initial Visit:

      During the first visit, subjects will be administered the screening questionnaire (if that
      has not already been done over telephone). Subjects will review and eventually sign the
      consent form. They will be administered standardized questionnaires for cognitive testing
      and/or other co-morbidities.

      PET Visit:

      All subjects will undergo at least one visit for PET scan. During the PET scan visits, all
      women subjects of child bearing age will undergo a stat quantitative serum hCG pregnancy test
      and only women with a negative test will undergo the radiopharmaceutical injection.

      PET imaging procedures

      PET scanning session will be conducted at MGH Gordon Center PET scanning facility, 55 Fruit
      Street, Boston, MA. For PET scanning, an intra-arterial catheter will be inserted into the
      [F-18] SynVest-1 for metabolite blood sampling by a trained anesthesiologist. Allen's test
      will be performed prior to insertion of the intra-arterial catheter. In the event that an
      arterial line cannot be established to obtain metabolite samples, a venous line will be
      placed.

      In addition, an intravenous (IV) catheter will be inserted into the radial antecubital or
      other arm or hand vein for injection of tracer. Radiopharmaceutical will be injected as a
      bolus (approximately 5mCi for [F-18]SynVest-1 followed by 5 mL of saline).

      The whole PET session will last up to 120 min. At the time of imaging, the subjects will be
      positioned in the gantry of a PET camera. Head alignment will be made, relative to the
      canthomeatal line, using projected laser lines whose positions are known with respect to the
      slice positions of the scanner. A head support apparatus will be used to minimize head
      motion. Brain PET data acquisition will begin at the moment of radiotracer injection. Images
      will be acquired using a high-resolution PET/CT scanner.

      MRI Visit:

      All subjects will undergo a 3T Brain MRI during an MRI visit that may precede or follow the
      PET scan visit.

      Pregnancy screening prior to MRI:

      All women will be queried about their pregnancy status, use of contraception and last
      menstrual period. If they are reliably using contraception, can state the timing of their
      last menstrual period, and do not believe they could be pregnant, the investigators will
      proceed with the MRI scan without pregnancy testing. If they cannot do this, then they will
      undergo a urine pregnancy test. If a woman is seeking pregnancy and not using contraception,
      she will undergo a urine pregnancy test.

      MRI imaging procedures MRI scanning session will be performed at BWH MRI facility at 60
      Fenwood Road, Boston, MA.

      Several pulse sequences will be performed to image the brain. There will be no intravenous
      contrast used for any of the MRIs.

      The MRI scan session will take approximately 1 hour.

      Imaging Data

      The following data will be collected on all subjects during scanning sessions:

      During PET scanning, brain images will be acquired in 3-D mode, and dynamic acquisition scans
      will continue for up to 120 minutes. A non-diagnostic CT scan will be performed for
      attenuation correction of PET transmission data at the time of initiation of scanning. Blood
      samples will be collected via an arterial line for radiotracer analysis via the cannula other
      than the one used for radiotracer injection.

      Non Imaging Data

      MS subjects Expanded Disability Severity Scale (EDSS) Timed 25-feet walk (T25W) Modified
      Fatigue impact Scale Hamilton Depression Rating Scale Wechsler Logical Memory paragraph
      recall

      Healthy Controls Folstein Mini Mental Status Examination Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
      Wechsler Logical Memory paragraph recall
    
  