
    
      Benzodiazepines (BZs) and related drugs commonly are prescribed for treating anxiety and
      sleep disorders. Their clinical utility is based on their behavioral effects which are
      attributed to positive allosteric modulation of the GABA-A receptor. Multiple subtypes of the
      GABAA receptor exist, and recent research has focused on understanding the role of
      BZ-sensitive GABAA receptors (i.e., receptors containing alpha-1, alpha-2, alpha-3, and
      alpha-5 protein subunits) in the behavioral effects of BZ-type drugs. Results from a body of
      work suggests that the anxiolytic or anti-anxiety effects of BZ-like drugs likely involve
      alpha-2- and/or alpha-3-containing GABAA receptors, while their sedative-like effects are
      attributable to alpha-1GABAA receptors.

      Compared to BZs, the BZ-like hypnotic zolpidem exhibits relative selectivity for alpha-1GABAA
      receptors. Although this selectivity is believed to underlie its superior hypnotic ability,
      zolpidem's ability to engender anxiolytic-like effects has been inconsistent. Zolpidem's
      primary effects should not include anxiolysis given its preference for interacting with
      alpha-1GABAA receptors and their abundant distribution in sensorimotor cortex and
      extrapyramidal motor areas relative to the more enriched distribution of the other receptor
      subtypes throughout the limbic system, anterior thalamus, and caudate nucleus. However, in
      the amygdala, a brain region that has been shown to be intricately involved in
      anxiety-related neuronal processes, high levels of alpha-1 GABAA receptors as well as alpha-2
      and alpha-3GABAA receptors are expressed.

      Among the anxiety-related processes typically studied empirically, the ability to recognize
      emotion is an important proxy for psychopathology. Neuroimaging studies have shown that the
      ability to process emotional stimuli requires coordinated activity between the amygdala,
      insula, and prefrontal cortical regions. Individuals who suffer from anxiety disorders
      exhibit an impaired ability to recognize facial emotion, which has been associated with
      aberrant amygdala activation. Importantly with respect to pharmacological manipulation of
      anxiety-related brain function, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies
      examining the neural correlates of emotional processing by employing acute challenge with
      potent anxiolytics have demonstrated significant reductions in the blood oxygen
      level-dependent (BOLD) signal within the amygdala and insula.

      The primary aim of the study outlined in this protocol is to demonstrate drug-induced
      differences in limbic activation during an fMRI-based emotional face recognition task
      following acute administration of zolpidem, alprazolam, and the positive control caffeine in
      healthy volunteers. Although zolpidem may exhibit a similar behavioral pharmacological
      profile to the conventional BZs in many instances, its relative GABAA receptor selectivity
      distinguishes it from its non-selective counterparts. Thus it is hypothesized that the
      anxiolytic alprazolam (1 mg) will reduce the BOLD response to emotional faces within the
      amygdala and insula similar to other anxiolytics (e.g., lorazepam, diazepam, and pregabalin),
      while the hypnotic zolpidem (10 mg) will not cause such a reduction. It is hypothesized
      further that because adenosine receptors have been localized to the amygdala and caffeine has
      been shown to be anxiogenic, an acute challenge with a moderate dose of caffeine (200 mg)
      will enhance the BOLD response in the amygdala and/or insula during the face recognition
      task. The data that will be collected in this aim will provide the first in vivo brain
      imaging evidence for different actions based on the different GABAA receptor pharmacological
      profiles of zolpidem and alprazolam, and will support their clinical roles in the treatment
      of insomnia and anxiety, respectively.

      The secondary aim of this project is to collect information regarding the subjective drug
      effects of each of the four interventions. This information, in conjunction with data showing
      how each treatment affects brain activity, permits the visualization of the neurobiological
      substrates of drug action. For instance, in a previous study we found that zolpidem-induced
      increases in self-reported ratings of "like", "high", and intoxication were related to
      increased brain activity in specific limbic networks. Our data were consistent with those
      areas shown previously to undergo hemodynamic or metabolic alterations in association with
      the subjective states of intoxication following administration of cocaine, alcohol, and
      hydromorphone, and they speak to a body of literature implicating limbic, paralimbic, and
      mesocortical regions in mediating the actions of psychotropic drugs. Because alprazolam is
      known to possess more abuse potential in general, results from the present study may confirm
      our previous findings while also demonstrating that investigating pharmacological effects on
      brain activity may help identify the neural correlates of drug action and behavior, thereby
      revealing the functional significance of GABAergic modulation on intrinsic brain activity.

      A total of 12 healthy normal drug-naïve volunteers will be enrolled at McLean Hospital to
      participate in this 5-visit (1 screening visit, 4 study visits) double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study. Participants will be between 21 and 40 years of age, they can be
      either male or female, and there are no restrictions regarding ethnic background.
      Participants will have no past or current neurological or psychiatric disorders (including
      any substance abuse and/or dependence), no family history of alcoholism, no medical
      conditions that could affect drug disposition, and they will not be taking any medications.
      Participants also cannot have any MRI scanning contraindications (including pregnancy). They
      must be able to provide informed consent.

      Volunteers will visit the laboratory for a screening visit during which s/he will sign the
      informed consent form, and undergo both physical and psychiatric exams. The second, third,
      fourth, and fifth visits will involve pre-study assessments, a standard breakfast,
      questionnaire sets, drug treatment, one scanning session, and lunch. After a baseline period
      during which participants will answer computerized questionnaires, they will receive a study
      medication (zolpidem [10 mg], alprazolam [1 mg], caffeine [200 mg], or placebo) and then
      answer the questionnaires. At 60-min post-medication, participants will be positioned within
      the scanner, and while in there they will perform tasks, blood pressure/heart rate will be
      monitored continuously, and an eye-tracking device will assess if their eyes are open. The
      scanning session will last approximately 1 hr, and it will be followed by hourly
      questionnaires sets until 6-hrs post-medication. Participants will take a taxicab home at
      that time. The entire visit will last approximately 8 hrs.

      An exhaustive screening procedure ensures that participants entering the study have no
      contraindicating conditions. All procedures are performed by experts specifically trained in
      their respective areas to minimize risks, discomfort, and adverse events. Participants are
      well informed of the potential risks of the study. The informed consent form is detailed and
      explicit. Participants are provided with unlimited time to read the consent and study
      personnel review it in detail before participants sign. In addition, participants have the
      opportunity to ask questions before, during, and after consent and at any time during the
      study. Participants can earn up to a total of $500 for completing the study.
    
  