
    
      Liver transplantation is the only lifesaving intervention for patients with end-stage liver
      diseases. The current immunosuppressive agents reduce the incidence of acute cellular
      rejection; however, the rate of acute rejection reaches to 20-50% after liver
      transplantation. Furthermore, the long-term side effects of these regimens now has become a
      major challenge for liver transplant recipients and is increasingly being perceived as an
      unmet clinical need, for example, increases in the incidence of bacterial, viral infections,
      nephrotoxicity with chronic renal impairment, de novo diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia,
      arterial hypertension, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, neurotoxicity, hematological
      toxicity.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) appeared to be effective in regulating the invoked immune
      response in setting such as tissue injury, transplantation, and autoimmunity, and have been
      used successfully to treat graft versus host disease and show immune modulation function both
      in vitro and in vivo and may help in repairing damaged tissue(s). Current clinical trails
      demonstrated that the use of autologous bone marrow MSC (BM-MSC) for renal transplanted
      patients resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic
      infection, and better estimated renal function. Compared with BM-MSC, umbilical cord derived
      MSC (UC-MSC) may be the better choice for clinical application. One main reason is that the
      collection of BM-MSC from liver transplanted patients would be harmful for the patients.
      Moreover, the proliferative abilities of BM-MSC from patients with liver disease are
      deficient, whereas, UC-MSC can be obtained from discarded umbilical cords and can be produced
      on a larger scale. Our and other studies reported that the infusion of human UC-MSC are
      feasible and can improve liver function of liver fibrosis and liver failure.

      The purpose of this study is to learn whether and how UC-MSC can improve the conditions in
      liver transplanted patients. This study will also look at how well UC-MSC is tolerated and
      its safety in liver transplanted patients.

      Participants in the study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants will receive 12 weeks of standard regular immunosuppressive agents plus
      UC-MSC treatment. Arm B: Participants will receive 12 weeks of standard regular
      immunosuppressive agents plus placebo. UC-MSC will be prepared according to standard
      procedures and is collected in plastic bags containing anti coagulant. MSCs are given via
      i.v. under sonography monitoring. After UC-MSC transfusion, patients are followed up at week
      4, 8, 12, 24, 36 and 48, and the evaluation of liver function recovery was performed.
    
  