
    
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) is associated with abnormal control of the cardiovascular system in
      up to 50% of patients. The cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction is a result of abnormal
      regulation of the cardiovascular system by the autonomic nervous system (ANS). It manifests
      as orthostatic hypotension, supine hypertension, and may possibly involve abnormal heart rate
      and rhythm, as well as abnormal haemodynamic responses to exercise. Orthostatic hypotension
      is a sudden decline in the blood pressure (BP) as a result of assumption of more upright
      posture like standing up and may present as a generalized weakness, light-headedness, mental
      "clouding" up to syncope. Moreover, the stress of exercise may worsen the manifestation of an
      asymptomatic cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction, resulting in decreased balance control
      which may render the patient unable to exercise and/or predispose the patient to a higher
      risk of falls, decreased ability in activities of daily living (ADLs) and confusion. Falls in
      elderly patients, which constitute the majority of patients with PD, are potentially
      dangerous and disabling. However, the response of the cardiovascular system to neither the
      routinely prescribed physiotherapeutic exercises nor the routine physical activities of the
      patients of PD are known. Thus, due to lack of any research data on the effects of these
      exercises/activities it cannot be determined whether certain components of the routine
      physiotherapy treatment are appropriate and safe for the patient with regard to the
      development or worsening of cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction. The same is true for some
      of the patient's ADLs that may trigger signs and symptoms of cardiovascular autonomic
      dysfunction. The researchers, therefore, intend to investigate the same.

      This research has two parts - stage 1 and stage 2. Only stage 2 is a randomized controlled
      trial. The specific objectives pertaining to each stage are:

      Stage 1 - To analyze the spectrum of cardiovascular dysfunction in patients with PD -

        -  As determined by the autonomic reflex screening; and

        -  In response to the different postures/activities/exercises and to wearing an abdominal
           binder.

      Stage 2 - To investigate whether strengthening of the abdominal muscles can be an effective
      strategy to improve cardiovascular system's ability to counter the development of OH.

      Stage 1:

      Upon inclusion into the study, baseline autonomic reflex screening shall be undertaken. This
      screening has the following components:

        1. Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (QSART): The QSART evaluates the postganglionic
           sympathetic sudomotor axon i.e. it evaluates the response of the sweat cells which are
           controlled by the ANS to acetylcholine (ACh). For this, participant's skin is cleaned
           and prepared at four sites. Then, ACh is applied at those sites. The movement of ACh
           across the skin is facilitated by iontophoresis (using low intensity electrical current
           of 2 mA).

           Recordings are made for 5 minutes with stimulus application followed by an additional 5
           minutes after stimulus termination.

           For the subsequent 3 tests in the autonomic reflex testing, participants are
           instrumented with a beat-to-beat blood pressure device and three-lead electrocardiogram
           (ECG).

        2. Heart Rate Response to Deep Breathing (HRDB) with the participant supine: A 1-minute
           baseline is recorded. Immediately thereafter, eight consecutive breathing cycles will
           take place. Each breathing cycle consists of maximal inspiratory and expiratory phases
           of 5 seconds each. Visual feedback is provided to ensure breathing consistency. The
           procedure is repeated after a 2-minute rest period.

        3. Beat-to-beat BP response to Valsalva Maneuver: The participant, in the supine position
           is asked to exhale after a deep inhalation while maintaining a column of mercury at 40
           mm for 15 seconds while blowing the air out via a tubing with an air leak. The maneuver
           is repeated until two similar beat-to-beat BP and HR are attained. Each maneuver is
           separated by 3-minute rest.

        4. Head-up Tilt: The participant is secured to an automated tilt-table. A 5-minute
           recording of HR and BP is obtained while the patient is supine. The table is tilted
           slowly to 70 degrees over the course of 10 seconds (it is similar to standing up).
           Subjects remain tilted for 5 minutes or until one of the stopping criterion is met.
           Manual BP in addition to automated BP may be taken 1 minute before the tilt, at 1, 3,
           and 5 minutes during head tilt-up and 1-minute post head tilt-up. All automated
           parameters are displayed on a computer console. The specific stopping rules are 1)
           patient request, 2) presyncope, and 3) rapid decline in systolic blood pressure in
           response to tilt. If any of these are met, the patient will be placed back into supine
           position.

      The five primary endpoints of autonomic reflex testing are:

        1. total sweat volume on QSART;

        2. HR variation on HRDB;

        3. Valsalva ratio during the Valsalva maneuver;

        4. HR change in response to head-up tilt; and

        5. BP change in response to head-up tilt. The severity and distribution of the autonomic
           dysfunction will be quantified using the Composite Autonomic Severity Score (CASS).

      Blood flow velocity in the Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA) and frontal/prefrontal cortical
      perfusion will be measured using Trans-Cranial Doppler (TCD) and functional Near-Infrared
      Spectroscopy (fNIRS). For TCD, a Velcro head band with a flat probe will be placed on the
      subject's head before any autonomic test is done and blood flow velocities will be recorded
      before any autonomic testing for 5 minutes. After TCD is finalized, fNIRS will be acquired
      while the patient performs each maneuver in the rest of the protocol. The participant will be
      lying down with the fNIRS probes (two emission and four detection) positioned on the
      forehead. The probes are held securely in position by a holder that includes a Velcro strap
      wrap around the head. This probe location will provide sensitivity to the prefrontal cortex,
      which is known to be activated by information processing tasks. For the following maneuvers
      in the rest of the protocol, the fNIRS probes will be placed at the C3 location (i.e., above
      the primary motor cortex) according to the international 10-20 system for EEG electrode
      placement. fNIRS is a non-invasive optical method that can be used to detect cortical
      activity at the bedside. fNIRS systems use the wave length-dependent absorption property of
      hemoglobin to monitor changes in the brain concentration of oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin during a
      functional task [analogous to functional MRI (fMRI)]. The ratio between oxy- and
      deoxyhemoglobin allows estimating cortical perfusion. fNIRS data will complement the TCD
      information. TCD provides information regarding MCA flow velocity, allowing us to estimate
      pial arteries flow velocities, while fNIRS provides information regarding changes in cortical
      perfusion, and thus, intraparenchymal arteries vasoconstriction.

      After this, we shall record a six-month retrospective history of falls. Dizziness Handicap
      Inventory (DHI), Autonomic Symptom Profile (ASP), University of California Los Angeles
      Dizziness Questionnaire (UCLA-DQ), Orthostatic Hypotension Questionnaire (OHQ) and the
      Orthostatic Discriminant and Severity Scale (ODSS) shall be used to assess and quantify the
      influence of autonomic dysfunction, orthostatic hypotension and dizziness on participant's
      life.

      After the above mentioned baseline evaluation of the participant is over, the participant
      shall be tested for cardiovascular responses to different postures/activities/exercises and
      to the use of an abdominal binder. For this, the participants shall be required to undergo
      recording of BP, heart rate (using ECG), analysis of blood flow velocity in the MCA and
      frontal/prefrontal cortical perfusion (as described above) while performing any/some of the
      following exercises in any sequence or combination:

        -  Deep breathing exercise while in sitting position in a chair or in a standing position,
           with or without breath-hold;

        -  Sit-to-stand from a chair and return stand-to-sit into the same chair;

        -  Shoulder elevation and/or elbow flexion-extension exercise while holding a 500 ml water
           bottle (filled) in each hand (in standing position);

        -  Tandem walking (to walk on a straight line where the toes of the back foot touch the
           heel of the front foot at each step);

        -  Single leg standing (for each leg);

        -  Cross-legged standing;

        -  Supine cycling exercise;

        -  Stationary bicycle exercise;

        -  Abdominal muscle contraction exercise; and

        -  Compression of the abdomen using an abdominal binder. An abdominal binder is a fitted
           elastic garment that is used for compression of the abdominal wall. It is available in
           different sizes. It can be used to support the muscles of the abdominal wall.

      The participants will undergo supine/stationary bicycle exercise for a maximum of 12 minutes
      in order to produce sympathetic ANS activation. The stationary bicycle will be adapted based
      on the limitations of the individual at a steady workload. Maximum safe workload will be
      calculated using Karvonen/Heart Rate Reserve formula, according to the current guidelines.
      After a 1-min warm-up period at a 0 Watts workload, an exercise load of 10 Watts/min will be
      added and maintained for the full 12 minutes, unless an aspect of the stopping criteria is
      met. The specific stopping rules are 1) patient request, 2) rapid decline in systolic blood
      pressure, and 3) researcher/staff member's decision to terminate the exercise for
      participant's safety.

      All participants shall be required to complete stage 1. However, only those participants who
      have significant autonomic dysfunction shall proceed to stage 2 of the study.

      Stage 2:

      Patients identified with autonomic dysfunction using the autonomic reflex screening (in stage
      1) shall be randomly allocated to either of the two groups. The groups shall be labelled as
      group 'Abdominal strengthening exercises' (experimental) and group 'Routine care' (control).
      Patients in the experimental group shall in addition to the routine care perform abdominal
      strengthening exercises for three months at their home and maintain an exercise log sheet,
      whereas, patients in the control group shall continue with the routine care for the next
      three months. During the follow-up at three months, patients in both the groups will again
      undergo the same testing as mentioned in stage 1.

      Abdominal strengthening exercises involve the muscles of the abdomen. Abdominal muscles are
      contracted after the participant assumes different postures for a predetermined duration and
      for a predetermined number of times in a day. The two groups shall be compared for
      effectiveness of abdominal strengthening exercises in preventing orthostatic hypotension upon
      autonomic reflex testing after 3 months. Both groups shall additionally be compared while
      wearing abdominal binder during a second tilt testing. A three-month history of falls will be
      recorded and all participants shall be asked to answer the four questionnaires i.e. DHI, ASP,
      OHQ and ODSS again.
    
  