
    
      This phase II trial will use a Simon's two stage design enrolling a total of 28 subjects. Ten
      will be accrued during stage 1 and 18 during stage 2. If 3 or fewer responses (CR+PR) are
      observed during the first stage then the trial is stopped early. Given that the 'true'
      response probability is 30%, there is a 64.96% probability of ending the trial during stage
      1. However, if the 'true' response probability is 60% then there is a 5.48% probability that
      the trial will be stopped in stage 1. If more than 3 responses are observed in stage 1,
      another 18 patients will be accrued in stage 2. If 12 or fewer responses are observed by the
      end of the trial, then no further investigation of the drug is warranted. Otherwise, conclude
      that the drug is worthy of further investigation. The alpha level of the design is 0.04 and
      the power is 0.91.

      Patients with confirmed CD5+/CD20+ MCL or CLL who have relapsed or progressed after Rituximab
      therapy following a minimum of 6 months duration of response (SD, PR, or CR as defined by
      Appendix D) will be eligible for this study. Baseline evaluation of patients prior to
      enrollment in this study will include complete blood counts (CBCs), serum chemistries, liver
      function tests, kidney function tests, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH); and CT scans of the
      chest, abdomen and pelvis; and bone marrow biopsy. The exact values for the status of organ
      function allowable on this protocol are included in the body of this document. Bone marrow
      aspirates, biopsies and standard FISH evaluation for specific cytogenetic abnormalities will
      be obtained by the clinical site. An adequate bone marrow aspirate sample is required for a
      subject to be eligible to participate in this study. All assessments will be completed
      according to Schedule of Study Assessments.

      Patients who meet eligibility criteria and have signed the informed consents will have
      further laboratory evaluation which will involve flow cytometry of the peripheral blood to
      evaluate: 1) CD20 density on the leukemic cells (CLL patients only), 2) the percentage of
      CD56+ cells to evaluate the baseline level of natural killer (NK) cell, 3) the density of
      activation antigens (CD2, CD11a, CD31, CD38, and CD69) on CD56+ cells, and 4) CD38 (ZAP-70)
      expression. Pretreatment serum baseline values for Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), Tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-A), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF),
      IL-6, and soluble IL-2 receptor will be obtained. A baseline CBC, flow cytometry and cytokine
      studies will be obtained on Day 1 prior to start of Lenalidomide.

      All patients will have a full immunological evaluation on Day 15 of Lenalidomide therapy
      prior to Rituximab administration. A bone marrow biopsy will be performed on all patients
      (CLL and MCL) with prior documented bone marrow involvement once between Days 13- 15 to
      assess the impact of the lenalidomide on the malignant cells and the surface density of CD20
      for patients with CLL before the administration of Rituximab. Flow cytometry on the aspirate
      specimen will be performed at Moffitt Cancer Center. The cytokine studies will be drawn on
      Day 15, prior to the administration of Rituximab. Starting on Day 15 after collection of
      specimens, the patients will receive four weekly doses of Rituximab (375 mg/m^2) concurrent
      with lenalidomide as per the cycle schedule. Lenalidomide therapy will be continued until
      progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity or patient withdrawal.

      Patient assessment during the clinical trial will be performed by a physician and will occur
      prior to the administration of each dose of Rituximab. The evaluation will include CBC,
      routine chemistries, kidney function, liver function, and LDH. The impact of the treatment on
      any lymphadenopathy or splenomegaly will be documented. Any toxicities noted during these
      evaluations will be noted. After the four weekly doses of Rituximab, if the pretreatment bone
      marrow biopsy was positive, the patient will have a repeat bone marrow biopsy to assess
      response. If the patient had splenomegaly or lymphadenopathy prior to entry into the trial,
      the patient will need repeat CT scans to assess response. The scans and bone marrow biopsies
      should be performed two weeks after the patient's last dose of Rituximab.

      Follow-up of patients after completing the Rituximab treatment for patients who have not
      progressed while on therapy will involve a CBC, routine chemistries, liver function tests,
      and LDH drawn according to the Schedule of Assessments.
    
  