
    
      This project will utilize a biobehavioral intervention to improve sleep and apply a novel
      approach to measuring biomarkers in Veterans with TBI. The investigators will use morning
      bright light therapy (MBLT) to improve sleep. MBLT acts through intrinsically photosensitive
      retinal ganglion cells and has pleiotropic effects on sleep, circadian rhythms, cognition,
      mood, and pain through activation of brain circuits.

      MBLT is a simple, cost-effective, home-based sleep intervention. It has been studied in a
      variety of neuropsychiatric populations, such as seasonal affective disorder, non-seasonal
      depression, Alzheimer's, Huntington's, Parkinson's disease, and schizophrenia. MBLT is an
      attractive intervention for TBI as patients typically report multiple concomitant symptoms
      including alterations in mood and alertness (daytime fatigue). One recent placebo-controlled
      study using MBLT reported improved fatigue in individuals with TBI. Moreover, MBLT has high
      patient acceptability and is scalable, owing to its ability to be rapidly implemented in any
      setting including in the home or in a rehabilitation facility.

      To address the substantial limitation of using peripheral biomarkers to understand central
      pathophysiology in TBI, the investigators have developed a method to use blood-based brain
      biomarkers (BBBM) to track central pathophysiology and symptomatology of TBI and response to
      treatment. This method entails isolation of neuronally derived exosomes in peripheral blood.
      Exosomes are membrane bound structures that, instead of being delivered to lysosomes for
      destruction, reside in multivesicular bodies, fuse with the plasma membrane, and are
      exocytosed into extracellular spaces. Within the membrane of exosomes are various proteins
      present in the cell of origin; thus, the cargo of exosomes reflects the microenvironment from
      the site of exosome production. Exosomes hold promise in TBI since they can readily cross the
      blood brain barrier (BBB) and be isolated from peripheral circulation. Studying exosomes
      allows us to isolate those proteins that are routinely disrupted in patients with TBI and
      sleep disturbances, and to track changes in accordance with treatment condition over time.

      In this project, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled, single blinded trial
      in which Veterans with and without TBI will receive MBLT or sham (modified negative ion
      generator; see below for modification specifications) for 4-weeks. BBBM will be assessed in
      conjunction with MBLT/sham and neurobehavioral symptomatology. The investigators hypothesize
      that: 1) MBLT will be associated with improved sleep, and downstream effectors of improved
      sleep (i.e., cognition, mood, and quality of life), compared to the sham condition; 2) MBLT
      will show a correlation between BBBM and improved sleep, and levels of BBBM will predict
      those that respond to MBLT. This will provide novel insights into how these biomarkers relate
      to neuronal and behavioral changes following TBI and may inform trajectory of recovery.

      The study can be completed 100% remotely, in person, or a combination of the two.
    
  