
    
      Liver disease is a silent epidemic. Four in ten people in the North West are likely to have
      evidence of liver disease. A small but significant proportion of these patients develop
      scarring, leading to end-stage cirrhosis. All too frequently this is detected in very
      advanced stages, where treatment cannot reverse the condition. It is one of the UK's largest
      health challenges. At present clinicians use a wide range of single tests that individually
      struggle to identify disease and high-risk patients early.

      The Investigators are implementing a new pathway for the assessment of patients with abnormal
      liver blood tests or high risk for liver disease. This novel pathway will allow assessment of
      patients in Community Liver Assessment Clinics (CLAC) with the expectation that only 20% of
      patients assessed would need to be seen in secondary care for further assessment. The
      investigators expect, to be assessing, 750 patients per year in this pathway. This pathway
      will bring together a large group of patients with liver disease. As part of the clinical
      assessment the investigators will be undertaking investigations to diagnose disease and
      assess extent. This will generate significant information, that the investigators currently
      use in isolation to make the aforementioned assessments. In this study, the investigators
      would like to bring together all this data into a curated database. To this end, the
      investigators would offer all patients who attend the CLAC for clinical need to enrol into
      the study. This would generate a database to combine all data, alongside some other,
      non-invasive tests, done alongside routine clinical tests.

      This project will address this lack of answers by teaming up with innovative companies to
      make software that joins together a wide range of different tests to make an algorithm to
      detect disease earlier.
    
  