
    
      Screening process. All patients who verbally consent to being screened by the RA will undergo
      a computer assisted screening for substance abuse (Rapid Screener) administered by the
      research assistant. Patients who use tobacco, misuse alcohol, or use illicit drugs will be
      further screened for eligibility to participate in the randomized trial. Eligible patients
      will be invited to participate and will sign the consent form. Participants will then be
      assigned to one of the two conditions by the computer using a random number generator.
      Results obtained as part of the Rapid Screener will be for research purposes only. They will
      not be reported to healthcare providers, unless the participant is enrolled into the study
      and is assigned to the DARSSA Intervention condition (see below).

      Minimal Intervention Control. All patients that give consent to participate in the study
      ("participants") who are randomly assigned to the control condition will complete the
      computerized DARSSA for assessment purposes only. The reports will not be printed or dynamic
      referrals generated, and all patients will receive treatment-as-usual by their ED providers.
      This will preserve the treatment-as-usual nature of the baseline while maintaining
      consistency in the administration of the DARSSA between phases of the study. Although ED
      clinicians will know that a study is being conducted in the ED, they will not be informed of
      the results of the research assessment, nor will they be given any instruction or training
      beforehand to change their standard screening, counseling, and referral practices. This means
      that substance use screening is likely to be inconsistent and counseling or referrals by
      provider rare. To maintain ethical standards, the RAs will provide a substance abuse
      treatment resource list (passive referral list) to all subjects who screen positive, even
      though this often does not happen during routine clinical practice. Additionally, suicidal
      ideation is not directly assessed as part of the study, but it is possible that participants
      will spontaneously report suicidal ideation. If this happens, the RA will notify the treating
      physician. Both of these efforts could conceivably introduce interventions the patient may
      not otherwise have received, but there is no viable alternative if the investigators are to
      ensure patient safety.

      DARSSA Intervention. All participants randomized to the DARSSA Intervention will be given
      instructions for how to complete the assessment. Since the DARSSA is self-administered and,
      like all Polaris products, does not require computer literacy, instructions will be simple
      and do not require a clinician to administer. Once completed, the treating emergency
      physician will be expected to (1) give substance using patients the Patient Feedback Report,
      (2) recommend they review it carefully, and (3) encourage them to consider following up with
      the referrals. Any additional assessment or counseling will be optional and left to
      individual provider practice. We considered creating a standardized counseling protocol but
      decided against it. We want to maintain an ecologically valid evaluation. In the "real
      world," providers would not be given extensive health behavior counseling training or asked
      to follow a standardized counseling protocol when implementing the DARSSA. Training providers
      on health behavior counseling would act as an additional intervention in its own right, and
      it could potentially mask our ability to determine what effect the DARSSA alone is having.
    
  