
    
      Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive
      decline that affects behavior and daily functionality. Its etiology is unknown and treatment
      efficacy is partial. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has been suggested as a
      potential treatment as of several trials has revealed improvements in language, episodic
      memory, psychological and behavioral symptoms in dementia as well as functionality using
      different experimental designs, stimulation parameters and cortical targets comparisons.
      However, it remains to determine the most effective modality, comparing outcomes with
      cortical targets poorly studied and how much the effects last. The main objective of this
      study is to determine which of two stimulation modalities provides a better cognitive and
      behavioral effect also on functionality in patients with potential diagnosis of AD,
      administered over lDLPFC (Condition A) and a six areas condition (Condition B) in which are
      alternated two sub-conditions (Day 1: Broca and Wernicke areas and lDLPFC, and Day 2:
      bilateral parietal association cortex and rDLPFC) along 15 sessions and 1500 pulses per
      session.

      For this purpose, will be randomized 22 patients with potential diagnosis of AD (according to
      DSM-5) to both stimulation conditions (11 patients to each condition). The rTMS will be
      administered at 5 Hz and 1500 pulses per session (30 trains and 10 seconds inter-train
      interval) along 15 sessions with a post-treatment evaluation at 4 weeks comparing: time
      response, post-treatment effects and 4 weeks effects.

      To evaluate clinical response among stimulation conditions will be used Alzheimer´s Disease
      Assessment Scale COGNITIVE (ADAS-cog), Cumming's Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Yesavage
      Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), Interview for Deterioration-in-daily Living Activities in
      Dementia (IDDD) and Clinical Global Impression (CGI). The modified version of Mini Mental
      State (MMSE-FOLSTEIN) will be applied in the same time points of other evaluations also at
      the session 5 and 10. Other interest variables are: age, sex, civil status, education,
      occupation, time and type of pharmacological treatment.
    
  