
    
      This study will be a health services evaluation. This study will be a pilot study utilizing a
      randomized controlled trial design. This study will utilize secondary data collected from
      existing KPCO databases to assess outcomes. Interventions will occur over a one-month period.
      The study will take approximately twelve months to conduct including the data collection and
      analysis, results interpretation, and manuscript and report preparation. The duration of
      intervention group subject participation will be limited to the length of the medication
      reconciliation counseling phone call and the 3-month follow-up period while the duration of
      control group subject participation will be limited to the 3-month follow-up period.

      KPCO internists discharging patients on medications to ambulatory care from either the Good
      Samaritan or St. Joseph hospitals over a four-week period will send discharge orders to the
      CPCC via Health Connect. Project-dedicated CPCC pharmacists will utilize the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria to determine patient eligibility. Project-dedicated CPCC staff will make
      several attempts at varying times during the 24 hours following reception of the discharge
      note in Health Connect to conduct the telephonic consent process among eligible patients. If
      a patient can not be contacted after several attempts, the staff member will leave a
      HIPAA-compliant message, if possible, to request either the patient or his/her caregiver call
      the CPCC. If the subject doesn't not contact the CPCC after being left such a message, the
      staff member will make two attempts the following day to contact the subject and/or his/her
      caregiver. Patients consenting to participate will be categorized by hospital and, based on
      category, randomly assigned to the intervention or control group. Project-dedicated
      pharmacists will review intervention group subjects' discharge medication orders, identify
      discrepancies between their primary care regimen and the hospital discharge orders, and
      collaborate with the patient's primary care physician or discharging provider to reconcile
      any discrepancies. Project-dedicated pharmacists will make several telephonic attempts at
      varying times during the 24 hours post-assignment to contact an intervention group subject
      and/or his/her caregiver to execute the medication review counseling after performing the
      medication review. If the subject can not be contacted after several attempts, the pharmacist
      will leave a HIPAA-compliant message, if possible, to request either the subject or his/her
      caregiver call the CPCC. If the subject doesn't not contact the CPCC in the day after being
      left such a message, the pharmacist will make two attempts per day for two more days to
      contact the subject and/or his/her caregiver. Assignment dates will be used as an index dates
      from which rolling baseline and follow-up periods will be determined.

      Data will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Baseline subject characteristics and
      study outcomes for each of the cohorts will be reported as means, medians, and standard
      deviations for interval- and ratio-level variables (e.g., age) and proportions for nominal-
      and ordinal-level data (e.g., gender, hospital discharge diagnoses, post-discharge ED and
      urgent care visits, IP readmission). Interval-and ratio-level variables will be assessed for
      normality of their distributions. Appropriate parametric (e.g., independent samples t-test)
      or non-parametric (e.g., Wilcoxon rank-sum test) statistical tests will then be performed to
      assess differences in mean or median values. Ordinal-level and nominal-level will be assessed
      with the Pearson's chi-square statistical test. Logistic regression modeling will be used to
      assess the relationships between the group and binary data (e.g., ED and urgent care visits,
      receiving a non-preferred formulary agent) while adjusting for potential confounders (e.g.,
      age, hospital discharge diagnosis, gender, CDS).
    
  