
    
      -  Human subjects for the study will be recruited and participate in the study at the
           University of Illinois at Chicago Faculty Practice (UICFP) located at 1640 West
           Roosevelt Road, 3rd floor, Chicago IL. All of the treating physical therapists with the
           exception of Daniel Robinson will be participating as treating physical therapists in
           this study and will therefore be aware of the proceedings involved. The treating
           physical therapists: Aaron Keil, Brian Baranyi, Justin Payette, Deborah Davey, Benjamin
           Land, Richelle Caya, Amanda Montbriand, Adam Wielechowski will be screening and
           obtaining informed consent from study participants. Additionally, Jessica Pop will be
           assisting in data collection and organization of data for the study.

        -  Patients receiving physical therapy (PT) at the UICFP will be screened for eligibility
           according to inclusion and exclusion criteria by treating physical therapists including
           obtaining consent to participate in the study at date of initial physical therapy
           evaluation or before the patient leaves from the second follow up visit.

             -  Checking for inclusion and exclusion criteria will be referenced by the treating
                therapist from the "Patient Checklist Data Form" (PCDF)

             -  If a patient does not meet any of the inclusion criteria or meets one of the
                exclusion criteria they will be excluded from the study.

             -  If a patient is being added in the above manner on a date past initial evaluation
                the physical therapist must record previous data needed that is available from
                patient records (date of evaluation, Patient Specific Functional Scale (PSFS)
                average score). The PSFS will be provided to all possible candidates in the clinic
                as part of the standard intake paperwork. Therefore, the PSFS should still be
                available for data after obtaining consent.

             -  Upon passing exclusion and inclusion criteria and obtaining informed consent,
                patients will be randomized into either the control or experimental group. Only
                after these setup steps will the PCDF be filled out and, if appropriate, provide
                the Strength Education Video (SEV) for viewing.

                o Once included into the study subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two
                groups: control group (CG) or experimental group (EG).

             -  CG will receive standard PT care

             -  EG will receive standard care in addition to being provided a SEV.

        -  The SEV must be watched by the patient at the UICFP prior to leaving from the 3rd PT
           visit.

        -  The EG will watch the video in the waiting room or other quiet available rooms on the
           3rd floor within the UICFP.

        -  The video will be watched from an iPad/tablet/laptop/desktop computer device as
           available in the clinic.

        -  The EG will also be provided a handout with a link and QR code to the video on
           YouTube.com and disclaimer from the consent form.

             -  Disclaimer quoted from consent form: "Please follow the link bellow to the video
                hosted on YouTube.com. Please be aware that by viewing the video on YouTube.com you
                are agreeing to YouTube and Google's terms and conditions. This will not be sharing
                any of your protected health information held by the University of Illinois
                Hospital system or the University of Illinois at Chicago. You are not obligated to
                click on or view this link. It is intended as a helpful tool for your benefit.
                Please reach out to your treating physical therapist with any questions or
                concerns"

             -  Treating physical therapist will record the date of SEV viewing on the PCDF. - The
                PCDF will be used to record patient information by the treating physical therapist
                and have a study subject identification (ID) number added by either Daniel Robinson
                or Jessica Pop when performing data entry described later in protocol.

        -  Subject information contained in the PCDF includes:

             -  Treating Physical Therapist

             -  Patient Name

             -  Medical Record Number

             -  Age

             -  Sex

             -  Subject ID code

             -  Which group subject is allocated to (Control or experimental)

             -  Inclusion criteria checklist

             -  Exclusion criteria checklist

             -  Date of evaluation

             -  Evaluation PSFS score

             -  Date of SEV viewing (if in EG)

             -  Session number of SEV viewing (if in EG)

             -  Follow up PSFS score

             -  Follow up session number

             -  Follow up date

             -  Discharge PSFS score

             -  Discharge session number

             -  Discharge date

             -  Secondary Discharge PSFS score

             -  Secondary Discharge Session number

             -  Secondary Discharge date

             -  Tertiary Discharge PSFS score

             -  Tertiary Discharge Session number

             -  Tertiary Discharge date

             -  Indication if patient was discharged early from PT or had an unplanned discharge
                from PT.

        -  PCDF sheets will be kept with physical therapists when being used to gather data or in
           the UICFP in a locked cabinet/drawer in the folder of the specific physical therapist
           separate from standard treatment notes.

        -  Data from the PCDF will be entered without patient names into a Private Data Excel Sheet
           (PDES). This spreadsheet will be kept in a Box Health Data Folder (BHDF) only available
           to the study investigators (Daniel Robinson, Jessica Pop, and Brian Baranyi) using a
           secure password containing at least: one uppercase letter, one lower case letter, one
           number, one symbol, and at least 8 characters.

           - Functional changes with PT will be tracked for both groups using a Patient Specific
           Functional Scale (PSFS) questionnaire at initial evaluation, follow up at session 3 or 4
           (evaluation not counting as a session), and at any date of anticipated discharge.

        -  The PSFS being utilized has been altered slightly from its original form for the purpose
           of clarifying to patients that 10 is a high functional performance skill. This is being
           done due to subjective reports from clinicians that patients commonly misread the
           questionnaire selecting 10 as a score of low function based on pain being the common
           question they receive. The changes made do not involve adding any new words or content
           changes that would be expected to alter nature of answers.

             -  If questions arise regarding the content of the SEV then the treating physical
                therapist will be permitted to answer and apply the content at their discretion.
                All therapists will have pre-approved the content of the video to ensure there are
                no contradictions to their usual methods of care. Data will be gathered for up to 3
                months.
    
  