
    
      Botulinum toxin is approved by the FDA for the treatment of facial wrinkles. Patients are
      usually older than 45 years and their main demand is to treat pre-existing facial wrinkles.
      However with the increasing popularity of this technique, younger patients, aged 25 to 35
      years, are now seeking botulinum toxin injection as a preventive measure for rhytides. The
      usual dose used for the treatment of facial rhytides in a female patient older than 45 years
      is 50 units. No consensus exists concerning the dose of botulinum toxin that should be used
      in younger patients. Hypothesis: lower dose of botulinum toxin is sufficient to give good and
      long lasting results in young patients.

      The objective of this randomized open-label study is to evaluate the effect of lower doses of
      Botulinum toxin on the facial rythides in young patients.

      In this trial, patients will be divided into 3 groups: Group 1 patients will be 25-35 years
      old and will be injected with 30 units of botulinum toxin into the upper face, group 2
      patients will be older than 45 and will be injected with the same amount of botulinum toxin
      into the upper face and group 3 patients will be older than 45 and will be treated with the
      usual 50 units dose (control group). Patients older than 45 will be randomized between groups
      2 and 3. Validated photonumeric scales will be used to evaluate the wrinkles at rest and with
      muscle contraction at 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24 weeks post injection in the 3 groups. The
      patient satisfaction rate and the Physician global assessment will also be evaluated in the 3
      groups. The scores will be determined by 3 independent blinded raters.

      Hypothesis:

      (1) the low dose will be sufficient to treat the group 1 patients and it will be insufficient
      to treat the group 2 patients. (2) The results will last longer in groups 1 and 3 patients
      compared to group 2 patients. (3) Group 1 patients treated with low doses of botulinum toxin
      will have similar results to the group 3 patients treated with the standard dose of botulinum
      toxin.
    
  