
    
      Patients meeting the inclusion criteria and giving prior consent for the study shall be
      randomised. The randomization sequence will be computer generated with variable block size
      and the assignments will be placed in opaque sealed envelopes. All patients will undergo
      hemogram, liver and renal function tests, coagulation profile, an electrocardiogram and
      Computed tomography (CT) of the chest before entering the study. Chest ultrasound will be
      performed in all patients to evaluate the rib spaces, amount of pleural fluid and for
      selection of the entry point.

      Instruments The semi-rigid thoracoscope to be used is the autoclavable Olympus LTF-160
      (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) thoracoscope with 2.8 mm inner channel diameter and 7 mm outer
      diameter. The forceps is flexible forceps with alligator jaw with spike cusps, 2.8 mm of the
      outer diameter. The rigid mini thoracoscope is the Richard Wolf 5.5 mm operating endoscope
      with the working channel.

      Thoracoscopy technique Thoracoscopy will be performed in the interventional pulmonology lab.
      Patients shall be fasting for solids for 8 hours and for liquids 6 hours. Patients shall be
      having continuous monitoring of blood pressure, pulse rate, and oxygen saturation.

      Topical anesthesia will be achieved by infiltrating 2% lidocaine locally at the incision
      site. The procedure shall be performed under conscious sedation and analgesia using a
      combination of midazolam and intravenous fentanyl. An incision shall be made at the site of
      maximum fluid thickness as assessed by pre-procedural USG chest, with the patient in lateral
      decubitus position and involved side upward. After incision, the appropriately sized trocar
      shall be placed through the skin into the pleural space. The thoracoscope shall be inserted
      through the trocar. The pleural surfaces shall then be thoroughly inspected. A minimum of 6-8
      pleural biopsy samples shall be obtained by semi-rigid thoracoscope and at least 4 with rigid
      mini-thoracoscope.

      Samples shall be sent for histopathological analysis and mycobacterial cultures. At the end
      of the procedure, a chest tube shall be placed and removed subsequently.

      All patients shall be followed up for a period of six months from the time of procedure if
      non-specific inflammation/ fibrinous pleuritis is the diagnosis or no definitive diagnosis is
      made during that time.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data shall be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD), or percentage. Differences in
      continuous variables between the two groups shall be compared using Student's t test (or
      Mann-Whitney U test); while differences in categorical data shall be compared using the
      chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test). A p value of less than 0.05 shall be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  