
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is one of the most frequent functional gastrointestinal
      disorder with a prevalence ranging from 10 to 15 percent. It is characterized by recurrent
      chronic abdominal pain or discomfort in the absence of detectable organic causes with two or
      more of the following conditions: onset associated with a change in frequency of stool, onset
      associated with a change in form (appearance) of stool, or improvement with defecation.

      IBS results from an interaction among several factors, including genetic predisposition,
      gastrointestinal motility, visceral hypersensitivity, immune activation with minimal
      inflammation, alterations in intestinal microbiota, increased intestinal permeability, and
      food sensitivity.

      IBS is associated with a high economic burden for the health care costs and work absenteeism.

      The disease course is represented by unchanged symptoms in 30 to 50 percent or progression of
      symptoms in 2 to 18 percent. On the other hand, an improvement in symptoms was recorded in 12
      to 38 percent of patients.

      Of note, the management of patients with IBS is critical. Several therapeutic options have
      been proposed looking to the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms (i.e., dietary
      modification, osmotic laxatives, lubiprostone, guanylate cyclase agonists,
      5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) 4 receptor agonists, antidiarrheal agents, bile acid
      sequestrants, 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) 3 receptor antagonists, antispasmodic agents,
      antidepressants, antibiotics, probiotics, behavior modification, anxiolytics, mast cell
      stabilizer, and fecal transplantation).

      Since quantitative and qualitative disturbances of intestinal microbiota can occur in IBS,
      interesting data support the use of probiotics to modulate intestinal microbiota. The genus
      Bifidobacterium is one of the most representative member of the intestinal microbiota with
      large effects on overall gut physiology. Its metabolic activity results from the degradation
      of oligo-fructose, production of acetate, and promotion of butyrate production by means of
      cross-feeding. In particular, B. longum has beneficial effects on the immune system, and can
      be considered a promising candidate for prevention/treatment of immune-mediated inflammatory
      diseases.

      The combination of specific bacterial strains of Lactobacillus with Bifidobacterium species
      plays an interesting role in reserving the intestinal dysbiosis. The synergic action results
      in survival on adverse gastrointestinal conditions, adhesion to intestinal mucosa,
      immunomodulatory activities, and restoration of gut environment.

      The present study aimed to investigate the effects of a novel formulation of B. longum BB536
      and L. rhamnosus HN001 with vitamin B6 on the gut microbiota and intestinal permeability in
      IBS subjects.
    
  