
    
      American Dental Association adopted the tissue engineering concept and pulp regeneration in
      2009. Regeneration was focused on the treatment of immature necrotic teeth so as to allow
      root completion, improving both the functionality and durability of the affected tooth.
      Utilizing a blood clot in the affected tooth with immature roots was very beneficial, as it
      acts as a scaffold for the migration of stem cells and morphogens to allow regeneration .

      Based on the success of pulp regeneration in treating immature teeth, ambitious dentists
      started to look forward on regenerating the pulp of mature teeth as a substitution to the
      conventional root canal treatment. On the other hand, lots of clinicians were very doubtful
      about treating mature teeth with the same protocol, as the small apical foramen might not
      provide a good portal for the entry of stem cells and growth factors, which in turn is very
      important for the success of pulp regeneration.Doubts in treating mature apex encouraged
      researchers to look for an alternative to the stem cells other than the apical papilla, from
      this concept the idea for using an alternative source of stem cells and growth factors as
      platelet rich plasma (PRP) emerged. The use of platelet rich plasma (PRP) as a potentially
      ideal scaffold for regenerative endodontic therapy has been reported in the treatment of
      immature teeth. However, the use of bovine thrombin for the activation of PRP has been an
      issue of controversy, as it requires non autologous anticoagulant known to hinder the process
      of pulp regeneration.

      This led to the development of the second generation, platelet concentrate known as
      Choukroun's platelet rich fibrin (PRF) which is totally autologous in nature. Platelet rich
      fibrin (PRF) was very promising, but it is debatable whether to use PRP or PRF.The objective
      of this study is to evaluate novel regenerative techniques, utilizing platelet rich plasma
      and platelet rich fibrin in treatment of second premolar teeth with necrotic pulp, mature
      apex, and periapical lesion. This is a trial to prolong the survival of the affected tooth,
      and to aid in complete healing of periapical lesion, and to regain pulp vitality and
      sensitivity.
    
  