
    
      The main cause of death worldwide are cardiovascular diseases, generated mainly by
      disturbances in the lipid profile. Several studies have shown that dyslipidemia is an
      important risk factor for this condition, thus maintaining the level of lipids in an
      appropriate range is ideal for preventing cardiovascular diseases (1)

      Cardiovascular diseases are a serious epidemiological problem in the contemporary world, with
      approximately 17 million people die each year from causes such as myocardial infarction and
      stroke. The increase in cardiovascular disease and mortality attributable to them is a topic
      widely reported by several authors in the world. In Colombia after death from violent causes,
      cardiovascular diseases are on the second of the five leading causes of mortality in the
      general population.

      Having high total cholesterol is a risk factor for the occurrence of various diseases of the
      circulatory system, therefore it is important to keep total cholesterol below 200 mg / dl and
      LDL cholesterol levels under 150 mg/dl, to avoid the accumulation of fat within the walls of
      the arteries that can lead to the formation of atherosclerotic plaques that cause decreased
      blood flow

      The atlas published by WHO in 2005 provides comprehensive data on morbidity and mortality
      attributable to noncommunicable diseases, which are increasing. It is estimated that in 2001
      approximately 60% of the 56.5 million deaths worldwide and 46% of diseases are due to
      noncommunicable diseases. The epidemiological burden of these diseases will increase to 57%
      by the year 2020. Almost 50% of deaths due to noncommunicable diseases are due to
      cardiovascular disease. By 2020, these diseases are responsible for 75% of all deaths
      worldwide.

      Given the high prevalence of cardiovascular disease and dyslipidemia are considered a high
      risk factor for these occur, it is necessary to test the effectiveness of including the
      consumption of plant stanol esters in the diet to lower cholesterol values Total and LDL
      Cholesterol.
    
  