
    
      Abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) is a well known condition, occurring in patients hosted
      in intensive care units and suffering from acute abdominal disease (such as severe acute
      pancreatitis, trauma, hemoperitoneum, surgery, infectious disease), large volume fluid
      resuscitation (over 2,5L), and systemic disease such as severe sepsis or major burns.

      This syndrome features a sustained intra abdominal hypertension (IAH) above 20 mmHg, measured
      indirectly by intra-vesical pressure, and a multiple organ failure due to the raise of the
      intra abdominal pressure.

      IAH, which is defined as an abdominal pressure rise above 12 mmHg, does not systematically
      lead to ACS, and is often successfully cured with medical therapy.

      When medial management fails, or ACS is present, surgical management is appropriate and
      consists in a decompressive laparotomy.

      CT examination is not ordered for ACS diagnostic, but radiologists should be aware of this
      condition and CT findings in patients with IAH, as these critically ill patients are likely
      to have multiple CT examinations in a diagnostic purpose for the initial condition, its
      complications or its surveillance.

      Several radiological studies have determined CT findings of IAH and ACS. Most of them failed
      to establish a specific and sensitive semiology of IAH, due to weak methodology (except
      Al-Bahrani and al.). The diagnostic significance of the "Round Belly Sign" (RBS), first
      described by Pickhardt and al., has been debated since. None of these studies evaluated the
      prognostic value of IAH CT findings.

      Some of IAH CT findings may have a prognostic value, and being statistically linked to a
      raised risk of ACS overcome when found in at-risk patients population, with proven IAH.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate diagnostic and prognostic value of CT findings in IAH in
      a prospective way, with a high statistic value.

      These CT findings are the ones previously described in previous reviews (round belly sign,
      narrowing of abdominal veins, elevation of the diaphragm, bilateral inguinal herniation,
      bowel wall thickening with enhancement, direct visceral compression) and the ones studied
      here for the first time (increase of the peritoneal/abdominal ratio, semi-lunar line
      distension, concavity of the upper side of the para renal fascia).

      Design:

      For each included patient, when an abdominal CT is ordered, an intra-abdominal pressure
      measure is performed simultaneously to the CT examination. Presence or absence of IAH or ACS
      is noted.

      Two radiologists (one junior and one senior specialized in abdominal emergencies imaging)
      review the CT examinations and note the presence or absence of the ten CT features studied,
      without knowing the intra-abdominal pressure value.

      Patient follow-up:

        -  5 days follow-up

        -  intra-abdominal pressure measurements

        -  Incidence of ACS from the time of inclusion to 28 days after.

        -  Evolution of organ failures

        -  Vital status at 28 days

        -  Medical and surgical therapy applied

      Analysis:

        -  Diagnostic value of CT findings in IAH

        -  Prognostic value of CT findings in IAH, defining CT features statistically linked to ACS
           overcome, and mortality at 28 days

      Prevalence of IAH is expected to be about 40 to 50% in patients in state of shock hosted in
      ICU. Among them, about 20% are expected to suffer from ACS.

      Sensitivity of RBS in IAH is about 80% according to Al-Bahrani and al.. To evaluate the
      diagnostic value of RBS with (CI = [0,68 - 0,88]), 68 cases of IAH and about 140 patients
      included are needed.

      Based on imaging habits in our center, length of this study is expected to be about 10
      months.
    
  