
    
      In Switzerland, the hospitalization rate of patients with musculoskeletal disorders has
      increased within the last decade. For example, recent data shows that Switzerland had the
      highest rate of hip replacement surgery in Europe. Due to the introduction of diagnosis
      related groups in Switzerland, there is increased pressure to reduce length of hospital stay
      and increase economic efficiency.

      To achieve the required economic efficiency, there is a trend towards standardization of care
      delivery processes, often in the form of care pathways. The European Pathway Association has
      defined care pathways as a complex intervention. Pathways should incorporate evidence based
      care, best practices and patient expectations. As such, care pathways depend on communication
      and coordination between team members, patients and families, as well as defined roles and
      sequenced activities.

      However, care pathways are often criticized for their organization-driven focus, the lack of
      a patient centered perspective or missing a holistic approach to care. Therefore, the
      Balgrist University Hospital and the Zurich University of Applied Sciences developed NPP to
      enhance patients', and health care professionals' as well as institutional outcomes.

      Method: A quasi-experimental prospective study with a pre-post sample design will be
      conducted. Usual care will be given in the control group (Pre) and compared with a group of
      patients that were assigned to NPP (Post). The study will be conducted on the two largest
      orthopedic units at the Balgrist University Hospital, a highly specialized center in
      musculoskeletal care, located in the Canton of Zurich.

        1. A convenience sample will be recruited, consisting of 558 surgical patients hospitalized
           for total hip arthroplasty, exploration and decompression of the spinal cord, and
           rotator cuff reconstruction. Demographic, clinical data as well as data to measure
           quality of nursing care, patient satisfaction, and costs will be obtained,

        2. A sample of 38 nurses will be recruited, which are working on the two units. Demographic
           data and data to measure nursing work environment will be contained,

        3. Additionally, a sample of 6 nurses and 5 other health care professionals' (directly
           involved in patients care) will be recruited to explore experiences of intervention
           translation within 2 focus group sessions.

      The quantitative data analyses will be performed using statistical tests appropriate to the
      sample size, measurement level, distribution and the independence of variables. For group
      control appropriate tests for independent groups were used in respect to provision of
      necessary assumptions. Statistically significance was set on Alpha .05 with undirected
      hypothesis testing, if necessary correction for multiple testing will be included.
      Qualitative data analysis will be performed using content analysis.

      We hypothesized that the NPP-group (post) will be experienced higher quality of nursing care
      and increased patient satisfaction, without an increase in health care costs. Secondary
      outcomes will be enhanced work environment for the nurses.
    
  