
    
      Decision Making in Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease Patients with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD) stage 5 (estimated creatinine clearance equal to or less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m2), would
      face tough decisions on their treatment options when they were discovered to have end stage
      renal disease (ESRD), as their decisions affected their long term QoL. In general, when
      patients reach stage 4 CKD, taking into the account of the other symptoms and complications,
      dialysis initiation would be discussed. Peritoneal dialysis (PD) first policy has been
      adopted in the Hong Kong public health care system since 1985. It showed comparable patient
      survival outcomes to haemodialyis and early preservation of residual kidney functions.
      Nonetheless, a Hong Kong study found that more than half of these patients declined PD and
      preferred receiving palliative care. For those who decided to have conservative treatment may
      require urgent dialysis when their symptoms deteriorated such as dyspnoea. These patients may
      have decisional regret and would like to revert their initial choice. As such, helping
      patients to rigorously consider their preferences and concern is crucial.

      Quality Decision Making Decision-making to commence or decline renal therapy in ESRD is a
      complex and dynamic process and evolves over time. It was found that planned dialysis in
      predialytic stage of CKD could reduce hospitalization duration, economic costs, mortality and
      improves QoL and depression. Standard pre-dialysis consultations, providing information on
      comparative risks, benefits and alternatives appeared inadequate to guide individualized
      decisions that are affected by personal values and perceptions. In a similar vein, a
      randomised control trial on asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm on increasing patients'
      knowledge about the disorder and better informed them about elective surgery or watchful
      waiting did not reduce decisional conflict. Despite good knowledge, irrational choices were
      made. Patients felt that they have autonomy and were offered a treatment alternative if the
      consultation stimulated them to think of additional questions before making a decision. Some
      patients tried to take control of their progressive status of renal failure, while others
      tried to take control of their emotions. Determining the patients' readiness and facilitating
      patients to express their struggles to make value congruent decisions require more than a
      health education. Subsequent motivation after nephrology consultation become a vital step to
      enable these patients to initiate planned dialysis.

      The Importance of Hope to Quality Decision Making Hope theory is adopted as the framework in
      the present study, where hope was believed as the central agent to facilitate the change
      process. By increasing hope level, the likelihood of therapeutic change will be increased. It
      is hypothesized that increasing hope would lead to selecting PD as recommended, stronger
      decision to the treatment, less decisional conflict and reduced emergency room visits or
      hospitalisation . Patients facing chronic illnesses would lead to psychological stress,
      anxiety, depression, fear and hopelessness. Prognostic uncertainty, subjective perception of
      a worsening health status, experience of quality of life, and even a sense of abandonment
      were expressed in the patients with chronic kidney diseases. Both depression and hopelessness
      was documented in renal failure patients. In a systematic review, cognitive appraisal was
      also found to have the largest effect size that associate with depression in patients with
      ESRD. Another systematic review and thematic synthesis also revealed five themes of concerns;
      (1) invasive suffering, such as loss of independence, treatment burden and harm, (2) personal
      vulnerability such as autonomy and dignity, (3) relational responsibility, for instance,
      protecting others from grief, (4) existential tensions such as preserving self-identity, and
      (5) preparedness, for example, decisional clarity, spirituality and hope. As such, both
      cognitive and emotional strategies should be integrated to facilitate effective decision
      making.

      Despite the mechanisms by which positive emotions impact on decision making are not clearly
      understood, it was found that positive affect leads to efficient and thorough decision-making
      , that applied to physician's diagnostic process. It has been found that hope is one of the
      diverse positive emotions, which could lead to consideration of wider alternatives. Thus, it
      may lead to a more thorough exploration of the treatment options and consequences during the
      decision making process. Evidence has shown that high-hope individuals were found to be more
      creative and effective problem solvers. It is timely to translating these findings to wider
      clinical perspectives to enhance quality decision-making. Whether improving the hopeful state
      of patients with ESRF would lead to decrease decisional conflict or regrets remains under
      explored. Investigating whether improving the hopeful state of CKD patients would lead to
      better health outcomes will advance the application of hope in clinical interventions. The
      present study aimed to investigate the effect of brief hope therapy on the patients with
      stage 5 CKD when renal dialysis is recommended.

      Hope Intervention Hope therapy that based on Snyder's conceptualization of hope is adopted in
      the present study. Three core features: (1) goal setting (goals), (2) problem solving
      (pathways) and (3) positive self-talk (agency), underlie the key hope strategies used in the
      intervention. Hope therapy is delivered within the principles of cognitive behavioural
      therapy (CBT), but its focus complemented the traditional CBT by shifting the primary focus
      on positive potentials, thereby promoting meaning in life, fostering personal strengths and
      positive changes. Despite the controversy about hope interventions lies on being overly
      optimistic is harmful, nurturing hope was found to be one of the significant elements in
      staying positive in the coping experiences of Chinese cancer patients. More importantly, hope
      is a pursuit toward a desirable future openness to possibilities, affirmation and reflection
      about one's capacity to reach self-established goals, and engagement in actions to make a
      difference in the outcome.
    
  