
    
      The purpose of this trial is to address the question of the added value of adjuvant
      chemotherapy on survival in 70+ BC patients with ER+ disease, deemed "at risk of relapse"
      (pN+ or pN0 with a high prognostic classifier, namely GG by RT-PCR) and planned to receive as
      well adjuvant endocrine treatment. This benefit will be weighed with the competition exerted
      by comorbidities on mortality.

      As in many recently developed trials evaluating specific strategies for the elderly (e.g.
      CALGB 49907 (8); bevacizumab and colorectal cancer in the PRODIGE 20 elderly program
      supported by the PHRC 2010), the choice of chemotherapy regimen will be left to the
      investigator between 3 "standard" ones: TC x 4 (no anthracyclines), AC x 4 or MC x 4 (better
      cardiac tolerance), in order to obtain enrolment of a less highly selected population, more
      representative of the general population to the difference of the high selection classically
      observed in standard oncology trials.

      In parallel, patients not included in the randomized part (whatever reason) and treated with
      adjuvant endocrine treatment only will be followed up as a separate observational cohort.

        1. Screening All women 70+ having undergone surgery for invasive pN0 or pN+, ER+ HER2- BC,
           will be screened and invited to participate. Pre-selection will be possible
           pre-operatively.

        2. Prognostic signature After having signed a written informed consent, the prognostic
           signature Genomic Grade (GG) will be assessed by RT-PCR.

        3. Randomization (Group I) Only the patients with a Genomic Grade (GG) considered as high
           will be randomized (1:1): endocrine treatment only (Arm A) versus endocrine treatment +
           adjuvant chemotherapy (Arm B).

           Randomization1:1 between arm A and B will be done using minimization stratified
           according to pN status (pN+ vs pN0), G8 (≤ vs > 14), and center.

           Given (i) the high potential of less cardiotoxic regimen including liposomal
           formulations for anthracyclines or excluding anthracyclines and (ii) the wish to capture
           the whole population to depict the heterogeneity of ageing from 70, adjuvant
           chemotherapy (Arm B) will be left to the choice of investigator amongst 3 standard
           regimen of same duration, 4 cycles given every 3 weeks + primary prophylactic GCSF:

             -  AC = doxorubicin 60 mg/m² + cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m²

             -  TC = docetaxel 75 mg/m² + cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m²

             -  MC = liposomal non pegylated doxorubicin (Myocet) 60 mg/m² + cyclophosphamide 600
                mg/m²

        4. Patients not randomized (Group II) Patients not randomized for any reason (low GG,
           randomization refusal or treatment refusal, etc.) will enter a surveillance program and
           will be able to participate to other specific geriatric studies (GERICO project to
           evaluate the impact of comprehensive geriatric assessment on quality of life, treatment
           administered and BC survival after 75 years; EORTC study to validate the scale
           specifically developed for elderly ELD15).

           The Group II will present a triple interest and will participate, together with
           randomized patients, to achieve the following objectives:

             -  validation of the prognostic value of Genomic Grade and performance of the test in
                the elderly BC population, as compared to standardized routine histopathological
                parameters,

             -  translational studies to identify molecular signatures,

             -  collection of descriptive data including comorbidities and polymedication.

        5. Endocrine treatment and radiotherapy In both Groups (I and II), the endocrine treatment
           will be left to the choice of the investigator (tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitor or
           sequential) and radiotherapy will follow standard guidelines.
    
  