
    
      Breast cancer is a devastating cancer having multifactorial origin. It is the most common
      cancer and second leading cause of death in women. Every year more than one million breast
      cancer patients are diagnosed throughout the world and it has been assumed that among them
      more than 410000 would die due to the disease. In our country due to the absence of official
      registry records, not much information about breast cancer. 12764 new cases of breast cancer
      were diagnosed and 6846 women died in Bangladesh in the year 2018. In low- and middle-income
      countries including Bangladesh due to lower resource settings women with breast cancer may
      receive inadequate treatment, palliative care or pain relief. The study would be a
      quasi-experimental study involving breast cancer patients and would be conducted in the
      Department of Pharmacology and Department of Oncology, BSMMU, from March 2019 to August 2020.
      A total of 80 breast cancer patients would be selected by abiding selective inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. After completing necessary formalities including informed written consent
      of the patients, patient's requisite data will be collected. The diagnosed patients would be
      randomly allocated into two groups: group A (control group) and group B (intervention group).
      Group A would consist of 40 patients who will receive chemotherapy and group B would consist
      of 40 patients who will receive vitamin C (1000 mg) and vitamin E (400 mg) orally daily along
      with chemotherapy. Both groups would receive treatment for 8 weeks. Comparison between the
      two groups would be performed through biochemical parameters such as total antioxidant
      capacity (TAC) and total oxidant status (TOS) at baseline (before vitamin C and vitamin E
      supplementation) and 6 weeks after intervention by vitamin C and E supplementationtation.
      Statistical analysis will be obtained by SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science)
      version 20. Results will be presented in tables and figures as applicable. Calculated 'P'
      value may suggest the level of significance (significant at P˂0.05, 0.01 and 0.001). Patients
      will be informed about the study in easy language and then informed consent will be taken.
      This study has no potential risk to the patients.
    
  