
    
      BACKGROUND Gastric cancer is still one of the most frequent malignancies in Europe. In United
      States the estimated new cases in 2010 were 21000 (12730 male and 8270 female) with 10570
      estimated deaths (6350 male and 4220 female)[7,8]. In Italy the estimated new cases in 2013
      were 13200 (7900 males and 5300 female) (AIOM-AIRTUM, I numeri del cancro in Italia - 2013,
      www.registri-tumori.it) .The incidence rates in 2005-2009 were 21.6 and 10.8 per 100,000 in
      males and females respectively. The mortality rates in 2005-2009 were 14.9 and 7.3 per
      100,000 in males and females respectively. (www.itacan.ispo.toscana.it).A total or subtotal
      gastrectomy with D2 lymph node dissection and R0 margins remains the standard of care for
      gastric cancer[9,10]. Despite this, in low-volume centers gastrectomy still remains a
      challenging procedure with a notable morbidity rate (33%-43%) and mortality rate
      (7%-12%)[11,12]. Duodenal stump fistula (DSF) represents an infrequent but severe
      complication after total or subtotal gastrectomy for gastric cancer, with incidence of 2,5 -
      5% and mortality rate ranging from 7% to 67%(1-5). Several factors were identified as
      possible cause of DSF, such as local hematoma, inflammation, intra-operative inadequate
      closure of the duodenal stump, incorrect drain position, devascularization, post-operative
      distension of the duodenum and R1-R2 resections[2,13].

      There are many DSF-related complications leading to longer hospitalization times, such as
      intra-abdominal abscesses, wound infections, diffuse peritonitis, sepsis, malnutrition,
      pancreatitis, abdominal bleeding, and pneumonia. (3) DSF is often difficult to treat because
      of the highly enzyme-rich duodenal juice and deep location of the fistula. In a retrospective
      multicenter study (2) 3,685 patients undergoing gastrectomy for malignancies who developed 68
      DSFs were analyzed; it was reported that DSF features had changed in the last 30 years and
      that DSF alone no longer leads to death; some complications observed in the past, such as
      fluid and electrolyte loss and dermatitis, have disappeared owing to improvements( in
      particular parenteral nutrition and wound care). However, additional new complications such
      as bleeding and fistulas of neighboring organs were emerging. Although medical therapy is
      associated with better outcomes, surgery is still mandatory in cases of severe abdominal
      sepsis or bleeding not otherwise manageable.

      However, reoperation is often ineffective owing to postoperative edema and inflammation, and
      the prognosis of patients undergoing surgery for DSF remains very poor. To improve the
      outcome of these patients, many surgical procedures have been proposed from washing the
      peritoneal cavity and abdominal drainage to tube duodenostomy (14,15), closure of the
      fistula, fistula repair with a rectus abdominis flap (16), fistula closure by Roux-en-Y
      duodenojejunostomy(17,18), biliogastric diversion, laparostomy, and pancreatoduodenectomy
      (19) but surgeons are often unsure about the best management and the result are often
      unsuccessful.

      In a recent Korean national RCT (6) on open (ODG) vs laparoscopic distal gastrectomy (LADG),
      the incidence of duodenal stump leakage after laparoscopyc gastrectomy was about 1%; in this
      population study the use of tri-staple technology for duodenal resection was mandatory. In
      our clinical practice, the incidence of DSF after open gastrectomy is about 3-5% adopting
      different techniques of duodenal stump resection/closure.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate if duodenal stump resection/closure using tri-staple
      technology can significantly decrease the incidence of DSF after open gastrectomy as compared
      to the other conventional methods adopted in the clinical practice (1% vs 5%).

      We have designed a national multicentre pragmatic (20) RCT to compare the use of endoGIA or
      Echelon (triStaple technology) to other conventional methods (GIA with or without manual
      reinforcement , manual suture, purse string) for duodenal resection/closure during open
      gastrectomy, with the assumption that Tri-staple technology without reinforcement ( as
      routinely used in LADG) is the safest method.

      AIM OF THE STUDY The goal of this trial is to demonstrate that the use of Tri-Staple
      Technology for duodenal resection during open gastrectomy for cancer is safer than the use of
      other conventional methods of resection/closure of the duodenum and that the incidence of
      duodenal fistula can be decreased to that observed after the use of this technology in
      Laparoscopic and robotic gastrectomy, therefore almost three times lower than that currently
      reported in literature.

      Participating centres must have an annual volume of at least 20 gastrectomies per year.

      Design of the study This is a multicentre randomized controlled trial.

      Patients with malignant tumor of the stomach, as primary diagnosis, requiring distal or total
      gastrectomy without anastomosis with the duodenum will undergo clinical preoperative workout
      and anaesthesiologist evaluation. All patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and
      agree to sign the informed consent are registered into the trial and randomized to one of the
      two arms (a. Duodenal Stump Closure with TriStaple Technology - TST or b. Duodenal Stump
      closure with other conventional techniques - OCT ) as described in the chapter Randomization.
      In TST arm no manual reinforce of the mechanical suture should be perfomed; in OCT group, a
      manual reinforce of the suture can be done according to the preference of the operator, and
      recorded in the trial data base (DB).

      Patients' postoperative course will be carefully monitored and all variables detailed below
      will be recorded in the DB.

      DSF will be diagnosed by the presence of duodenal fluid in the surgical drainage and
      confirmed by a CT scan when needed (presence of intra-abdominal peri-duodenal collection of
      fluid and/or micro air bubbles).

      Also the type of treatment (conservative, percutaneous drainage, reoperation, others ) of DSF
      should be recorded, as well as the length of hospital stay and other postoperative
      complications or in-hospital death ( as well as 30- and 90- days mortality)

      Trial setting

      This is an Italian national multicentre RCT; the Division of General Surgery from University
      of Turin, Department of Surgical Sciences, AOU San Luigi Gonzaga di Orbassano, will be the
      Coordinating Centre of the trial. The P.I. of the trial is Prof Maurizio Degiuli.

      S.S.D. Epidemiologia, Clinica e Valutativa, AOU Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino,
      will be responsible for this trial's central randomisation and statistical analysis.

      Clinical monitoring and data managing will be performed by the P.I. and and co-investigators.

      Study population

      inclusion criteria

      pathologically proven malign tumor of the stomach age of 18 to 80 years, no history of other
      cancers no history of radiotherapy in supra-mesocolic space total or distal gastrectomy
      without anastomosis with the duodenum

      exclusion criteria

      emergency surgery American Society of Anesthesiologists class > 3 need for combined resection
      of other organs laparoscopic/robotic access severe heart disease liver cirrhosis T stage
      >cT4a citology positive at preoperative laparoscopy cM+ cD+

      All patients freely give informed consent to participate in the study prior to surgery, at
      the time of discussing the intervention with the surgeon or the nurse and can decide to
      withdraw from the study at any time.

      Diagnosis of DSF

      A diagnosis of DF is made on the basis of the presence of duodenal juice in the surgical
      drainage or its leakage through the abdominal wall, and confirmed by CT scan and/or
      fistulography.

      Variables

      sex age ASA score COPD type 2 DM multiple comorbidities pre-operative albumin serum levels
      pre-operative lymphocytes blood count cT Stage / pTStage pTNM distal margin involvement
      intraoperative blood loss lenght of hospital stay Type of gastrectomy TG vs DG type of
      reconstruction: ( BII vs RY) lymph node dissection: D1, D1+, D2, > D2

      Type of duodenal stump closure device:

      A. endoGIA tristaple B. other techniques (GIA/TA with or without manual reinforcement (simple
      interrupted suture or running suture), manual suture (simple interrupted or running suture),
      purse string)

      Development of DSF (po day) healing of DSF (po day) Diagnosis of DSF Daily output of DSF Type
      of treatment of DSF Other postoperative morbidity according to Dindo. Postoperative mortality

      Randomisation

      All patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and give the informed consent to
      participate are registered into the central trial database and centrally randomized to one of
      the two groups (a. Duodenal Stump Closure with TriStaple Technology - TST or b. Duodenal
      Stump closure with other conventional techniques - OCT ).

      Patients refusing recruitment are treated with usual care and contribute to the database a
      limited set of pre-defined information.

      Result of randomisation is communicated to the surgical team at the time of their entrance in
      the surgical theatre.

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis

      Assuming an alpha error at the 5% level and power 80%, a total of 700 patients (350 per arm)
      are required in order to recognise a true difference of 5% in (a) vs 1% in (b).

      Assuming an average case volume of 20 patients per year and 60% acceptance rate, about 30
      Centres recruiting for two years will need to be involved.

      Cox regression with multivariable analysis will be performed

      Data property

      Results will be the property of Università degli studi di Torino and of the researchers
      involved in the conduction of the mulicentre project. A scientific committee will be
      constituted comprising a lead investigator from each of the Centres.
    
  