
    
      The primary aims of this project are to:

        1. Use an iterative formative development process to create two separate Web-based smoking
           cessation programs (Web+Mobile, Web Only).

        2. Compare the efficacy of the two smoking cessation programs in terms of tobacco
           abstinence. The investigators hypothesize that the Web+Mobile condition will be
           significantly more efficacious in terms of tobacco abstinence than the Web Only
           condition.

        3. Evaluate program usage/participant engagement, treatment acceptability, and consumer
           satisfaction. The investigators hypothesize that both conditions will be acceptable and
           that the Web+Mobile condition will have significantly greater usage and higher consumer
           satisfaction than the Web Only condition.

      The secondary aims of this proposal are to:

        1. Evaluate the differences between conditions on ancillary tobacco outcomes. The
           investigators hypothesize that the participants assigned to the Web+Mobile condition who
           continue to smoke will nonetheless report a greater decline in the smoking rate and more
           quit attempts.

        2. Evaluate predictors and condition moderators of tobacco abstinence. The investigators
           will conduct exploratory analyses of the association of treatment outcomes to
           participant characteristics (e.g., baseline smoking rate, nicotine dependence level,
           partner's tobacco use, prior quitting attempts, prior use of pharmacological adjuncts,
           and other demographic factors).

        3. Evaluate putative mechanisms of change. The investigators will test whether change in
           the putative mechanisms of change (i.e., self-efficacy, program use, use of
           pharmacological adjuncts) mediate the association between the intervention condition and
           3-month sustained abstinence from the 3 month to 6 month assessments.
    
  