
    
      Background and Significance In 2010, 11.5% of all Gulf War-II Veterans were unemployed; that
      figure rose to 15.2% in January 2011 and continues to grow as the number of Veterans from
      recent wars increases. The prevalence of mental illness among Veterans is also notable;
      estimates range from 31% to nearly 37% for any psychiatric disorder, and over half of these
      Veterans are diagnosed with more than one psychiatric condition. In addition, empirical
      evidence suggests that some mental disorders are more prevalent in Veterans than in the
      general population. Linking unemployment and mental illness, a recent study found that 65% of
      Veterans using VA healthcare were unemployed, and compared to employed Veterans, the
      unemployed were more likely to have depression, bipolar disorder, post traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD), schizophrenia, or substance use disorders. Vocational dysfunction was
      reported most often in disabled Veterans with schizophrenia, PTSD, and substance use
      disorders. Not surprisingly, this study also found that unemployed Veterans had significantly
      lower income than employed persons. Similarly, a large study focusing specifically on
      Veterans with PTSD concluded that vocational dysfunction is a notable problem among this
      group, as they were significantly less likely to be employed after participating in VA work
      programs compared with participants without the disorder. Because most individuals with
      mental illness desire to work in regular competitive employment, the nationwide problem of
      unemployment among Veterans with mental illness is particularly troubling.

      The VA is addressing this need by implementing supported employment (SE), a psychiatric
      rehabilitation approach that provides individual vocational assistance to Veterans with
      mental illness. While the SE model is empirically validated and SE programs have been shown
      to achieve partial success in improving employment outcomes, a sizable proportion of
      individuals, 40% or more, remain unemployed. A further challenge is job retention; Veterans
      with mental illness who obtain jobs frequently struggle to maintain them long-term. Even in
      the context of high quality, evidence-based vocational services, most studies show only
      modest job retention of a few months, and consequently, frequent job losses and inconsistent
      vocational functioning remain a substantial and unsolved problem. In response to this
      problem, it has been suggested that interventions focusing on patient-level barriers augment
      existing vocational services.

      Rationale Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) effectively reduces symptoms across a range of
      psychiatric conditions; however, its benefit to functioning remains less well understood.
      Some studies have evidenced a positive influence of CBT on functional outcomes, whereas
      others have not. One possible explanation for these inconsistencies across studies is that
      CBT interventions are most often focused on symptoms rather than community functioning. The
      few CBT interventions that have been specifically designed to address functioning have shown
      promising results. One functional area of critical importance is work-a central goal of most
      Veterans with (and without) mental illness. However, work functioning has received little
      empirical attention in the CBT domain. Despite research evidence suggesting that maladaptive
      thoughts about oneself and expectations about the ability to work interfere with work
      success, no CBT programs have been developed specifically targeting vocational themes with
      the goal of improving competitive work outcomes. Further, a recent paper outlined needed
      avenues of future study in the supported employment domain; Drake and Bond (2011) state that
      cognitive strategies may be a fruitful area to develop to help "nonresponder" consumers with
      mental illness who struggle with vocational dysfunction despite high quality vocational
      assistance. The goal of the current project is to address this gap and the serious problem of
      unemployment in Veterans with mental illness by testing a CBT program designed to enhance
      competitive work functioning in this population.

      Aim 1: Test the preliminary efficacy of the CBTw program on key Veteran employment and
      psychosocial outcomes utilizing a pre/post design.

      Aim 2: Further assess the feasibility of the program, including recruitment, retention rates,
      and program participation rates.

      Aim 3: Gauge effect sizes in preparation for a larger randomized controlled trial examining
      the effectiveness of the CBT program in routine practice settings

      Research Design and Methods This study will pilot test a cognitive behavior therapy (CBT)
      intervention for persons with mental illness to target improved competitive employment
      outcomes, termed the "CBT for Work Success (CBTw) program"; this CBT intervention will serve
      as a compliment to existing supported employment services in the VA. Fifty participants will
      take part in the 12 week group-based CBTw program. All participants will receive standard SE
      services during the study. The longitudinal design will consist of assessments of competitive
      employment outcomes, important psychosocial outcomes, and background and demographic
      variables at baseline and at two follow-up periods-immediately following the conclusion of
      the CBTw program and six months after the conclusion of the program.

      Measures Unless otherwise specified, study measures will be collected at three time points:
      baseline, post intervention, 3 month follow up.

      Background Characteristics. Collected at baseline only, participant background
      characteristics will include sex, age, ethnicity, educational attainment, mental health
      diagnosis, marital status, residential status, current work status (employed/unemployed),
      work history (i.e., weeks worked during the six months preceding the study; legal history.
      The investigators will collect this data through a combination of SE records, patient medical
      records (i.e., CPRS), and participant self-report.

      Competitive Employment Outcomes. Competitive employment outcomes will be assessed at the two
      follow-up time points (after the intervention and 6 month follow-up) through participant
      self-report and supported employment records when available. These outcomes are standard in
      studies of employment in persons with mental illness and will include employment status
      (working/not working), job acquisition rate, total number of job losses, the total and mean
      number of weeks worked over the follow-up period, job tenure defined as achievement of steady
      competitive work--working at least half the follow up period (6 month follow up only), and
      total and mean wages earned across the study and follow-up periods.

      Work-related self-efficacy. Work related self-efficacy is defined as one's perceived ability
      and confidence to perform work activities. Given that the adapted CBT program will seek to
      improve these perceptions, the investigators will measure this construct using the
      Work-Related Self-efficacy Scale. The 37-item self-report scale yields a total score and
      measures four sub-domains of self-efficacy: general work skills, career planning, job
      securing skills, and work-related social skills. Studies suggest that the scale has adequate
      to good reliability and validity in adults with mental illness living in the community.

      Motivation to work: Motivation to work will be measured by the Work Extrinsic and Intrinsic
      Motivation Scale (WEIMS) based on self determination theory; the 18-item WEIMS measures six
      empirically grounded domains of motivation, including 1). intrinsic motivation (e.g., "I want
      to work for the satisfaction I experience from taking on interesting challenges"); 2).
      integrated regulation motivation (e.g., I want to work because it is a fundamental part of
      who I am."); 3) identified regulation motivation (e.g., "I want to work to attain a certain
      lifestyle"; 4) introjected regulation (e.g., "I want to work because I want to be a winner in
      life."); 5) external regulation (e.g., I want to work because it provides me with
      security."); 6) amotivation (e.g., "I don't know why I want to work."). The WEIMS is scored
      on a 1 to 7 Likert scale ('Does not correspond at all' to 'Corresponds exactly') with higher
      scores indicating higher levels of each domain of motivation. The WEIMS has been shown to
      have strong predictive validity, correlating highly with work behaviors.

      Global motivation to work will be measured with one item: "How motivated are you to work?"
      measured on a 1 to 10 Likert scale, 1-'Not at all motivated'; 10-'Extremely motivated'.

      Work effectiveness & Work Productivity. The Work and Health Interview will assess work
      effectiveness and work productivity for participants who are currently working (unemployed
      participants will not complete these measures). Work effectiveness will be measured by one
      self-report item-" On days that you worked during the past 4 weeks, how effective were you in
      your job on average? Please tell me, on a scale of 0 to 100, where 0% means that you were not
      at all effective, and 100% means that you were completely effective, how effective would you
      say you have been on your job during the past 4 weeks?" Work productivity will be measured by
      7 self-report items scored on a Likert scale ranging from 0, "none of the time" to 4, "all
      the time" (item example: "Work more slowly than usual?"). Participants will report on work
      productivity over the last two weeks. The Work and Health Interview has been used widely in
      patients with chronic conditions, demonstrating good psychometric properties.

      Self-esteem: The Rosenberg self esteem scale (RSES), a 10-item Likert scale (1-strongly
      agree; 2-agree; 3-disagree; 4-strongly disagree) will examine self esteem; higher scores on
      the RSES indicate higher levels of a unidimensional self-esteem construct. The RSES has been
      used extensively in samples of persons with and without mental illness and across various
      ethnic and cultural groups, demonstrating good reliability and validity.

      Quality of Life. Prior studies in the mental health domain have demonstrated that quality of
      life improves in response to CBT treatment, therefore, as discussed above with regard to
      symptoms, quality of life may be enhanced in response to CBT treatment, regardless of the
      impact on work outcomes. The Quality of Life Interview (QOLI), developed specifically for a
      psychiatric population, will measure Veteran quality of life. The investigators will use the
      17 items that assess subjective quality of life, including global life satisfaction and the
      following sub-domains: living situation, daily activities and functioning, family relations,
      social relations, legal and safety issues, and health. The QOLI has been shown to have very
      good reliability and validity in adult outpatients.

      Subjective Recovery: Global perceived recovery will be assessed by the Recovery Assessment
      Scale (RAS), a 41 item scale designed to assess perceptions of recovery held by persons with
      mental illness. Because perceptions of recovery may be amenable to CBT and have been
      associated with key functional outcomes, including employment, it is appropriate to examine
      in this study. The self-report RAS is scored on a 1 to 5 Likert scale from 'strongly
      disagree' to 'strongly agree' (e.g., "I have a desire to succeed."). The RAS has five factors
      including "confidence and hope," "willingness to ask for help", "goal and success
      orientation", "reliance on others", and "no domination by symptoms." Higher scores indicate
      stronger held perceptions of personal recovery. The RAS has shown good test retest
      reliability, internal consistency, and criterion-related validity.

      Symptoms. Symptoms are essential to assess in this study, as they are often the primary
      beneficiary of CBT intervention, demonstrating moderate to large effect sizes in randomized
      trials across numerous psychiatric conditions. Thus, it is possible that symptoms may improve
      in response to CBT treatment, regardless of change in employment status.

      Psychiatric symptoms often present in schizophrenia-spectrum disorders will be assessed by
      the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), which has been used extensively in studies
      of psychiatric rehabilitation and CBT. The PANSS is comprised of 30 items scored on a 1 to 7
      Likert scale, in which the total score is obtained by adding up scores on all 30 items (total
      scores range from 30 to 240). The PANSS has five subscales identified via factor analytic
      studies including the Positive syndrome (6 items), Negative syndrome (8 items), Emotional
      discomfort (4 items), Hostility (4 items), and Cognitive (7 items). The PANSS has adequate
      reliability and validity.

      In addition, the investigators will assess depression and anxiety, two commonly occurring
      psychiatric conditions in Veterans; depression and anxiety are linked with vocational
      dysfunction and have been demonstrated to respond well to CBT. Current levels of depression
      will be assessed using the Beck Depression Inventory, Second Edition. The BDI-II contains 21
      items that assess the various mood and bodily symptoms of depression; participants are asked
      to respond based on symptoms during the past two weeks. There are four response options for
      each item reflecting increasing severity of depression; the total score is obtained by
      summing up the scores on each item (0-3). The BDI-II is the gold standard tool to assess
      depression in both non-clinical and psychiatric populations and has been shown to have
      excellent reliability and validity across several prior studies.

      Thirdly, symptoms of anxiety will be assessed using the Beck Anxiety Inventory. The BAI has
      21 items, each describing a psychological or physiological symptom of anxiety (e.g.,
      "Nervous") that respondents rate on a 0 to 3 Likert Scale ("not at all" to "severely") based
      on how much they have been bothered by the symptom within the past week. The BAI has been
      widely used to assess anxiety in adults with mental illness and has been demonstrated to have
      strong psychometric properties.

      Current substance use will be assessed at baseline; this in consideration of the
      investigators' previous work demonstrating a link between active substance use and
      difficulties obtaining work for Veteran with mental illness receiving SE services. In
      addition, substance abuse may hinder participants from benefiting from the CBTw intervention.
      The investigators will use the recent substance use section of the Addiction Severity Index
      (ASI), which assesses use of a variety of substances in the previous 30 days.

      Feasibility Assessment: Feasibility of the CBTw program will be assessed by evaluating the
      following recruitment, retention, and participation outcomes during the CBTw pilot and at the
      follow-up periods: (1) number of participants who are enrolled in the study, (2) number who
      attend 50% or more of group sessions, indicating adequate "exposure" to the program, (4) mean
      number of sessions attended; (5) number of participants who complete post-treatment follow-up
      assessments, and (6) number of participants who complete 6-month follow-up assessments; 7)
      number of participants who dropout of the CBTw program.

      Fidelity to cognitive behavioral therapy: Adherence to the CBT model will be assessed by an
      adapted form of the Revised Cognitive Therapy Scale (CTS-R). The group therapy version is
      comprised of seven items rated on a 0-6 likert scale, with rating of "3" or greater on each
      item indicating fully-competent practice compared to the average skilled clinician. Prior
      studies using the group therapy version of the CTS-R has found good to excellent interrater
      reliability. Furthermore, fidelity will be assessed using audio recordings of three random
      sessions per CBTw group and will be conducted by a blinded member of the study team trained
      in CBT fidelity by Dr. Kukla.

      Analysis Data will be analyzed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS),
      version 20. First, frequency distributions and histograms will be generated to determine the
      normality of the sampling distribution and inspect for outliers. If the distribution is
      skewed, data transformations and the use of nonparametric tests in primary analyses will be
      considered. Secondly, descriptive statistics will be generated to characterize the
      demographic and background composition of the sample and levels of outcome variables at
      baseline, post-treatment, and three months post-treatment. This mean and standard deviation
      information obtained will be used for sample size calculation for a future expanded
      randomized trial.

      Next, study outcomes will be compared between baseline and the two follow up time points
      using a series of dependent groups T-tests. Significance values for t-tests will be set at
      p<.025 to account for the effect of inflated alpha due to multiple comparisons. Next, mixed
      effects regression models will be conducted including a random effect to account for the
      nested nature of the data, (i.e. three measurement points nested within participant). These
      models will identify of trajectories of change in outcomes over time and will allow for the
      inclusion of important covariates (e.g., employment history assessed at baseline). P values
      will be set at .05.

      Clinical Significance Information from this study will help guide the activities in future
      planned studies. Specifically, this will lead to a future larger VA merit study testing the
      intervention using a randomized controlled design that is scalable to routine service
      settings.
    
  