
    
      Development of the intervention; The development of the intervention was guided by the
      Medical Research Council's (MRC) framework for development and evaluation of complex
      interventions. The development phase involves identifying the evidence base, identifying or
      developing theory and modelling process and outcome. Based on reviews of literature and the
      results of previous studies in this project, the concept of self-efficacy in Social Cognitive
      Theory was identified as a suitable theory in the development and evaluation of the
      intervention.

      Details of recruitment and randomisation of Antenatal clinics; Antenatal clinics (ANCs),
      which offer the most common model (regular) for antenatal parental preparation, as mapped out
      in a previous study, will be invited to participate in the pilot study which will compare the
      regular programme for antenatal parental preparation (control group) with a new programme for
      antenatal parental preparation (intervention group). Cluster randomisation of ANCs will be
      used to minimise contamination between the different programmes of antenatal preparation in
      the two groups. Randomisation will be stratified according to Care Need Index (CNI) which is
      based on socio-demographic variables of expectant mothers registered with the participating
      ANCs. A mean value of the CNIs of participating ANCs will be calculated, those below the mean
      value will form one strata and those above the mean value will form the other strata. Half of
      the ANCs will be randomised to the intervention group and half to the control group.

      Details of preparations to provide the new programme intervention; A full-day education will
      be provided for midwives at the ANCs randomised to the intervention group which will include
      group leadership skills to facilitate peer learning among parents, evidence-based websites,
      framework for co-parenting and details regarding the new programme. The education to the
      midwives will be followed up with personal phone contact 1-2 months after the education, by
      the educator, in order to give opportunities for questions and clarifications in order to
      provide the intervention programme.
    
  