
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

        -  Nowadays no valid classification system for SLE-related arthritis/tenosynovitis exists.

        -  Data are not sufficient to establish an SLE-specific pattern of inflammatory
           involvement, similar to the pattern known for other inflammatory diseases such as
           rheumatoid arthritis (RA).

        -  Erosive arthritis associated with SLE has been typically related to patients that meet
           the criteria both for SLE and RA - syndrome known as Rhupus; but only a few data exist
           that classify erosive involvement of articular inflammation of pure SLE.

        -  No research exists that links the articular inflammatory pathology associated with SLE
           with its effect on quality of life (degree of fatigue and HAQ) or with the rest of
           manifestations and comorbidities associated with SLE.

        -  Being able to predict the development of SLE-related arthritis/tenosynovitis would be
           very useful when it comes to establishing the clinical management, treatment and
           prognosis of patients with SLE.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  GENERAL:

           - To describe the kind of inflammatory articular involvement (synovitis/erosions/bone
           oedema/tenosynovitis) (6,7) and its frequency in patients affected by pure SLE
           (excluding Rhupus, mixed connective tissue disease, overlap syndromes).

        -  SPECIFIC:

             -  To propose, if possible, an SLE-specific typical pattern of articular involvement.

             -  To establish clinical and serological differences (extra-articular manifestations,
                autoimmunity, treatment received, comorbidities and quality of life) according to
                the type of inflammatory articular involvement and in comparison to healthy
                individuals.

             -  To evaluate the possible link between SLEDAI/SLICC scores and the involvement using
                MRI.

      HYPOTHESIS

        -  Patients with SLE have a specific inflammatory articular disease.

        -  A SLE-specific pattern of articular involvement exists.

        -  There are clinical and serological differences depending on the different patterns of
           articular involvement in SLE.
    
  