
    
      1. Pre-treatment neuromuscular assessment Cortical Active Motor Threshed We will measure
           motor evoked potentials with the use of a Transcranial magnetic stimulator (MagStim
           model 200, Magstim Co., Ltd., Wales, UK). The MagStim has FDA 510K Clearance for
           stimulation of peripheral nerves.

             -  The participant will be asked to sit in the dynamometer (Biodex, System 3) in knee
                extension at 90 degrees of knee flexion.

             -  EMG electrodes will be placed on the distal quadriceps

                o Local shaving, debridement, and cleaning will be done prior if necessary

             -  A non-latex swim cap will be placed on the participants head for investigator's
                measurements

             -  Briefly, a magnetic field with a maximum value of 2.2 Tesla will be introduced to
                the scalp at a location in the pre-motor cortex that corresponds to the quadriceps.
                Single pulse stimulations will be delivered with no less than 10 seconds between
                stimulations (maximum = 0.1 Hz).

             -  When the magnetic field is received at the premotor cortex at the appropriate area,
                a motor signal is sent to the quadriceps. We will record this signal with surface
                EMG electrodes that are on the quadriceps.

             -  The participant will be asked to extend their leg to match a force equivalent to 5%
                MVIC. Feedback will be provided to the participant to provide such force.

             -  Stimulation of the TMS will happen once every ten seconds until the Active Motor
                Threshold was found by the investigator.

                  -  The motor evoked potential measured by the quadriceps will be recorded at 80%,
                     90%, 100%, 110%, 120%, 130%, 140%, and 150% of the patients Active motor
                     threshold.

        2. Patient randomization

           - The patient is then randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. 1) Visuomotor Therapy or 2)
           Passive Motion

        3. Perform Randomized Treatment Visuomotor Therapy

             -  The participant will sit in the Biodex chair with the tested limb secured in the
                dynamometer

             -  The participant will receive live real-time biofeedback of their knee force output
                (no more than 30% of maximum force)

             -  The participant will aim to match their force output to a target threshold
                presented on the screen.

             -  The participant will complete 10 60-second trials of this exercise with a 30 second
                rest between each trial.

           OR

           Passive Motion

             -  The participant will sit in the Biodex chair with the tested limb secured in the
                dynamometer

             -  The dynamometer will passively move the patients lower limb between 80 to 120
                degrees of knee flexion

             -  The participant will be asked to relax for the duration of testing - The
                participant will complete 10 60-second trials of this exercise with a 30 second
                rest between each trial.

        4. Reassess Neuromuscular outcome (Step 1)

        5. 1-week washout period

        6. Repeat Steps 1 through 4 but the patient receives the cross-over arm intervention
    
  