
    
      Naive individuals will contribute a baseline blood sample at enrollment. Subsequent routine
      blood draws will occur to determine the proportion of participants who have asymptomatically
      seroconverted; the timing of these blood draws and proportion of participants required will
      be determined by the rate of documented SARS-CoV-2 infection in the cohort according to an
      adaptive study design. Subjects will be tracked for SARS-CoV-2 specific antibodies and CD4,
      and CD8 T cell responses throughout the period and especially during the early stages after
      clearance of infection and subsequently to determine the quality and duration of memory
      responses.

      In addition to blood samples, participants will intermittently provide nasal swabs for
      detection of SARS-CoV-2; this will occur either through a comprehensive proactive employee
      screening program, or specifically for the purposes of the research study if participants are
      required to attend campus but are not currently eligible for employee screening. These will
      determine duration and characteristics of viral shedding and identify reinfection.
      Seroprevalence estimates and asymptomatic conversion will also be determined.

      Individuals with a diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection will have two additional blood draws in
      the acute and convalescent phase to identify acute and late immune responses. These responses
      will be compared to the essential baseline sample data to characterize the generation of de
      novo and cross-reactive recall responses.

      For those participants receiving vaccination, blood draws will be taken after COVID vaccine
      (3-8 weeks after completion of 1 or 2 dose course) and at completion of study.

      At enrollment, subjects will complete a baseline online personal health and demographic
      questionnaire, and then monthly brief online health update questionnaires. Throughout the
      study period, subjects will complete a brief online symptom survey every 2 weeks.
    
  