
    
      Mental health problems disproportionately affect racial and ethnic minority populations, as
      well as populations that face chronic economic hardship. There is clear evidence that (1) the
      processes that lay the groundwork for mental health disparities is laid during childhood and
      (2) that damage to and dysregulation of the physiologic stress response is a powerful
      mechanism of the effects of chronic stress such as that associated with poverty on
      psychopathology. To contribute solutions to mental health disparities, interventions need to
      be capable of affecting the systems that confer the risk. Since the psychobiologic stress
      response system (e.g., hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis; HPA) is a central mechanism
      linking health disparities to chronic stress, the stress response is a critical system to
      target. Improving children's ability to cope with stress and regulate their reactivity has
      the potential to break the cycle of damage, especially if the coping strategies and
      regulatory processes that we target have effects at the physiologic level. New evidence has
      emerged showing that different types of coping are evident at the level of the HPA-it is,
      therefore, time to evaluate whether a coping intervention designed for children facing
      chronic stress will both (a) improve children's ability to use primary and secondary control
      coping, and (b) have sustained effects at the physiologic level. The BaSICS intervention is
      designed to address core underlying mechanisms of risk and repair in the highly stressful
      context of poor, urban youths' lives.

      Preadolescence is a crucial time during which children's ability to recognize stress and its
      causes matures, and repertoires for coping with stress grow in both size and complexity. In
      addition, preadolescence is a time of increased brain changes and growth in key
      self-regulatory organs and systems. Preadolescents are, therefore, at a ripe stage to benefit
      from coping-based prevention and the plasticity of this developmental period suggests that
      such changes have the potential to be long-lasting. BaSICS is designed to prevent the onset
      of anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress symptoms in preadolescent children facing
      chronic stress. Two mechanisms of action are targeted in this project. First, the project
      seeks to demonstrate that children facing chronic stress stemming from poverty,
      discrimination, and violence exposure can acquire and utilize new ways of coping that are
      adaptive in a wide variety of circumstances. Second, the project will examine the extent to
      which improved coping resulting from the intervention engages the physiologic intermediate
      mechanism of the HPA. Finally, the project aims to link changes in coping and the HPA to
      changes in internalizing symptoms that would signal prevention of the emergence of new or
      worsening of existing symptoms. Discovery of ways to prevent and/or halt this progression of
      damage to a child's stress response system that leads to psychopathology can offer new
      directions for combatting health disparities.
    
  