
    
      Diagnostic errors and resulting misdiagnosis-related harms represent a major public health
      problem. Most diagnostic errors result from failures in bedside diagnostic reasoning. Gaps in
      expertise (ultimately linked to faulty knowledge, inadequate training, or lack of feedback)
      account for many of these failures. Current systems of medical education, residency training,
      and licensure requirements have proven insufficient to prevent harms from diagnostic errors.
      The National Academy of Medicine recommends using simulation training with early exposure to
      a variety of typical/atypical cases to improve diagnostic performance. A systematic review
      found strong positive associations between simulation training and improved outcomes of
      knowledge, skills, and behaviors. Training in bedside diagnosis could be dramatically
      enhanced through symptom-specific virtual patient (VP) curricula that expose learners to
      real-world cases in a deliberate practice framework - practice that is motivated, purposeful,
      and systematic. This approach allows the appropriate mix of cases and difficulty to be
      presented to learners sequentially, potentially enhancing clinical skills.

      Clinical presentations with nonspecific symptoms and diagnoses with wide differentials are
      especially prone to diagnostic errors; dizziness may be the epitome of this conundrum.
      Dizziness is a symptom that is common, costly, and associated with missed stroke. Isolated
      dizziness is the most common clinical context for missed stroke. Stroke is a leading cause of
      major long-term disability in the United States and an enormous source of global disease
      burden. It is listed as the fourth most common diagnostic errors among those reported by
      physicians. In fact, closed-claims analyses focused on neurologic conditions found stroke as
      the most common misdiagnosis, and more than 20% occurred in the ED. A hospital records
      analyses indicated that deaths due to cerebrovascular events result from diagnostic error far
      more frequently than those due to myocardial infarction. The ED is a high-risk site for
      diagnostic errors and indiscriminate use of neuroimaging for diagnosis of dizziness is
      neither accurate nor cost-effective. Risk stratification using symptoms and signs at the
      bedside offer the potential to provide cost-effective reductions in misdiagnosis-related
      harms. There is evidence to suggest that providers are currently ill-equipped and harbor
      misconceptions about the best approach to dizzy patients. Therefore, the investigators chose
      dizziness as the "model symptom" for study.

      Even at Johns Hopkins Medicine, where dizziness diagnosis has been studied extensively, this
      remains a problem. The Center for Diagnostic Excellence group recently showed that (a) <5% of
      dizziness charts have correct documentation of standard bedside examination techniques; (b)
      40% of patients leave the ED with a symptom-only diagnosis (at least half of whom could have
      been correctly diagnosed and treated); and (c) 39% receive a CT (>90% of which are
      inappropriate). Emergency medicine residents overwhelmingly express the need for better
      training in dizziness diagnosis.

      The investigators recently demonstrated that <10 hours' worth of simulation-based deliberate
      practice training using a dizziness-focused ViPER (Virtual Patient Education from Real Cases)
      curriculum made internal medicine interns twice as accurate as senior resident colleagues on
      VP cases. The investigators now seek to do the same for emergency medicine residents and
      demonstrate real-world impact.
    
  