
    
      Eligible Black Women's Health Study (BWHS) participants who report symptoms of insomnia
      compatible with clinical insomnia on the 2015 BWHS questionnaire will be randomly selected to
      receive information that will inform them of the opportunity to participate in a free program
      designed to address their sleep problems. These subjects will then be directed to an Insomnia
      Study Website which will provide information about the study and directions on how to
      complete an online screening questionnaire for those interested in participating. Reminders
      will be sent to these selected women to encourage participation.

      Once interested women submit the screening questionnaire, an internal assessment will be
      carried out to see if potential participants are eligible. Those determined to be ineligible
      will be sent a thank you letter and informed that they were not selected for this trial.
      Those who meet the qualifications for the study will be directed to the informed consent form
      with a note indicating that a member of the study team will call them within several days at
      a time they indicated would be convenient for them. The study team member will then call each
      eligible subject and review with her, over the phone, each section of the consent form. A
      verbal acknowledgement of consent, or non-consent, will be recorded in the study database.

      Once women have been verbally consented, they will be instructed on the use of the web
      programs and, completion of online sleep logs. Privacy concerns will be addressed.
      Pre-intervention (baseline), post-intervention, and 6-month assessment questionnaires,
      including the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) will be administered pre-intervention,
      post-intervention and 6 months later. After the pre-intervention questionnaires and sleep
      logs are completed, participants will be randomized to 1 of 3 groups: usual care (sleep
      hygiene information), Sleep Healthy Using the Internet (SHUTi - a cognitive behavioral
      therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) program), or SHUTi modified for Black women. Participants
      randomized to usual care (also called sleep hygiene or sleep information) will use a website
      that discusses ways to improve behaviors and environments that can affect sleep. This
      material is also included in the other 2 treatments but is presented in a different way.
      Participants using the usual care may log in as often as they like and there are no time
      requirements. Participants randomized to SHUTi or modified SHUTi will use a web program that
      has six modules called Cores. Participants will log in to the six modules of their assigned
      treatment program over a 6 to 8-week period. Cores are completed one at a time in order. Each
      Core is expected to take 45 to 60 minutes to complete. Each Core contains information and
      exercises designed to help change behaviors and thoughts that can contribute to sleep
      problems.

      Nine weeks after completing the initial pre-intervention questionnaire, all participants will
      be asked to complete another questionnaire about their sleep and health, which includes the
      ISI. Following completion of the questionnaire, participants will be asked to complete 10
      sleep diaries. Six months later, participants will be asked again to complete a questionnaire
      that includes the ISI, followed by completion of 10 sleep diaries.
    
  