
    
      With a complex etiology, delirium is usually caused by various peri-operative stimuli on
      basis of predisposing factors, including senility, hypoxia and hypotension, pain, drug (such
      as pethidine, benzodiazepine, anticholinergic, and drug withdrawal), complications prior to
      surgery, post-operative sleep disorder. As for the mechanism of delirium, the commonly
      accepted hypothesis includes the decreased central cholinergic neurons function and the
      inflammation of central nervous system. Most of the hip fracture patients are senile,
      suffering generally from many complications with exposure to many drugs, and poor in
      nutritional status with decreased cognitive function even before the surgery in some of them,
      all of which are risk factors for post-operative delirium. Systematic review suggests that
      incidence of POD in patients undergoing elective hip arthroplasty is up to 4-53.3%. It is of
      great importance, therefore, to explore the effective approaches to lower POD incidence in
      senile patients with operation on hip fracture.

      Dexmedetomidine Hydrochloride is a novel highly-selective α2 adrenergic receptor agonist, and
      its selectivity to α2 receptor is 8 times of that of clonidine. It has multiple functions
      including sedation, anti-anxiety, hypnosis, analgesia and sympathetic blockade, with a wide
      application prospect for peri-operative patients. Researches suggest that Dex applied
      peri-operatively may stabilize blood pressure and heart rate, control intra-operative stress,
      and decrease post-operative side reactions such as nausea, vomiting, restlessness, delirium
      and chills. Moreover, advantages of Dex also include analgesia and reduction of opioid usage.
      Clinical pharmacological characteristics of Dex suggest its possible function to decrease
      post-operative delirium. Meanwhile, Dex seems to have a minor influence on cognition, since
      it has no effect on GABA receptor.

      Another important feature of it is that Dex induces a sleep similar to natural sleep, thereby
      decreasing sleep deprivation and circadian rhythm disorder in post-operative patients, and
      decreasing incidence of post-operative delirium. Researches evaluating the capability of Dex
      to decrease delirium incidence are focused on ICU sedation post to operation. Riker et al
      compared the sedative effect between Dex and midazolam in patients with severe mechanical
      ventilation, revealing a lower delirium incidence in Dex than in midazolam (54.0% vs 76.6%)
      in patients maintained with the same depth of sedation. Systematic review concludes that Dex
      in effective to prevent and treat post-operative delirium in ICU patients.

      In this study ,the investigators devise the two different sedatives (Dexmedetomidine and
      Propofol)'influence on postoperative delirium in hip fracture elderly participants under
      spinal anesthesia
    
  