
    
      If you decide to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (much like the flip
      of a coin) to receive either methotrexate or placebo. A placebo is a substance that looks
      like and is given in the same way as an experimental treatment but contains no medicine, for
      example [a sugar pill, an injection of saline (salt water)]. A placebo is used in research
      studies to show what effect a treatment has compared with taking nothing at all. If you are
      assigned to receive placebo, you will not receive the benefits of the methotrexate, if there
      are any, nor will you be exposed to its risks, which are described below under "What are the
      possible discomforts and risks?" Studies have shown, however, that about 1 in 3 persons who
      take a placebo do improve, if only for a short time. You and the physician and other persons
      doing the study will not know whether you are receiving placebo or methotrexate, but that
      information is available if it is needed. Also, you will have a 50% chance of receiving
      methotrexate and a 50% chance of receiving placebo.

      Methotrexate lowers folate (vitamin B9) levels in the body, so when someone takes
      methotrexate, he/she needs to take folic acid. To make sure that methotrexate lowers levels
      of inflammation in the body and not folate, study participants in both groups will be given
      folic acid.

      In the remainder of the description of what will be done, both the methotrexate and the
      placebo will be called "study treatment."

      You will be given a study letter that describes the study. You will be asked to show this
      letter to your doctors and other medical specialists, so they know that you are participating
      in a study with study drugs.

      You will be asked to take your study drugs every morning by mouth on an EMPTY STOMACH before
      breakfast. The study capsules containing methotrexate and the placebo will look the same.

      Participants in the methotrexate group will slowly increase the amount of methotrexate they
      take in the first month up to the 15 mg/week. In the first week, participants will take 5
      mg/week (i.e., 1 capsule on Day 7), in the second and third week they will take 10 mg/week
      (i.e., 2 capsules on Day 7), and in the fourth week they will take 15 mg/week (i.e., 3
      capsules on Day 7). On Days 1-6, participants will take 1 folic acid capsule.

      Participants in the placebo group will slowly increase the number of placebo capsules they
      take in the first month. In the first week, participants will take 1 placebo capsule on Day
      7, in the second and third week they will take 2 placebo capsules on Day 7, and in the fourth
      week they will take 3 placebo capsules on Day 7. On Days 1-6, participants will take 1 folic
      acid capsule.

      Store study medications at room temperature between 59째 to 86째F (15째 to 30째C) and keep them
      away from light.

      Keep these and all medicines out of the reach of children.

      You will be asked to take the study drugs for 6 months, and your participation in the study
      will last approximately 8 months. The investigators will ask you to attend 12 study visits at
      the research center located at the Institute on Aging - Clinical & Translational Research
      Building (IOA - CTRB):

        1. Screening Visit

        2. Baseline Visit

        3. Baseline Functional Magnetic Imaging (fMRI) Visit

        4. 1-Month Visit

        5. 2-Month Visit

        6. 3-Month Visit

        7. 4-Month Visit

        8. 5-Month Visit

        9. 6-Month Visit

       10. 6-Month fMRI Visit

       11. Follow-Up Visit I

       12. Follow-Up Visit II

      The investigators will also call you approximately 9 times during the study to ask you how
      you feel and to find out if you remembered to take all your study drugs.
    
  