
    
      Pain following urethroplasty with buccal mucosal graft (BMG) harvesting is primarily related
      to the oral graft harvest site. This pain results in significant increases in narcotic use,
      patient morbidity, and limits nutritional intake following surgery. During BMG harvesting,
      lidocaine with epinephrine is routinely injected for hydrodissection and to assist with
      hemostasis. The analgesic benefits from this local anesthetic, however, have abated prior to
      completion of the urethral reconstruction and contribute little to post-operative pain
      control.

      In an effort to alleviate pain following BMG harvesting, several centers have evaluated
      technical aspects of the procedure to reduce post-operative pain. These have primarily
      focused on location of the graft harvest and wound closure. A novel liposomal formulation of
      bupivacaine has recently been introduced as a 96-hour delayed release formulation. It has
      been safely used in multiple surgical wounds and results in significantly reduced
      post-operative pain and narcotic usage. Given that patient reported pain from the BMG harvest
      site is worst in the first 1-2 days following surgery, infiltration of this medication has
      the potential to dramatically reduce post-operative pain in these patients.

      Objectives:

      Our objective is to evaluate post-operative pain and narcotic usage following BMG harvesting
      with liposomal bupivacaine infiltration. Our hypothesis is that infiltrating the buccal graft
      harvest surgical site with liposomal bupivacaine will decrease both post-operative pain and
      narcotic usage and increase patient satisfaction.

      Study Design:

      The study will be a prospective, randomized, single blind controlled trial. Patients will be
      recruited from the offices of Urology of Virginia, Devine-Jordan Center for reconstructive
      surgery and pelvic health. Eligible patients will include all males 18 years of age or older
      identified as requiring a urethroplasty with BMG harvesting. On the initial visit, eligible
      patients will complete a research consent.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either standard of care BMG harvesting or standard of
      care plus buccal infusion of liposomal bupivacaine. Randomization will be determined with a
      random number generator in the Urology of Virginia research office prior to surgery. Patient
      randomization will be revealed to the operative surgeon on the day of surgery following
      induction of general anesthesia. The remainder of the procedure will be performed as per
      routine.

      Post-operatively, a member of the research team who was not a member of the operative team
      will monitor the patient's pain and narcotic usage. Pain will be assessed using a validated
      10-point pain scale as well as a non-validated BMG harvest site morbidity questionnaire, an
      evaluation technique that has been used previously. Inpatient narcotic usage will be
      calculated post-op through cumulative morphine equivalents on a 24-hour basis on the day of
      surgery as well as post-op days one, two and three. All patients are routinely discharged
      home on post-op day two or three. The pain and morbidity questionnaire will be administered
      in the pre-operative holding area, then daily for the first seven days followed by monthly
      through 6 months of follow up. Studies have shown a return to baseline pain within six months
      following BMG harvesting and assessments beyond that time are unnecessary. Responses to
      questionnaires will be obtained either by a member of the Urology of Virginia research staff
      through either a phone call or email message to the patients at each time point. Preferred
      method of contact, including a preferred phone number and email address will be obtained
      during the initial visit when study consent is obtained.

      The primary endpoint will be reduction in post-op pain on the 10-point numerical rating
      scale, post-operative narcotic requirements and oral morbidities. Secondary endpoints will be
      return of eating a regular diet, perioral numbness, salivary changes and the ability to open
      the mouth completely.

      Power analysis shows that 40 patients would be required to attain 80% power to detect a > 1
      point change in the numeric pain scale at a 2-sided level of 5%. Accounting for 10-20%
      dropout rate, the study investigators plan to recruit 50 patients for randomization.

      The Urology of Virginia research department will maintain all study data. Patients will be
      identified by medical record number for the purpose of data collection. However, in the
      database, patient information will be associated only with a non-identifying subject
      identification number that will be assigned at study entry. A file linking patient medical
      record numbers with subject identification numbers will be maintained separately from the
      database. All files will be kept on an encrypted, password-protected external data drive for
      additional security. All files will be destroyed no later than three years following the end
      of the study.

      Safety monitoring for this study will be done at each subject encounter and maintained within
      the Urology of Virginia research office. Adverse effects will be queried during each
      interaction with the patient and is also included in the questionnaire to be filled out
      throughout the study period.

      Rudimentary statistical analysis will be carried out using excel spreadsheets, which will
      include mean/median values, percentages and data trends. Additionally, multivariate
      regressions models will be created using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS) software.

      Risk to Subjects:

      Liposomal bupivacaine has been used for several years in a variety of surgical settings
      without significant adverse events compared to traditional bupivacaine. However, its specific
      use in buccal infiltration for BMG harvesting has not previously been reported.

      Liposomal bupivacaine has been studies in several clinical trials. The reported adverse
      reactions related to its use include, but are not limited to:

        -  Most common

           o Nausea, constipation, and vomiting.

        -  Common

           o Fever, dizziness, peripheral swelling, anemia, hypotension, pruritus, tachycardia,
           headache, insomnia, muscle spasms, back pain, somnolence, and procedural pain.

        -  Less common/rare

           o Chills, erythema, bradycardia, anxiety, urinary retention, pain, edema, tremor,
           dizziness postural, paresthesia, syncope, incision site edema, procedural hypertension,
           procedural hypotension, procedural nausea, muscular weakness, neck pain, pruritus
           generalized, rash pruritic, hyperhidrosis, cold sweat, urticaria, bradycardia,
           palpitations, sinus bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, ventricular
           extrasystoles, ventricular tachycardia, hypertension, pallor, anxiety, confusional
           state, depression, agitation, restlessness, hypoxia, laryngospasm, apnea, respiratory
           depression, respiratory failure, body temperature increased, blood pressure increased,
           blood pressure decreased, oxygen saturation decreased, urinary retention, urinary
           incontinence, vision blurred, tinnitus, drug hypersensitivity, and hypersensitivity.

        -  Specific neurological and cardiac adverse reactions o Dizziness (6.2%), headache (3.8%),
           somnolence (2.1%), hypoesthesia (1.5%), and lethargy (1.3%), tachycardia (3.9%) and
           bradycardia (1.6%).

      This study does involve data collection from medical records and depends upon patient
      identifiers for data collection. HIPAA compliance in clinical data handling will ensure
      protection of patient's right to privacy. Information in the database will be
      non-identifiable. All collected data will be stored on an encrypted, password-protected
      external data drive. No personal health information data will be released. Only investigators
      listed within this Institutional review board proposal will have access to the data
      collected. Despite these safeguards, there is always risk for incidental release of patient
      personal health information. As outlined above, every effort will be made to limit these
      risks.

      Disposition of Results:

      The results of this study will be communicated in presentations at society meetings (such as
      the American Urologic Association national meeting). Final disposition of this study will be
      submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. All information is
      unidentified.
    
  