
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is an independent risk factor for heart failure (HF) and is
      associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Even despite adequate glycemic control,
      individuals with T2DM face considerable risk of HF even in individuals without other
      significant risk factors. Moreover, individuals with both atherosclerotic cardiovascular
      disease and T2DM face up to a five-fold increased risk of HF and experience higher rates of
      mortality compared to age-matched controls. Thankfully, recent therapeutic advances in
      pharmacotherapies, such as sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), have shown to
      be beneficial in preventing HF among patients with T2DM. Current guidelines by the American
      Diabetes Association and the joint American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
      (ACC/AHA) both provide class I/A recommendations in initiating SGLT2i medication in
      individuals with T2DM and cardiovascular comorbidities for prevention of HF. Similarly, the
      Food and Drug Administration now indicates SGLT2i as a method to reduce the risk of HF
      hospitalization in adults with T2DM and established CV risk factors.

      Unfortunately, SGLT2i are underused in patients with T2DM at risk for HF with ~5% of eligible
      patients treated with the medication. Risk-based approaches to identify patients who are at
      increased risk of developing adverse events is key to improve the use of evidence-based
      therapies and for efficient and cost-effective allocation of preventive strategies. Previous
      methods, such as the Pooled Cohort Equation, have been effective in guiding prescription of
      statin medications to at-risk patients. Similarly, alert-based clinical decision support
      tools have been used to help guide anticoagulation strategies in patients with atrial
      fibrillation. However, no such risk-based approach exists for implementation of goal-directed
      medical therapy for HF prevention in patients with T2DM.

      The WATCH-DM risk score (Weight [body mass index], Age, hyperTension, Creatinine, HDL-C,
      Diabetes control [fasting plasma glucose] and QRS Duration, MI and CABG) is one such machine
      learning-based tool that was developed among participants of the Action to Control
      Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial.

      The investigators used machine-learning methods and readily available clinical
      characteristics to derive the risk prediction model and has had excellent discrimination and
      calibration for estimating HF risk. For each risk factor level, patients are given a specific
      number of points. The sum of the points accounting for all risk factors included in the model
      is associated with 5-year risk of HF. There is a graded, dose-response relationship between
      the WATCH-DM risk score and risk of HF. For example, patients who had a WATCH-DM risk score
      of at least 11 had a 5-year risk of incident HF ≥9.2%.

      This proposed trial will test the efficacy of a computer-based electronic alert (clinical
      decision support) notifying the provider that the patient is at an increased risk of
      developing heart failure. There currently are no developed or implemented alert systems
      notifying the provider that the patient is at an increased risk of heart failure. Similarly,
      there is no risk-based approach to implementation evidence-based T2DM therapies in patients
      at risk for HF. Currently, SGLT2i use is underutilized with ~5% of eligible patients current
      prescribed the medication. Clinical decision support tools may inform providers about a
      patient's risk of HF and may be useful to improve the use of SGLT2i therapies. Previous
      implementation strategies have been useful to guide statin medications in patients at risk
      for atherosclerotic cardiovascular events and anticoagulation strategies in patients with
      atrial fibrillation.

      The current study will determine the impact of electronic alert-based CDS on prescription of
      SGLT2i medications in high-risk HF patients in the outpatient setting who are not being
      prescribed SGLT2i therapies. Investigators will not mandate a specific SGLT2i agent or
      regimen. Study investigators will provide options for SGLT2i medications to prevent HF and
      allow the provider to make the best choice based on their clinical judgement. If there is a
      contraindication to SGLT2i therapy, the provider can elect to omit the suggested therapy and
      provide an explanation for doing so. Data acquired throughout the study duration will also
      determine the impact of electronic alert-based CDS on the frequency of SGLT2i prescription
      patterns and incident HF events.
    
  