
    
      There is a higher risk of esophageal and gastric varices bleeding in cirrhosis patients with
      moderate and severe esophageal and gastric varices. Once there is a high mortality rate of
      esophageal and gastric varices bleeding, it will cause great losses to the family and
      society. Therefore, it is of great social and economic significance to prevent esophageal and
      gastric varices bleeding through economic and effective methods. As the third generation of
      NSBB, carvedilol is more effective in reducing HVPG than propranolol, which is recommended by
      Baveno VI as the first-line drug for EVB primary prevention. A lot of studies have shown that
      the imbalance of flora and the progress of portal hypertension are mutually causal. The
      application of carvedilol can reduce the pressure of portal vein, and when the portal
      hypertension is improved, the imbalance of intestinal mucosal barrier and flora will also be
      changed. Berberine can regulate the intestinal flora, which is safe and effective in clinical
      application. Gastroscopy is still the main method of screening varicose veins. We can
      determine whether there is GOV in patients and evaluate the risk of varicose vein bleeding.
      However, gastroscopy can only observe the situation in the digestive tract lumen, and
      ultrasound endoscopy can scan the outside of the tube wall, so as to more comprehensively
      evaluate the change of portal hypertension. The purpose of this study is to apply endoscopic
      ultrasonography to the whole process of the study, which can be used as a more sensitive
      means to observe the changes of portal hypertension, and to systematically evaluate the
      continuous changes of portal hypertension. It provides a theoretical basis and measurement
      means for a more comprehensive and scientific evaluation of portal hypertension.In this
      study, the patients with GOV who need primary prevention were randomly divided into two
      groups. Carvedilol or carvedilol combined with berberine were given for 12 months
      respectively. The degree of varicose vein relief was judged by ES and EUS, and the changes of
      oral and intestinal flora were detected at the same time To understand the possible mechanism
      of carvedilol and berberine in reducing portal hypertension.
    
  