
    
      Spontaneous preterm birth (sPB) is still a leading cause of neonatal and infant death and
      responsible of neonatal morbidity as cerebral palsy. In spite of improvements of neonatal
      care, rates of preterm birth have not changed in the recent 10 years.

      Clinical risk factors for preterm birth include: 1) Demographic characteristics such a low
      socioeconomic status, poor antenatal care, malnutrition or extremes in maternal age; 2)
      Behavioral factors including smoking, illicit drug abuse, alcohol consumption or heavy
      physical work; 3) Obstetric history including uterine malformation, previous preterm labor or
      preterm rupture of membranes (PROM), previous cervical surgery, late miscarriage >16-17
      weeks; 4) Aspects of the current pregnancy as multiple pregnancy, genital tract bleeding or
      infection, Preterm Rupture of Membranes (PROM), short cervix and others.

      In nulliparous women with no previous pregnancies or fetal losses >16 weeks, screening based
      on clinical history (maternal racial origin, age, height, smoking status and method of
      conception) could detect about 20% of sPB. In women with previous pregnancies at or beyond 16
      weeks the detection rate is doubled by incorporating obstetric history.

      The risks for women with a previous spontaneous preterm birth with a normal cervix in
      pregnancy are not negligible. It has been suggested that there is a continuum risk dependent
      on absolute cervical length while other authors showed that absolute length of cervix above
      25mm had little impact on the risk of preterm birth before 35 weeks. A posterior study has
      not identified any clinical or obstetric risk factors in high-risk women with cervical length
      greater than 25mm that could help to identify those who will subsequently have a spontaneous
      preterm birth.

      The risk of preterm birth is inversely related to cervical length (CL) as measured by
      ultrasound. Current options for the management of short cervix in singleton pregnancies are:
      vaginal progesterone, with proved benefit; cervical cerclage in high risk and short cervix,
      and cervical pessary.

      Cervical pessary is a silicone ring with a smaller diameter to be fitted around the cervix
      and a larger diameter to fix the device to the pelvic floor. It modifies the direction of the
      cervix to the posterior vaginal wall.

      Three randomized trials involving women with singleton low risk pregnancies and short cervix
      provided controversial results regarding the effect of cervical pessary on the rate of sPB
      before 34 weeks; in one trial, involving 380 women, the rate of this outcome was
      significantly lower with a pessary than with no pessary (6% vs 27%); in another trial,
      involving 108 women, there was no significant effect (9.4% vs 5.5%, respectively) and in the
      largest trial, involving 935 women, no benefits were found (12.9% vs 11.3%, respectively).

      Nowadays high-risk population with normal cervix is managed by cervical length surveillance
      and physical activity restriction, as progesterone has not a proved benefit in women at risk
      because of previous history but normal cervix.

      Cervical pessary has not been tested specifically in high risk population. In PECEP study a
      total number of 42 patients (11% of each group) had at least one previous preterm birth.
      Authors did not report differences in the risk of preterm birth before 34 weeks in this
      subgroup. In Nicolaides study, 154 patients had previous birth before 37 weeks: 70 were
      treated with pessary and 84 with expectant management. The reported risk of birth before 34
      weeks was 10.1% and 19.5%, respectively. In spite of the increased risk in expectant group,
      these differences were not significant (OR 0.47 (0.18-1.21) p= 0.12). In both trials, women
      included has short cervix.

      Even that group of women with previous preterm birth were included in the previous trials,
      pessary has not been proved in a specific group of population with previous history of
      preterm birth or uterine-cervical factors. Therefore, there is a lack of information in this
      topic.
    
  