
    
      Randomized controlled clinical trial. The target study population will comprise of the
      patients Unified Health System (SUS), the Outpatient Surgery and Pediatric Urology, Clinical
      Hospital of the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE), including children (from 01 years),
      adolescents and adults regardless of age, with lesions arising from the treatment of
      hypospadias, as well as other surgical injuries, according to the ethical principles outlined
      in Resolution 466 of the 2012 National Health Council.

      Polyurethane films - Tegaderm ®

      -The polyurethane films of sizes, 4.4 and 6.0 X 4.4 X 7.0 log National Agency of Sanitary
      Surveillance (ANVISA) / Health Ministry (MS) 10,002,070,019 manufactured by Minnesota Mining
      and Manufacturing Company (3M), with the following features: versatile and waterproof barrier
      against external contaminants, wraps to body contours promoting patient comfort.

      Biopolymer film of sugarcane (POLYSHAFT ®)

      -The biopolymer films of sugarcane will be provided by the research group biopolymer
      Sugarcane and the Experimental Station research laboratories (UFRPE). The biopolymer films
      have similar dimensions to the polyurethane film, which can be cut and adapted to the
      dimensions of the body of the patient.

      All patients will be subjected to an interview being asked about previous surgery. The
      researcher will conduct physical and urological examination in determining the degree of
      hypospadias and / or other assessment procedure necessary for observation of the need (and
      display) the dressing with polyurethane film or biopolymer from sugar cane (POLYSHAFT®).

      Patients will be randomly allocated to the groups: Biopolymer films with molasses sugar and
      polyurethane, using sealed, opaque, numbered envelopes containing computer-generated random
      distributions in 1:1 ratio in blocks of 10's envelopes will be opened in the operating room
      by a nurse while before starting the procedure.

      All volunteers will be patients admitted to the pediatric surgery ward of the Clinical
      Hospital/UFPE and surgical procedures are carried out by the researchers. All patients will
      receive intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis at the beginning of the surgery as routine
      hospital clinics.

      Patient recruitment and data analysis arising from the research will take place between
      August 2014 and August 2015, with the publication of the results expected in October 2015.

      The follow-up evaluations of patients will be performed daily until removal of the bandage on
      the eighth postoperative day.

      Variables together:

        -  Rate Biocompatibility: Assessment of adverse reactions such as irritation of the skin.
           The researcher through observation will issue a concept: how: No skin irritability,
           limited to the foreskin irritability and extended to other areas irritability.

        -  Degree of adherence: Assessed by the researcher through observation that deliver a
           concept as grip areas with detachment, grip without detachment or adhesion.

        -  Degree of annoyance: Patients or their caregivers respond to the questionnaire with the
           concept of "very upset," "little disturbed" or "not bothered" with the dressing.

        -  Grade adhesion and permanence "in situ" after being subjected to the action of water for
           cleaning three times a day. All observations from patient or their guardian who must be
           communicated to the researcher.
    
  