
    
      Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) has a poor prognosis, with an overall survival rate of
      about 5% at discharge. Shockable rhythm cardiac arrests (ventricular fibrillation (VF) and
      pulseless ventricular tachycardia) have a better prognosis.

      In case of shockable rhythm, treatment is based on defibrillation, thereafter failure of 3
      external electric shocks, on direct intravenous administration of 300 mg amiodarone, followed
      in case of ineffectiveness by an additional direct intravenous administration of 150 mg
      amiodarone. Lidocaine, which has long been used in this indication, is currently only
      recommended when amiodarone is unavailable or inefficient. Nevertheless, these 2 drugs, while
      they may be effective in converting refractory ventricular fibrillation to normal rhythm,
      have marked cardiodepressant effects (bradycardia, and/or negative inotropic effect) that
      persist after direct intravenous administration. This explains, at least partially, why a
      recent study did not show a significant difference in hospital discharge survival between
      amiodarone, lidocaine and placebo in patients presenting with OHCA by refractory ventricular
      fibrillation.

      During surgical procedures under extracorporeal circulation, a cardioplegia solution is
      administered to interrupt cardiac activity and facilitate the surgical procedure. From a
      patho-physiological level, the mode of action of these solutions is based on a high
      concentration of potassium, which reduces the membrane resting potential of the myocytes. By
      extension, direct intravenous administration of 20 mmol potassium chloride (KCl) has been
      shown to convert ventricular fibrillation, resulting in a return to an hemodynamically
      efficient organized heart rate within a few minutes. The kalemia were at the upper limit of
      normal (5.5 mmol/l) 10 min after this injection, and normal at 20 min. A recent clinical case
      of a patient under extracorporeal circulation resuscitation, presenting with a refractory
      ventricular fibrillation, demonstrated the efficacy of direct intravenous injection of 3 g
      potassium chloride, resulting in a return to a sinus rhythm within a few minutes.

      The immediate advantage of potassium chloride, compared to amiodarone (and also lidocaine),
      is the absence of cardiodepressant effect (bradycardia and/or hypotension) persisting after a
      while from the injection time. The mode of action of direct intravenous injection of
      potassium chloride to reduce ventricular fibrillation is indeed linked to the peak of
      hyperkalemia, whereas since the kalaemia are afterwards rapidly normalized in a few minutes,
      there is no persistent deleterious effect following this injection of potassium chloride. In
      addition, in the case of cardiac arrest, since the patient is already under continuous
      external cardiac chest compressions, no supplementary deleterious consequences related to
      this transient hyperkalemia are expected.

      Direct intravenous injection of potassium chloride into a patient in out-of-hospital cardiac
      arrest with refractory ventricular fibrillation with 3 external electric shocks, instead of
      amiodarone, should interrupt this ventricular fibrillation and then allow a rapid return to
      an organized heart rhythm, and thus restore effective spontaneous cardiac activity.
    
  