
    
      HYPOTHESIS Resection of the left colon / sigmoid with intracorporeal colorectal TT
      anastomosis is safe and not inferior to that performed extracorporeally. With the benefits of
      reduced intraoperative dissection, traction on the mesenteries, reduced vascular compromise
      of the anastomosis, a smaller incision size and being able to choose its location.

      Main Aim:

      The objective of this study is to demonstrate that colorectal mechanical end-to-end
      intracorporeal anastomosis is not inferior to extracorporeal approach in terms of anastomotic
      dehiscence.

      Secondary Aims:

        -  To demonstrate the reproducibility of the colorectal mechanical end-to-end
           intracorporeal anastomosis technique in terms of reconversion, anastomotic dehiscence,
           organo-cavitary infection, and other postoperative complications.

        -  To determine the benefits that the IC anastomosis technique can bring to patients with
           obesity.

        -  To determine the benefits that the IC anastomosis technique can provide in terms of
           postoperative complications, hospital stay, and size of the accessory incision.

        -  To determine the benefit of the application of indocyanine green to determine the point
           of resection and anastomosis.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Comparative, single-center, controlled non-inferiority cohort study of resection and
      mechanical end-to-end intracorporeal anastomosis in left colon, sigmoid, and upper rectum
      surgery (prospective cohort) versus the standard technique of extracorporeal laparoscopic
      surgery (retrospective cohort).

      SUBJECTS OF THE STUDY

      In group 1 or control (retrospective cohort): patients diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the
      left colon, sigmoid or upper rectum who meet the inclusion criteria Operated on surgically by
      our unit, collected in our database, by laparoscopic oncological surgery applying the
      conventional extracorporeal anastomosis technique.

      In group 2 or case (prospective cohort): patients diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the left
      colon, sigmoid or upper rectum, that meet the inclusion criteria, with an oncological
      surgical indication with a laparoscopic approach since July 2020, to which the resection and
      intracoporeal anastomosis technique will be applied.
    
  