
    
      This is a Phase II-b multicenter randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to assess
      the efficacy of repeated doses of LACTIN-V compared to placebo in preventing BV recurrence in
      women diagnosed with BV. The study will also assess the safety of LACTIN-V by comparing the
      incidence of AEs between women randomized to LACTIN-V or placebo. The study plans to enroll
      228 non-pregnant, pre-menopausal women age 18 to 45 years. Women will be randomized 2:1 to
      receive LACTIN-V or placebo. Potentially eligible women will start a standard 5-day course of
      MetroGel. Women will return to the study clinic within 2 days after completing the 5-day
      course of MetroGel to re-evaluate eligibility criteria and review the BV test results from
      the screening visit. Women with Amsel criteria > /=3 and Nugent score 4-10 will be instructed
      to administer the LACTIN-V or placebo at home for 5 consecutive days and then twice weekly
      for 10 weeks. The primary objectives of this study are: 1) To estimate the efficacy of
      repeated doses of LACTIN-V (2 x109 cfu/dose) as compared to placebo in preventing BV
      recurrence by 12 weeks following treatment of BV with MetroGel vaginal gel (MetroGel). 2) To
      assess the safety of LACTIN-V over 24 weeks by comparing the incidence of AEs between
      individuals randomized to LACTIN-V or placebo. Secondary objectives are: 1) To investigate
      the colonization of LACTIN-V (presence of L. crispatus CTV-05 in the vaginal specimen) and
      fluctuations over 12 weeks, in relation to menses and sexual intercourse 2) To evaluate user
      acceptability and tolerability of LACTIN-V over 12 weeks, including perceptions around method
      of delivery and dosing. 3) To measure long-term colonization of LACTIN-V at 24 weeks (12
      weeks after last dosing) 4) To estimate the long-term efficacy of repeated doses of LACTIN-V
      (2 x 109 cfu/dose) as compared to placebo in preventing BV recurrence at 24 weeks (12 weeks
      after last dosing)
    
  