
    
      Rationale: Dosing of pediatric physical therapy intervention is a current topic of high
      interest in the field, and researchers are starting to investigate the feasibility of
      different approaches for providing early, intense interventions. Although these approaches
      are laudable and strongly theoretically based there is a fundamental gap: it is currently
      unknown what amount and type of leg movement experience is necessary and sufficient to have a
      positive effect on the development of infant neuromotor control.

      Intervention: The intervention promotes movement experience from 3 months to sitting onset in
      infants at risk for developmental delay (AR). The goal of the intervention is to increase
      amount and type of infant leg movement experience above 1200 movements per hour of awake time
      with 1/3 single and 2/3 bilateral leg movements.

      Objective: The first aim is to determine the effectiveness of the intervention to increase
      leg movement and neurodevelopment in infants AR versus a cohort of infants from the same
      population who received standard care. The second aim is to determine the association of
      amount of leg movement experience and motor development rate.

      Study population: This study will include 12 infants AR from 3 months of corrected age until
      sitting onset or 9 months corrected age, whichever occurs first.

      Study methodology: Single-arm, prospective intervention study.

      Study outcomes: The primary outcome will be leg movement rate at 9 months of corrected age
      and the secondary outcome will be neurodevelopmental outcomes (good or poor).

      Follow-up: Families will be contacted every 4 months from 9-24 months of corrected age for
      updates on their child's medical and developmental status.

      Statistics and plans for analysis. The investigators hypothesize that infants in this study
      (all of whom will receive the intervention) will have higher leg movement rates and lower
      risk of poor neuromotor outcomes at 9 months corrected age than an existing observation-only
      sample of infants from the same population who received usual care. The investigators will
      explore whether the relationship between amount of movement and rate of motor development is
      linear or non-linear.
    
  