
    
      This project conducts experimental studies with three objectives: (1) To determine the extent
      to which variations in knowledge availability and accessibility influence the rate and
      accuracy of forming inferences. (2) To investigate whether individual difference factors are
      potential sources of variability in explaining inference making and reading comprehension.
      (3)To determine whether systematic retrieval practice improves both knowledge availability
      and accessibility as well as the accuracy and rate of forming inferences using the
      knowledge-base. Study 1 Overview. Procedures modify those used by Barnes et al. (1996). In
      Phase 1, students learn a knowledge-base of 14 facts about Gan. In Phase 2, students will
      read and listen to an informational text that consists of six sections. A computer asks
      students comprehension questions that tap information from that text section and the taught
      knowledge base. Phase 3 retests retention of the knowledge-base. One week later, Phase 4
      retests the knowledge-base and students take a larger test battery. All students will
      complete Phases 1-4 individually. Study participants (n = 300) will come from Storm Lake
      Community School District students in grades 5-8 (n = 657) with both males and females
      recruited for participation. The school district will provide demographic data, reading
      scores from the Iowa Assessment for Reading, and Gates MacGinities Reading Test for all
      participants from which the investigator will randomly select students for the treatment or
      control group. The investigator will replace students who exit the sample with students from
      the same grade who consented but not randomly selected for participation. Participation will
      exclude students with significant cognitive impairments who participate in the Life Skills
      Class (e.g., severe autism, behavior, cognitive disability) due to task demands. Additional
      Assessments measure the constructs of reading comprehension, inference making, word reading
      efficiency, metacognition, working memory, and background knowledge. Multiple measures of
      each construct allow the study to identify (a) relations among latent abilities; (b) role of
      these latent abilities in establishing reading comprehension, independent of measure-specific
      factors or measurement error; and (c) individual differences that lead to variation in
      performance. Data Analysis. The investigator will screen for missing data and outliers and
      evaluate the distributional properties of observed variables, making transformations as
      necessary and appropriate. If possible, the investigator will correlate non-plausible values
      or list them as missing if not possible, and label extreme data points. Power. General
      recommendations on sample sizes in structural equation modeling (SEM) suggest minimum samples
      of 300 (i.e., 75 participants per grades 5-8). This sample size will allow the research team
      to detect correlations among constructs greater than 0.05 and regression coefficients in
      latent variable regressions of 0.05 with over 80% power. Consideration of Biological
      Variables. To sufficiently power the study and generalize findings, this study recruits males
      and females for participation and collects gender, race, disability status, and socioeconomic
      status to determine if these child-attributes moderate knowledge accessibility and
      availability. Analytic Approach. The investigator will model the effects of knowledge
      availability and accessibility on inference making without dichotomizing the distribution of
      comprehension. To determine whether reader characteristics (i.e., knowledge availability and
      accessibility, metacognition, reading comprehension, word reading efficiency, background
      knowledge, working memory, and grade) make unique contributions to inference making, the
      investigator will fit mixed effects explanatory item response models to the trial-by-trial
      inference making accuracy and speed data with item-level accuracy and reading speeds
      cross-classified between persons and items. The investigator will also nest people within
      grade, treating grouping variables for people such as grade and items (i.e., literal,
      word-to-text, and knowledge-to-text inferences) as fixed factors. If limited variability
      exists in accuracy data, the investigator will only model response time data. The
      investigator will also evaluate how organization of knowledge relates to knowledge
      accessibility and inference making. Structural equation modeling will evaluate relations
      among the constructs (i.e., comprehension, word efficiency, inference making, knowledge
      accessibility and availability, metacognition, and working memory) to determine the role of
      knowledge accessibility and availability in reading comprehension and factors influencing
      knowledge accessibility and availability. Using Cain et al. (2001) framework, the
      investigator will classify each inference failure as (1) incorrect text-premise recall (i.e.,
      the participant fails to retrieve the relevant premise from the text); (2) incorrect
      knowledge-based recall (i.e., the participant fails to retrieve the relevant premise from the
      knowledge-base); and (3) integration failure (i.e., the participant fails to integrate text
      content with knowledge). A traditional two-way ANOVA (skill group X inference type) on the
      incorrect inference response will occur with skilled readers defined as achieving proficiency
      on the Iowa Assessment for Reading and performance above a standard score of 90 on the Gates
      MacGinitie Reading Test. The investigator will only compare the means for skilled versus less
      skilled readers. The investigators hypothesize that: (1) less skilled middle grade readers
      will make more errors than skilled readers; (2) less skilled readers will not always
      recognize the need to form inferences during reading relative to skilled readers; and (3) no
      significant differences will exist across the middle grades (Ahmed et al., 2016; Barth et
      al., 2015; Barnes et al., 2015). Results of Aim 1 will tell us if less skilled readers need
      the duration of retrieval practice increased to achieve similar benefits as more skilled
      readers and if less skilled readers need help organizing the taught knowledge-base so that it
      is more available and accessible when reading informational texts, which will inform Aim 2 -
      To examine the extent to which retrieval practice (i.e., spaced practice testing) increases
      knowledge availability and accessibility and improves the accuracy and rate of forming
      inferences using that knowledge-base among middle grade readers. Study 2 uses procedures
      modified from those used by Butler (2010). In Phase 1, students learn a knowledge-base of 14
      facts about Gan. In Phase 2, students read and study the six-section informational texts with
      reassessment of the student's retention of the knowledge base immediately after studying
      these 6 texts. In Phase 3, students restudy two of the text sections (restudy passages),
      repeatedly take the same test on another two text sections (same test), and repeatedly take
      different tests on the other two text sections (variable test). Immediately after interacting
      with all six text sections, the project reassesses the retention of the knowledge base. Phase
      4 occurs one week later and again reassesses the students' retention of the knowledge-base
      and administers the same additional test battery as in Aim 1. Study participants (n = 180)
      will come from Storm Lake Community School District students in grade 5-8. The investigators
      anticipate that students will come from diverse socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds.
      Student Selection and Exclusions. In the fall of 2019, laboratory assistants will recruit
      students and screen them with the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test. Students selected for
      participation: (1) perform below a standard score of 90 on the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test;
      (2) did not participate in Aim 1; and (3) are not enrolled in life skills classes (i.e.,
      severe Autism, behavior, cognitive impairments) due to task appropriateness. The investigator
      will document any additional services that students receive (i.e., Title, special education,
      and reading support) and included them as contextual variables in later analyses. Power and
      Design. The investigators estimate the sample associated with an effect size of 0.25, alpha
      0.05, and with over 80% power at 136 participants for between group differences, 36 for
      within group differences, and 180 for the interaction. Randomization will occur within grade,
      with all qualified students in grade 5 available for randomization because these students did
      not participate in Aim 1. The investigators estimate attrition to be 20% or 36 participants
      total and will replace participants who exit the pool of consented students not randomly
      selected for participation. Consideration of Biological Variables. To sufficiently power the
      study and generalize findings, the study recruits males and females for participation and
      collects gender, race, disability status, and socioeconomic status to determine if these
      child-attributes moderate knowledge accessibility and availability. Data Analysis. As in Aim
      1, the investigators will screen for missing data and outliers and evaluate the
      distributional properties of observed variables, making transformations as necessary and
      appropriate. When possible, investigators will correct non-plausible values or listed them as
      missing if investigators cannot correct them and label extreme data points. Analytic
      Approach. Data analysis will use repeated measures analysis of variance models to examine the
      effect of the experimental condition on knowledge retention. Separate ANOVAs will analyze
      scores obtained on the question types (i.e., explicit text-, word-to-text- and
      inference-questions) and the different error types by condition. Results of Aim 2 (and Aim 1)
      and additional analyses will inform the independent research projects conducted by
      undergraduate laboratory assistants (Aim 3). Aim 3. To integrate investigative research into
      an undergraduate Honors Research Program. This proposal will support the development of a
      laboratory component for the Honors Proposal Seminar. This sophomore-level seminar focuses on
      the organizational structure of their research proposal (i.e., introduction, hypotheses, and
      method section). The laboratory component will provide students hands-on experiences in the
      practices of conducting applied research in the schools. Students will also have access to
      extant data to examine interesting questions related to the reading and reading-related
      skills of adolescents which should heighten student interest and enthusiasm for conducting
      research among adolescents. Laboratory Outline. This project will create a two-semester
      laboratory course (e.g., 32 sessions) that meets weekly for two hours. Lab sessions will
      address Institutional Review Board applications; appropriate engagement with school
      personnel; subject recruitment; parent/guardian consent; child assent; formation of research
      questions and hypotheses; fidelity of implementation; experimental design; inputting and
      verifying data; analyzing data; and discussing, reporting, and publishing findings (i.e.,
      manuscripts, presentations, and spoken posters). Throughout the year, students will also
      engage in the primary literature, culminating with the eventual submission of a primary
      journal article that includes appropriate introduction, method, results, and discussion.
    
  