
    
      It was shown in ischemia/reperfusion models that after reopening of the occluded epicardial
      coronary artery, following initial hyperemic flow, myocardial blood flow in the area at risk
      rapidly and progressively declines and get stabilised approximately within 30 minutes.This
      finding implies that, in spite of the initial ischemic insult, coronary auto-regulation in
      the reperfused myocardial territory recovers. Nevertheless, this recovery requires some time
      after reperfusion was achieved. During total occlusion of an epicardial coronary artery,
      pre-arteriolar sphincters can be expected to be paralysed in widely open position in response
      to severely increased distal myocardial demand. Ischemic myocyte damage also contributes to
      malfunctioned pre-arteriolar sphincters. Therefore, full restoration of perfusion pressure
      distal to the infarct related artery by immediate stenting (direct or after angioplasty) may
      then fail to induce an immediate adaptive autoregulatory response (compensatory
      vasoconstriction) in the related microvascular territory, resulting in an inappropriately
      increased pressure in the damaged microcirculation. During total epicardial occlusion,
      ischemia/hypoxia induced damage and increased permeability at the capillary level lead to
      loss of structural integrity in the related microvascular territory. After immediate
      stenting, this severely damaged microcirculation is exposed to a suddenly increased
      uncontrolled intracoronary pressure which may consequently substantially contribute to
      intramyocardial haemorrhage and oedema.

      Therefore, it was hypothesised that gradual reperfusion with delayed stenting performed when
      coronary auto regulatory function was recovered may lessen the myocardial oedema and/or
      haemorrhage by preventing/limiting uncontrolled increase in pressure in the distal
      microcirculation.

      The recovery of coronary autoregulatory function in reperfused STEMI patients can be assessed
      by continuous monitoring of coronary (microvascular) blood flow and resistance values after
      restoration of epicardial blood flow by balloon angioplasty in individual basis.

      In this study, following establishment of TIMI-3 flow by balloon angioplasty, patients will
      be randomized to immediate or delayed stenting groups. Continuous intracoronary hemodynamic
      monitorization will be performed in re-opened infarct related artery using a coronary guide
      wire equipped with pressure and flow sensors for a total of 1hour in both groups.

      In delayed stent group, stent implantation will be performed in individual basis when
      coronary hemodynamic data indicates that coronary autoregulation was recovered (when initial
      hyperaemic flow response was subsided and baseline microvascular resistance was increased).
      Recovery of autoregulatory function will be determined by identification of stabilisation of
      baseline coronary flow velocity and baseline microvascular resistance in infarct related
      artery after balloon angioplasty. Stabilization will be decided by comparing basal coronary
      flow velocity and microvascular resistance values measured in non-infarct related coronary
      artery immediately before PPCI with the values that was being measured in re-opened infarct
      related artery. When baseline flow velocity and resistance values being recorded in IRA got
      close to the values measured in non-IRA, IRA will be stented. Intracoronary pressure and flow
      data will continuously be monitored until the end of 1 hour follow-up period.

      In immediate stenting group, stent implantation will be performed immediately following
      angioplasty. Intracoronary pressure and flow data will continuously be monitored using dual
      sensor coronary guide wire until the end of 1 hour follow up period.
    
  