
    
      This is a randomised controlled trial of 32 subjects who have sustained their first ever
      subcortical stroke more than 9 months prior to study enrollment, with upper extremity
      impairment of 11-45 out of a maximum score of 66 on the Fugl-Meyer assessment scale.

      Subjects will be randomly allocated to one of the following 2 groups by using a
      computer-generated random sequence:

        1. 10 sessions over 2 weeks of MI-BCI training with 20 minutes of tDCS preceding training.

        2. 10 sessions over 2 weeks of MI-BCI training with 20 minutes of sham-tDCS preceding
           training.

      tDCS-BCI protocol Each of the 10 sessions of tDCS-BCI or sham-BCI will be conducted as
      follows: tDCS will be performed for 20 minutes immediately prior to each session of motor
      training. The anode will be placed over the M1 motor cortex of the affected hemisphere while
      the cathode will be placed over the unaffected M1.

      After initial calibration, MI-BCI training will involve MI of reaching tasks using the clock
      game interface of the MIT-Manus robotic system to perform multi-directional reaching
      movements. Upon detection of the intention to move towards the target on BCI, the robotic arm
      will complete the reaching movement towards the target. Each training session will last for
      40 minutes excluding set-up time and will be undertaken by a research assistant blinded to
      the condition of tDCS.

      Outcome measures Improvement in motor functional ability will be the main outcome of this
      study. Outcome measures will be assessed at the following time points: prior to treatment
      initiation, at week 2 (immediate post-training period) and week 6 (4 weeks after completion
      of training). A clinician blinded to the treatment condition will assess the effects of the
      intervention. Our primary outcome measure will be the upper extremity score of the Fugl-Meyer
      Assessment (FMA). This instrument measures upper extremity motor impairment including
      balance, coordination and speed. Secondary outcome measures for motor function will include
      (1) Box and Block Test: a timed test in which subjects are required to transfer 1-inch wooden
      blocks from one side of the box to another. It measures upper extremity manual dexterity and
      gross motor coordination. (2) Modified Ashworth Scale: is a 6-point measure of spasticity. We
      will assess the severity of spasticity at the shoulder, elbow, wrist and fingers. (3) Grip
      strength: will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer.In addition, we will monitor for
      adverse effects with a questionnaire documenting pain and discomfort at stimulation site,
      mood changes (using the Beck Depression Inventory), fatigue (using the Fatigue Severity
      Scale), and cognitive change (using the forward and backward digit span).Assessment of
      cortical excitability ? single and paired pulse TMS Another aim of this study is to
      investigate the mechanisms of this combined treatment on cortical plasticity as indexed by
      cortical excitability changes - assessed by single and paired pulse TMS. We will investigate
      the resting motor threshold, measured according to the technique of Rossini et al., 1994,
      before and after treatment, according to the schedule of outcome measures above; paired-pulse
      stimulation, measuring changes in intracortical facilitation and inhibition.

      MRI protocol Patients will be scanned at -2, 0 and 4 weeks to investigate short-term and
      medium-term changes in fMRI and DTI parameters following tDCS/BCI and sham/BCI treatment. A
      T1-weighted high-resolution scan and a set of axial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery
      images will be acquired. T1-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images will be
      realigned and spatially normalized into images of isotropic voxel size implemented in
      Matlab.The data analysis will include image registration, estimation of diffusion tensor
      parameters including Apparent Diffusion Coefficient, Fractional Anisotropy, axial and radial
      diffusivities and tractography using Camino. Reversed phase encoding EPI distortion
      correction, and regression analysis of DTI, TMS and clinical findings will be performed using
      Matlab.For fMRI, images will be obtained during the resting state, active/passive hand
      movement and during imagined arm movement. For the imagined arm movement, subjects will be
      asked to watch a video on a screen to guide their performance of the imagined movement.
    
  