
    
      DISEASE BACKGROUND

      In Switzerland, 5'500 women and 30 to 40 men are diagnosed with breast cancer every year. It
      accounts for one third of all cancer diagnoses among women, and causes approximately 1'350
      deaths per year. Around 1'200 patients per year need axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) as
      part of their surgical treatment. ALND is indicated primarily for node-positive breast
      cancer. Patients are identified either by pre-operative evaluation of the axilla or by
      intraoperative sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB).

      THERAPY BACKGROUND

      During axillary lymph node dissection for breast cancer, standard techniques for prevention
      of leakage of dissected lymphatic vessels include the application of suture ligaments and the
      use of bipolar electrocautery. Seroma prevention after ALND is achieved by placement of a
      closed suction drain through the skin into the axillary cavity.

      Closed axillary suction drains are archaic tools to prevent seroma after ALND by simple
      mechanical drainage at the cost of significant patient discomfort and increased length of
      hospital stay. The sealing agent TachoSil® (consists of an equine collagen sponge coated with
      human fibrinogen and human thrombin) allows a more nuanced approach to the management of
      axillary seroma prevention and may support ongoing and decades-old efforts of the
      professional breast cancer community to decrease the duration of axillary drainage and
      finally, to abandon the drain from routine clinical practice.

      RATIONALE FOR PERFORMING THE TRIAL

      Axillary lymph node dissection remains an integral part of surgical treatment of primarily
      node-positive invasive breast cancer. In order to reduce the incidence of clinically relevant
      seroma, a suction drain is routinely placed into the axillary cavity after ALND by a separate
      stab incision. Indeed, a recent meta-analysis of 6 randomized controlled trials (RCT's) on
      axillary drainage versus no axillary drainage and a similar meta-analysis of 6 RCT's on
      volume-controlled versus no/short-term drainage demonstrated a significant reduction of
      seroma risk with the use of axillary drainage. Importantly, however, the majority of patients
      in these trials did not develop seroma even in the absence of axillary drainage.

      The reduction of seroma risk by axillary drainage in these trials was achieved at the expense
      of a prolonged hospital stay and significant patient discomfort caused by the drain. During
      the past 4 decades at least 50 RCT's have been performed on various interventions to reduce
      axillary drainage with the aim of abandoning the axillary drain from clinical practice. The
      interventions ranged from surgical dead space reduction, use of various surgical equipment,
      shoulder immobilization, compression dressing, to the application of somatostatin analogons
      and other medication. Due to the overall limited success of these trials axillary drainage is
      still standard of care after ALND.

      The pathogenesis of seroma involves the collection of lymph fluid caused by dissection of
      lymph vessels and exudate. All coagulation and fibrinolytic factors are produced and secreted
      by lymphatic endothelial cells and are involved in the sealing of lymphatic capillaries.
      Local hemostyptic agents may therefore reduce postoperative secretion from lymphatic fistulas
      caused by ALND. However, the results of the trials on the use of fibrin sealant in the
      axillary cavity after ALND were conflicting. While some showed no favorable impact of fibrin
      sealant, others demonstrated promising results when using fibrin glue. Consequently, a
      meta-analysis of 11 RCT's with 632 patients showed no impact of the use of fibrin glues after
      ALND on the risk of seroma or the length of hospital stay, but revealed a trend toward less
      drainage volume (weighted mean difference - 117.7, 95 per cent confidence interval - 259.2 to
      23.8 ml). In all these studies, however, the liquid form of fibrin sealant was used.

      The use of TachoSil®, which is a non-liquid surgical patch, has been shown to strongly reduce
      the lymphatic drainage after lymphadenectomy in gynecologic and urologic procedures and
      prevented the development of chylothorax in patients who underwent heart surgery with
      intraoperative lymphatic leakage.

      We propose to conduct a multicenter prospective RCT in Switzerland to evaluate the impact of
      TachoSil® on axillary drainage after ALND for breast cancer. We hypothesize that the use of
      TachoSil® significantly and relevantly reduces the volume and duration of axillary drainage
      after ALND. This has the potential to increase patients' quality of life, as well as to
      shorten the length of hospital stay and reduce hospital costs, and provides the rationale and
      the clinical relevance for the proposed RCT. If the proposed RCT shows a minimum of 33%
      relative drainage reduction, a follow-up trial is justified. The follow-up trial will be
      conducted with all patients receiving TachoSil® and randomization with versus without
      axillary drainage. Therefore, the final goal is the omission of axillary drainage after ALND
      in the future.
    
  