
    
      A randomized double blinded placebo controlled trial of a nutraceutical preparation. Up to 60
      men and women between the ages of 50 and 70, and generally healthy will participate in this
      study. . Up to 30 participants will receive the nutritional supplement and up to 30 will
      receive placebo.

      Potential participants will be screened by telephone and have the study explained to them in
      detail. If they qualify and choose to participate they will come in for the first of three
      visits. Informed consent will be obtained and demographic information collected. Information
      requested on the demographic form includes ethnicity, income, education, marital status,
      smoking and alcohol use, and exercise habits. Next they will have blood pressure checked and
      if not within parameters they will be dropped from the study and informed that they need to
      follow up the abnormal result with their health care provider. Those that pass these
      screening tests will have 15 to 25 cc's of peripheral blood (serum) collected by the study
      coordinator via venipuncture while at rest. They will then stretch for 2 minutes (60 seconds
      marching in place followed by 10 toe touches) followed by accelerating treadmill walking
      exercise. The exercise intervention will consist of a 15 minute period of walking on a
      treadmill. The treadmill will not be inclined during the intervention. The participants
      target heart rate will be determined by deducting their age from 220. They will start walking
      on the treadmill at a speed of 1.7 mph and the speed will be titrated as indicated to keep
      their heart rate at 50 to 90% of target. Heart rate will be monitored via the pulse oximetry
      feature of the Welch Allyn vital signs monitor. Blood pressure will be measured every 3
      minutes during the exercise intervention and until they have returned to baseline (within 10
      points) following cessation of the exercise protocol. The test will be stopped for any
      participant complaint of chest pain, excess fatigue, difficulty breathing, a blood pressure
      reading of more than 180/94, or a participant request. If symptoms increase or do not
      completely resolve with 15 minutes of rest the study coordinator will call 911 (through
      campus police) to activate the EMS response. If symptoms resolve completely within 15 minutes
      participants will be withdrawn from the study and advised to follow up with their health care
      provider. Any participant unable to complete the exercise intervention for any reason will be
      withdrawn from the study.

      Five to fifteen minutes after the exercise intervention has been completed blood will again
      be collected in exactly the same manner as the resting sample. Participants will then receive
      a 2 week supply of either NutraStem or placebo and will be advised to take one tablet every
      morning and evening before meals for the next 2 weeks. If the participant is unable to
      complete any portion of the visit activities at any visit they will be withdrawn from the
      study due to their inability to complete the study. All visit activities will be recorded in
      detail on the visit session record.

      The second visit will occur 2 weeks later and include a blood pressure check, an at rest
      blood draw, the exercise intervention, and then a repeat blood draw five to fifteen minutes
      after completion of the intervention. Participants will then receive a 2 week supply of
      either NutraStem or placebo and will be advised to take one tablet every morning and evening
      before meals for the next 2 weeks. I Participants will be advised to bring their empty pill
      containers to their next session so we can confirm they are taking the supplement as
      required. If the blood pressure is outside of the specified range they will be dropped from
      the study and no blood collection or study intervention will take place.

      The third visit will be the same as the second visit.
    
  