
    
      Background. Individuals with post-stroke aphasia frequently experience a profound loss of
      abilities to engage in social interaction, one major reason for the increased risk of
      depression after a cerebrovascular accident. Impaired communication skills in aphasia often
      prevent classical forms of psychotherapy in post-stroke depression, thus emphasizing the need
      for new rehabilitation strategies alongside antidepressant medication.

      Aims. The present controlled, parallel-group, single-center, blinded-assessment, phase-IIA
      trial seeks to explore the feasibility of a study protocol on intensive
      communicative-pragmatic social interaction as a potential treatment of post-stroke depression
      in the late subacute or consolidation phase of aphasia (1-12 months after a cerebrovascular
      accident). In this period of time, prevalence of post-stroke depression was found to be
      particularly high.

      Methods. Treatment is based on an established protocol that encourages persons with aphasia
      to use neural resources of verbal communication embedded in intensive social interaction. In
      a routine-healthcare outpatient setting, 60 individuals with post-stroke depression and
      aphasia will be allocated to one of two groups in a pseudorandomized fashion: (i) intensive
      communicative-pragmatic social interaction combined with standard care or (ii) standard care
      alone.

      Endpoints and Outcomes. Primary endpoints will be changes on self-report and clinician-rated
      measures of depression severity (simplified version of Beck's Depression Inventory, BDI-V;
      and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, HAM-D) after a 1-month treatment period (5 hours of
      weekly training). Secondary outcomes include measures evaluating self-efficacy, quality of
      life, and language performance (Self-Efficacy Questionnaire; EuroQol Five-Dimensional
      Descriptive System, EQ-5D; and Aachen Aphasia Test, AAT).

      Hypotheses. The primary hypothesis predicts significant between-group differences on BDI-V
      and HAM-D scores, indicating greater reduction in depression severity with intensive
      communicative-pragmatic social interaction over and above standard care alone. Secondary
      hypotheses predict significant between-group differences on Self-Efficacy Questionnaire and
      EQ-5D scores. Further exploratory analyses will consider progress in language performance
      from onset to end of treatment on the AAT to account for the potential relationship between
      changes in cognitive-affective distress and verbal expression skills.

      Clinical Relevance. The current proof-of-concept trial will investigate the feasibility of a
      study protocol on intensive communicative-pragmatic social interaction as a possible means to
      promote recovery from post-stroke depression in individuals with aphasia. The results
      obtained will determine the design of a subsequent phase-IIB randomized controlled trial.
    
  