
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a chronic and progressive metabolic disease associated
      with an increased prevalence of cardiovascular events, and therefore represents a significant
      global health concern. The aetiology of the disease is complex and involves the interaction
      of both non-modifiable (i.e., genetic predisposition) and modifiable (e.g., physical activity
      levels, diet, body mass) risk factors. Individuals with T2DM have an impaired ability to
      utilise glucose, the body's most efficient energy substrate (providing 2.58 ATP per molecule
      of oxygen), due to a decreased capacity to produce and/or utilise insulin. Consequently,
      there is an increased reliance on the metabolism of less efficient fuel sources,
      predominantly the metabolism of the free fatty acid palmitate, which produces 2.33 ATP per
      molecule of oxygen and thereby increases oxygen requirements by approximately 10% relative to
      glucose metabolism. This increased oxygen cost that manifests at rest and during exercise,
      increases the effort required to perform physical tasks which may discourage physical
      activity, further exacerbating the disease state and the prevalence of associated
      cardiovascular co-morbidities, and may ultimately reduce quality of life.

      Whereas at high concentrations, ketone bodies are known to be toxic, at a low dose ß
      hydroxybutyrate, one of the most common ketone bodies produced, can be used as a metabolic
      substrate. Although not an efficient store of energy per se, the energy can be released at a
      lower O2 cost than free fatty acids, generating 2.50 units of ATP per unit of O2 consumed.
      Theoretically, this 7% improvement in efficiency would be of benefit to those with heart
      disease and diabetes. Whilst there are several studies demonstrating the theoretical benefit
      of this improvement in efficiency in vitro or in animal models, to date this has not been
      demonstrated in humans.

      Sodium glucose transporter 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, a class of anti-hyperglycaemic agents, have
      been shown to suppress insulin production whilst stimulating glucagon, an action that
      engenders mild hyperketonaemia. Interestingly, recent trials have suggested the use of SGLT-2
      inhibitors have a cardio-protective effect indicated by a significant reduction in
      cardiovascular related death in people with type 2 diabetes. It is hypothesised that this
      benefit is mediated through alternate substrate utilisation. These medications, however
      cannot be used for all individuals. They are not licensed for, nor are likely to be effective
      for people with impaired renal function, which is common among people with heart failure and
      diabetes. The associated risk of genital infections is over 10% even in those who have been
      prescribed the SGLT-2 inhibitors medication.

      Exogenous ketone supplements can be ingested in the form of ketone esters and have been
      proven efficient in improving metabolic profile by decreasing circulating glucose and free
      fatty acids. More specifically a ketone monoester (Kme) supplement has been shown to provide
      a rapid increase in blood ß-hydroxybutyrate levels within 30 min in healthy humans.
      Importantly, once ingested, Kme is metabolised into ß-hydroxybutyrate, which is the isoform
      produced by endogenous ketogenesis. Therefore, the oral consumption of Kme may be an
      interesting alternative for increasing ß hydroxybutyrate and therefore improving metabolic
      efficiency and cardiovascular function in individuals with T2DM.
    
  