
    
      Bariatric surgery is quickly emerging as a standard treatment for people with obesity stage
      II and III (BMI ≥35 kg/m2) because of its beneficial long-term effects on body weight and
      obesity-related comorbidities. In Switzerland, approximately 5,000 bariatric surgeries are
      performed every year. There is a growing body of evidence demonstrating that engagement in
      physical activity benefits the bariatric surgery population in many aspects. These entail the
      prevention of surgery-induced metabolic complications such as sarcopenia and osteopenia on
      the one hand, but also the mitigation against the commonly observed weight regain and relapse
      of metabolic comorbidities. Despite these obvious health benefits, inactivity and poor health
      literacy are common problems amongst people who underwent bariatric surgery. Although the
      Swiss healthcare system offers well designed post-operative follow-up programmes, exercise is
      currently not to being considered. Additionally the lower educational level of bariatric
      surgery patients is a well known problem. Addressing physical activity-related health
      competence and self-empowerment in this population currently remains an unmet need.

      Previous studies investigating exercise interventions in the bariatric surgery population
      have demonstrated efficacy on metabolic outcomes but also indicated that adherence wanes over
      time. To overcome the challenge of changing lifestyle in a sustainable way, individuals need
      to have a complex set of abilities, skills, knowledge, motivation and willingness. In
      Germany, diverse models have been developed to describe this specific set of competences, all
      inspired by the concept of health literacy, which is internationally recognised in research
      and clinical practice.

      Physical activity-related health competence comprises three components: (1) Movement
      competence, enabling individuals to meet the movement-related requirements of physical
      activities (e.g. motor abilities, motor skills for cycling or gymnastics) (2) control
      competence for physical activity enabling people to gear their own activity to achieve
      positive effects in health and well-being, and (3) physical activity-specific self-regulation
      competence enabling individuals to be regularly active, which involves both motivational and
      volitional factors. The relevance of physical activity-related health competence for the
      promotion of an active lifestyle has been demonstrated in various studies in healthy and
      physical inactive adults at metabolic risk. However, the concept has not yet been addressed
      in the bariatric surgery population. The investigators therefore hypothesize, that targeting
      the various components of physical activity-related health competence by means of a
      comprehensive exercise programme has the potential to result in a more effective promotion of
      physical activity in the bariatric surgery population, thereby benefitting their long-term
      health and well-being.
    
  