
    
      In the past two decades, the role of vitamin D has extended beyond bone health to encompass a
      wide range of biological activities important to physical function in older adults. A growing
      body of evidence now shows that circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels < 75 nmol/L
      (< 30 ng/mL)) are associated with physical impairments such as reduced walking speed and
      impaired balance as well as falls. Older adults are at risk for low levels of
      25-hydroxyvitamin D because of reduced exposure to ultraviolet B radiation, reduced
      efficiency of previtamin D synthesis in the skin, and low dietary intake. Although data from
      the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2000-2004 indicate that frank
      vitamin D deficiency (serum 25(OH)D < 25 nmol/L [10 ng/mL]) is rare in the U.S. (5% or less),
      vitamin D insufficiency (serum 25(OH)D < 75 nmol/L [30 ng/mL]) is prevalent (~75%) among
      older adults. Older home-bound adults are a vulnerable subgroup of older adults for poor
      dietary intake and nutritional health, nutrition-related health conditions, and functional
      decline and disability. The primary goal of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of
      a partnership with Senior Services of Forsyth County to address vitamin D insufficiency in
      home-bound older adults receiving home-delivered meals. The investigators will accomplish
      this goal by conducting a 5-month randomized, controlled trial in 200 older Meals-on-Wheels
      (MOW) recipients randomized to receive monthly either (1) 100,000 IU vitamin D3 or (2) an
      active placebo (vitamin E) to achieve the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Determine the prevalence of falls and risk of vitamin D insufficiency in 200 MOW
      recipients.

      Aim 2: Assess the feasibility of the vitamin D intervention delivered through the MOW
      program.

      Aim 3: Obtain preliminary data on the effectiveness of the intervention on improving vitamin
      D status and reducing falls.

      Data from this pilot study will: 1) provide estimates of the prevalence of falls and vitamin
      D insufficiency in home-bound older adults participating in the Forsyth County MOW program;
      2) provide estimates of participant compliance and drop-out to a vitamin supplementation
      trial delivered as part of the MOW program; 3) provide evidence for the efficacy of the
      vitamin D dose proposed in remediating vitamin D insufficiency; and 4) provide preliminary
      data on the potential benefit of vitamin D supplementation on falls in a home-bound older
      population.
    
  