
    
      Term or preterm neonates may need mechanical ventilation due to different etiologies. In all
      patients aim of mechanical ventilation is to promote pulmonary gas exchange, reduce the
      respiratory work of patient. Ideal mechanical ventilation must minimize pulmonary trauma with
      low inspiratory pressures that obtains adequate and constant tidal volumes. Ventilation
      associated pulmonary injury is an important subject that must be considered during mechanical
      ventilation. Atelectotrauma, volutrauma, barotrauma and biotrauma must be monitored.
      Volutrauma, barotrauma and oxygen toxicity cause cytokine increase that results in biotrauma.
      This parenchymal inflammation is a risk factor for chronic lung disease which is an important
      morbidity of ventilated neonates.

      From past to present neonates were ventilated with different ventilation modes including IMV
      (Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation), SIMV, A/C (Assist Control Ventilation), PSV,HFV (High
      Frequency Ventilation). Both PSV and SIMV are patient trigger ventilation modes but SIMV is a
      time cycled and PSV is a flow cycled mode. In recent years hybrid techniques were developed
      to combine beneficial features of volume and pressure limited ventilation. In commercial
      ventilation devices these techniques have different names as volume guaranteed pressure
      limited ventilation (Drager Babylog 8000), pressure regulated volume controlled ventilation
      (Siemens servo 3000), volume guaranteed pressure support ventilation (VIP Bird Gold).

      Since there is not a standard protocol for mechanical ventilation of neonates different
      countries and even different NICU's use different ventilation protocols.

      Literature supports volume targetted ventilation to reduce barotrauma with low maximum
      inspiratory pressures and to reduce volutrauma with constant tidal volumes. When A/C+VG and
      SIMV+VG were compared in a crossover trial, more constant tidal volumes were obtained in A/C
      mode. Inflammatory cytokines have also been measured in different groups of patients with
      variable ventilatory management techniques. So far there has not been a randomized study
      published comparing VG+SIMV with VG+PSV in newborns with regards to tidal volume , peak
      inspiratory pressure variability,or inflammatory cytokines. Therefore in this study the
      investigators aimed to compare these two ventilation modes with regards to short term
      outcome.
    
  