
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Atherosclerotic vascular disease is a major source of morbidity and mortality. Inflammation
      plays an important role in atherosclerosis. The tools to systematically study the extent to
      which genetic variation determines risk of and progression of atherosclerosis are only now
      becoming available.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will evaluate the role of genetic variation in inflammatory pathway genes at 29
      loci on the risk and progression of carotid artery atherosclerotic disease (CAAD). Genes to
      be evaluated include those potentially involved in plaque initiation and progression. The
      investigators will evaluate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) informative for the common
      locus haplotypes. Choice of informative polymorphisms for evaluation is based on the genes'
      evolutionary history. They will evaluate progression effects in subjects with CAAD followed
      longitudinally by noninvasive magnetic resonance (MR) techniques over 3 years. Risk will be
      evaluated by case-control comparisons. In additions to evaluating genetic polymorphisms, they
      will evaluate the intervening phenotypes of protein level for fibrinogen, C-reactive protein,
      serum amyloid A, and interleukin-6. Independence of genetic predictors from traditional
      cardiovascular risk factors will be evaluated.

      The major specific aims are: Aim 1. Test for inflammatory genetic effects and protein level
      in CAAD progression in 550 subjects with CAAD (275 with 15-49% and 275 with 50-79% baseline
      CAAD stenosis) evaluated by 3-year magnetic resonance image follow-up of percent lumen
      stenosis; Aim 2. Determine whether the variation in the inflammatory genes or protein levels
      predicts 810 case vs. 810 control status with a case distribution of 335 subject with 15-49%,
      275 with 50-75% and 200 with >80% carotid artery stenosis at baseline. Age (onset of vascular
      disease for cases, current age for controls)-, sex-, race-, and hospital-matched controls
      will have less than 15% stenosis on carotid duplex ultrasound. Genes that are implicated in
      disease may eventually allow targeted therapy.
    
  