
    
      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a well-known treatment for other type of tumors; however it is
      an experimental treatment for brain tumors. There is much we do not know about the
      effectiveness of PDT in patients with brain tumors. The purpose of this study is to define
      the antitumor activity of Photofrin® and laser light activation. Photofrin® is a
      photosensitizing drug (a dye that is activated by light) used in PDT. We want to test the
      activity of PDT and to see what are the effects (good and bad) on you and your brain tumor.
      We also want to learn if this treatment will cause brain tumors to shrink and whether it will
      help patients with brain tumors to live longer.

      PDT is a cancer treatment that involves giving a photosensitive dye (Photofrin®), into your
      vein through a tube (called an IV). This dye will go inside of the cancer cells more than it
      will go inside the normal, healthy cells. PDT using Photofrin® is an approved treatment in
      patients with certain types of cancer such as lung, and esophageal (from the mouth to the
      stomach) cancers.

      Everyone in this study will receive Photofrin® (porfimer sodium) for injection (Pinnacle
      Biologics, Inc., Bannockburn, IL, USA), and be treated with red light emitted by a red laser.
      The light will be sent from the laser to the surface of the brain where the tumor is located
      using a light transmitting fiber. The fiber will have a knob at the end that spreads the
      light out evenly in all directions.

      Previous studies have shown that patients with malignant brain tumors called gliomas had a
      good response to PDT. The patients in these studies lived longer than they were expected to
      live. In one study of adults with brain tumors in Australia, patients given PDT had greatly
      improved survival rates. Fifty seven percent (57%) of the patients with gliomas called
      anaplastic astrocytoma survived for 36 months. Thirty seven percent (37%) of the patients
      with gliomas called glioblastoma multiforme survived for 36 months. Froedtert Hospital, in
      Milwaukee WI, has been involved in PDT studies in adults in the past. This current study is
      is being done in a very similar way to the study done in Australia, and will use increased
      Photofrin®) and light doses than our previous study.
    
  