
    
      The goal of this research is to develop the use of fluorescence-labeled peptides (Colon KCC)
      that affinity bind to pre-cancerous mucosa in the digestive tract for use as an imaging agent
      to aid in the early detection of colon cancer. Currently colon cancer prevention is achieved
      by endoscopic evaluation and removal of pre-malignant lesions (adenomatous polyps) by
      endoscopic resection and biopsy. Standard endoscopy uses white light illumination and is only
      able to detect pre-cancerous tissue that has abnormal architectural features, such as a polyp
      or mass. However, pre-cancerous lesions can also be flat in appearance and visually
      indistinct from normal tissue; such as in the case of chronic ulcerative colitis and / or
      some right-sided polyps.

      Furthermore, flat and depressed lesions, which are more difficult to detect in white light
      colonoscopy, may represent over 25% of all pre-malignant lesions and may confer a higher risk
      for malignancy. Integration of molecular probes that home in to diseased tissues with high
      resolution imaging instruments could greatly improve the diagnostic accuracy for missed
      lesions of both polypoid and non-polypoid morphology, including the often fatal 'right-sided
      ' adenomas.

      Endoscopic imaging with the use of fluorescent-labeled probes is a promising method for
      achieving greater specificity, spatial localization and higher image contrast in the
      detection of neoplastic lesions. This study is a 'first-in-humans' test of the safety of the
      topically applied peptide.

      A Phase I study of the safety of a topically-administered fluorescent heptapeptide for
      detecting neoplastic areas of the colon is proposed. The study will test the safety of
      administering this agent to human subjects undergoing clinically-indicated colonoscopy.
      Safety is defined as the occurrence of adverse events after the administration of topical
      fluorescence-labeled peptides to the surface of intra-colonic mucosa.
    
  