
    
      Reliance on serum creatinine and urine output for diagnosis of acute kidney injury (AKI) has
      limited the ability of potential therapeutic measures to be effective. The investigators'
      recent proposition of the renal angina construct aims to improve and expedite AKI diagnosis
      through use of risk stratification. An apt parallel is the profound outcome change that has
      been effected in acute coronary syndrome through targeted troponin measurements in patients
      with both risk factors and clinical symptoms of coronary ischemia. Novel AKI biomarkers will
      struggle to gain widespread use until their performance in patients of varying degrees of AKI
      risk can be balanced with their cost and availability. The investigators hypothesize risk
      stratification using renal angina (ANG) identifies children at-risk vs. not at-risk for AKI,
      focusing subsequent biomarker measurement to "rule out" AKI only in children with ANG,
      increasing biomarker predictive precision. This study is significant because it represents
      the next step in the vertical integration of AKI biomarkers into routine clinical practice to
      guide their use rationally. The identification of at-risk patients to guide appropriate
      biomarker use is high-impact because it will make implementation of preventive and supportive
      therapies for AKI more effective; data from this study would serve to provide the indications
      to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for biomarker use in critically ill children. The
      study is innovative because it is the first prospective attempt to study the predictive
      performance of biomarkers AKI in the PICU population using ANG stratification. The
      investigators will observe all children admitted to the PICU with an expected length of stay
      > 48 hours. Urine will be collected from these children and levels of neutrophil gelatinase
      associated lipocalin (NGAL), interleukin-18 (IL-18), liver-fatty acid binding protein
      (l-FABP), and kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) will be measured. Renal angina will be
      assessed at time of admission. Primary outcome will be presence of AKI (as measured by Kidney
      Diseases Improving Global Outcome (KDIGO) Class 2 or greater) at hospital day 3.
    
  