
    
      Objective To examine efficacy of Transdiagnostic Behavior Therapy (TBT) on improving
      psychiatric symptomatology and related impairments in Veterans with major depressive disorder
      (MDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and panic disorder and agoraphobia (PD/AG)
      compared to disorder-specific treatments (DSTs) via a non-inferiority design. Patient
      satisfaction and predictors of feasibility (attendance and discontinuation) also will be
      assessed.

      Recruitment Strategy and Feasibility of Recruitment Veterans will be recruited through the
      Primary Care Mental Health Integration, General Outpatient Mental Health, and CBT Clinic
      programs at the Ralph H. Johnson VAMC and all affiliated VA community-based outpatient
      clinics. IRB-approved study flyers will be distributed through each clinic/setting. Within
      these programs, all Veterans reporting symptoms of depression and anxiety meet with a mental
      health staff member to complete a clinical interview and self-report measures. If Veterans
      endorse symptoms consistent with a depressive/anxiety disorder, interest in participating in
      research will be assessed and, if agreeable, the Veteran will be referred to project staff. A
      research assessment will be completed with the project staff to first complete consent
      documentation and then assess inclusion/exclusion criteria (with a targeted sample of 216
      VAMC patients), including a semi-structured clinical interview and self-report questionnaires
      focused on psychiatric symptomatology and related impairments (described later). Participants
      who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized into a study condition and will be
      assigned to a project therapist. Because most VA Medical Center (VAMC) patients who meet
      study criteria likely will present with multiple depressive/anxiety disorders, principal
      diagnosis, or the most impairing of the diagnosable disorders, will be used to inform
      randomization. Principal diagnosis will be determined via diagnostic severity scores in the
      Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule-5 (ADIS-5). To balance diagnoses across the two
      conditions, a stratified random assignment based on principal diagnosis will be used (MDD,
      PTSD, and PD/AG).

      Procedures Eligible VAMC patients will be randomized into one of two treatment conditions:
      TBT or DSTs. Both treatment conditions will include 12 weekly 45- to 60-minute treatment
      sessions. The general format of sessions will involve: 1) brief check-in; 2) review of
      materials from previous sessions; 3) review of homework assignments; 4) overview of new
      materials and in-session exercises; and 5) assignment of homework for next session.
      Attendance and homework completion will be recorded.

      Randomization Procedures Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to one of the two study
      arms (n = 108 per arm) using a permuted block randomization procedure. Randomization will be
      stratified by diagnostic group (PTSD, PD/AG, MDD) and block size will be varied to minimize
      the likelihood of unmasking. After determining eligibility and completing consent and
      baseline assessment materials, enrolled participants will be assigned to their treatment
      condition by the Research Project Therapist/Coordinator using a computer-generated
      randomization scheme.

      Transdiagnostic Behavior Therapy TBT was developed as a streamlined protocol to address
      transdiagnostic avoidance via the use of four different types of exposure techniques
      (situational/in-vivo, physical/interoceptive, thought/imaginal, and positive emotional). From
      the transdiagnostic avoidance perspective, the four exposure practices are matched to the
      type(s) of avoidance experienced by patients based upon their cluster of symptoms/disorders.
      Per protocol, the first six sessions of TBT are designed to educate on, prepare for, and
      practice the four different types of exposure techniques. The next five sessions are focused
      on practicing and refining exposure practices as participants work through their lists of
      avoided situations/sensation/thoughts. The final session reviews treatment progress and
      relapse prevention strategies.

      DSTs Control Condition Matching and Assignment To provide an evidence-based comparison for
      the TBT condition, DSTs will be used that are matched to the participant's most severe
      diagnosis, based upon the average of the ADIS interference and distress scores. If the scores
      are equivalent for two or more diagnoses, participants will be asked to list which
      diagnosis/symptoms that they find most impairing. DSTs will be included for each of the three
      targeted diagnoses, including PTSD (Cognitive Processing Therapy for PTSD), PD/AG (Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapy for PD/AG), and MDD (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for MDD). Each of these
      DSTs have published manuals for administration and have received extensive support in the
      literature (Barlow, 2014). All three DSTs have been shown to improve comorbid symptomatology
      and therefore may be a more accurate comparison to TBT as compared to other available DSTs
      that may have less effect on comorbidity (e.g., applied relaxation for PD/AG).

      Assessment of Psychiatric Symptomatology, and Treatment Satisfaction The battery of
      self-report questionnaires and a diagnostic interview will be completed pre-, mid-, and
      post-treatment and at the 6-month follow-up to track participants' progression through
      treatment and maintenance. To reduce the likelihood of missing data, all assessments will be
      scheduled separately from normal treatment sessions. Assessments of disorder-specific
      symptomatology, as well general symptoms of the depressive/anxiety disorders and related
      impairments, were chosen due to the transdiagnostic focus of the proposed study.
    
  