
    
      The study will involve both patients who suffer from constipation and also healthy
      volunteers.

      There are two parts to the study. Participants with constipation will take part in both part
      1 and part 2. Healthy volunteers will only take part in Part 1.

      Part 1 of the study involves participants undergoing testing of their bowel function. It will
      involve 4 visits to the research centre. This is a validation study to compare MRI and HRM in
      their assessment of colonic motility. This will test 3 hypotheses: 1) MRI parameters of
      colonic physiology will correlate with HRM, 2) people with constipation who report greater
      abdominal pain and bloating will demonstrate greater colonic motility and frequency of
      retrograde contractions than those who report less bloating and abdominal pain, 3) MRI
      motility in the right colon will correlate with motility in the left colon.

      Recruitment will be from hospital clinics as well as from the community by general
      advertisement. All assessments will be performed in NHS hospitals or Higher Education
      Institutions.

      Once identified, potential participants will be sent an information sheet outlining their
      involvement. If they are happy to proceed they will be invited to attend the research unit
      (either Nottingham or London). On the first visit participants will be given all information
      required to give informed consent to take part. They will then be asked to complete
      questionnaires and a bowel diary to screen them. This will be for a 2 week period. The
      investigators will also access medical records in this time to help our assessment. They will
      return after this period and their diary/questionnaire will be assessed to ensure presence
      (constipation group) or absence (healthy control group) of bowel disorder. They will also be
      asked to have a blood test to ensure they have adequate renal function (necessary for the
      interventions) if they do not have one recorded in the last 3 months. They will also be asked
      to provide stool samples in this period.

      If they meet the eligibility criteria following this they will be enrolled in the study.

      Participants in the constipation group will then undergo a test for evacuation disorder
      called the balloon expulsion test. This is used in clinical practice to assess the function
      of the muscles used for defecation and it is thought to play a significant role in
      constipation overall. It involves inserting a thin catheter with a balloon which is filled
      with 50ml water. This provokes the feeling of needing to defecate and the patient will be
      asked to attempt to expel the balloon. They will be provided with a private toilet to do this
      and will be asked to time how long it takes. This measure will be recorded.

      All participants (constipation group & healthy controls) will then undergo two tests. These
      are MRI and high resolution manometry. These will happen in a randomised order and will take
      place at least 1 week apart.

      The MRI test day will be approximately 4 hours and will involve 3 sets of MRI images (each
      30mins in length) and ingestion of a laxative drink to stimulate bowel movement which will
      then be analysed.

      The Manometry recording day takes approximately 7 hours and involves an endoscopic procedure
      to place the manometry catheter in the bowel. Samples will also be taken from the bowel wall
      during this procedure. Once the catheter is placed the participant will remain in the
      research unit, be given a meal to consume and motility will be recorded for 4 hours (2hrs
      before meal and 2hrs after). They will undergo a single abdominal x-ray to record the
      position of the catheter in the bowel and it will be removed at the end of the day.

      Following the completion of part 1, participants with constipation will proceed to part 2.

      Part 2 looks at two currently used treatments - a prokinetic (bisacodyl) and a smooth muscle
      relaxant (buscopan).

      There are 2 hypotheses that this will test: 1) (a) constipated patients with increased
      motility and/or increased contractions will respond better to a smooth muscle relaxant than
      to a stimulant prokinetic; (b) patients with hypomotility will respond better to a
      prokinetic, 2) There will be no difference between the performance of MRI and HRM as a
      predictor of clinical response.

      The investigators will provide 2 capsules: A and B. One of the capsules will contain either
      Buscopan or Bisacodyl and the other an inert drug, the placebo. Whichever capsule is the
      placebo in the first 10 days trial will be replaced by the active drug in the second part.
      The order in which they are taken will be randomised so neither participant nor the research
      workers will know which active drug they are taking for each trial period.

      This part of the study will involve 4 visits. At the first visit of these, the participant
      will be given the pills and instructions to take them. They will be asked to complete a daily
      symptom and bowel habit diary during the 10-day period and return these together with any
      unused pills at the second visit. After 2 weeks, they will be given the next set of capsules
      and again complete the daily diaries that they will return together with any unused pills at
      the end of the fourth visit . They will also be asked to complete one further questionnaire
      at the end of each treatment period. This will conclude the study.

      A total of 120 participants (40 healthy, 40 FC, 40 IBS-C) will take part in the study and we
      estimate 4-6 weeks of time for the healthy volunteers and 12 weeks for the patient group.
    
  