
    
      Patients with CML not achieving or losing a major cytogenetic response on whatever palliative
      treatment for CML, are at high risk to progress to accelerated phase and blast crisis. A new
      promising treatment with Imatinib (Glivec®), a tyrosine-kinase inhibitor, has been introduced
      recently. High rates of hematologic and cytogenetic responses can be achieved with Imatinib
      (Glivec®) at > = 300 mg/day in chronic phase CML patients that are refractory, resistant or
      intolerant to interferon-alpha. However, about 10 - 20% of these high risk patients will lose
      their response to Imatinib (Glivec®) within 1-2 years. Therefore, improvement of the
      treatment is warranted.

      Since cytogenetic response rate is correlated to survival and the resistance to Imatinib
      (Glivec®) might be caused by mutations in the receptor, a more rapid decrease could lead to
      longer survival and/or less resistance development. In the initial 6 months of treatment,
      monotherapy with Imatinib (Glivec®) with a dose of 800 mg/day (high dose) should be more
      effective in the reduction of a high leukemic tumor burden, thereby allowing the residual
      normal progenitor and stem cells to expand. In addition, high dose Imatinib (Glivec®) should
      further improve the induction of a molecular response, as determined by quantitative reverse
      transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), reducing the risk of relapse from residual
      malignant BCR-ABL positive cells.

      This study will investigate the efficacy and tolerability of a short (6 months) high dose
      therapy followed by a standard dose compared to a continuous treatment with a standard dose
      of Imatinib (Glivec®).

      In addition, the dynamics of the molecular and cytogenetic response will be investigated.
      Finally, the study will investigate the effect of this induction-maintenance concept on
      time-to-progression (TTP).
    
  