
    
      Prospective databases have contributed substantially to the advancement of clinical medicine
      and surgery. Examples of contributions from databases include an improved understanding of
      the treatment and outcome for rare pathologies, the long term outcomes, and incidence of
      uncommon complications from more common disease, and the repercussions of infrequently
      performed complex procedures. (1-3) Problems identified by database review have led to
      improvements in patient care and have guided the planning of numerous prospective studies.
      The value of these databases incrementally increases with the number of patients enrolled and
      with the length of time the databases have been maintained. Recently databases have been used
      to create and test nomograms, which are increasingly being implemented to further refine
      patient prognosis and to stratify patients for clinical trials. (4) We anticipate that a
      prospective database will become more valuable as we look to the future. Increasingly,
      molecular markers are identified which are thought to be important to patient outcome or
      treatment response. When linked to pathologic tissues, clinical databases can be used as the
      initial test of these newly identified markers and to determine which warrant an independent
      prospective review. An independent prospective analysis performed for each marker is costly
      and time consuming. A prospective database is more comprehensive, accurate, and ultimately
      less time consuming than retrospective review for testing each set of markers as novel
      questions arise.

      This study will augment a prospective database of patients with esophageal cancer who undergo
      investigation and /or surgery at Washington University School of Medicine. This database will
      be periodically updated from the patient records and the computerized medical record as
      patients continue routine follow-up care. These data will be used to address questions
      regarding treatment and/or disease-specific outcomes.

      In addition, we seek to acquire, store and analyze tissue and blood samples on these
      patients. Samples will be processed and stored at the Tissue Procurement Facility of
      Washington University School of Medicine. We will be using this material to support ongoing
      efforts to identify serum markers with applications for early diagnosis, prognosis or
      treatment efficacy. Markers identified will be linked to the clinical outcomes data as
      captured in the database. Using the database, we will be able to link patient and treatment
      outcomes to analyses performed on previously collected pathologic specimens or research
      specimens and correlate these results with the patients' treatment response and outcome in a
      time efficient and cost effective way.

      The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma is on the rise. This has been a trend that has
      been noted over the last decade and has gone hand in hand with a decrease in the incidence of
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Overall the number of patients with esophageal cancer
      being diagnosed annually in the United States is steadily increasing. Esophageal cancer
      afflicts approximately 19,000 patients annually in the United States. Broadly speaking,
      esophageal cancer can be diagnosed at an early stage where there is no metastatic disease in
      distant organs or at a relatively advanced stage when there is evidence of metastatic disease
      in distant organs. Unfortunately patients with metastatic disease can receive only palliative
      therapy and survival is quite limited. Stage I - III esophageal cancer is often treated
      either by primary surgery or by a combination of preoperative or postoperative chemoradiation
      therapy along with surgical resection. For stage I esophageal cancer, surgical resection
      usually suffices and patients have upwards of 70-80% five year survival. For patients with
      stage III esophageal cancer, the patients usually undergo induction chemoradiation therapy
      followed by surgical resection. Induction chemoradiation usually involves two cycles of %
      Fluorouracil and cisplatin with 5040 Gy of external beam radiation therapy. This aspect of
      treatment has been well standardized (5). For stage II esophageal cancer, surgery forms the
      backbone of therapy, however, there is no clear consensus among treating physicians about the
      efficacy and role of chemoradiation therapy in these patients.

      In patients who undergo chemoradiation therapy prior to surgery for esophageal cancer, it is
      noted that 15-30% of patients have had a complete pathologic response to therapy. Thus no
      tumor is detected in the resected specimen in these patients. Therefore, theoretically, these
      patients have undergone an unnecessary resection. There is currently no way to predict which
      patients would have had a pathologic response short of resecting the esophagus and thus
      exposing the patients to the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this major
      operation.

      The most significant impact of next-generation sequencing on cancer genomics has been the
      ability to re-sequence, analyze and compare the matched tumor and normal genomes of a single
      patient. With the significantly reduced cost of sequencing and tremendously enhanced
      throughput, it is now within the realm of possibility to sequence multiple patient samples of
      a given cancer type. Genomic analyses over the last few years, with significant contributions
      from our own Genome Center at the Washington University in St. Louis, (6-7) have led to
      significant advances in understanding the behavior of certain tumors including leukemias and
      glioblastoma. Specifically, in acute leukemias, our center has shown that certain genotypes
      of the tumor predict favorable or unfavorable outcomes in the patients analyzed. These
      findings now have been replicated in at least 3 independent studies of separate AML cohorts.
      Our goal with this project would be to develop an understanding of the genomic profile of
      esophageal carcinomas and changes with treatment. Furthermore with availability of tissue
      both before and after chemoradiation therapy, we would be able to identify changes in the
      genome of the malignancy with induction therapy. Also with resection specimens we will be
      able to identify which patients have had a significant response to therapy (including
      complete pathologic response) and others who have not had a significant response to therapy
      or have had progressive disease despite therapy. This may help us in identifying genomic
      features of the spectrum of esophageal carcinomas that predict response to therapy after
      having had the chance to longitudinally study the disease or the clinical course of the
      patients. Specifically this would be achieved by obtaining tissue specimens from the
      malignancy prior to any therapy at the time of the initial diagnosis or initial endoscopy for
      these patients. Subsequently the patients would undergo routine therapy which would be based
      upon their clinical stage of disease. Eventually when patients come back for their definitive
      resection, we would be able to access the pathologic profile to assess response to induction
      therapy and also to study the genomic profile of the tumor tissue after induction therapy.

      A prospective database which would be maintained in the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery
      would be able to link clinical outcomes to processed tissues (pathologic specimens, research
      specimens and plasma) enabling higher level correlation studies to be performed. Proper use
      of such a resource will aid considerably in our ability to advance our field and care for our
      future patients with esophageal cancer.

      Our eventual aim with the analyses of the genome of esophageal cancer would be to identify a
      patient population that has a complete pathologic response to chemoradiation therapy for
      carcinomas of the esophagus. We will be able to identify genomic differences, if any, between
      such tumors and other tumors where there is only a partial response/no response/progressive
      disease with induction chemoradiation therapy. If analyses are sufficiently predictive and
      efficiently dichotomize patients into these categories based upon genomic profiles, this can
      be the lead groundwork for a clinical trial where patients with certain specific genomic
      profiles would be treated only with chemoradiation therapy for carcinomas of the esophagus,
      thus precluding unnecessary surgery with its significant attendant morbidity and mortality.
      As we already know, about 15-30% of patients undergoing induction chemoradiation therapy
      clinically fall into such a category. The well known morbidity of an esophagectomy includes
      significant pulmonary problems, anastomotic leaks, cardiovascular problems, chyle leak,
      venous thromboses, amongst other major problems. The rate of morbidity after an esophagectomy
      varies from 20-40%. Also there is 3-14 % risk of mortality from esophagectomy. (8-9)
      Therefore, a tool that can effectively predict which patients do not require an esophagectomy
      for treatment of carcinomas of the esophagus would be extremely useful clinically.
    
  