
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of talazoparib given in combination with gemtuzumab
      ozogamicin therapy in adult patients with relapsed and/or refractory acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML).

      II. Determine the overall response rate (ORR consisting of complete remission [CR] or
      complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery [CRi]) of combination therapy with
      talazoparib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin in patients with relapsed and/or refractory AML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the preliminary anti-leukemic efficacy of talazoparib given in combination with
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin as determined by complete remission (CR) rate, best response rate (CRi
      + partial remission [PR]), duration of remission, leukemia-free survival (LFS), transfusion
      independence (TI), and overall survival (OS) in patients treated with this combination
      therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the efficacy of talazoparib given in combination with gemtuzumab ozogamicin on
      minimal residual disease (MRD) in treated patients.

      II. Evaluate mechanistic biomarkers including levels of PARP inhibition and deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) damage effects in peripheral blood and marrow samples from patients treated with
      combination therapy.

      III. Evaluate quality of life (QOL) of patients with relapsed/refractory AML treated with
      talazoparib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin.

      IV. Evaluate the number of patients able to proceed onto subsequent hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) following combination therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of talazoparib.

      Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 and gemtuzumab ozogamicin
      intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1, 4, and 7 or day 1 for patients who CR/CRi after
      cycles 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for up to 12 months.
    
  