
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the incidence and severity of graft vs host disease (GVHD) following
      allogeneic bone marrow transplantation with marrow grafts modified by T cell depletion with
      counterflow centrifugal elutriation and CD34+ cell selection in patients at high risk for
      GVHD. II. Determine the incidence of graft failure following this treatment regimen in this
      patient population. III. Determine the relapse rate and overall survival in this patient
      population treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients with unrelated donors, mismatched related donors, or matched related donors
      diagnosed with acute lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, myeloma, or advanced
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML), receive cyclophosphamide IV over 60 minutes on days -6 and -5
      and fractionated total body irradiation (TBI) 3 times a day on days -3 through -1, and twice
      on day 0. Patients receive graft vs host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis with anti-thymocyte
      globulin (ATG) IV over 8 hours on days -2 and -1. Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow
      transplantation (ABMT) on day 0 with marrow grafts modified by T cell depletion with
      counterflow centrifugal elutriation and CD34+ selection. Patients unable to receive TBI due
      to matched or mismatched related donors, or age (56 to 60), or patients diagnosed with
      AML-CR1, chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or myeloproliferative
      disorders with matched related donors, receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 through
      -4, cyclophosphamide IV over 60 minutes on days -3 and -2, and ATG IV over 8 hours on days -2
      and -1 for GVHD prophylaxis. Patients undergo T cell depleted ABMT on day 0. At
      pretransplantation, patients with acute leukemia receive intrathecal (IT) methotrexate (MTX)
      following lumbar puncture. At 48 hours following IT MTX, patients with CNS involvement
      receive a second dose of IT MTX followed by oral leucovorin calcium every 6 hours for 4
      doses. Patients with prior CNS involvement receive cranial radiotherapy for 2 weeks.
      Following AMBT, patients undergo GVHD prophylaxis consisting of methylprednisolone IV every
      12 hours on days 5-22, and then once daily on days 23-28 and cyclosporine IV or orally twice
      daily beginning on day -1 and continuing until 7-9 months following ABMT. Patients are
      followed every 3 months until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  