
    
      Background: Lack of medication compliance is reported as a major factor contributing to
      inadequate control over blood pressure. Data from well-structured and well-conducted
      researches in this field, specifically in the context of developing countries is lacking.

      Rationale: Targeting factors associated with non-adherence identified in this study would
      lead to reduction of the burden of poorly controlled hypertension and its complications. The
      special training of GPs, taken as an intervention in this study, if found successful in
      improving compliance, would be advocated for inclusion in a nation-wide hypertension control
      program.

      Aims:

        1. To assess difference in adherence to antihypertensive medication among hypertensive
           individuals visiting specially trained GPs, versus those visiting untrained GPs.

        2. To assess risk factors associated with non-adherence

      Study Design: Randomised Controlled Trial

      Parent Study: This project stems from the population-based parent study "Population based
      strategies for effective control of high blood pressure in Pakistan"; a factorial design
      study. It is being conducted in twelve middle to low socioeconomic clusters of Karachi. These
      clusters are randomised to care by specially trained general practitioners (GP) vs. untrained
      GPs. Special training of GPs include rigorously training in appropriate algorithms for
      management, and patient involvement in therapeutic decision making.

      Methodology: The target population for this study has been drawn from the parent study. 6
      clusters randomized to the GP training intervention were selected. The specially trained GPs
      from the parent study are the intervention in this research. Hypertensive individuals from
      within the chosen clusters have been randomly selected for enrollment in the study. Patients
      going to specially trained or untrained GPs were taken as exposed or unexposed to the
      intervention, and were followed up for a month and a half months, in order to assess their
      adherence to antihypertensive medication. Adherence was further assessed with the help of the
      Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS), which gives the date and time of when each bottle
      was opened. this method does not however ensure ingestion of the drug.

      Intervention: GPs trained in appropriate algorithms for management and patient involvement in
      therapeutic decision making
    
  