
    
      The subcutaneous implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (S-ICD) should be considered as an
      alternative to transvenous defibrillators in patients with an ICD indication when pacing
      therapy for bradycardia support, cardiac resynchronization or ventricular tachycardia
      management is not necessary.1 This class IIa recommendation from the 2015 ESC guidelines can
      often be applied to patients with inherited channelopathies, since these patients usually
      require decades of ICD therapy without developing a need for any type of pacing support. On
      the other hand, especially in patients with Brugada Syndrome (BrS), the dynamic nature of ECG
      morphology may increase the risk for cardiac T-wave oversensing (TWOS), which has also been
      reported the main cause of inappropriate shocks (IAS) in the general S-ICD population. In
      order to avoid unnecessary sensing issues with the S-ICD, baseline ECG screening is
      recommended prior to the implantation procedure. Recently, it has been shown that eligibility
      failure for S-ICD can occur in up to 13% of patients with an inherited primary arrhythmia
      syndrome and that patients with BrS present the highest rate of screening failure if compared
      with other channelopathies.

      As of yet, this QRS and T-wave morphology assessment can be done with an algorithm-based
      automated screening tool (AST) that mimics the sensing set-up process of the S-ICD after
      implant.

      Recently, a novel 9Hz high-pass filter (SMART Pass, available for all EMBLEM S-ICD models)
      has been introduced to reduce the risk of TWOS with the S-ICD12. This algorithm is only
      available with the S-ICD sensing mechanism and has not been incorporated in the automated
      screening software12. Retrospective modelling of inappropriate shock events recorded in the
      EFFORTLESS registry have shown a reduction in inappropriate shocks by ~80% with SMART Pass
      compared to the first generation sensing algorithm of the S-ICD13. This was achieved without
      affecting the detection and the time to therapy for true ventricular arrhythmias.

      Prospective data are lacking about the effectiveness of SMART Pass to discriminate T-waves in
      patients with dynamic ECG morphologies. This may be of particular interest since the
      occurrence of ECG morphology disturbances is usually difficult to be predicted in individual
      patients. As such, these data will provide additional guidance to the mandatory screening
      process for all S-ICD candidates, in particular for those who have a known risk factor for
      dynamic ECG changes, like patients withBrS. The main objective of this study will be to
      assess the efficacy of S-ICD with SMART Pass to discriminate dynamic T-waves amplitudes and
      morphologies over time.
    
  