
    
      NSABP FB-5 is a Phase II study for women with HER2-positive invasive breast cancer evaluating
      a regimen of epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel plus trastuzumab and
      bevacizumab in two patient cohorts:

        -  Cohort A: Women with unresected locally advanced breast cancer (clinical Stage IIIA,
           IIIB, and IIIC)

        -  Cohort B: Women with resected pN2 or pN3 (pathologic Stage III) breast cancer.

      The primary aims of the study are to determine the rate of cardiac events for all patients
      and the pCR rate in the breast and axillary lymph nodes for Cohort A. Cardiac events will be
      defined as NYHA Class III/IV congestive heart failure and cardiac death. For Cohort A,
      secondary aims of the study include determining the rate of pCR in the breast and the cCR
      rate following the neoadjuvant therapy. The secondary aims also include determining the value
      of the regimen in improving 5-year RFS and 5-year OS and determining the non-cardiac
      toxicities of the regimen in all patients.

      Patients in Cohort A will receive neoadjuvant therapy consisting of epirubicin plus
      cyclophosphamide (EC) every 21 days for 4 cycles plus bevacizumab given on Day 1 of Cycle 4
      only, followed by docetaxel every 21 days for 4 cycles plus bevacizumab every 21 days for the
      initial 3 cycles. Patients will also receive weekly trastuzumab beginning with the first
      cycle of docetaxel and continuing until 1-7 days before surgery. Patients will then have
      breast surgery (lumpectomy or mastectomy) with axillary staging. Approximately 4-6 weeks
      following surgery, bevacizumab and trastuzumab will resume and continue every 3 weeks for 13
      doses to complete one year of targeted therapy.

      Patients in Cohort B will receive adjuvant therapy consisting of EC every 21 days for 4
      cycles followed by docetaxel every 21 days for 4 cycles. Beginning with the first cycle of
      docetaxel, patients will also receive bevacizumab every 21 days for 4 cycles and weekly
      trastuzumab until 3 weeks after the last docetaxel dose. Beginning 3 weeks after the last
      dose of docetaxel, both bevacizumab and trastuzumab will then be given every 3 weeks for 13
      doses to complete 1 year of targeted therapy.

      Cardiac monitoring will be conducted for both cohorts. For Cohort A, LVEF assessments will be
      conducted at baseline, post-EC, 2-4 weeks following surgery (about 6 months from study
      entry), and 9, 12, 15, and 18 months from study entry. For Cohort B, LVEF assessments will be
      conducted at baseline, post-EC, and 6, 9, 12, 15, and 18 months from study entry. The
      preferred method for LVEF assessment is 2-D echocardiogram; however, LVEF assessment by MUGA
      scan is permitted.

      Patient follow-up will continue for 5 years following study entry.

      The FB-5 sample size is 105 patients.
    
  