
    
      This is a Phase 1a/1b clinical trial to assess safety, tolerability and preliminary clinical
      activity of the combination of talazoparib with tazemetostat in metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved talazoparib or tazemetostat for
      metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) but they have been approved for other
      uses. Talazoparib has been approved for use in breast cancer, and tazemetostat has been
      approved for use in certain types of sarcoma and lymphoma.

      Talazoparib is an orally administered molecularly targeted chemotherapy drug called a "PARP
      inhibitor", which acts to block the ability of cancer cells to repair certain forms of damage
      to their DNA - the accumulation of damaged DNA causes certain cancer cells to die. Other PARP
      inhibitors are already approved for use in prostate cancer patients with specific gene
      mutations detected in their blood or in their cancer, and talazoparib is currently being
      studied for treatment of prostate cancer in other clinical trials.

      Tazemetostat is an orally administered molecularly targeted chemotherapy drug called an "EZH2
      inhibitor", which acts to block the production of proteins encoded by DNA in the cancer cells
      that are important in cancer growth and survival. Tazemetostat is also being studied for the
      treatment of prostate cancer in other clinical trials. In the laboratory setting,
      tazemetostat causes changes in protein levels in prostate cancer cells that make them
      sensitive to dying in the presence of PARP inhibitors.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

      The study design involves two parts. The first part is called the "dose escalation" to find a
      safe dose for the combination of talazoparib and tazemetostat. The second part is called the
      "dose expansion" where additional participants are treated at the safe dose identified in the
      first part of the study.

      Participants will receive study treatment for as long as they do not have serious side
      effects and their disease does not get worse. Participants will be followed after completion
      of study treatment for up to 24 months.

      It is expected that about 38 people will take part in this research study.

      Funding for this research is provided by a grant awarded by the non-profit Prostate Cancer
      Foundation along with Pfizer, Inc. In addition, Pfizer is supporting the study by providing
      the study drug talazoparib. Epizyme, Inc. is supporting the study by providing the study drug
      tazemetostat.
    
  