
    
      This is a randomized intervention study with four protocols (MBHP + TAU, ABCT + TAU and TAU)
      to be performed with patients who underwent at least two years of bariatric surgery in 2012
      and 2017 in a private clinic for obesity treatment in Uberlândia - Minas Gerais and who had
      regained weight. The study site will consist of a private obesity treatment clinic located in
      Uberlândia - Minas Gerais, founded in 2011 and which has performed approximately 5000
      gastroplasty. It has an integrated multidisciplinary team composed of 4 doctors (2 bariatric
      surgeons, 1 gastroenterologist and 1 pulmonologist), 3 nutritionists, 2 psychologists and 1
      nurse, who values both the patient's physical and mental health. Participants will be the
      adult patients who underwent gastroplasty (sleeve gastrectomy or Roux-en-Y gastric Bypass)
      from the clinic. All patients will be invited to participate in two support group meetings -
      usual treatment (TAU) - provided by the bariatric surgery clinic of this study. Subsequently,
      participants will be allocated into four groups, MBHP, ABCT and TAU. Participants of the MBHP
      and ABCT groups will also be invited to participate in the respective intervention protocols.
      Participants who remain in the TAU group after phase 2 will be invited to participate in the
      intervention group that has the most benefit to patients. All travel / travel expenses
      incurred by participants will be reimbursed. Measurements and evaluations will be performed 1
      week before baseline (T0), after 2 months, post-intervention period (T1) and 6 months after
      intervention (T2). The following interventions will be performed live and online as follows:
      Patients will meet at the Bariatric Surgery Clinic of that study and instructors will be
      available for each session on scheduled days and times. The MBHP model is a program designed
      to address universal human vulnerabilities, not focusing on any specific health condition.
      Structured and developed over eight weeks (8 sessions), participants meet weekly for an
      average of 2 hours to experience the techniques and conceptual learning about mindfulness,
      and can be adapted to one or 1.5 hour sessions. to be applicable within the contexts of
      health, education and organizations. Participants are also given suggested activities to be
      implemented in a home or work setting on a daily basis, lasting an average of 15-20 minutes
      and up to 45 minutes for more motivated and adherent participants. They are instructed to
      seek to incorporate the idea of mindfulness into their daily lives (activity called informal
      practice), making routine activities somehow an opportunity to use the state of mindfulness.
      The main mindfulness techniques used are mindfulness breathing practice, body scanning
      (technique relatively similar to progressive muscle relaxation), mindfulness walking,
      mindfulness movements, in which lightweight body activities are used. be performed by
      individuals with different levels of ability and with physical limitations. One of the
      sessions (sixth session) is held in silence, with the purpose of deepening the practices 37
      The ABCT is a program based on one of the fundamental psychological constructs that explain
      the interpersonal relationships of individuals, attachment styles. It lasts 8 weeks in which
      participants meet for 2 or 2.5 hours in each meeting. ABCT teaches formal (sitting
      meditation) and informal (during daily life) self-compassion. There are experimental
      exercises and discussion periods in each session, as well as homework, to help participants
      learn how to be kind to themselves. The control group (TAU) and the other participants will
      receive the usual treatment for post-bariatric patients of the clinic in question, which is
      the participation in support groups offered by the bariatric surgery clinic with capacity for
      40 participants, monthly frequency and duration of 2 hours In these meetings there is always
      the presence of a surgeon, a psychologist and another guest professional (endocrinologist,
      nutritionist, speech therapist or dentist), who give a thematic lecture and then there is the
      opening space for doubts and exchange of experiences. All protocol instructors will be
      certified by internationally validated mindfulness institutions with extensive experience in
      conducting MBHP and ABCT groups. The methodological procedures of the present work were
      prepared within the fundamental ethical and scientific procedures, as provided for in
      Resolution No. 466 of December 12, 2012 of the National Health Council of Ministry of Health,
      being approved by the Research Ethics Committee (CEP), by protocol 18529519.5.0000.5505. The
      primary outcome will be the modification of eating behavior (Three factor eating
      questionnaire and Repetitive Eating Questionnaire). Secondary outcomes will be the
      improvement in quality of life (Bariatric analysis and reporting outcome system), body image
      (Brazilian Silhouette Scales for adults and children) and better weight management (weight
      maintenance or reduction). And the explanatory variables are: Level of Mindful Attention
      Awareness Scale, Self-compassion Scale, anxiety, greater adherence to sessions and higher
      frequency of formal practice throughout the study.
    
  