
    
      Effective treatments for PTSD are available, with exposure therapy (ET) programs, including
      Prolonged Exposure (PE), having the most empirical evidence for effectiveness (Rothbaum et
      al., 2000). However, among people receiving treatment for PTSD, many are not receiving
      psychotherapies with empirically proven efficacy. In one VA VISN, only 10% of PTSD specialist
      therapists reported using ET routinely (Rosen et al., 2004). They suggested that a lack of
      training and human resources to provide ET, as well as misconceptions about exposure therapy
      may drive the deficit. Training efforts would be substantially more cost-effective of the
      proven treatments could be delivered in group formats. Development and proof of efficacy of a
      group-based PE would provide far more veterans with access to a treatment that can truly
      foster recovery from the devastating impact of PTSD. This is a central goal of this proposal.

      Little is known about the mechanisms through which PE leads to recovery. Delineation of its
      mechanisms is a critical step towards the development of treatment refinements to improve
      effectiveness and efficiency of the treatment. We plan to examine the potential roles of
      cognitive, psychophysiologic and neuroendocrine factors in symptom improvement. The
      mechanistic component will provide preliminary data on interactions between cognitive change
      (increased sense of self-competence and control over negative outcomes), psychophysiological
      habituation (reduced reactivity to trauma related stimuli), and reduced neuroendocrine
      sensitivity (reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity). We predict that
      cognitive change, psychophysiological habituation and reduced HPA reactivity will all be
      related to symptom improvement with effective treatment.

      Thirty-six OEF/OIF veterans with chronic PTSD of at least 3 months duration will be randomly
      assigned to 15 weeks of twice weekly PE-G or TAU. All veterans will receive psychobiological
      assessments at pre treatment, mid treatment, post treatment, 3 months and 6 months follow-up.
      Each of these assessments will include interview and self-report of symptoms (i.e., PTSD,
      depression, and general anxiety severity), self-report of PTSD-related cognitions,
      psychophysiological (i.e., heart rate, skin conductance, respiration, and end-tidal CO2)
      assessment during neutral and trauma scripts, and assessment of salivary cortisol during
      neutral and trauma scripts. Also, on the morning prior to each laboratory assessment,
      patients will collect salivary cortisol at the moment of waking and 30 and 45 minutes
      post-walking. The results from this study will be used as pilot data for VA Merit Award and
      NIMH R01 applications for larger follow-up studies.
    
  