
    
      The overall aim of the study is to utilize Knowledge Translation strategies to disseminate
      culturally appropriate guidelines for early detection, surveillance, and early intervention
      for infants at risk for CP.

      Primary objectives A1 To optimize the context-specific health programs for early detection of
      CP through the implementation of a tailored multifaceted knowledge translation strategy, in
      >500 infants with CP from Tuscany (Italy); Denmark; Netherlands, Georgia, Sri Lanka, and
      rural/ remote Australia (QLD, WA).

      The investigators will also evaluate health care resource usage following the implementation
      of our translation strategy compared with a two-year period prior to the implementation- e.g.
      costs of early detection and targeted surveillance, targeting infants with CP (costs and
      consequences/outcomes of surveillance and intervention).

      H1 Our hypothesis is that, compared with usual care, implementation of our translation
      strategy will increase the proportion of children that receive a diagnosis of CP <6 months of
      age from ~25% to >60%, as measured by CP Registers. Additional costs of screening and
      surveillance in our translation strategy will be off-set by targeting the highest risk babies
      earlier. Health care costs and usage will be focused on the most at-risk group, leading to
      improved outcomes across all children (costs/consequences analysis).

      A2 To optimize the context-specific health programs for early surveillance of associated
      impairments and functional limitations of infants with CP, thereby fostering individualised
      (needs-based patient specific) early intervention and preventing secondary complications
      (e.g. hip dislocation, feeding disorders). The investigators will evaluate the early
      developmental trajectory of CP in infants aged 0-2 years and parental mental health to inform
      early intervention and surveillance needs to improve prediction of outcomes. The
      investigators will also compare the rates of hip displacement at 2 years following the
      implementation of our translation strategy compared with usual care (i.e. proportion of
      children with migration percentage >30%).

      H2 Our hypothesis is that the natural history of CP in infants aged 0-2 years will differ
      according to motor severity, with different trajectories identified as early as 6 months'
      corrected age. The investigators also predict a reduction in the rate of hip displacement
      from 33% in current practice to <10% following the implementation of our translation strategy
      (consistent with Scandinavian screening programs).

      A3 To optimize the context-specific health programs for early intervention in infants with
      CP, thereby improving the outcomes of both the infant and the caregivers. In Low- and
      Middle-Income Countries (LMIC) and hard-to-reach populations the investigators will also
      implement a community-based, parent delivered early intervention program for infants at high
      risk of CP (LEAP-CP).

      H3 Our hypothesis is that infants with CP who receive the multi-domain intervention will have
      better motor development (Peabody DMS), social- emotional development on the Infant-Toddler
      Social Emotional Assessment (ITSEA), cognitive development (Bayley Scale of Infant
      Development (BSID III)) compared to infants receiving care as usual. Caregivers who receive
      the multi-domain intervention will have reduced scores on the Depression, Anxiety and Stress
      Scale compared to caregivers receiving care as usual.

      Based on the aims listed above, there will be 3 parallel studies within the protocol:

      A: Healthcare Providers Observational Study B: Infant Prospective Observational study C:
      Infant wait-list Randomised Controlled Trial of LEAP-CP, a home - based early intervention
      (Georgia, Sri-Lanka and remote Australia only, RCT (randomized controlled trial) registered
      separately with ANZCTR)
    
  