
    
      The CGCI system is comprised of (a) magnetic chamber of eight electromagnets around the
      patient torso, (b) the Maxwell ©, a 7Fr. Inquiry™ catheter with an attached magnetic pellet
      manufactured by St. Jude Medical, Inc. The Maxwell © is equivalent to a 7 Fr. Inquiry™
      cleared under 510(K) K022380, and (c) a Agilis ES Active Sheath© which is a modified 7.5 Fr.
      Steerable Introducer is equivalent to the Agilis NxT™ Steerable Introducer, manufactured by
      St. Jude Medical, Inc. and cleared under 510(K) K061363.

      Study Rationale: Current manual manipulations of mapping catheters are imprecise and
      difficult to control. The Magnetecs CGCI system enables almost real time manipulation of the
      Maxwell mapping catheter which results in accurate, repeatable, rapid and safe target
      acquisition. The CGCI System is intended to navigate a magnetic catheter within the four
      chambers of the human heart by orienting and moving the catheter tip to designated
      anatomically significant targets.

      Design: A prospective, non-randomized, clinical trial designed to test the study hypotheses
      of (a) technical equivalence of the study device in comparison to other magnetic remote
      navigation systems, (b) performance equivalence or non-inferiority of the study device target
      acquisition capability compared to presently used catheter navigation techniques, and (c)
      safety equivalence or non-inferiority of the study device in comparison to catheter
      navigation devices using other navigation techniques.

      Target Population:Patients who have recurrent cardiac rhythm disturbances and who meet
      clinically recognized indications for performance of an intracardiac mapping procedure.

      Planned Number of Subjects: A total of 40 patients

      Study Objectives: This study is designed to collect data to test the target acquisition
      performance efficacy and safety of the CGCI for intracardiac navigation.

      The objective is to achieve the navigation performance criteria for the primary efficacy
      endpoints for reaching preselected anatomically significant targets in the right and left
      heart chambers, respectively. The secondary efficacy endpoints are obtained by measurements
      of stimulation thresholds at selected anatomic sites, and by analyzing surface and
      intracardiac signal recordings during target acquisition with the CGCI magnetic system.

      The primary safety endpoints are defined as the rate of procedure related incidence of
      serious acute Adverse Events due to manipulation of the magnetic catheter. Verification of
      these adverse events will be by fluoroscopy, echocardiograms and physician observations, and
      the results will be subjected to statistical evaluation.

      The claims of substantial technical equivalence to other magnetic remote navigation systems
      will be verified by collecting data at the outset of each clinical procedure, measuring
      maximum magnetic field strength at the center region and around the outside perimeter of the
      CGCI device, and by measuring the maximum force available at the catheter tip.

      Success will be evaluated in accordance with the primary efficacy and safety endpoint
      specifications, and by the technical equivalency tests. Data collection and sample size are
      defined to comply with FDA (1992) 80/20 ruling to adequately power the hypothesis tests.

      Investigational Site: Hospital Universitario La Paz P. Castellana, 216. 28046 Madrid, Spain
      Tel/ Fax: + 34 917277564

      Participating Physicians: Dr. Jose Luis Merino, Dr. Vivek Reddy, Dr. Eli Gang, Dr. Armando
      Perez Silva, Dr. Sara Moreno Reviriego, Dr. Sergio Castrejon, Dr. Alejandro Estrada, Dr.
      David Doiny, Dr. Bich-Lien Nguyen, Dr. Petr Neuzil, Dr. Andre D'Avila.
    
  