
    
      During the last decades the refractive outcome after cataract surgery improved significantly.

      The total prediction error in IOL power calculation (and therefore in the refractive outcome)
      can be divided into 3 main parameters:

        -  Axial eye length (in mm)

        -  Corneal power (in dioptres)

        -  Estimation of post-operative anterior chamber depth (ACD) (in mm)

      Since the introduction of optical biometry (IOLMaster, Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena, Germany),
      as a reliable non-contact measurement of the axial eye length the influence of the error of
      axial length measurement on the refractive error decreased from over 50% (when measured with
      applanation ultrasound) to 36%. The mean error of corneal power measurement is approximately
      22%.

      These results show that the estimation of the post-operative intra-ocular lens (IOL) position
      and therefore the estimated anterior chamber depth (ACD) is nowadays the main source of error
      (35%to 42%) in IOL power calculation and therefore for the refractive outcome of the patients
      after cataract surgery.

      Early IOL power calculation formulas, such as the Binkhorst I formula, used a fixed ACD value
      to predict the position of the IOL, but the refractive results were not appropriate, because
      the post-operative position of the IOL varied significantly between patients. Later
      observations showed a correlation between the axial eye length and the post-operative ACD
      (longer=more myopic eyes showed a larger ACD post-operatively). These correlations were taken
      into account in later developed formulas (such as the Binkhorst II formula).

      Olsen et al. measured the post-operative ACD and substituted the predicted post-operative ACD
      with the true, post-operative ACD in each case. The result after correcting the IOL position
      was a highly accurate IOL power calculation, where no fudge factors were needed.

      Nowadays the pre-operatively measured ACD is taken into account for several IOL power
      calculation formulas, such as the Haigis formula, the Holladay II formula and the Olsen
      formula.

      However, this new generation of formulas uses the pre-operative ACD, without considering the
      thickness of the crystalline lens. The ACD is measured as the distance between the anterior
      surface of the cornea (anatomically correct would be the posterior surface of the cornea, but
      in an optical context, as in IOL power calculations, the anterior surface is used) and the
      anterior surface of the crystalline lens . Therefore the thickness of the crystalline lens
      has a significant impact on the predicted post-operative position of the IOL. This parameter
      was first taken into account by Olsen and later modified by Norrby.

      It should be mentioned that IOL power calculations developed from theoretical calculations
      based on Gaussian optics to regression formulas, such as the SRK formula 11 that uses
      retrospective data of a large number of patients. Nowadays ray tracing is available that uses
      a numerical solution to calculate the IOL power.

      All these findings suggest that a proper measurement of the position and the size of the
      crystalline lens as well as of the lens capsule after removing the crystalline lens is
      necessary to improve IOL power calculation.

      Recently a device was introduced that allows measurements of the crystalline lens as well as
      the lens capsule itself after removing the crystalline lens of cataract patients
      intra-operatively. This device uses optical coherence tomography (OCT) technology to create
      high resolution B-scans (=images) of the anterior segment of the eye. The OCT was shown to be
      highly reproducible for ACD measurements pre-operatively and small changes of the
      IOL/crystalline lens can be detected.

      The intra-operative OCT may allow measurements of the crystalline lens, of the lens capsule
      and furthermore of the position of the IOL intra-operatively. Therefore it may be possible
      for the first time, to directly observe the correlation of the position and size of the
      crystalline lens to the IOL position intra-operatively.

      Number of subjects In total, 50 eyes of 50 subjects will be included.

        -  Standard eyes (IOL power 18 - 23 D): 30 eyes

        -  Long (myopic) eyes (IOL power < 18 D) - 10 eyes

        -  Short (hyperopic) eyes (IOL power > 23 D) - 10 eyes

      Study Visits On the day of pre-operative examination, the patient will undergo a full
      ophthalmic assessment and routine biometry will be performed for axial length measurement and
      Keratometry (IOLMaster, Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena, Germany). Furthermore pre-operatively
      the ACD and lens thickness (LT) will be measured (ACMaster, Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena,
      Germany).

      Surgery is performed in topical anaesthesia. The standard preoperative therapy is tropicamide
      1% gtt, phenylephrine 2.5% gtt, cyclopentolate 1% gtt. An on-axis self-sealing incision,
      injection of viscoelastic substance, capsulorhexis, phacoemulsification,
      irrigation/aspiration of cortical material are performed as standard procedure. After
      measurement, the IOL will be implanted using the dedicated injector system.

      Intra-operative study-related measurements:

      OCT scans will be performed at 4 different stages intra-operatively:

        1. At the beginning of the surgery

        2. After removing the natural crystalline lens with phakoemulsification and
           irrigation/aspiration (I/A). The infusion handpiece of the I/A set (that is used
           routinely) will be placed into the paracentesis and the bottle height will be adjusted
           to control the pressure in the anterior chamber. It will be set to result in an
           estimated pressure of approximately 20mmHg. Therefore a hydraulic table with memory
           function will be used that can be set at exactly the same height for each patient and
           the infusion bottle will be placed at a height of 27cm above the eye (27.2cmH2O =
           20mmHg). Then an OCT scan will be performed.

        3. Then ophthalmic viscosurgical device (OVD) is inserted and a capsular tension ring (CTR)
           will be implanted. Therefore the OVD is irrigated and aspirated and the measurement
           repeated.

        4. Afterwards the IOL is implanted and the viscoelastic is removed.

      Outcome variables

      Main outcome variable:

        -  Intra-operative posterior capsule position with CTR in place Additional outcome variable

        -  Posterior capsule position in phakic eyes

        -  Posterior capsule position intra-operatively without CTR

        -  Comparison of posterior capsule position of eyes with different axial eye length
    
  