
    
      The MAPT PLUS study is a follow-up of subjects initially included in an interventional study.
      The follow-up that we propose in this request for funding does not involve any intervention,
      but aims to assess the long-term effect of the interventions previously carried out during
      the three years of the MAPT study.

      * Description of the interventions to which subjects are exposed during the first 3 years of
      follow-up (MAPT study) :

      In the MAPT study, subjects are randomized into 4 groups:

        -  V0137 CA group: 2 soft capsules of V0137 CA once a day (2 x 400 mg/day);

        -  Multi-domain intervention group (nutrition, physical activity, cognitive stimulation,
           social activities) + placebo, 2 soft capsules once a day ;

        -  Multi-domain intervention group (nutrition, physical activity, cognitive stimulation,
           social activities) + V0137 CA, 2 soft capsules once a day ;

        -  Placebo group: 2 soft capsules of placebo once a day. * Description of the multidomain
           intervention : The multi-domain intervention consists of collective training sessions
           and a yearly personalized preventive consultation which aims to detect risk factors
           (sensory disturbances, difficulty in walking, nutritional disturbances, vascular risk
           factors) and to set up management in collaboration with the general practitioner.

      The collective sessions take place in groups of 6 to 8 subjects. In the first month, two
      sessions a week are scheduled, and in the second month, one session a week. The first two
      months correspond to the intensive programme. Each session comprises 1 hour of cognitive
      training, 45 minutes of information on physical activity and 15 minutes of dietary advice.
      From the third month, sessions are held monthly and aim to consolidate the key messages and
      to stimulate adherence to the programme. The sessions are shorter (1 hour review of one of
      the domains of the intensive programme). " Booster " sessions (2 hours) are delivered at 12
      and 24 months after the first sessions of the intensive programme. Twenty-minute individual
      interviews also take place every 6 months with the leader of the training sessions (6
      interviews in the course of 3 years).
    
  