
    
      Volume expansion is frequently used to treat critically ill patients with acute circulatory
      failure. The goal of volume expansion is to increase left ventricular stroke volume and
      consequently cardiac output. However, about 50% of patients with acute circulatory failure
      will respond to fluid challenge (preload- dependent patients). Therefore, the ability to
      predict fluid responsiveness in critically ill patients is crucial, particularly for ARDS
      patients because of increased alveolar-capillary membrane permeability, and avoiding
      unnecessary fluid loading has been shown to have a positive effect on patient outcome.Among
      the dynamic parameters used at the bedside to identify fluid responsiveness, pulse pressure
      variation (ΔRESPPP) is one of the most accurate in patients with acute circulatory failure
      receiving invasive mechanical ventilation. However, most studies evaluated patients
      ventilated with large tidal volumes (≥ 8 ml/kg). Therefore, the validity of ΔRESPPP to
      identify fluid responsiveness is still debated when lower tidal volumes are used.

      The current literature about its performance during ventilation with low tidal volumes is
      unclear, and opposite conclusions have been drawn. The present study was designed to (1)
      determine the value of ΔRESPPP to predict fluid responsiveness in patients ventilated with
      low tidal volumes, and (2) to investigate whether a lower ΔRESPPP cut-off point should be
      used when patients are ventilated with low tidal volumes.

      Methods: This cross-sectional, observational study included 37 critically ill patients with
      acute circulatory failure requiring fluid challenge. They were sedated and mechanically
      ventilated with Tidal Volume (VT) 6-7 ml/kg IBW (ideal body weight), monitored by pulmonary
      artery catheter and arterial line. Mechanical ventilation and hemodynamic parameters,
      including ΔRESPPP, were measured before and after fluid challenge with 1,000 ml crystalloids
      or 500 ml colloids. Fluid responsiveness was defined as an increase of at least 15% in
      cardiac index.

      Patients were followed for 28 days or until discharge from the ICU.

      Study Protocol Patients were sedated with midazolan and fentanyl (score of -4 to -5 in the
      Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale)and ventilated in controlled pressure or controlled volume
      mode (Servo I system v.12 or Servo 900 C, Siemens, Sweden) with VT < 8 ml/kg IBW (51 +
      0.9[height in cm- 152.9] for men and 45.5 + 0.91[height in cm- 152.9] for women). Ventilatory
      and hemodynamic variables were measured before and after FC with the patients in a supine
      position. Zero pressure was measured at the midaxillary line. The correct position of the
      pulmonary artery catheter in West's zone 3 was checked as described in the literature.

      Fluid challenge was performed with 1000 ml 0.9% saline solution or lactated Ringer's solution
      (n=36) or 500 ml hydroxy-ethyl-starch solution 6% 130/0.4 for 30 minutes (n=2).

      Hemodynamic Parameters

      Variations in arterial pulse pressure were visualized on bedside monitors (HP S66 and PHILIPS
      IntelliVue, MP60, Germany) and measured with the cursor for each of 5 breathing cycles.
      ΔRESPPP was calculated using the following equation:

      ΔRESPPP (%) = 100 x (PPmax - PPmin) / [(PPmax + PPmin)/2]

      where PPmax and PPmin are the maximal pulse pressure at inspiration and the pulse pressure
      obtained on expiration, respectively.

      A pulmonary artery catheter (Edwards Healthcare, Irvine, CA) was used to measure cardiac
      output according to the thermal dilution method (3 injections of 10ml 0.9% saline solution),
      systolic, diastolic and mean pulmonary arterial pressures, pulmonary artery occlusion
      pressure (PAOP, mmHg), central venous pressure (CVP, mmHg), and mixed venous saturation
      (SvO2). Mean arterial pressure (MAP, mmHg), measured using the arterial line, and heart rate
      (HR, bpm) were also recorded. All measurements were made at the end of expiration, before and
      after FC. Patients were defined as fluid responders when cardiac index increased at least 15%
      of baseline value.

      Ventilation Parameters The following ventilatory parameters were measured: inspiratory and
      expiratory tidal volume, respiratory rate (RR), plateau pressure (cmH2O), peak pressure
      (cmH2O), total positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEPtot), static compliance (Cst) and
      driving pressure (DP= Pplat-PEEP). All measurements were made before and after FC.

      Statistical Analysis Sample size was defined as 38 patients for estimation of the correlation
      between CI and ΔRESPPP 0.5 (moderate to high magnitude), with a level of significance of 0.05
      and power of 90%.

      The effects of FC on hemodynamic parameters were assessed using a paired Student's t-test for
      normally distributed variables or a nonparametric Wilcoxon Signed Rank test for non-normally
      distributed variables. The comparison of hemodynamic parameters between both groups at
      baseline and after FC was assessed using a two sample Student's t-test or a nonparametric
      Mann-Whitney U test. Results were expressed as mean values±SD or median (25-75 percentiles).

      Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed to evaluate the ability of
      ΔRESPPP, ΔRESPPP/DP, CVP and PAOP to predict fluid responsiveness. The best cut-off value for
      ΔRESPPP ROC curve was determined for the entire population. In addition, measures of
      diagnostic performance were calculated: sensitivity, specificity, predictive values and
      likelihood ratio. Linear correlations were tested using the Spearman rank method. Data were
      analyzed using SPSS 15.0. A p value <0.05 was considered significant.
    
  