
    
      Approximately 16,700,000 people are diagnosed with breast cancer (BC) worldwide each year,
      with 500,000 people dying annually. In the UK alone, each year nearly 62,000 people are
      diagnosed with BC, with one in eight women developing BC in their lifetime. Breast cancers
      are currently treated with a combination of chemotherapy, targeted therapy and surgery.
      However, breast cancers are not identical; each tumour's individual characteristics affect
      how they respond to treatment. In many cases, treatment options are limited and patients are
      often given sub-optimal treatments which are associated with burdensome side effects. For
      instance, despite chemotherapy being offered to about 60-70% of patients with BC, either
      alone or in combination with other targeted therapies, results from a meta-analysis of 123
      randomised trials including more than 100,000 patients has shown that chemotherapy reduces
      recurrence and mortality in only 20 to 33% of patients. Therefore, 80-67% of patients endured
      this aggressive chemotherapy treatment and did not benefit; unnecessarily suffering the
      serious physical and emotional side effects, including a risk of permanent heart damage.
      Currently, there is no predictive test for selecting which patients will benefit from
      receiving chemotherapy and which will not.

      In clinical practice, the decision to use chemotherapy or not depends on evaluating the risk
      of recurrence and prognosis by interpreting prognostic clinicopathological features including
      high cost multi-gene tests such as Oncotype DX (Genomic Health Inc.), Mamma-Print (Agendia),
      and PAM50 (NanoString). Unfortunately, almost all these molecular approaches share common
      issues, such as insufficiently high levels of evidence, overfitting of computational models,
      and high false discovery rates. Furthermore, they might not be available for clinical,
      logistical or financial reasons. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a cost effective,
      reliable, sensitive, specific, validated biomarker based approach for optimising chemotherapy
      treatments in patients with BC.

      Recently, the investigators have shown that an accurate prediction can be made by testing the
      activity of a protein called 'SPerm associated AntiGen 5' (SPAG5) in tumour tissue. In a
      study, published in Lancet Oncology (2016), the investigators showed that SPAG5 gene
      amplification, as well as SPAG5 transcript and SPAG5 protein overexpression, were all
      associated with poor clinical outcome, and were independent predictors for chemotherapy
      response.

      The prognostic and predictive power of SPAG5 outperforms many currently used tests including:
      the standard cancer proliferation index (Ki67), prognostic clinicopathological factors such
      as the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage and Nottingham Prognostic Index, as
      well as other currently available multigene-tests including PAM-50, 96-gene genomic grade
      index, Genomic Chemo Sensitivity Predictor, the Diagonal Linear Discrimination Analysis of
      30-gene signature, and the Adjuvant Online index.

      The most immediately useful aspect of our original findings is the potential ability to
      distinguish those patients with BC who are likely to benefit from standard Anthracycline
      combination (AC) chemotherapy regimens from those who will not. Therefore our findings have
      the potential to deliver an accurate predictive biomarker for chemotherapy response in BC
      which would enable the effective tailoring of treatment to the individual patient.
      Furthermore, the analysis of SPAG5 expression could underpin the development of novel
      strategies for more effective management and treatment of the disease.

      The work undertaken by the investigators on SPAG5 testing has relied on a commercially
      available polyclonal antibody (PAb) against SPAG5 marketed by Sigma Aldrich and produced by
      Atlas Antibodies. This has a number of problems when aiming to develop a SPAG5 based clinical
      test. Firstly, a PAb is a mixture of antibodies and so it lacks specificity and sensitivity.
      Also, as a PAb it is extracted directly from an animal, constraining the supply and placing a
      finite limit on the availability of the antibody, as the animal will die one day ending our
      ability to provide the test. Thirdly, the PAb is owned by a company and so the cost and
      availability of any test will be subject to that company's decision. Therefore it is
      essential to develop a monoclonal antibody (MAb) that is suitable for immunohistochemistry
      staining of Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) tissue.

      To overcome these problems the investigators chose to develop a SPAG5 targeting MAb that can
      be taken through the evaluation, clinical testing and regulatory approval process to become a
      SPAG5 clinical test. Moreover, once the MAb is developed, the validation of previous results
      will be carried out on a large number of BC cases to verify the prognostic and predictive
      powers of the antibody. In addition, the predictive utility for chemo-sensitivity of SPAG5
      MAb and PAb will be compared to each other and to rival Immunohistochemistry (IHC) tests such
      as Ki67 and the rival gene expression tests. A bespoke gene panel will be developed for the
      nanoString nCounter™ FLEX instrument, featuring genes used in PAM-50, 21-gene recurrence
      Genomic-Chemo-Sensitivity-Predictor, and the 30-gene-DLDA tests, alongside SPAG5 and Ki67.

      In June 2018 the investigators were granted funding to pursue this work by the NIHR Invention
      for innovation grant program.
    
  