
    
      This is a randomized (participants are assigned to intervention groups by chance), open-label
      (both physicians and participants know the identity of the assigned treatment),
      active-controlled, multi-center safety study of rivaroxaban or VKA before and after a
      catheter ablation procedure. This study requires collaboration with medical institutions that
      provide access to electrophysiologists who normally perform the catheter ablation procedure.
      In this study, NVAF is to be defined as the presence of AF in a person who does not have a
      prosthetic heart valve (annuloplasty with or without prosthetic ring, commissurotomy and/or
      valvuloplasty are permitted) and who does not have hemodynamically significant mitral valve
      stenosis. Approximately 250 eligible participants, age 18 years or older, with a history of
      paroxysmal, persistent, or long standing persistent NVAF who are scheduled to undergo an
      elective catheter ablation procedure will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either
      rivaroxaban 20 mg orally, once-daily, administered preferably with the evening meal or VKA
      (adjusted to achieve a recommended International Normalized Ratio of 2.0 to 3.0).

      The study will consist of a screening period, a pre-procedure period, procedure period and
      post-procedure period. The screening period will begin up to 2 weeks prior to randomization.
      Participants will be randomized at the beginning of the pre-procedure period. During this
      period, participants will be recommended to receive their assigned treatment for at least 4
      weeks (maximum of 5 weeks) before the catheter ablation procedure. For participants with the
      sufficient anticoagulation, documented for the 3 weeks prior to randomization, and for
      participants with a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) or intracardiac echocardiography
      (ICE), the length of the pre-procedure period may be reduced down to 1-7 days and must
      include any transition from the previous anticoagulation therapy to randomized study drug.

      After the catheter ablation procedure, participants will receive their post-procedure dose of
      study drug through a minimum of 30 + - 5 days. In addition to scheduled visits and telephone
      calls the study may also include additional phone calls and visits by the participant to the
      site when dose adjustment is required for usual care.
    
  