
    
      Objectives: 1.To implement an electronic CRC screening event notification system intervention
      to improve complete evaluation of patients with a positive FOBT at four of eight VAMCs
      randomized to this intervention vs usual care.

      2.To conduct a qualitative evaluation to identify implementation barriers and facilitators,
      and to guide modifications of the CRC-ENS. 3.To conduct an outcome evaluation to determine
      the effectiveness of the intervention to:

      a. increase the proportion of patients with a positive FOBT receiving CDE. b. reduce the
      time-lag between notification of a positive FOBT result and scheduling of a follow-up
      endoscopic procedure. 4. To improve patient compliance with follow-up recommendations through
      combined scheduling.

      Methods: The CRC-ENS intervention employs a relatively simple alteration to the current
      electronic mechanism for notifying the primary care provider (PCP) of when a positive FOBT is
      recorded. With the CRC-ENS, this notification will be forwarded to the gastroenterology (GI)
      clinic as well as the PCP. This notification at the GI clinic will set off a cascade of
      events that would normally only be triggered by a consult request from the PCP. In this
      translation study, eight participating VHA sites will be randomly assigned to either the
      CRC-ENS intervention or usual care group. The proposed project will take two years to
      complete. During the first project year, the participating sites will be recruited and
      randomized. Pre-intervention change of awareness strategies will be initiated at all
      intervention sites. The CRC-ENS intervention will be implemented in the second project year,
      and formative evaluation (including two sets of focus groups) will be carried out throughout
      the intervention period. Post-intervention data collection, outcome evaluation and
      dissemination of results will be carried out in months 18-24.
    
  