
    
      Background:

      Anoxic/ischemic brain injury is the most common cause of death among comatose survivors of
      cardiac arrest (CA). The neurological prognosis of these patients is assessed using the
      multimodal prognostication model, which includes several methods. Somatosensory Evoked
      Potentials (SSEP) and Pupillary Light Reflex (PLR) are key methods for prognostication, as
      both have low false positive rates. Though they assess different functions of the brain, they
      should both be sensitive to severe anoxic/ischemic injury from cardiac arrest. The primary
      aim of the study is to describe the association between PLR quantified as the Neurological
      Pupil index (NPi) and bilateral absence of the cortical SSEP signal in patients remaining
      comatose after cardiac arrest. The secondary aim is to define a NPi cut-off value that
      renders a false positive rate (FPR) of less than 5% for a bilaterally absent SSEP response.

      Methods:

      An explorative, prospective, observational, cohort of 50 adult (>18 years) comatose survivors
      of CA admitted to the intensive care unit at Sahlgrenska University Hospital. The results
      from routine SSEP performed > 48 hours after CA and PLR assessed using NPi calculated by
      automated pupillometry are compared. Neurological outcome at hospital discharge is classified
      using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS), where poor neurological outcome is defined by mRS 4-6.

      Statistical analysis:

      In order to find a significant difference in NPi of 0.7 with a power of 95% with two-sided
      Fisher's non-parametric permutation test, 45 patients are needed assuming allocation 2:1 and
      unequal SD in the groups 0.37 and 0.67, calculated from the IQR above, and significance level
      0.01. To account for uncertainty within these estimates, we aim to include 50 patients with a
      complete protocol.

      A receiver operating characteristics curve (ROC-curve) will be used to find the NPi cut-off
      values resulting in a false positive rate of less than 5% for absent SSEP to predict poor
      neurological outcome. NPi values below the cut-off i.e., values consistent with poor outcome,
      will be used to calculate the predictive value for SSEP at its given prevalence. Fisher's
      exact test will be used to assess correlation between NPi and SSEP.

      Discussion:

      A clear correlation between the absence of cortical SSEP response and NPi values will permit
      application of the adequate method to the individual patient. This may also enable
      rationalisation of the multimodal assessment of the neurological prognosistication using a
      smaller number of methods. In clinical practice, this may render the prognostication of
      neurological function of comatose patients after cardiac arrest more accurate, as well as
      more cost- and time efficient.
    
  