
    
      STUDY DESIGN: This will be a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study where patients
      will receive an evening dose of either aclidinium/formoterol (ACL/FOR) or placebo after
      steady-state conditions on twice-daily ACL/FOR have been established. Patients will continue
      to take the same dosage of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) as they did prior to study entry.
      Subjects will complete 4 visits as part of the study, with a fifth follow-up visit if
      required to ensure return to pre-study health status. After an initial screening visit (Visit
      1) to confirm eligibility and a 1-week run-in period on stable triple therapy [long-acting
      beta2-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) + long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)],
      subjects will complete baseline testing (Visit 2) which includes: full pulmonary function
      tests, sleep/symptom questionnaires, and polysomnography which will include periodic
      measurements of overnight spirometry (sitting and supine). Subjects will then receive 2-week
      treatment with twice-daily ACL/FOR and continue on the same ICS as during the baseline
      run-in. Once stability on treatment with ACL/FOR and ICS is established, there will be two
      overnight treatment visits (Visits 3 and 4), conducted 3-7 days apart to allow for return to
      normal sleep status between. For these visits, the evening dose of ACL/FOR versus placebo
      will be randomized to treatment order. Treatment visits will be similar to visit 2 but will
      include overnight measurements of respiratory mechanics (diaphragm electromyography and
      respiratory pressures). Short-acting bronchodilators will be withheld for at least 8 hours
      prior to visits.

      SAMPLE SIZE: This is an exploratory physiological study with the primary outcome being an
      improvement in morning pre-dose trough inspiratory capacity (IC) by 200 ml. A sample size of
      20 will provide at least 80% to detect this treatment difference based on a standard
      deviation (SD) of approximately 0.2 L for a response difference in trough IC (vanNoord,
      2006), a two-tailed test and a p<0.05. The investigators anticipate that all patients will
      not consent to instrumentation; however, the investigators are hoping for n=12 with
      respiratory mechanical measurements. Due to the complexity of the study and its measurements,
      an interim analysis will be conducted after 10 subjects have been completed.
    
  