
    
      Although anticoagulation targets and monitoring strategies vary around the world, the current
      practice is still to anticoagulate patients on ECMO, mostly with UFH. However, the use of
      heparin coated circuits has changed their thrombogenicity. Preliminary data suggest that a
      low-dose unfractionated heparin (UFH) strategy is non-inferior to a therapeutic dose UFH.
      Indeed, in daily practice, when a patient on ECMO has severe bleeding complications, UFH is
      often stopped until the hemorrhagic issue is under control, sometimes for days. This has led
      some to hypothesize that anticoagulation might not be necessary for VV-ECMO, and a few case
      series report little to no increase in adverse events as a result. There are currently no
      randomized controlled trials comparing anticoagulation to no anticoagulation for patients
      supported with ECMO. Anticoagulation is, for physiological reasons, less necessary during
      VV-ECMO than VA-ECMO and this is the reason why our pilot study will focus on VV-ECMO only.
      Whereas the whole ECMO device is identical for both configurations, the risk of systemic
      embolization (e.g., stroke) and its severe complications is much higher in VA-ECMO where
      blood is reinjected directly into the systemic arterial system. Moreover, in the presence of
      severely decreased left ventricular function requiring VA-ECMO, the risk of left ventricular
      thrombus is very high and requires anticoagulation. During VV-ECMO, the risk of systemic
      embolization is low because the whole circuit is on the right side of the heart and
      relatively preserved biventricular function is needed to perform VV-ECMO

      The hypothesis is that VV-ECMO is safe and feasible without therapeutic anticoagulation for
      adults with ARDS.

      The objectives of this study is to assess, through a pilot study, the safety and feasibility
      of an "anticoagulation free strategy" for veno-venous ECMO (VV-ECMO) in acute respiratory
      failure
    
  