
    
      Routine immunization (RI) is an important tool to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goal
      (MDG) 4 of reducing child mortality by ensuring childhood protection from infectious disease.
      Recent 2013 estimates found that of approximately 6.3 million children died before their
      fifth birthday, with 51.8% (3.3 million) of these deaths attributed to infectious diseases
      (Liu et al., 2014). In regards to vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs), pneumonia (935,000
      deaths) and diarrhea (578,000 deaths) were responsible for the most deaths. Measles,
      pertussis, tetanus, and meningitis, four other vaccine preventable diseases, were responsible
      for 362,000 deaths in children under five years old. (Liu et al., 2014)

      Vaccination is one of the most cost-effective interventions for increasing childhood
      survival. (WHO, 2009). Global estimates find that current immunization programs save over 2.5
      million lives a year (WHO, 2009). Despite the lifesaving potential of vaccines, in 2012
      approximately 17% of children, or about 23 million infants, did not receive all the scheduled
      vaccines (CDC, 2013) and if they were immunized, they often received the vaccinations late
      (Clark & Sanderson, 2009).

      In 1985, the Government of India launched the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) to
      protect all infants (0-12 months) against six preventable diseases: tuberculosis, diphtheria,
      pertussis, tetanus, poliomyelitis, and measles. The goal of UIP was to ensure 100% coverage
      of all eligible children with one dose of BCG, three doses of DTP and OPV, and one dose of
      the measles vaccine. According to the Coverage Evaluation Survey (CES) 2009, a nationwide
      survey covering all States and Union Territories of India conducted during November 2009 to
      January 2010 by UNICEF, the national fully immunized coverage (FIC) against the six vaccines
      included in UIP in the age-group of 12-23 month old children was just 61% (CES, 2009).
      Coverage with third dose of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine (DTP3) is a widely
      accepted global indicator for RI program performance (Lim SS, et al. 2008). India national
      estimates found DTP3 coverage was 72% (WHO India 2011), against a global target of 90%. The
      District Level Health Survey 3 (DLHS 3) findings suggest that the retention rate of childhood
      immunization was in maximum decline between the second round of DT and polio - 70 % and the
      third round - 56 % (Shekhar & Yadav, 2013).

      The proposed study site, the Udaipur district of Rajasthan, has traditionally had lower
      immunization estimates than national levels while also performing poorly in other key
      developmental indicators: infant mortality rate (IMR) is 47 per 1000 live births (SRS
      Bulletin, 2014, GoI) and maternal mortality rate (MMR) is 244 per 100,000 women of
      reproductive age (MMR Bulletin, 2013).

      To counter the long-standing deficiencies in immunization coverage and other health outcomes,
      a non-governmental organization (NGO) named Seva Mandir began operations in the area starting
      in 2004. Seva Mandir, has had a long standing relationship with over 700 villages in
      Rajasthan, with 105 villages participating in their immunization program. Immunization camps
      take place at regular, expected intervals throughout the month so caregivers are aware of
      when the scheduled camps will take place. This study area and its partners have conducted a
      seminal randomized controlled trial on non-monetary incentives to improve immunization
      coverage (Banerjee A, et al., 2010).

      Although there has been a renewed global focus on improving immunization coverage levels
      (Alonso PL, et al., 2013; Berkley S, et al., 2013), Rajasthan district still performs poorly
      in routine immunization delivery and reporting. In efforts to improve the delivery and
      reporting of immunizations, with subsequent gains in proportions of infants fully vaccinated,
      we will conduct a cluster RCT that employs novel mHealth technologies to improve the
      reporting of immunization records and to increase the demand for immunizations through the
      use of voice message reminders.

      One of these novel mHealth technologies is the use of a wearable electronic immunization
      record. This technology couples a mobile application (app) for health workers with a wearable
      digital pendant (necklace) for individuals that store their updated medical history. The
      pendant contains a read/writable NFC chip which allows health workers to digitally update a
      participant's vaccination records with the tap of a phone, and without the need to be
      connected to a central database. This technology can also be placed into a sticker that could
      be attached to an immunization booklet which would simplify record keeping. Importantly, this
      technology can be distinguished from other mHealth solutions as it does not require a
      centralized database of patients to look up patient specific records. Rather, the solution is
      decentralized allowing patients to wear their vaccine history on a necklace that can be
      accessed digitally in the last mile at the point of care. This work extends the use NFC
      trackers to simply identify patients and count disease occurrence (Marcus, et al., 2009) to
      medical record storage at the point of care. The potential for the necklace to play a
      symbolic role for the promotion of health benefits is an additional reason for the chosen
      form factor.

      The pendant with NFC technology was developed by students at Yale as part of a class project
      and is called "Khushi Baby" (KB). Yale investigators visited the proposed study site to
      informally solicit local opinions on the proposed pendant and to receive feedback from Seva
      Mandir immunization teams to make the KB app user friendly. Importantly, this pendant is
      contextually relevant as many children in this study area wear similar talismans with the
      local thought being that they promote good health and can prevent coughs

      Others have found that the color and shape of insecticide bed nets was a relevant factor in
      influencing people's willingness-to-buy the ITNs and thereby adopt the intervention in
      Southern Ethiopia (Gebresilassie & Mariam, 2011). The KB necklace, a unique feature of the
      system, also merits a deeper investigation into the characteristics that influence its
      adoption and whether it can generate a peer effect throughout the community which impacts
      vaccination adherence rates.

      In addition to potentially being able to increase demand for vaccination, the NFC chip
      pendant could potentially improve the quantity and quality of immunization services available
      through a more efficient monitoring and outreach system. The current paper system is prone to
      loss of records due to wear and tear over the 9 to 12 month process to complete
      immunizations. Paper systems also have the disadvantages of being difficult to query, not
      individually specific as data is aggregated and transferred, and out-dated due to the time
      lag in data entry. The system to digitize vaccine records makes individually specific data
      available to remote monitors in real time so that they can better manage: vaccine stock,
      resource mobilization for camps, and camp reminder messages via automated voice reminders to
      child's household mobile phones. It also holds promise in improving workflow in the field.
      Simply scanning the chip quickly brings a child's records and their due vaccines for the
      visit without guesswork based on otherwise incomplete records. Finally, new information such
      as events of vaccine denial and reasons for vaccine denials can be automatically recorded to
      reveal greater insights on the true vaccine demand for a given village.

      Data do not only have the potential to inform the service delivery NGO, but in this system,
      to also connect back with the community being served via voice call reminders. Many mHealth
      pilots on "push" based reminders systems have shown promise in improving health outcomes in
      developing countries (e.g. MedicMobile, M-Power, Frontline SMS, Mobile Alliance for Maternal
      Action); however further evidence must be collected to determine whether personalized voice
      calls can specifically reduce immunization drop out. An automated backend allows our push
      system to reach mothers/primary caregivers in villages before their baby is due for his/her
      next vaccine.

      Our approach stands to be successful for several reasons:

        -  mHealth solutions have been successfully used to improve the quality and efficiency of
           data collection across a range of health outcomes, even in developing world settings.

        -  SMS reminders have shown some success to improve immunization coverage and timeliness in
           other developing areas (Bangure et al., 2015); we look to seek enhancement of this
           effect through personalized voice reminders in local language.

        -  Mobile phone ownership and access levels are at an all-time global high. Globally, the
           number of people owning mobile phones grew from 1 billion in 2000 to 6 billion in 2012
           (World Bank, 2012). Reaching the last mile may be facilitated through remote reminder
           systems that alleviate the burden of local workers hired to go door-to-door, walking
           tens of miles the day before an immunization camp

        -  Monthly immunization camps are the predominant avenue for infants to be vaccinated. This
           immunization delivery system benefits the proposed study as study staff will not have to
           travel to many different clinics and/or households to track enrolled infant's
           immunization status.
    
  