
    
      This proposal is for a Tier 1 (Discovery) study that uses a human, cross-sectional,
      observational neuroimaging approach to measure neuroinflammation in Gulf War Illness (GWI). A
      whole-brain magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) scan will be used to detect
      multiple markers of neuroinflammation in 30 individuals with GWI and 30 healthy veteran
      controls. We have fully tested the MRSI scan in several patient groups, and have found strong
      evidence of neuroinflammation in fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome - conditions we
      believe involve abnormal central immune system processing. We have not, however, performed
      the scan on individuals with GWI. The discovery study will allow us to transfer this existing
      technology to the GWI field. This project meets the core Special Interest of investigating
      dysregulation between the immune and neurological systems in the brain.

      Our central hypothesis is that GWI involves chronic neuroinflammation. The symptoms of GWI
      (e.g. fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, sleep disturbances, and cognitive dysfunction) overlap
      heavily with classic cytokine-induced sickness responses. In the case of GWI, microglial
      cells in the brain can be pushed into a hypersensitized state by toxins or abnormal immune
      challenges, leading to chronic overproduction of pro-inflammatory factors that result in the
      primary symptoms of GWI.

      To test the central hypothesis, it is necessary to measure neuroinflammation in humans in
      vivo. However, most techniques are too invasive for using in living individuals. To address
      that problem, we use an MRSI scan which provides metabolite concentrations in 4,000 separate
      voxels, giving whole-brain coverage. The scan yields measurements for: myo-inositol (a marker
      of glial cell proliferation), lactate (a product of anaerobic metabolism), choline (a sign of
      cellular breakdown), and N-acetylaspartate (a marker of neuronal health). The scan also
      provides absolute brain temperature, which is shown to be elevated with severe
      neuroinflammation. The five main outcomes are as follows:

      Myo-inositol (MI): Higher values represent greater microglia proliferation or gliosis.

      Lactate (Lac): Higher values represent more severe inflammatory activity.

      Choline (Cho): Higher values indicate greater cell turnover (inflammation, gliosis, or
      demyelination).

      NAA: Lower values represent neurodegeneration.

      Temperature: Higher values represent greater neuroinflammation. Metabolite and
      water-reference data will be analyzed using the MIDAS package and thermometry extension41.
      Absolute brain temperatures (in °C) within each voxel will be calculated by measuring the
      distance of the temperature-invariant NAA peak from the temperature-variant water peak using
      the formula: Tbrain = -102.76 × Δwater-NAA + 310.5°C, which has been validated in our scanner
      to produce reliable readings. Temperature will be expressed on absolute values in °C.
    
  