
    
      Recurrent and treatment resistant depression (TRD) has high morbidity and escalating costs
      for the healthcare system and society at large. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains the
      most effective acute antidepressant treatment for TRD, but with significant risks of
      cognitive impairment. The efficacy and side effects of conventional ECT are contingent on the
      anatomic positioning of electrodes and stimulus dosage. A technique that could spatially
      target the prefrontal cortex may preserve the efficacy of ECT while simultaneously reducing
      cognitive side effects.

      The investigators have recently demonstrated that focal electrically-administered seizure
      therapy [FEAST], which markedly improves the spatial targeting of the electrical current, is
      feasible in adult TRD individuals. FEAST can initiate seizures focally and specifically in
      the prefrontal cortex prior to secondary seizure generalization. Preliminary results in
      depressed humans at Columbia University and later at the Medical University of South Carolina
      (MUSC) generated by the PI (Nahas) show that these focal seizures produce clinically
      meaningful antidepressant responses. Additional work is needed to refine the technique and
      compare it to conventional approaches.

      In this study, the investigators will further develop FEAST to achieve clinically meaningful
      remission rates (at least 50% of subjects). 30 TRD patients (or 20 with a complete record)
      will undergo an open-label course of FEAST for an adaptive number of total sessions designed
      to maximize efficacy of the technique. The investigators will use a dosing paradigm using a
      current level of 800 mA, finalize the electrode sizes, and test, at one treatment session,
      the effects of reversing the directionality of current flow on site of seizure induction.
      Patients will also undergo electroencephalography (EEG) assessments to characterize the
      induced seizures' spatial and temporal distributions. The investigators will obtain time to
      orientation recovery as a marker of potential longer-term cognitive side effects.

      This technique could fundamentally change and improve the most effective antidepressant
      treatment, while simultaneously minimizing or eliminating the major side-effects that
      prohibit larger adoption of ECT.
    
  