
    
      Anxiety is a common problem in patients undergoing invasive procedures, arriving in some
      studies up to 60-80%. Perioperative anxiety is correlated with hemodynamic effects (such as
      arterial hypertension and arrhythmias), it can have an impact on final surgical outcome, on
      anaesthetics drug dosage, and also with an growth about the perception of post-operative
      pain, leading to a substantial increase in analgesics dose and the number of post-operative
      hospitalization days. Finally, perioperative anxiety can reduce the patient's overall
      satisfaction with the quality of perioperative care.

      Patients' satisfaction is largely based on their expectations and it forms part of the
      surgeon's reward: satisfied patients are more likely to maintain a good relationship with the
      surgeon, abstain from so called "doctor shopping", avoid malpractice litigations and
      recommend their surgeon to others. Last but not least, satisfied patients are more likely to
      comply with postoperative prescriptions and attend follow-up appointments. In non-life
      threatening procedures however, the main source of preoperative anxiety is often the outlook
      of anaesthesia rather than surgery itself, this being mainly related to a lack of enough
      information about the anaesthetic procedure. These fears are largely underestimated in
      routine minor procedures (such as ambulatory surgery) and thus risk to be not properly
      addressed. Due to lack of time and resources, this could have a significant impact on global
      patient satisfaction. Also if major complications (e.g. cardiac mortality) are
      surgery-related, anxiety is also associated with poor surgical outcome. How to identify and
      treat patients who will likely benefit from more information about anaesthesia is an
      important question that remains relatively unaddressed. However, it's known that more
      information about surgery reduces the level of anxiety and apprehension.

      Some strategies have been developed to try to reduce pre-operative stress: deliver clinical
      information has proven to be able to relieve patient anxiety. Written information has
      recognised useful, but not all patients have shown the same degree of culture needed to read
      and understand texts. The use of multimedia information (such as videos) has already been
      studied and some trials have shown a certain anxiolytic effect, but data are conflicting. A
      part of this disparity probably derives from differences in methodology and culture between
      patients.

      For these reasons the investigators developed a trial using a short educational video about
      the global management of local anaesthesia on outpatient hand surgery. The aim of this study
      is to assess the impact of this educational video about perioperative patient's anxiety
      levels.
    
  