
    
      Cesarean section is one of the most frequently performed surgical procedures worldwide. In
      the United States, the proportion of deliveries by cesarean has increased from approximately
      21% in 1996 to 32.8% in 2010. Ultimately, the rising incidence of cesarean delivery results
      in increased surgical morbidity; including pain, blood loss, and surgical site infections,
      which leads to an increase in overall hospitalization days and healthcare costs. This volume
      of surgical procedures also carries the risk of blood and body fluid exposures to surgical
      staff. Suture needles contribute to 43.4% of all sharps injuries in surgical settings and
      51.5% of sharp injuries to surgeons alone. Additionally, it was discovered that 20% of blood
      borne pathogen exposures on the Mayo Clinic Rochester campus in 2011 occurred in the
      Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Therefore, any quality improvement measure regarding
      cesarean sections has the potential to significantly impact overall surgical morbidity,
      bloodborne pathogen exposure, and healthcare costs at our institution. Reviews of current
      literature show a lack of evidence for many of the surgical steps during cesarean procedures.
      Thus, there is an urgent need to define evidence-based surgical techniques for each step,
      from incision to closure.

      The optimal skin closure technique is simple, quick, cost-effective, and provides adequate
      tissue approximation with a good cosmetic outcome while minimizing the risk of infection,
      dehiscence, and pain. Ideally, needlestick injuries would also be eliminated. It is currently
      unknown which skin closure method is superior with regard to these outcomes.

      The INSORB 20 (Incisive Surgical) is a new, single-use device for skin closure that aims to
      combine the speed of a staple with the cosmetic outcome of a subcuticular suture, while
      eliminating the need for staple removal. Additionally, it should reduce the incidence of
      needlestick injury. INSORB also claims to result in a "low maintenance wound" with less
      surgical site infection, lower inflammation, and increased patient comfort and satisfaction.
      However, data is limited comparing INSORB to the current standards of care (either staples or
      suture).

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the new absorbable subcuticular staples (INSORB)
      improves outcomes compared to the current standard absorbable subcuticular suture for skin
      closure in cesarean sections.
    
  