
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare total bowel function score, as measured by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
      Center Bowel Function Instrument (BFI), at 18 weeks post-randomization between the
      intervention and attention control arms.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare total bowel function score at 26 weeks post-randomization between the
      intervention and attention control arms.

      II. To compare bowel function subscale scores (dietary, urgency, frequency), as measured by
      the BFI at both 18- and 26- weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention
      control arms.

      III. To compare lower anterior resection syndrome (LARS) scores (for anastomosis participants
      only), quality of life, and dietary quality at both 18- and 26- weeks post-randomization
      between the intervention and attention control arms.

      IV. To compare motivation, self-efficacy, and positive/negative affect at both 18- and 26-
      weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

      V. To assess study feasibility, adherence, retention, and acceptability at both 18 and 26
      weeks post-randomization.

      VI. To explore variation in primary and exploratory study outcomes according to sex, and to
      investigate whether intervention effects on the primary outcome differ across subgroups
      defined by sex.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive diet modification coaching via telephone for 10 sessions over 30-60
      minutes over 17 weeks. Patients also receive 3 motivational messages per week via email
      and/or text message beginning after session 6.

      ARM II: Patients receive general healthy living education via telephone for 10 sessions over
      30-60 minutes over 17 weeks. Patients also receive 3 motivational messages per week via email
      and/or text message beginning after session 6.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 26 weeks.
    
  