
    
      Youth with MS have highly active disease and report high levels of fatigue and depression. As
      MS is a lifetime diagnosis, amelioration of these outcomes may have a sustained and important
      effect on the lives of these youth. Effective interventions oriented towards improving these
      outcomes are therefore imperative to develop and study. Importantly, recent work suggests
      that increased PA has the potential to improve brain tissue integrity, re-myelination, mental
      health outcomes, and quality of life in youth with MS. The investigators have demonstrated
      associations between lower levels of PA and higher levels of depressive symptoms and fatigue
      in these youth over time. Furthermore, the investigators have demonstrated an association
      between higher levels of PA and lower levels of disease activity in youth with MS.
      Importantly, preliminary work by the investigators shows that youth with MS have very low
      levels of PA. Increasing PA, therefore, has the potential to have both disease-modifying and
      psychosocial benefits in youth with MS.

      The investigators have developed a user-driven app and program, the ATOMIC intervention,
      which addresses barriers to PA participation the investigators previously identified. The
      program provides youth with tools to increase goal setting, PA self-efficacy, and knowledge,
      and is embedded in a youth-focused app that is supported by health coaches. Notably, in
      preliminary work, the investigators have found the ATOMIC program to be acceptable to youth,
      and furthermore, that it was associated with a 31% increase in physical activity.

      These strong preliminary results support moving forward with this proposed research, a
      multi-center randomized wait-list controlled trial (RCT) of the ATOMIC mobile app and
      coaching-based physical activity (PA) intervention in youth with multiple sclerosis (MS). The
      proposed study will examine the extent to which the intervention can change PA levels in this
      cohort. Additional goals will be to evaluate the effect of the ATOMIC intervention on
      behavioural change mediators, fitness, and psychosocial outcomes.

      For this study, the investigators will recruit 56 youth with MS followed at three tertiary
      children's hospitals with large, established pediatric MS programs: The Hospital for Sick
      Children, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, and the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
    
  