
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common cause of motor and cognitive disabilities in childhood
      affecting around 1 out of 500 newborn infants. Contractures and joint deformities are
      frequent complications, which limit the functional abilities of the children from an early
      age and are a main life-long challenge for social integration and participation. The
      functional limitations imposed by the combination of weak paretic muscles and contractures in
      early childhood also reduce the child´s possibilities of active exploration of its
      environment and social interaction with its peers. This may have secondary impact on
      cognitive development and cognitive performance later in life.

      Therefore, early intervention to prevent contractures is pivotal in helping motor and
      cognitive development in children with CP and thereby enable social integration and optimal
      cognitive and motor performance throughout their life time. The importance of prevention of
      contractures is also emphasized by the realization that none of the surgical, medical or
      physical therapies that we have available provide an efficient treatment of contractures once
      they have become manifest and interfere with joint mobility.

      There is growing evidence that reduced growth of muscles is a key factor in the development
      of contractures. If muscles fail to grow at the same rate as bones they will be subjected to
      abnormal tension. This and the lack of muscle use may stimulate growth of connective tissue
      in the muscles causing a stiffer extracellular matrix. Growth of the medial gastrocnemius
      muscle in infants with CP deviates from that of typically developing (TD) infants around the
      age of 12-15 month. Pathologically increased stiffness of the muscle tissue is seen some
      months later consistent with a causal relation between reduced growth and increased
      stiffness. These findings indicate that efficient prevention of contractures will have to
      take place before the age of one years and will need to focus on stimulation of muscle growth
      as a key factor.

      Muscle growth depends crucially on muscle use, which is the exact challenge that infants with
      CP are faced with. How do we get a child who has difficulty activating its muscles to do so
      when that child has no prior experience of using its muscles and limbs and has little verbal
      understanding of what it is we want it to do? There is now evidence to support that the early
      development of the motor system is highly plastic and depends crucially on activity-dependent
      interaction with the environment. Experimental evidence from kittens and rodents support the
      existence of a sensitive period soon after birth where descending connections from the motor
      cortex to the spinal cord are re-organized in an activity-dependent manner. Functional
      deficits in mature animals who have received central motor lesions prior to or in relation to
      birth appear to depend on the extent to which this activity-dependent re-organization takes
      place during the sensitive period. It is unknown whether a similar sensitive period exists in
      humans, but there is reason to believe that the first 5-6 month after birth constitute a
      period where the motor system undergo rapid changes that may resemble the sensitive period in
      rodents and kittens. This period is characterized in humans by so-called fidgety movements
      (FM) which may reflect a ´calibration´ of the sensori-motor system, where descending
      connections are re-organized similar to what is seen in animals. Children also acquire the
      ability of goal-directed movements using visual feedback during this period, which may be
      related to maturation of the connections from motor cortex to the spinal cord. There is also
      evidence that 5-6 month old children have acquired a sense of agency over their own movements
      and a basic understanding of how they may use their body to control their environment.
      Sensory feedback and reward that are associated to successful behavior play an important role
      in this early establishment of movement control. Thelen & Fissher showed that when infants at
      an very early age can activate a mobile by own spontaneous movements, movement of the infant
      increased. The initial 5-6 month after term may therefore provide a window of opportunity
      where it is possible to facilitate normal development of movement and thereby also prevent
      contractures through the concomitant muscle growth-stimulus. An intervention in which infants
      in that age group are stimulated to move by their parents at home under supervision by
      therapists has indeed been demonstrated to improve motor development in infants with high
      risk of cerebral palsy. Home-training technology that may facilitate the training and the
      interaction between therapists and the families are also now becoming available and have
      shown promising effects on motor development in preterm infants . Intensive goal-oriented
      training involving experiences of success and frequent reward within the first 5-6 month is
      therefore central in the intervention that we propose in the present protocol for prevention
      of contractures in infants at high risk of developing CP.

      Muscle growth does not only depend on neural and mechanical stimuli, but also on nutritional
      and metabolic stimuli. It is therefore important also to consider the nutritional status of
      the infant and especially whether nutrients that have a specific muscle growth promoting
      effect are delivered in sufficient quantity to the infant either through breast feeding or
      breast milk substitutes. The polyunsaturated fatty acid, Docosahexaenic acid (DHA) is
      considered essential for maturation of the developing brain and may also facilitate muscle
      growth. Supplementation with DHA is not recommended for healthy term-born infants, but may be
      important for development of preterm infants and especially for infants with brain lesion. In
      addition, Vitamin D also plays a role in regulating muscle growth and deficiency of Vitamin D
      has been suggested to be of importance in neurodevelopmental disorders. It is not clear
      whether early Vitamin D supplementation has beneficial effects on neurodevelopment and muscle
      growth, but is recommended for newborns in countries with limited sun exposure because of its
      beneficial effects on bone metabolism. Information about the nutritional status of mother and
      infant and subsequent supplementation could therefore be of importance to enhance
      facilitation of muscle growth in the infants.

      It should also be considered whether stimuli that may substitute the neural activation of the
      muscles such as electrical stimulation may be used when the child is not otherwise active
      (for instance during sleep) to help maintain muscle growth. Electrical muscle stimulation has
      been shown to diminish muscle atrophy in adults. The facilitation of muscle growth may help
      to postpone contracture development until communication with the (older) infant is easier and
      training goals may therefore be achieved more easily.

      The purpose of the present paper is consequently to describe a study protocol for a two-group
      open-label randomized clinical trial with blinded assessment of an early intervention program
      directed towards prevention of contractures.
    
  