
    
      This is a phase I study to assess the safety and immunogenicity of PnuBioVax administered on
      three occasions 28 days apart at dose levels of 50 µg, 200 µg, and 500 µg in healthy adult
      subjects.

      The study will involve 8 visits in total; screening period to determine eligibility, 3
      treatment periods comprising of an overnight stay at the clinic (days 1, 29 and 57) and 4
      outpatient follow up visits (7 days after each dosing period and one on day 85). Volunteers
      will also be requested to complete a diary card from day 1 to day 85.

      36 Volunteers will take part in this study and will be randomly assigned to each sequential
      dose group as follows:

        -  Cohort 1: up to 3 doses of 50 µg of PnuBioVax or placebo

        -  Cohort 2: up to 3 doses of 200 µg of PnuBioVax or placebo

        -  Cohort 3: up to 3 doses of 500 µg of PnuBioVax or placebo Within each cohort, nine
           subjects will receive PnuBioVax and three subjects will receive placebo. Each subject
           will receive administrations of PnuBioVax or placebo on Days 1, 29 and 57.

      The lowest dose of PnuBioVax will be evaluated first (i.e. Cohort 1). Dose escalation will
      only proceed in the subsequent cohorts if blinded safety data (adverse events, injection site
      reactions, concomitant medication, vital signs and routine laboratory assessments) from day 8
      from the 12 subjects in the preceding cohort have been reviewed by the Sponsor and Principal
      Investigator and are found to be satisfactory. The Sponsor and Principal Investigator will
      also review the safety data after each subsequent dose to ensure repeat dosing does not give
      rise to safety issues.

      Subjects will be followed up 7 days after each vaccination and also by telephone 14 and 21
      days following each vaccination. Subjects will also be requested to record any adverse events
      in a daily diary. Haematology, biochemistry and vital signs will be measured at each follow
      up visit (except day 85) and a full safety follow up will be completed 7 days after the third
      dose (day 64).

      Bloods will be drawn for evaluation of the immune response to the PnuBioVax, 28 days
      following the first, second and third administrations (Days 29, 57 and 85). The blood draw at
      day 85 will also be used for exploratory analyses.

      The presence of autoantibodies will be assessed at screening (baseline level), and day 85 by
      measurement of anti nuclear antibody (ANA) levels.
    
  