
    
      Spasticity is a disorder characterized by increase in velocity-related muscle tone as a part
      of upper motor neuron syndrome. Although the mechanisms underlying stroke-related spasticity
      have not been fully understood, the current view is that spasticity is related to an
      imbalance between descending excitatory and inhibitory systems that regulate spinal stretch
      reflex and associated with abnormal intraspinal processes. The reticulospinal pathway (RSP)
      is at the center of this mechanism called cortical disinhibition. The dorsal RSP, which has
      an inhibitory effect on the spinal stretch reflex, originates from the medullary reticular
      formation and is under cortical control. In contrast to dorsal RSP, medial RSP which is not
      under the control of motor cortex originates from pontine reticular formation,and has an
      excitatory effect on spinal stretch reflex. The main motor cortex region controlling
      unilateral dorsal RSP is the premotor cortex. Unilateral RSP indirectly synapses with motor
      neurons via interneurons in the ventromedial intermediate zone in both halves of the spinal
      cord, and directly synapses with motor neurons of proximal extremity muscles. That is, a
      single limb is represented in both premotor cortices. This suggests theoretically that if the
      corticoreticular pathway controlling dorsal RSP is modulated by dorsal premotor cortex
      stimulation, there may be a change in the regulation of the intraspinal network regulating
      the stretch reflex. Furthermore, in stroke patients with severe motor impairment, the
      relationship between high cortical centers and the primary motor cortex is more in the form
      of facilitation rather than interhemispheric inhibition between the primary motor cortices.
      In other words, stimulation of one side premotor cortex may affect motor impairment and
      spasticity by affecting primary and high motor cortical centers of both hemispheres and both
      halves of the spinal cord. Therefore, the hypothesis in this study is that the application of
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the contralesional dorsal premotor
      cortex in chronic stroke patients changes the severity of spasticity. Based on this
      hypothesis, our aim is to investigate the effect of rTMS over the contralesional dorsal
      premotor cortex on the severity of spasticity in patients with chronic stroke with moderate
      to severe upper extremity spasticity.
    
  