
    
      Bullous Pemphigoid is an auto-immune bullous disorder in which auto-antibodies to
      hemidesmosomes, complement pathway, inflammatory cells and mediators play a crucial roles for
      disease pathogenesis.

      Anti-BP180-NC16A IgG is an antibody that it primarily triggers inflammatory reactions and
      complement cascade in bullae development and plays major roles in disease pathogenesis. It is
      secreted by plasma cells which is induced by T-helper 2 cells and their cytokines in serum
      and lesional tissue. Anti-BP180 antibody detection in serum is very important in diagnosis
      and titers correlate with disease activity. Anti-BP180 antibody can also be detected in
      blister fluids and it may aid diagnosis.

      Eosinophil cationic Protein is a cytokine and secreted by Eosinophil which is found in
      abundant numbers and correlated with tissue damage in Bullous Pemphigoid lesions. Serum
      titers of Eosinophil Cationic Protein has a correlation with disease activity and it is
      higher in blister fluid than serum. Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha is an another cytokine which
      is secreted from inflammatory cells initially after inflammatory cascade is triggered. It is
      also found increased in serum blister fluids. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha is associated with
      clinical severity in bullous pemphigoid.

      In Bullous Pemphigoid, development of bulla is required to be stopped if treatment will be
      considered as successful. Nevertheless smaller, more rapidly healing vesicles and bullae
      appear under treatment which are not regarded as findings of treatment failure. In this study
      we will measure Eosinophil Cationic Protein, Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha and Anti-BP180-NC16A
      IgG levels with E.L.I.S.A. technique in these subsequently appeared blisters if they will
      appear and compare them with pretreatment blisters. We will also measure levels of these
      molecules in blood serum before and under treatment. We will analyze corralation between
      blood serum and blister fluids. Also we will compare responder patients and non-responder
      patients to first-line treatment options to observe correlation of changes and differences in
      these body fluids with treatment success.
    
  