
    
      Specific Aims BRCA1/2 mutations are the most commonly identified Hereditary Breast and
      Ovarian Cancer (HBOC) mutations. Women with these mutations have a 50-80% lifetime risk of
      developing breast cancer. Breast cancer survivors with a BRCA1/2 mutation are at higher risk
      of developing contralateral breast cancer than survivors without mutations. The National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommends referral for HBOC genetic cancer risk
      assessments (genetic counseling and consideration of genetic testing for a single gene or
      panel testing; GCRA) for women at high risk for carrying a mutation. Obtaining a positive
      test can inform treatment in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients and management in
      survivors and unaffected women. Unfortunately, Latina and Black women have lower GCRA use
      than non-Latina Whites. Reasons for lower GCRA use include access and psychosocial factors
      (e.g. low knowledge, medical mistrust, low health literacy, anticipated negative emotions).
      There have been few GCRA interventions in ethnic minorities; two recent efforts largely
      focused on improving access, awareness, and knowledge with mixed success of impacting uptake.
      Theoretically guided interventions that support GCRA uptake in underserved populations are
      needed. Intervention development is particularly important given the growing complexity of
      multiplex gene testing and the potential to identify founder mutations or large
      rearrangements that are more prevalent in specific ethnic groups.

      Our preliminary data with at-risk Black and Latina women suggests that improving access does
      not necessarily translate into higher GCRA uptake and that providers face challenges in
      communicating HBOC risk information. Patients have difficulty understanding HBOC numerical
      risk information, especially populations with low health literacy. Additionally, many
      existing educational tools were not theoretically derived, tend to prioritize quantitative
      risk communication, and do not often consider emotional aspects, despite evidence that
      emotions influence risk perceptions. Fuzzy Trace Theory posits that rather than relying on
      factual knowledge and quantitative risk comprehension, people construct gist representations
      that are anchored on culture and capture the essential bottom-line meaning of risk
      information, including the emotional experience. Informed by Fuzzy Trace Theory, BRCA-gist is
      an innovative Intelligent Tutoring System intervention that uses avatars to emulate tailored
      one-to-one human tutoring and includes the bottom-line meaning of risk messages. The
      preliminary efficacy of BRCA-gist was established in an experimental laboratory setting with
      mostly non-Hispanic White college students. Adapting BRCA-gist for a clinical sample of
      ethnically/racially diverse women at increased risk of carrying a mutation is important.
      Thus, BRCA-gist constitutes a scalable, inexpensive intervention with promising translational
      applications and potential to reduce disparities.

      The goal of this mixed methods study is to adapt BRCA-gist and test the feasibility,
      acceptability, and efficacy of this innovative intervention in a sample of Black and Latina
      women at risk of HBOC (based on NCCN criteria using personal and family history of cancer).
      Using the Learner Verification and Revision framework, in Aim 1 we will gather input from
      site staff and community providers (n=10) about adaptations for implementation in clinical
      settings and from at-risk Latina and Black women (n=20) about cultural adaptations. In Aim 2
      we will test the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of the adapted BRCA-gist on uptake
      of GCRA services. We will recruit 100 women from community/clinic sites. After completing a
      brief baseline survey, we will randomize participants to BRCA-gist (n=50) or NCI Webpage arms
      (n=50). We elected to use the NCI Webpage as a comparison as it includes current GCRA
      recommendations for women at increased risk, the content overlaps with BRCA-gist, and the NCI
      serves as a reputable source. Women will complete an immediate post-intervention assessment
      and a research assistant (RA) will refer them to local free genetic counseling services. Our
      primary outcome is GCRA uptake at 3 months. Knowledge, gist comprehension, and intentions
      will be secondary outcomes. We aim to:

      Aim 1: Adapt BRCA-gist. Providers and at-risk Black and Latina women will do the BRCA-gist
      intervention and provide feedback and suggestions to make cultural adaptations to implement
      BRCA-gist in community/clinic settings.

      Aim 2: Test the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of BRCA-gist intervention in a
      two-arm RCT. H.2.1. We expect high overall retention (≥75%). H.2.2. We expect high
      satisfaction among women in the BRCA-gist arm (≥75%). H.2.3. Participants in the BRCA-gist
      arm (vs. NCI Web) will have a higher uptake of GCRA services 3 months after the intervention.
      H.2.4. Participants in the BRCA-gist arm (vs. NCI Webpage) will have a greater increase in
      knowledge, gist comprehension, and intentions to use GCRA. We will explore differences by
      ethnicity and health literacy and assess emotional reactions to risk information to inform
      future affective-tailored interventions.

      This project builds on our interdisciplinary teams' expertise in using innovative
      technologies to improve risk communication, disparities, translational genomics, cancer
      control interventions, and emotions. If successful, BRCA-gist can be tested in larger samples
      and could easily be disseminated into clinical settings and community clinics that serve
      underserved populations at increased risk for cancer.
    
  