
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of death and disability in patients with end-stage
      renal disease on hemodialysis. It has been hypothesized that ingestion of calcium-based
      phosphate binders results in net positive calcium balance and vascular calcium deposition.
      Chertow et al. tested the role of ingested calcium in the progression of cardiovascular
      calcification in the Treat-To-Goal study (Kidney International 62:245, 2002). They reported
      that patients treated with calcium-based phosphate binders demonstrated progressive
      cardiovascular calcification, while patients treated with a calcium-free binder, sevelamer,
      showed stabilization or improvement in calcification scores. However, the protocol did not
      prohibit intake of supplemental oral calcium in the sevelamer group, which confounded their
      ability to accurately test the calcium hypothesis. Moreover, due to the cholesterol
      sequestering activities of sevelamer, the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was lower
      among sevelamer-treated patients than the calcium treated patients, resulting in a major
      imbalance in a cardiovascular risk factor. Lowering LDL level reduces progression of CVC and
      therefore confounds interpretation of the study. Subsequently, it has been reported in the
      lay press that patients randomized to sevelamer or calcium-based binders in the Dialysis
      Clinical Outcomes Revisited (DCOR) study have failed to show a difference in mortality or
      major secondary endpoints (Suki et al., To be presented American Society of Nephrology
      November 2005). To circumvent these limitations, the CARE-2 study will test the hypothesis
      that if LDL levels are lowered to a similar level in calcium acetate and sevelamer-treated
      patients, there will be no difference in the progression of cardiac calcification. CARE-2
      will randomize patients with elevated LDL to calcium acetate or sevelamer. Atorvastatin is
      added to achieve LDL < 70 mg/dL in both treatment groups. The primary endpoint is change in
      cardiac calcification scores, determined by electron beam scanning after 1 year. Secondary
      endpoints include the ability of calcium acetate and sevelamer to control phosphorus and meet
      NKF-K/DOQI guidelines.
    
  