
    
      Study population:

        1. Beta-thalassemia major patients; Patients with high iron stores Serum ferritin
           consistently > 2500 mcg/l and or increasing trend over previous 12 months Liver iron >14
           mg/g dry weight- by R2 MRI

        2. Other causes of transfusional hemosiderosis

      Estimated Enrollment: 30 patients in each arm Study Start Date: January 1st ; 2011 enrollment
      period 8 weeks Estimated Study Completion Date: End of February 1212

      Arms Assigned Interventions

      Arm 1: Patients will be treated with combined DFP and deferasirox. Drug: Ferriprox It will be
      given orally in the morning Other Name: DFP Initial dose 25/mg/kg in 3 divided doses (better
      tolerated if started and then built up over 4 weeks).

      Dose may be increased up to 100mg/kg/day guided by serum ferritin. Agranulocytosis risk 1-2%.
      Monitor TLC and granulocytic count / 2weeks. Patients need to be continually educated about
      this risk, know that they must stop DFP if they have a fever or infection.

      Drug: Deferasirox will be orally administered at a dose of 20 mg/kg once daily at evening for
      5 days.

      Other Name: ICL670 Arm 2: Patients will be treated for 6 days with a combination of
      deferoxamine and DFP.

      Interventions:

        -  Drug: Deferoxamine

        -  Drug: DFP Drug: Deferoxamine Deferoxamine will be administered subcutaneously over 8
           hours for 5 days at a dose of 40 mg/kg.

      Other Name: Desferal, DFO Drug: DFP DFP: will be orally administered at a dose of 75mg/kg
      orally in 3 divided doses for 7 days

      Eligibility Ages Eligible for Study : 6 to 18Years Genders Eligible for Study: Both

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Subjects with transfusional iron overload after Approval of Ethical committee giving
           written informed consent.

        -  Subjects must have a serum ferritin greater than >2500 ng/mL, a platelet count greater
           than 100,000/mm3, and a serum creatinine within the normal range.

        -  A woman of childbearing potential must have a negative serum pregnancy test at
           screening. She must use a medically acceptable form of birth control during the study
           and for 1 month afterward.

        -  The subjects must also have a level of understanding and willingness to cooperate with
           the confinement and procedures described in the consent form and scheduled by the study
           site. In addition, he/she must be able to provide voluntary written informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Subjects with a past history of agranulocytosis, history of clinically significant
           gastrointestinal, renal, hepatic ALT > 10 times high normal, OR > 50% increase of serum
           creatinine from basal value, pulmonary or cardiovascular disease. Patients with a
           history of tuberculosis, epilepsy, psychosis, glaucoma or any other condition, which in
           the opinion of the investigators, would jeopardize the safety of the subject or impact
           the validity of the study results.

        -  Subjects with HIV positive or have active HCV.

        -  A history of serious immunologic hypersensitivity to any medication, such as prophylaxis
           or angioedema.

        -  Participation in a previous investigational drug study within the 30 days preceding
           screening..

        -  Women who are pregnant, or breast-feeding.

        -  Current alcohol or drug abuse.

        -  An inability to adhere to the designated procedures and restrictions of this protocol.

        -  Subjects receiving warfarin, digoxin, or anti-arrhythmic or anti-seizure medications.

        -  Subjects with a known allergy to Exjade or DFP that prevents chronic administration.
    
  