
    
      After validation of the proposed wearable real-time feedback (WRTF) system, the feasibility
      of utilizing this system to provide RTF of gait and posture parameters will be tested in a
      single group of twenty-six people with mild to moderate Parkinson's disease (PD). The sample
      size was chosen to observe an intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC (2,1)) value between
      0.75 and 0.9 at alpha = 0.05 and power of 80%. Subjects of all races and both genders will be
      recruited. Despite higher representation of males in PD, the investigators will seek to
      achieve an equal distribution of males and females. As the incidence of PD increases with
      age, rising after the age of 55 years with a sharp increase after 60 years, the investigators
      will recruit participants between the ages of 50-80 years.

      After enrollment, each subject will participate in one screening and clinical evaluation
      session at Muhammad Ali Parkinson Center (MAPC) at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center
      (SJHMC) in Phoenix, AZ and all the experimental data collection sessions will be performed at
      the Arizona State University (ASU), Tempe, AZ. The 3 experimental data collection sessions
      will be (1) Validity Session, (2) Continuous feedback (CF) Mode Session, and (3) On-demand
      feedback (ODF) Mode session. All the screening, clinical evaluation, experimental data
      collection sessions will be carried out during subject's "medication-on" state (when the
      medication best controls symptoms of PD, usually 60-90 minutes after the subjects' usual dose
      of anti-parkinsonian medication). The order of CF and ODF mode sessions will be randomized
      across the subjects.

      Screening and Clinical Evaluation Session (~ 2 hours): In this session, first the subjects
      will be screened by Dr. Shill for the eligibility criteria which includes UPDRS evaluation.
      If they are eligible, their balance and cognitive status will be evaluated using the
      Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-BESTest) and the Scales for Outcomes of Parkinson'
      Disease-Cognition (SCOPA-Cog) respectively. The Mini-BESTest has been shown to detect even
      subtle balance deficits in people with PD. SCOPA-Cog is a PD-specific scale that tests
      non-verbal and verbal memory, learning, attention, and executive function, including complex
      motor planning, working memory, and verbal fluency and has undergone extensive clinimetric
      testing.

      WRTF Concurrent Validity Session (SA1) (~ 2 hours): In this session, MIMU sensors will be
      placed on the lower legs, wrists, lower back, and upper back. Lightweight reflective markers
      will be placed according to the full-body marker setup (Vicon Motion Systems, Ltd, UK) and
      specialized software (Nexus 2.3, Vicon) will be used for kinematic assessment. Participants
      will be asked to complete twenty 15-meter overground walking trials at their self-selected
      comfortable speed. From the steady state segments of these trials, the gait events,
      spatio-temporal gait indices (including step length, step time, arm swing, and back angle)
      will be calculated in real-time for each step using the WRTF system (as described in earlier
      sections), and will be compared against the gold standard values obtained from Vicon system.

      Continuous Feedback Mode Session (SA2) (~ 3 hours): In this session, RTF will be provided for
      the participant to practice walking with increased step length, arm swing, upright posture
      and regular step time. All the walking trials will be performed overground and feedback of
      only one parameter will be provided at a given time/trial. Various step-to-step
      spatio-temporal gait and posture measures will be obtained using the WRTF system.

      First, the participants will be asked to walk at their self-selected speed for one 80-meter
      trial (with a 180 degree turn at 40-meter) in a long hallway to determine their baseline gait
      measures (including step length, arm swing, step time, and back angle). Then, the subjects
      will perform one 80-meter trial stepping on visual cues - strips placed on the floor at equal
      intervals, to obtain the step length target template (described in the 'Continuous Feedback
      Mode' section). Next, the subjects will be asked to walk two 80-meter trials during which
      they will be provided with RTF of their step length performance (their current movements in a
      sound form and specific instructions through conducting ear phones). Following this,
      participants will perform one 80-meter trial following a metronome to obtain the step time
      target template which will be followed by two 80-meter trials during which RTF of their step
      time will be provided to improve gait rhythmicity. Similarly, the trials for arm swing and
      upright posture will be performed as follows: one 80-meter trial (walking with bigger arm
      swings) to obtain the arm swing target template, two 80-meter trials providing RTF of arm
      swing performance, one 80-meter trial (walking upright) to obtain the uprightness target
      template, and two 80-meter trials providing RTF of upright posture.

      On-Demand Feedback Mode Session (SA3) (~ 3 hours): This session will evaluate the use of
      on-demand feedback. After wearing the sensors of the WRTF system and ear phones, the subjects
      will perform one baseline 100-meter trial without feedback at their self-selected comfortable
      speed. Then, the subjects will participate in eight 100-meter trials with a 180 degree turn
      at 50-meters, of which, two trials will be performed with each type of feedback (step length,
      step time, arm swing, or upright posture). Spatio-temporal gait indices will be calculated
      from non-feedback and feedback trials. Sufficient rest periods will be provided between the
      trials.

      Primary and Secondary Outcome Measures: The main primary outcomes will be intra-class
      correlation (ICC) and reliability coefficients (RC) to test the validity of the WRTF system.
      The other primary measures will be step length and time and their variability, arm swing, and
      upright posture. Also, correlations between cognitive status and balance control and ability
      to follow RTF will be explored.

      Data and Statistical Analyses: For gait, mean values of step/stride length, asymmetry,
      variability in step length and time, gait speed, swing time, double support duration, and
      gait related items of clinical scores will be calculated. The posture control measures will
      include back angle during walking trials and time duration of maintaining different balance
      tasks during Mini-BESTest evaluation. Concurrent (criterion-related) validity between the two
      systems (WRTF vs. Vicon) will be analyzed with ICC (2,1) and RC. The effect of RTF (CF and
      ODF) on each primary measure will be assessed using paired t-tests. The difference in the
      degree of improvements between CF and ODF modes will also be compared by the application of
      paired t-test on the changes in gait and posture measures between respective feedback trials
      and baseline trials. For conditions violating normality, Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be
      used.
    
  