
    
      Following IRB approval, written consent to participate in the study will be obtained from
      medical students

      Phase one :

      Forty medical students, novices in fiberoptic intubation use will be recruited and randomly
      assigned into one of two groups:

      Group A (supine-supine) will first practice fiberoptic intubation with the iLarynx oriented
      in the supine position. Learning curves, global rating scale and checklist will then be
      obtained by a blinded examiner with the medical student using a real fiberoptic on a
      mannequin oriented in the supine, then Upright position. At the end of one week,the same
      medical student will then perform the intubation with the mannequin in both positions.

      Group B (upright-upright) will first practice fiberoptic intubation with the iLarynx oriented
      in the upright position. Learning curves, global assessment score and checklist will then be
      obtained by a blinded examiner with the medical student using a real fiberoptic on a
      mannequin oriented in the upright then supine position.At the end of one week, the same
      medical student will then perform the intubation with the mannequin in both positions.

      Group C( supine -upright) will first practice fiberoptic intubation with the iLarynx oriented
      in the supine position. Learning curves, global assessment score and checklist will then be
      obtained by a blinded examiner with the medical student using a real fiberoptic on a
      mannequin oriented in the upright then supine position. At the end of one week, The same
      medical student will then perform the intubation with the mannequin in both positions.

      Group D( upright - supine) will first practice fiberoptic intubation with the iLarynx
      oriented in the upright position. Learning curves, global assessment score and checklist will
      then be obtained by a blinded examiner with the medical student using a real fiberoptic on a
      mannequin oriented in the upright,then supine position. At the end of one week, the same
      medical student will then perform the intubation with the mannequin in both positions.

      teaching testing testing week testing testing

      Group A supine supine upright random random random random B upright upright supine random
      random random random C supine upright supine random random random random D upright supine
      upright random random

      Phase two:

      Study candidates will randomly be assigned(20 per group) to practice for 15minutes/day their
      intubations skills with the iLarynx application downloaded to their smart phones or iPads.
      The other group (20candidates) will be asked not to practice their intubation skills. At the
      end of one week both groups will be retested on a mannequin by the same blinded examiner to
      obtain a new learning curve, global assessment score and checklist. Both orientations of the
      mannequin will be tested and the order randomly assigned.
    
  