
    
      Approximately 20% of all Swedish nurses experiences very high levels of burnout symptoms at
      some point during the first years of practice. Many factors are likely to be involved, and
      when developing methods to facilitate the nurse's transition from education into working
      life, a variety of stressors at both the organisational and individual level have to be
      considered. Previously, incomplete recovery has been suggested to mediate the relation
      between stressful working conditions and health impairment. For many, starting working as a
      nurse also means an introduction to shiftwork, which inevitably affects opportunities for
      sleep and recuperation due to interference with the circadian and homeostatic regulation of
      sleep. Given the vital role of sleep and recovery in the relationship between stress and
      development of impaired health, effective strategies for sleep and recuperation are
      hypothesised to be crucial in preventing the development of stress-related symptoms among
      nurses. In addition, lack of sleep and recuperation results in fatigue, which is a major
      safety hazard threatening patient safety. The aim of the current study was to evaluate a
      preventive intervention for new nurses, supporting strategies for sleep and recuperation in
      relation to work related stress and shift work.

      Recruitment Newly graduated nurses were recruited at five Swedish hospitals. The recruitment
      was done via the introduction programmes, except from at one of the hospitals (which did not
      have such a programme) where the nurses instead were recruited via the different clinics. In
      total the intervention was implemented in eight different cohorts during 2017 and 2018.
      Approximately 462 newly graduated nurses were invited to participate in the study and 207
      joined and answered the baseline questionnaire (45%).

      Design The participants were randomly assigned to intervention and control groups. The
      participants were followed with questionnaires Participants were followed with either
      questionnaires or questionnaires + intesive measures using diary, actigraphy and cognitive
      tests. Questionnaires were filled in before the intervention (baseline), one month after the
      intervention (post), and at six months after the intervention (follow-up). The intensive
      measure was conducted at baseline and post intervention.

      The participants also got a short questionnaire to fill out at the start of session two and
      three, and two weeks after session three, in which they filled out which strategies they had
      used during the last couple of weeks. After the last session, participants were asked to
      evaluate the intervention using a short questionnaire.

      The intervention The intervention was a preventive programme focusing on beneficial
      strategies for sleep and recuperation in relation to work stress and shift work. The
      programme included three 2.5 hours-group sessions every second week. The sessions were taking
      place at work during working hours. The intervention was based on knowledge from research on
      sleep, stress and work hours, as well as on cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) techniques
      for sleep and stress management modified for shift workers. The regulation of sleep and
      wakefulness was explained by the three factors: 1) circadian rhythm, 2) homeostatic process,
      and 3) stress, referred to as the sleep formula. How these factors interacts with irregular
      work hours was explained. Participants were encouraged to reflect on their daily habits
      related to sleep and recovery. Also, a CBT-model for analysing behaviours in stressful work
      situations were used in order to encourage participants to reflect on their usual behaviours
      and possible alternatives. As homework between sessions, the participants were encouraged to
      try possibly beneficial strategies for sleep and recuperation. The participants got written
      material, after every session, covering the content of the session. In addition, the
      participants got access to an adapted version of the biomathematical model (ArturNurse) to
      give participants an estimation of expected sleep lengths and fatigue levels together with
      tips of possible strategies to optimise sleep in relation to different shifts.
    
  