
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide. An American randomized web-based study showed important differences in the
      diagnosis of COPD among female and male patients.Women were more likely to be misdiagnosed as
      chronic cough or asthma instead of COPD and physicians were more reluctant to refer further
      women for spirometry.This is of importance as treatment and follow-up differ between the
      conditions.

      Breathlessness, a subjective experience of breathing discomfort, is the cardinal symptom of
      cardiac and pulmonary disease. In advanced COPD, 98% of patients experience breathlessness
      which persists at rest or on minimal exertion, despite optimal treatment of the underlying
      disease (chronic refractory breathlessness). Dyspnea is linked to reduced physical activity,
      worsening deconditioning, increased anxiety and depression, impaired quality of life, loss of
      the will to live near death, increased risk of hospitalization, and earlier death.

      The preferred treatment for the relief of chronic refractory breathlessness is a systemic
      (oral or parenteral) low dose opioid (Level I evidence). In a recent meta-analysis of 16
      studies (271 patients in total), low dose opioids reduced chronic refractory breathlessness
      in advanced COPD, without any reported serious adverse effects. Lower dose opioids were not
      associated with increased risk of admission to hospital or death in a large register-based
      Swedish study of 2,249 patients with oxygen-dependent COPD patients treated with lower dose
      opioids (≤ 30mg of oral morphine/day).

      Despite the growing evidence that support the use of opioids, physicians are reluctant to
      prescribe low dose opioids for breathlessness in COPD. In a review of 2000 random dispensed
      opioid prescriptions among patients with advanced COPD, most of whom suffered from severe
      chronic breathlessness, the most common stated indication was pain (97%), with only 2% for
      breathlessness. In a survey, Dutch chest physicians were reluctant to prescribe opioids for
      refractory breathlessness in advanced COPD due to perceived resistance from the patient and
      fear of adverse effects, including respiratory depression. Qualitative studies from Canada
      has shown that physicians in pulmonary medicine and primary care, families and patients feel
      that low dose opioids can be helpful for the relief of breathlessness, but that treatment was
      delayed or avoided due to lack of guidelines, lack of related knowledge and experience about
      opioids, and fears related to the potential adverse effects and legal censure.

      No randomized trial has compared how physicians assess and treat refractory breathlessness
      versus refractory pain, how often opioids are considered for treatment of breathlessness and
      what factors affect the choice of treatment in chronic breathlessness as compared to pain in
      advanced COPD. Furthermore, it remains unknown if there is a gender bias in the diagnosis of
      COPD among physicians treating COPD patients.

      METHOD:

      This is a randomized, triple-blind, parallel group-, web-based study based on a survey
      instrument which is answered by certified physicians who treat patients with respiratory
      problems in Sweden. The survey is based upon a hypothetical patient case which regards
      situations and considerations that are part of physicians' daily clinical management and
      treatment of COPD patients. Two randomizations take place regarding the hypothetical case 1)
      Sex 2) Symptom. The participant is shown a hypothetical patient case which is randomized
      (1:1:1:1) regarding sex and symptom to one of four potential case scenarios:
      man+breathlessness; man+pain; woman+breathlessness; or woman+pain.

      AIM:

      The aim of the study is to determine if there is a gender bias in the diagnosis of COPD; how
      often physicians identify that chronic refractory breathlessness requires treatment as
      compared to refractory pain, which symptomatic treatments are considered with focus on
      morphine; explore physicians perception regarding the grade of evidence for different
      treatments for the relief of chronic breathlessness; and examine which factors affect
      physicians decision to treat refractory breathlessness with opioids.
    
  