
    
      Almost 1% of the population dies annually. When people die, it is normal for their bereaved
      family members (FMs) to experience grief. This grief usually diminishes, but in some cases
      FMs suffer from severe grief reaction (SGR) with intense yearning or separation distress, as
      well as emotional, cognitive and functional impairment lasting months or years. SGRs are
      distinct from other psychiatric illness that is directly linked with declining health,
      increased use of healthcare resources, and even death. ICU deaths are associated with a
      higher incidence of SGR2 - symptoms of psychiatric illness and have been reported in 34-67%
      of surviving FMs with 22% experiencing significant social distress.

      As grieving death is an expected human response, SGRs cannot be diagnosed until >6 months
      after a loss, but the investigators found that a SGR at 6 months can be accurately predicted
      by screening tests 3 months after a death. Early identification provides opportunity for
      early intervention with the hope of preventing or reducing the severity of SGRs. There are
      effective treatments for established SGRs (i.e. >6 months post-death), including
      psychotherapy tailored to SGR. This therapy works through 3 mechanisms: (1) by encouraging
      exposure to reminders and situations that the FM is avoiding, (2) restructuring through
      reconstructing an understanding of the loss and grief experience, and (3) behavioural
      activation to re-establish social interaction. Some ICU-based support interventions
      administered pre-death are effective in reducing psychological morbidity, while others have
      shown no effect or even harm.

      Many bereaved FMs would appreciate bereavement support, and ICU organizations have identified
      bereavement support as a clinical and research priority. Yet few ICUs have devoted resources
      toward bereavement screening or support. Our previous multi-centre study found that only 16%
      of Canadian ICU clinicians follow up with FMs after a death, and bereaved FMs rarely, if
      ever, report being contacted after the death of their loved one. Few ICU clinicians have
      received formal training in bereavement support and many report "not knowing what to say" in
      response to strong emotions.

      Currently, less than half of Canadian ICU clinicians (physicians and registered nurses [RN])
      are comfortable providing any form of bereavement support to FMs at the time of death, and
      fewer than 18% perceive that FMs may have social or informational needs following a death.
      Similarly, FMs are often unwilling or unable to access bereavement support even when
      resources are available with over half of eligible participants decline participation in
      ICU-based bereavement interventions.

      Single interventions are not effective for preventing SGRs in unselected populations of
      bereaved FMs (thought may benefit high-risk populations). Thus our pilot project will combine
      several promising scalable and low-resource interventions in a "bundle", to improve the
      chances of meeting these needs and overcoming these barriers. As a research-based
      intervention, this study will examine the feasibility of implementing measures to reduce SGRs
      while also determining the best methods to address the social and educational needs of
      clinicians and FM.
    
  