
    
      Viperidae bites are quite common in India and are notorious to cause hematotoxicity.

      In hematotoxic bites, the test recommended to ascertain the development of coagulopathy is a
      whole blood clotting test (WBCT) as per the current guidelines.

      Eventhough the reliability and sensitivity of WBCT has been shown to be low, it still remains
      the standard test.

      There exists a need to explore other coagulation studies in snakebite to look for a better
      and efficient alternative.

      Clot waveform analysis (CWA) is an activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT)-based optic
      absorbance assay that can be used as a global clotting test.

      It has been shown useful in identifying disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in
      sepsis with high specificity (97.6%) and sensitivity (98%), and the test is recommended by
      the British Committee for Standards in Hematology guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment
      of DIC.

      CWA is based on the traditional aPTT assay. On assessing aPTT with light transmission, a
      change in the light absorbance is observed as the clot stabilizes by fibrin polymerization.

      Plotting the milliabsorbance (mAbs) of the sample to time, a curve is obtained which reflects
      the optical profile that is generated as a clot is formed.

      This tracing against time gives a qualitative assessment of fibrin polymerization.

      The delta in absorbance (dAbs) is based on the change in mAbs value from the baseline to the
      endpoint (plateau) along the Y-axis of the clot curve. The dAbs values of <100 mAbs denote
      low fibrinogen samples

      The normal clot waveform has five main phases: delay, baseline, acceleration, deceleration,
      and end point.

      The "delay" period begins at 0 and precedes the "baseline." which denotes the mixing of the
      reagents and system optimization of light intensity.

      The "baseline" is the portion of the curve which appears after all reagents have been added
      to the time and the clot formation begins.

      The aPTT value is noted at this point (vertical red line). The "acceleration" phase denotes
      fibrin clot formation, whereas "deceleration" denotes decreasing rate of clot formation.

      There are two more curves that are plotted in CWA, the first derivative and the second
      derivatives. They are both derivatives of the absorbance curves. The first derivative
      reflects the coagulation velocity, whereas the second derivative reflects the acceleration of
      coagulation.

      The investigators in this study aim to assess the changes in the CW form in viper-envenomated
      victims and to compare CWA with standard tests such as prothrombin time (PT) with the
      international normalized ratio (INR), aPTT, clotting time (CT) (modified Lee and White
      method) and 20'WBCT( twenty minute whole blood clotting test)
    
  