
    
      Rifampin (RIF), the cornerstone of TB treatment, has very problematic drug-drug interactions
      with PIs. The use of relatively high doses of ritonavir appear necessary to overcome this
      interaction, but it is unclear whether the co-treatment regimen of RIF-based TB treatment and
      double-dose PI-based ART will be safe and tolerable for patients with HIV-related TB and
      effective in treating both HIV and TB. The study proposed to determine if, for HIV-1-infected
      participants with active TB who require PI-based ART, a standard-dose lopinavir/ritonavir
      (LPV/r) regimen, with or without raltegravir (RAL), coupled with rifabutin (RBT)-based TB
      treatment is superior to a double-dose LPV/r regimen coupled with RIF-based TB treatment.

      At study entry, participants were randomized (1:1:1) to receive standard-dose LPV/r-based HIV
      treatment plus RBT-based TB treatment (Arm A), double-dose LPV/r-based HIV treatment plus
      RIF-based TB treatment (Arm B), or standard-dose LPV/r-based HIV treatment plus RAL plus
      RBT-based TB treatment (Arm C).

      Accrual was planned to take place in two accrual periods. Accrual period 1 would enroll 60
      participants who would undergo an initial dose-finding period before continuing regular study
      follow-up. Once the review of the dose-finding pharmacokinetic (PK) and safety data from
      accrual period 1 participants was completed, accrual period 2 was planned to open to accrual.

      Study duration was 72 weeks. Visits occurred at weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 32, 40, 48,
      and 72. The key evaluations included physical examination, clinical assessments, TB
      evaluations including chest x-ray, acid-fast bacilli (AFB) smear, mycobacterial culture, and
      drug susceptibility testing, CD4 cell count, HIV viral load, hematology, chemistry, and
      pregnancy testing in women of reproductive potential. Sputum, serum, and urine were stored
      for use in future analyses. An intensive PK visit occurred at day 12. PK blood draws in
      participants in Arms A and C were at RBT pre-dose and at 2, 4, 5, 6, and 24 hours RBT
      post-dose. PK blood draws in participants in Arm B were at LPV/r pre-dose and at 2, 4, 5, and
      6 hours LPV/r post-dose.

      The target sample size was 471 participants, but the study was terminated after 71
      participants due to feasibility concerns. The 71 participants were followed for the planned
      72 weeks. Because of the limited sample size, formal statistical comparisons were not
      undertaken as originally planned.
    
  