
    
      The standard treatment of locally advanced cervical cancer is radio-chemotherapy including
      external beam radiotherapy (EBRT), brachytherapy (BT) and concomitant chemotherapy with
      weekly Cisplatin. Image Guided Adaptive Brachytherapy (IGABT), with repetitive MRI regarded
      as gold standard, is increasingly recognized as the new paradigm replacing 2D BT and
      spreading throughout the world. This spread is at present predominantly in Europe, North
      America and in many places in Asia. The Gyn GEC ESTRO Recommendations I-IV have been used as
      the conceptual frame for these developments during the last decade and are now embedded into
      the new ICRU/GEC ESTRO report 88 (International Commission on Radiation and Units) which is
      being published in 2015.

      Beside increasing mono-institutional clinical experience - also reported in literature -
      there is increasing clinical evidence and analyses from multi-institutional studies, in
      particular RetroEMBRACE (n=731) and EMBRACE (n>1350) about dose volume effects and outcome.
      The mature RetroEMBRACE clinical outcome data and dose volume effect analysis for disease
      outcome show an improved excellent local and pelvic control and survival and significant dose
      volume effects for IGABT. Overall treatment time was found to have significant impact on
      local control, and in addition, volume effects of EBRT were found (IMRT vs. 3D CRT) with
      impact on morbidity and quality of life. Furthermore, dose effects of chemotherapy (≥5
      cycles) were found to have impact on survival in advanced disease. Comprehensive analyses
      from both large patient cohorts reveal further relevant treatment parameters with major
      impact on disease outcome, morbidity and quality of life. In the international community the
      results from the EMBRACE studies are regarded as benchmark for future clinical research in
      this field. Based on the large success of the RetroEMBRACE and EMBRACE studies, the EMBRACE
      study and research group decided to continue the clinical research work and to initiate a
      consecutive EMBRACE II study with interventions derived from the evidence collected within
      the EMBRACE studies.

      INTERVENTIONS, AIMS AND HYPOTHESES

      The EMBRACE II interventions address local, nodal and systemic treatment as well as exposure
      of organs at risk:

        -  Increased use of IC/IS (intracavitary/interstitial) technique in BT

        -  Reduction of vaginal source loading

        -  Systematic utilisation of IMRT

        -  Utilisation of daily IGRT (set-up according to bony structures)

        -  EBRT target concept related to the primary tumour; concepts for organ at risk (OAR)
           contouring

        -  EBRT dose prescription and reporting

        -  Adaptation of EBRT nodal elective CTV according to risk of nodal and systemic recurrence

        -  Systematic application of simultaneous chemotherapy

        -  Reduction of overall treatment time

      The general aims of the EMBRACE II study are:

        -  To systematically apply IMRT with daily IGRT as well as advanced image guided adaptive
           BT in a prospective multi-centre setting

        -  To systematically implement a dose prescription protocol for IGABT

        -  To implement systematic contouring, prescription and reporting for EBRT CTV and OARs.

        -  To administer EBRT in different targets which are adapted to the risk of nodal and
           systemic failure: to improve para-aortic and

        -  systemic control in high risk patients and not to decrease lymph node control in low
           risk and intermediate risk patients

        -  To systematically administer simultaneous chemotherapy to EBRT to reach prescribed dose
           in as many patients as possible, in particular in high risk patients

        -  To benchmark an outstanding high level of local, nodal and systemic control as well as
           survival with application of advanced EBRT, BT and chemotherapy within limited overall
           treatment time

        -  To benchmark a low incidence of intermediate and major morbidity as well as a high level
           of quality of life with application of advanced EBRT, BT and chemotherapy

      Beside these general aims, there is a significant number of specific aims which refer to the
      prospective validation of dose volume parameters from the EMBRACE analyses (e.g. dose
      escalation for large tumors with increased application of IC/IS techniques), to explore and
      evaluate dose volume parameters for EBRT and to identify prognostic parameters.

      General and specific hypotheses were formulated for the various interventions (BT, EBRT,
      chemotherapy) and endpoints (disease, morbidity, quality of life).

      TYPE OF DESIGN The study is a multicenter prospective interventional study with some areas
      for observational research (e.g. dose-volume histogram (DVH) for IMRT). Reporting on the key
      patient, tumor, treatment and outcome parameters is mandatory including disease, morbidity
      and quality of life. Sub-studies as on adaptive IMRT and translational research are optional
      for cooperation between individual departments. Patient registration and reporting will be
      performed by the individual investigator via the internet to a central database.

      PATIENTS TO BE INCLUDED Patients with newly biopsy proven squamous carcinoma, adenocarcinoma
      or adeno-squamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix, International Federation of Gynecology and
      Obstetrics (FIGO) stage IB, IIA, IIB, IIIA, IIIB and IVA (and nodal status according to TNM)
      in whom definitive radio-chemotherapy with curative intent is planned are qualified for the
      study. Treatment has to include IGABT with MRI and IMRT with IGRT and ≥5 cycles of
      cis-Platin. Patients with para-aortic metastatic nodes (stage IVB) to the level of L2 are
      also eligible but patients with further dissemination are not (M0). Patient work up and
      staging includes as a minimum patient characteristics with performance status and blood tests
      (e.g. haemoglobin, lymphocytes), tumor status (biopsy), gynaecological examination, MRI of
      the pelvis, abdominal CT or MRI, whole body FDG PET-CT (preferably) or at least chest CT.
      Further investigations are applied if necessary (e.g. cystoscopy, rectoscopy) or done
      according to institutional practice (e.g. laparoscopic lymph node assessment). Baseline
      morbidity scoring and quality of life questionnaire are mandatory.

      TREATMENT OF PATIENTS IN THE TRIAL All patients will receive both EBRT and concomitant
      chemotherapy and BT. Summation of EBRT and BT doses will be performed by calculation of a
      biologically equivalent dose in 2 Gy per fraction (EQD2) using the linear-quadratic model
      with alpha/beta = 10 Gy for tumour effects and alpha/beta = 3 Gy for late normal tissue
      damage. The repair half time is assumed to be 1.5 hrs. EBRT has to be delivered as IMRT/VMAT
      (Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy) with daily cone beam CT (IGRT) in 25 fractions with 1.8 Gy
      to a total dose of 45 Gy given in 5 weeks. Target definition is MRI based (initial GTV) for
      the CTV-T with an initial HR and LR CTV-T and an ITV-T (Internal Target Volume). CT or MRI
      based nodal Target (CTV-E) is according to risk of nodal spread "Small Pelvis", "Large
      Pelvis" or "Large Pelvis + Para-aortic Region". Overall CTV/ITV to PTV margin is 5 mm.
      Involved nodes are boosted preferably based on Positron Emission Tomography (PET) CT with
      10-15 Gy and treated as simultaneous integrated boost within 5 weeks (2.2-2.4 Gy per
      fraction). A range for DVH parameters for the various OARs - contoured according to specific
      protocols - is taken into account for treatment planning. The LR CTV-T and the CTV- E will be
      treated with 45 Gy by use of EBRT (PTV45). Maximal treatment time including both EBRT and BT
      is 50 days. Brachytherapy is prescribed with dose escalation for advanced disease with large
      adaptive CTV-THR including IC/IS techniques and dose de-escalation for limited size CTV-THR
      to spare organs at risk and in particular the upper vagina. The primary imaging method is MRI
      with the applicator in place which enables definition of the relevant volumes of interest
      directly on the images for treatment planning: GTVres, adaptive CTVHR, CTVIR and organ
      volumes. The applicator and the reference points are reconstructed in the same image series.
      All treatment plans have to be optimized to achieve defined planning aims for dose and volume
      parameters for tumor (D98 for GTVres) and target volumes (e.g. D90-95 Gy for adaptive
      CTV-THR) and for 2cm3 reference volumes for OARs (e.g. <80 Gy for bladder, <65 Gy for rectum)
      and for vaginal reference points (recto-vaginal point < 65 Gy, PIBS). If the planning aims
      cannot be achieved, limits for the finally prescribed dose levels are defined for GTVres,
      CTVHR, CTVIR, point A, bladder, rectum, sigmoid bowel and vagina. Planning aim doses and
      limits for the finally prescribed dose levels are based on the experience of the previous
      retroEMBRACE and EMBRACE trials. For chemotherapy weekly concomitant Cisplatin (40 mg/m2) for
      5-6 courses is standard unless chemotherapy is precluded by patient age, co-morbidity and
      toxicity. Aim is to apply minimum 5 cycles of cis-Platin, in particular in advanced disease.

      QUALITY ASSURANCE Only approved departments and investigators can enroll patients into the
      protocol. This approval is under the responsibility of the study coordinators. The approved
      departments are at present those that have contributed continuously to EMBRACE in a
      considerable number of patients. These departments have to go additionally through a QA
      procedure for IMRT/IGRT. New departments will have to go through a quality assurance (QA)
      procedure both for IGABT and IMRT/IGRT. Approval requires a compliance questionnaire,
      successful training, registration and submission of cases and positive evaluation by the
      study coordinators for each centre. There is no formal on site monitoring, but patient files
      and treatment plans must be kept at least until closure of the protocol and final analysis of
      the results is obtained. Continuous data monitoring is performed through the study offices in
      Vienna and Aarhus and through Utrecht for the centres in the Netherlands. Continuous
      education will be offered through ACT and annual workshops and EMBRACE meetings.

      OUTCOME MEASURES Local and nodal (pelvic) control within the specific EBRT and BT targets
      (HR-CTV-T, IR-CTV, LR CTV-T; CTV-E, CTV-N) and morbidity related to OAR in the pelvis and the
      para-artic region as well as overall survival, cancer specific survival and systemic control
      are the primary outcome measures. All endpoints will be evaluated by actuarial statistics.
      Morbidity will be scored by use of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE
      v3.0/4.0). QoL will also be systematically recorded in all patients.

      EVALUATION OF OUTCOME MEASURES Tumor and nodal remission status (complete, uncertain
      complete, partial, stable & progressive disease) will be evaluated 3 months after treatment
      by pelvic (para-aortic, CT) MRI and gynaecological examination. Regular follow-up including
      gynaecological examination will then be instituted with planned appointments 6, 9, 12, 18,
      24, 30, 36, 48 and 60 months after treatment. Pelvic (para-aortic, CT) MRI will be repeated
      at 12 months after treatment or in case of suspected recurrence. Morbidity and quality of
      life will be scored systematically at base line and at each time point during follow-up.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND DATA MATURITY The study aims at recruiting 1000 patients in 4 years and to
      follow them for at least 5 years to allow for a meaningful assessment of the endpoints by
      univariate and multivariate analysis.
    
  