
    
      Hypothesis

      We hypothesize that the activation of the sympathetic system, which leads to increased
      hypertension, rather than the cholinergic response to increased BP, is responsible for
      antinociceptive effect of hypertension.

      2.b objectives

        1. To study the sympatho-vagal balance effect on different limbs of pain perception.

        2. To determine whether it is the hypertension by itself or the baroreflex activation due
           to blood pressure rise that is responsible for the analgesic effect of acute
           hypertension.

      2.c study questions

      The study questions are derived from the study objectives:

        1. Does sympatho-vagal balance influence pain perception?

        2. Does sympatho-vagal balance influence diffuse noxious inhibitory control systems?

        3. Does sympatho-vagal balance influence temporal summation?

        4. Does the hypoalgesic effect to acute increase in blood pressure a result of baroreflex
           activation?

      3. Subjects and methods

      3.a subjects

      Every subject will be invited to 2 separate sessions. At least 24 hours will apart the two
      sessions. The test in each session is described in details in the Hebrew protocol attached to
      the current protocol in English.

      An informed consent will be signed by each subject prior to a thorough interview. The
      interview, composed of several question regarding prior health problems, current or past use
      of medications as well as demographic details (as detailed in the Hebrew protocol) will take
      place in the test room prior to the beginning of the first session.

      Screening tests will include detailed interview, blood pressure, heart rate and ECG strip at
      the beginning of the first(but not the second) session. The first measurement will be taken
      following 15 minutes complete rest. The second and the third after 5 and 10 minutes,
      respectively. Blood examinations are not required in this study.

      Healthy subjects: 20 age matched subjects (20-50).
    
  