
    
      Research question

      What is the effect on repeat ambulance calls and attendances for hypoglycaemia and what are
      the costs and consequences of implementing the 'Hypo's can strike twice' intervention to
      patients with diabetes and hypoglycaemia attended by East Midlands Ambulance Service NHS
      Trust in the East Midlands region of the UK?

      Background

      Severe hypoglycaemia (defined as cognitive impairment severe enough to require external
      assistance for recovery) frequently requires an ambulance resulting in Emergency Department
      attendance or hospital admission. Severe hypoglycaemia constitutes around 1% of 1.7 million
      emergency ambulance calls in England and Scotland resulting in 100 thousand paramedic
      attendances and estimated costs in England of £13.6 million annually. Hypoglycaemia is
      associated with adverse consequences including higher mortality, morbidity and health service
      costs due to hospital attendance/admission. It is also frightening for both patients and
      relatives and impairs quality of life and productivity, leading to poor long term control.

      Aims and objectives

      Aim: To evaluate the effect of implementing the 'Hypo's can strike twice' intervention to
      patients with diabetes and hypoglycaemia attended by East Midlands Ambulance Service NHS
      Trust in the East Midlands region. "Hypos can strike twice" is a complex intervention
      involving ambulance staff providing treatment and advice to people who have had a
      hypoglycaemic attack to access follow-up care by the GP or specialist diabetes team as
      detailed in national ambulance (JRCALC) clinical guidelines supported by the provision of a
      "Hypos can strike twice" booklet which the patient can read when they are fully recovered
      from the cognitive and other effects of the hypoglycaemic episode.

      Objectives

      To investigate the effect of implementing the 'Hypo's can strike twice' on:

        1. Repeat ambulance calls and attendances for hypoglycaemia

        2. Recorded referrals to an appropriate healthcare professional (e.g. GP, nurse).

        3. Completed care bundle for hypoglycaemia (proportion of patients with all of blood
           glucose recorded before treatment, blood glucose recorded after treatment and treatment
           given for hypoglycaemia.

        4. Costs of implementation 'Hypo's can strike twice' intervention vs costs of health
           service resource use.

        5. To conduct a process evaluation to explore how 'Hypo's can strike twice' exerts its
           effects and can be scaled up if effective by understanding implementation, mechanisms of
           impact, and contextual factors using interviews and surveys

      Methods

      Non-randomised stepped wedge design with mixed-methods process evaluation.
    
  