
    
      Background:

      1-2% of people in the developed world suffer from heart failure (HF), which costs the society
      around 100 billion USD per year. Although the improvements in treatment have lately decreased
      the number of hospitalizations and deaths due to HF, the burden still remains high with
      around half of the HF patients being expected to die within five years and HF being the most
      frequent cause of hospitalization in people aged over 65.

      Since there is no cure available at present, a better management of HF is crucial. A proper
      disease management may not only relieve symptoms, prevent hospitalization or improve
      survival, but may also affect the patient's health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The
      European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Task Force produced evidence-based guidelines for the
      diagnosis and management of HF, intended to be used by clinical practitioners. Despite the
      availability of these guidelines, registry data consistently show an insufficient uptake in
      clinical practice. Of particular concern is the poor implementation of exercise guidelines,
      even though regular physical activity and structured exercise in CHF patients are strongly
      recommended. Nonetheless, participation rates of CHF patients in cardiac rehabilitation are
      generally below 20% in Europe. This calls for more specific recommendations on how to give
      lifestyle advice to patients in a personalized fashion.

      A promising technology for improving disease management in HF may be mobile health (mHealth),
      which encompasses the use of mobile devices as a support for the practice of medicine.
      mHealth has already been implemented to provide regular follow-up and physiological
      monitoring, to ensure safety and detect complications in order to prevent subsequent health
      care utilization. In addition, it may also be a tool to deliver education and to support
      patients regarding self-monitoring and self-management. However, evidence on the
      effectiveness of this approach in HF patients has been mixed. Several meta-analyses suggest
      clinical benefits, but large clinical trials did not show any effect on readmission or death.
      Nevertheless, the recent BEAT-HF trial found that remote patient management did not reduce
      rehospitalization or mortality but reported instead an improvement in quality of life.

      Patient-reported outcomes (PROs), such as HRQoL or perceived health status, have increasingly
      been recognized as outcomes of interest in HF and coronary patients in general. PROs are not
      surrogates for harder endpoints such as mortality, but rather represent independent outcomes
      with harder endpoints not necessarily reflecting of how a disease and its symptoms are
      experienced by the patient. Furthermore, HRQoL and health status have been shown to be
      predictive of clinical events in patients with HF. These findings show that patients'
      perceptions of worsening symptoms carry vital prognostic information, and should be
      implemented in trials evaluating disease management.

      An aspect that has been largely ignored in these types of trials concerning mHealth
      technology, is the psychological aspect that is necessary to start changing behavior and to
      cope with the symptoms of HF. Psychological interventions such as cognitive behavioral
      therapy and mindfulness exercises have already been shown to be successful in changing
      behavior and to significantly reduce anxiety, depression and symptoms which are common in HF
      patients. Therefore, implementing psychological interventions into mHealth technology may
      offer an added value to this tool.

      The HeartMan project aims to develop a personal health system to help HF patients managing
      their disease with the ultimate goal to improve HRQoL. In this system, HF patients are
      monitored not only focusing on their physical condition but also on the patient's
      psychological state. This information is integrated into a decision support system, using
      this information to both compute prognostic information based on predictive models, clinical
      care guidelines and expert knowledge and also to suggest the most appropriate intervention to
      modify and manage their lifestyle. Furthermore, these interventions are presented in a way
      adapted to the patient's psychological profile in order to increase the adherence to the
      medical device.

      Study design:

      HeartMan is a proof-of-concept randomized controlled 1:2 trial (RCT), being conducted at four
      hospitals in two countries (Belgium and Italy) to compare usual care in HF patients with the
      addition of a personal mHealth system on top of standard care. Sixty patients are enrolled in
      Italy and 60 in Belgium for a participation during six months, resulting in 40 patients in
      total in the control group and 80 in the intervention group.

      Ethical approval:

      This study has been approved by the ethical committees of the participating hospitals in both
      countries, with the ethical committee of the University Hospital in Ghent and Rieti General
      Hospital as the central ethical committees. Written informed consent is obtained from all
      participants prior to enrollment in the study. In addition, the HeartMan device which is used
      during the trial has been approved by the Federal Agency for Medicine and Health products in
      Belgium (FAGG: Federaal Agentschap voor Geneesmiddelen en Gezondheidsproducten) and Italy
      (AIFA: Agenzia Italiana del Farmaco).

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size calculation was based on primary outcome data from the previous CHIRON
      project (Mlakar et al., 2018) showing that 90 patients are needed to show at least 5.8 beats
      per min in average daily awake heart rate difference - as a fundamental parameter correlating
      with patient-reported HRQoL - with 90% power between the two groups. Thus in order to account
      for possible dropouts, the trial is executed enrolling 60 patients in each of the two
      participating countries based on a 1:2 randomization protocol.

      Statistical analysis:

      The main analysis of the primary and secondary endpoints is based on the Intention To Treat
      principle, i.e. including all patients in the analysis who did not drop out within the first
      4 weeks of the trial since these patients are replaced. In order to assess the clinical
      effect of the HeartMan intervention on the different outcomes (except for mortality and
      hospitalization), an additional per-protocol analysis is performed in patients who adhere to
      the treatment plan for at least 50%. Based on these results, a dose-response analysis is
      conducted to verify the relation between the level of adherence and intervention effects.

      Prior to each analysis, distribution of the variables is checked in order to choose the
      correct statistical test and outliers are identified. In all analyses, p values <0.05 are
      considered to be statistically significant.

      Effects of the proof-of-concept trial are assessed by analyzing baseline and end of
      investigation data between and among treatment groups. The primary endpoint of the HeartMan
      project is the self-reported improvement in HRQoL which is analyzed using T-tests or it's non
      parametric variant and chi square tests to compare the characteristics between the groups. If
      necessary, a multiple linear regression approach is chosen to adjust for confounding
      variables. In order to assess the effect of the intervention among the different groups a
      repeated measures design with time*group interaction effect is chosen. A similar statistical
      approach is also performed for the secondary analyses. Secondary objectives within the
      HeartMan intervention are the effects on behavioral outcomes, illness perception and clinical
      outcomes which may ultimately have an impact on disease management and HRQoL.

      An objective parallel to the effect on HRQoL, is the impact of the HeartMan system on a
      combined endpoint of mortality and hospitalization. This objective is assessed by making a
      comparison of patient characteristics and the use of the HeartMan intervention between
      event-free patients and those who had an event during the 6 months trial. Furthermore, a
      Kaplan Meier analysis is performed to investigate event-free survival.

      A great effort is made to have complete data on outcome measures and to use all obtained
      information. Early drop-out within 4 weeks after starting the intervention is treated as
      actual drop-out and replacement by novel candidates is foreseen. During the trial, the level
      of adherence is assessed and in case a low adherence is noticed (<50%), patients are actively
      contacted by a member of the research team in order to avoid drop-out.

      For those who eventually drop out in a later phase, efforts will be made to perform the end
      of study examination and if this is not feasible, these will be considered as missing data.
      In the case of missing data, some of the outcome measures (e.g. heart rate or blood pressure)
      can be retrieved through data from the HeartMan system, using the Last Observation Carried
      Forward (LOCF) principle.
    
  