
    
      Doxycycline and rifampicin are two antibiotics which may be useful in the treatment of
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Besides their antimicrobial effects they may also decrease specific
      contributors to AD pathology including: 1. amyloid beta, 2. inflammatory mediators, 3.
      proteolytic enzymes, and 4. metal ions. Evidence indicates an inflammatory response in AD.
      This includes complement activation, elevated C-reactive protein (CRP), elevated
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (including IL-1-beta, IL-6, TNF-α, TGF-β, S100-β), chemokine
      alterations (IL-8, MIP-1-alpha, MIP-1-beta, MCP-1), and microglial activation. In our
      previous study of AD patients treated with combined doxycycline and rifampicin versus
      placebo, we demonstrated that antibiotic treatment significantly delayed progression of
      clinical impairment. Treatment also reduced blood CRP levels suggesting an anti-inflammatory
      role of these antibiotics. In this study we suggest analysis of biomarkers including both pro
      and anti-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-10,the chemokine MCP-1 and
      other inflammatory markers in both the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood from AD patients
      and age-matched controls.

      AD patients are participants in a 12 month randomized clinical trial of doxycyline and
      rifampin or placebo (DARAD) for treatment of AD. Each patient is asked if they wish to
      contribute a sample of CSF and blood at baseline and at 12 months when treatment is
      completed. About half the patients are consenting to this. Since consent is given to the
      lumbar puncture before the double-blinded DARAD treatment is initiated, we expect the
      distribution of samples collected to be random among the four treatment groups. We will
      compare CSF biomarker levels among the four treatment groups. Ten age-matched healthy
      controls are also being asked to contribute CSF and blood samples for comparison. The
      controls are not participants in the DARAD trial.

      We feel that this is an important pilot study to determine whether there are any differences
      in blood or CSF concentrations of commonly studied cytokines between AD patients and normal
      controls. As such, this study could contribute to the search for a diagnostic biomarker.
      Also, it could provide a solid foundation for future studies aimed at elucidating the effects
      of antibiotics on various biomarkers in the blood and CSF of AD patients. From this, we may
      be able to correlate previous findings that antibiotics delay progression of clinical outcome
      in AD with changes in blood or CSF biomarker levels.
    
  