
    
      To allow us to address the significant data gap regarding the efficacy of interventions to
      reduce stress and increase fecundity, we will conduct a randomized controlled trial of a
      proven 6-week online stress management program called Stress Free Now (SFN). Women will be
      randomized to SFN or a wait list control condition (i.e., participants assigned to the
      control arm with be offered SFN at the end of the study, even if they are already pregnant).

      Women will be followed for three months from the date of randomization as they continue to
      try to conceive. Women who report pursuing fertility treatment will be censored on the day
      they report initiating treatment.

      Participants will be recruited primarily using targeted Facebook Ads, though other modalities
      will also be used like local ads, and ResearchMatch. The PI used Facebook for recruitment for
      a similar study and found it to be a very efficient method for identifying women who are
      currently trying to conceive. We will preferentially target women in the Midwest for this
      pilot study in order to keep shipping costs low.

      For the proposed study, the Facebook Ad will direct participants to the study website where
      they can obtain more information and complete a preliminary screening questionnaire using a
      secure online form. The brief screening questionnaire will assess whether the potential
      participant meets the above-mentioned eligibility criteria and will ask individuals to
      complete the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Trait Form, the 10-item Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale Revised (CESDR-10), and the four-item Perceived Stress
      Scale. Women who score ≥ 34 on the STAI and/or ≥ 10 on the CESDR-10 will be contacted by
      study staff and offered enrollment. These two assessments were chosen because they are the
      two instruments shown in the PI's prior work to correlate with salivary alpha-amylase level,
      which the biomarker that the PI has found to be associated with reduced fecundity.

      Eligible women who complete the questionnaire and are found to be eligible will be informed
      via email and their address will be requested so that we can mail them an informed consent
      and HIPAA documents. The forms will be mailed and participants will be asked to return it to
      study staff using the prepaid envelope. When the signed forms are received, participants will
      be sent an email with a link to their baseline questionnaire. Once the baseline questionnaire
      has been completed, women will be sent their first saliva collection kit as well as five
      pregnancy tests for use during the study. If a woman reports on the baseline questionnaire
      that she is currently receiving infertility treatment, she will be exited from the study. In
      addition to collecting their saliva specimen (described below), women will be asked to use
      one of the enclosed pregnancy tests immediately, to record the results (i.e., pregnant or not
      pregnant), and to return the form with the saliva specimen. Any woman who reports that she is
      pregnant at baseline will be thanked and exited from the study.

      Women who remain eligible will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the SFN intervention or
      waitlist control condition. The randomization scheme will be prepared and overseen by the
      study biostatistician. Women will be informed of their randomization status via email. For
      women randomized to the intervention, we will email staff at the Cleveland Clinic the woman's
      study identification number, name, email address, and phone number so that she can be given
      immediate access to Stress Free Now. For women randomized to the waitlist control condition,
      Cleveland Clinic staff will be sent her information at the end of the study (women who are
      randomized to the intervention group will receive access to Stress Free Now when they are
      done participating). During the data collection phase of the project all investigators will
      remain blinded to participants' randomization status except for the administrative support
      staff who will manage correspondence and mail the packages.

      The intervention for this study will be a multifaceted online stress reduction program
      developed by the Cleveland Clinic. Each week for six weeks participants will be introduced to
      a new lesson. The topics include: being, being aware, being neutral, being you, being
      connected, and being joyful. The week will begin with a lesson guide recording that provides
      an overview of the lesson, then participants will be guided to read the short daily reading
      on the website (approximately one page) at which point they will be directed to complete the
      daily 20-25 minute relaxation practice, which is a recorded meditation or guided imagery
      exercise. The relaxation practices change with each week's lesson and participants will be
      directed to complete the relaxation practice at least four times a week. The relaxation
      practice recordings can be accessed at any time on the Stress Free Now website. Participants
      will receive daily emails with an inspirational quote that includes reminders to log in to do
      the day's reading and complete the daily relaxation practice. The daily readings discuss
      topics like stress, the importance of living in the present, perfectionism, optimism, mood,
      yoga, healthy eating, better sleep, loneliness and other related areas. Those data along with
      the number of times that the participant logged in to the Stress Free Now website will be
      recorded in the Cleveland Clinic's database and merged by participant ID with the rest of the
      study data. Women assigned to the control group will be given access to the intervention
      immediately upon completing the study (i.e., to fulfill the wait list control condition). It
      should be noted that while intervention crossover is always a concern, SFN has not been
      widely used to date (<50 public users last year) despite its demonstrated promise for
      reducing stress.

      Our primary endpoint will be salivary alpha-amylase level, consistent with our prior work in
      this area. A highly experienced laboratory will quantify salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase
      as biomarkers of stress. Cortisol (micrograms/dL) will be measured using a highly sensitive
      enzyme immunoassay. Salivary alpha-amylase (U/mL) will be quantified using a commercially
      available kinetic reaction assay. Our secondary outcome will be pregnancy rate after three
      months of follow-up. Women will be asked to continue to participate in the study for the full
      three months, even if they become pregnant (this will allow us to assess levels of stress
      over time).

      When sent their first saliva collection kit, participants will be provided detailed
      collection instructions, which will ask the participant to collect her first saliva sample
      the next morning within 10 minutes of awakening before eating, drinking, smoking, or brushing
      her teeth. Participants will be advised to freeze the collected sample in her home freezer
      for at least 12 hours prior to returning the sample to The Ohio State University using the
      provided prepaid insulated shipping container containing the frozen cold pack (see saliva
      collection form). In instances where women collects her sample too late (i.e., >30 minutes
      after awakening) or the sample arrives damaged or otherwise unusable, women will be asked to
      provide a replacement sample.

      The Monday following randomization, women will be sent an email with a link to their first
      weekly journal. Specifically, women will be asked to record their answers to the journal
      questions in reference to days of bleeding, acts of intercourse, receipt of infertility
      treatment, pregnancy test results, health behaviors, stress level, and efforts to reduce
      stress. At weeks 6 and 12, women will also be asked to complete the PSS-4, the STAI-S Short
      Form, and the CESDR-10. Women will be asked to complete this journal at the end of each week
      (Mondays) until the end of the three-month follow-up period (12 journals total) or pregnancy,
      whichever comes first. Women who are randomized to the intervention will be sent a welcome
      email with their SFN username and password.

      After 6 weeks of follow-up (corresponding to the end of the intervention for the group
      randomized to SFN), women will be mailed a second package containing saliva collection
      materials and will be asked to collect a second sample. Procedures will be identical to the
      first sample collection.

      Study staff will maintain close contact with study participants to limit loss to follow-up.
      Participants in this randomized controlled trial will receive a $40 Amazon.com gift card for
      completing the study. As described above, women will also receive five digital pregnancy
      tests for use during the study; this will likely be viewed as a benefit by participants, but
      will also serve to increase the validity of the measurement of our primary endpoint. Upon
      exiting the study, all women will be asked to complete the study's exit form.
    
  