
    
      Alcohol is one of the most widely used substances. The effects of driving while intoxicated
      are well documented, leading to laws and regulations behind drunk driving. Marijuana is also
      a commonly abused drug. Marijuana use is not specific to social class, is linked to cognitive
      impairment and may be the cause of intoxication-induced accidents. The effects of marijuana
      intoxication on driving impairments are less documented. Data is being gathered in regards to
      this risk from our Neuroscience of Marijuana Impaired Driving study. The principle
      investigator's previous research includes the Brain and Alcohol Research with College
      Students (BARCS) study along with additional epidemiological studies reveal that most
      marijuana smokers also consume alcohol when they are intoxicated. These drugs interact
      pharmacodynamically and change each other's levels in the user's blood. They both have
      deleterious effects on driving. These effects are not additive but rather multiplicative.
      Someone using both substances will show more deleterious effects than someone using just one
      of these substances. This study will aim to investigate the brain and behavior in the same
      individuals, using a similar design to the NHTSA: Examine the Feasibility of a Standardized
      Field Test for Marijuana Impairment study. This structure coupled with past alcohol driving
      studies (Marijauna and Alcohol Impaired Driving) uses similar techniques of other measures of
      drunk driving. We hypothesize that alcohol and marijuana use combined will lead to greater
      impairment in a simulated driving task, as well as other driving related cognitive
      impairments. This study will aim to study feasible roadside sobriety tests for marijuana
      impairment.

      The study will consist of 5 days (screening visit and 4 dose visit days). In a randomized,
      counterbalanced, double-blind study, investigators will dose participants with alcohol to a
      legal amount of 0.05% blood alcohol content on 3 study days and dose to 0.08% blood alcohol
      content on 1 study day. Then investigators will administer high THC marijuana, low THC
      marijuana or placebo marijuana using paced inhalation through a vaporizer. Participants will
      include 12 regular alcohol consumers aged 21 to 40 years of age; all participants must report
      smoking and drinking together. Following this dosing, investigators will assess impairment
      through cognitive testing as well as a simulated driving test and neuropsychological tests.
      Samples of blood will also be collected at multiple time points throughout the study visits
      to be measured for THC concentration and its metabolites. This allows clarification between
      the relationship of impairment, as well as subjective and objective intoxication, and levels
      of THC and it's metabolites in the users system.
    
  