
    
      Somatic post-surgical pain is very distressing to patients which leads to important
      complications. Combined multimodal strategies involving nerve blocks, neuroaxial blocks,
      opiates, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are necessary for optimal pain control.

      Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block can be used to provide effective analgesia during the
      postoperative period following a range of surgeries.

      TAP block administers local anesthetics between the T6 to L1 spinal nerve roots to stop the
      nerve signal and to alleviate pain for abdominal procedures.

      A number of systematic reviews have assessed TAP block as a postoperative analgesic compared
      to one or more specific procedures.

      Anterior abdominal wall blocks, as transverse abdominal plexus block, have an important role
      for only somatic intraoperative and postoperative pain control.

      The viscera are innervated by the vagal nerve (parasympathetic innervation) and by the
      splanchnic nerves (sympathetic innervation). The splanchnic nerves carry both visceral
      efferent and afferent nerve fibers. The sensory (or afferent) part of the splanchnic nerves
      reach the spinal column at certain spinal segments, It is possible to block central visceral
      pain conduction with thoracic paravertebral blockade or maybe even with the novel quadratus
      lumborum (QL) block.

      The effect of the QL block is believed to result from a spread of LA from its lumbar
      deposition cranially into the thoracic paravertebral space (TPVS), since Carney et al found
      traces of contrast agent in the TPVS following application of this block. Hence, the QL block
      would seem to be able to alleviate both somatic and visceral pain.10 Quadratus lumborum block
      was first described by Blanco in 2007. Blanco described a potential space posterior to the
      abdominal wall muscles and lateral to the quadratus lumborum muscle. It has been used in
      abdominoplasties, caesarean sections and lower abdominal operations providing complete pain
      relief in the distribution area from Th6 to L1 dermatomes. It may be seen as a lumbar
      approach to the Thoracic Paravertebral Space. The block apparently produces distribution of
      the local anesthetic extending proximally and over both sides of the surface of the QL
      muscle, in between the anterior and intermediate layers of the thoracolumbar fascia.

      Quadratus lumborum muscle inserts on the lower border of the last rib and by four small
      tendons into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae.

      Running between its fascia and the muscle are the twelfth thoracic (subcostal), ilioinguinal,
      and iliohypogastric nerves, The block does not rely on the feeling of any pops or fascial
      clicks because depending of the angle of the needle several pops can be felt without reaching
      the target zone, which is lateral to the quadratus lumborum muscle. Actually, the block has
      never been intended to be conducted without the use of US guidance, and the block is thus a
      purely USG block.

      Aim of study Comparison between quadratus lumborum block, transversus abdominis plane block
      regarding perioperative analgesia after bladder cancer surgeries by measuring intraoperative
      hemodynamics, postoperative pain scores and morphine consumption in the first 24 h
      postoperative.
    
  