
    
      Recently, coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (cCTA) of 64-detector rows or greater has
      emerged as a novel non-invasive imaging modality that is capable of providing high-resolution
      images of coronary artery lesions (Budoff 2008; Miller 2008; Meijboom 2008). While cCTA
      demonstrates good diagnostic performance for detection and exclusion of anatomic coronary
      artery stenoses, numerous prior studies have revealed an unreliable relationship between
      detection of obstructive anatomic coronary artery stenoses by cCTA and hemodynamically
      (HD)-significant coronary artery disease (CAD), identified by myocardial perfusion SPECT or
      fractional flow reserve (FFR) (Di Carli 2007; Klauss 2007; Rispler 2007; van Werkhoven 2009).
      Individual subjects may have HD-significant CAD despite cCTA assessment demonstrating
      angiographically mild (<50%) maximal stenosis (Schuijf 2006). These findings emphasize the
      need for additional measures beyond anatomic stenosis severity for the detection and
      exclusion of HD-significant CAD.

      Measurement of FFR during invasive cardiac catheterization represents the "gold standard" for
      assessment of the hemodynamic significance of coronary artery lesions (Kern 2010). Anatomic
      coronary artery stenosis assessment by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) also
      correlates very poorly with FFR Melikian 2010). This was highlighted by the results of the
      FAME study in which FFR-guided coronary revascularization improved healthcare and economic
      outcomes compared to the conventional angiographically guided strategy (Pijls 2010; Tonino
      2009; Tonino 2010).

      The major disadvantage of FFR is that it has to be measured invasively. HeartFlow, Inc.
      ('HeartFlow') has recently developed a non-invasive method to determine FFR which computes
      the hemodynamic significance of CAD (FFRCT) from subject-specific cCTA data using
      computational fluid dynamics under rest and simulated maximal coronary hyperemic conditions.
      Preliminary results in subjects suggest that FFRCT accurately predicts the hemodynamic
      significance of coronary lesions when compared to directly-measured FFR during invasive
      cardiac catheterization (Koo 2011).
    
  