
    
      Based on the evaluation including gait analysis, we will select the target muscles and inject
      the toxin into the selected muscles of the spastic lower limb under the guidance of
      ultrasonography or electrical stimulation. After BoNT-A injection, these children will be
      evaluated after 1 month. Clinical data obtained in the baseline measurement will be assessed
      again. Motion capture data will also be collected. Finally, clinical data of patients will be
      collected 4 months after injection to identify the clinical improvement and side effects.

      Motion capture data will be imported to OpenSim. We will generate an inverse kinematic
      analysis of each subject using following procedure:

        1. Scale the model to match the anthropometry of each subject. We will scale the dimensions
           of the torso, pelvis, thigh, shank, and foot based on the relative distances between
           pairs of markers measured experimentally and the corresponding markers in the model. The
           muscle attachments will also be scaled with the segment.

        2. Using a least-squares formulation, a set of desired joint angles for tracking,
           consistent with each scaled model, based on the marker trajectories, joint constraints,
           and joint angles from gait analysis will be computed.

        3. The musculotendinous length of each muscle will be calculated based on the "lower limb
           model 2010" by Arnold. This model adopted the wrapping surface to calculate the moment
           arm and musculotendinous unit passage at each joint. This model is intended to be used
           in research-graded kinematic analysis.

             -  Objectives <Primary objective>

      1.To determine the changes of musculotendinous length of hamstrings after a single BoNT-A
      injection during walking in children with spastic CP walking with excessive knee flexion
      <Secondary objectives>

        1. To determine the efficacy on gross motor function after BoNT-A injection

        2. To determine the benefit on gait after BoNT-A injection

        3. To determine the efficacy on spasticity after BoNT-A injection

        4. To determine the kinematic change after BoNT-A injection

        5. To determine the dynamic change after BoNT-A injection

        6. To determine the treatment emergent adverse events following BoNT-A injection

             -  Subjects : total 32 children with cerebral palsy

             -  Intervention :

      1. BoNT-A will be injected into two hamstring and/or gastrocnemius muscles under the guidance
      of ultrasonography or electrical stimulation. 2. Maximal total dose and dose regimen for each
      muscle would follow the recommendation of international consensus. A. Semitendinosus 5 to 7.5
      units/kg of body weight B. Semimembranosus 5 to 7.5 units/kg of body weight C. Gastrocnemius
      10 units/kg of body weight D. Maximal total dose per patient : unilateral injection 500
      units, bilateral injection 1,000 units E. The dosage of two hamstring muscles will depend on
      the severity of spasticity and gait abnormalities of children with CP

        -  Studies : 3D motion analysis, GMFM (gross motor function measure), GMFCS (gross motor
           function classification system), MAS (modified Ashworth scale), MTS (modified Tardieu
           scale)

        -  Evaluation plan : 1) pre-intervention, 2) post-4 weeks after intervention, 3) 16 weeks
           after intervention
    
  