
    
      The current international guidelines and expert working groups are encouraging
      "search-and-treat" strategy for H.pylori to prevent gastric cancer1, 2. The highest yield of
      this approach is expected in countries with high incidence of gastric cancer and high
      prevalence of H.pylori infection. This approach will be further supported by the Maastricht V
      European guidelines (manuscript in preparation). The rationale for this approach is that 1-2%
      of the infected individuals are developing gastric cancer; the International Agency for
      Research on Cancer has classified H.pylori infection as Class I carcinogen3, 4. A study in
      Matsu island with high gastric cancer risk has suggested that gastric cancer incidence can be
      decreased by 25% by such strategy5; the limitations, however, include lack of the control
      group.

      Three recent meta-analysis have confirmed the cost-effectiveness of such approach6-8; of
      course, those are based on the limited currently available data on potential risks caused by
      population-based strategy application.

      In the countries which are expected to benefit from the strategy most this would mean
      offering eradication treatment to the majority of population, e.g. in Latvia this would
      require antibiotic treatment to 79% of population9, and would change the current status of
      low antibiotic consumption country to an average consumption country. This could potentially
      result in adverse consequences unrelated to H.pylori.

      In a country with low H.pylori resistance to clarithromycin (such as Latvia), the recommended
      H.pylori 1st-line standard eradication regimen would consist of clarithromycin in combination
      to either amoxicillin or metronidazole, and a proton-pump inhibitor; the duration would be at
      least 10 days10. Areas with higher H.pylori resistance to clarithromycin would require more
      aggressive treatment modalities, e.g. by including levofloxacin to the regimen. The potential
      adverse events caused by such therapies to microbiome are insufficiently studied; the expert
      opinion that are developing guidelines is generally limited to the consideration that 1-2
      week single-time antibiotic treatment would be a minor and fully reversible intervention upon
      microbiome since according to the available statistic in many countries the average
      antibiotic intake rates one or several treatments per year in a subject.

      However, from the limited data available, there is a clear message that even one-week
      treatment with macrolides (clarithromycin, azithromycin) is increasing the resistance of
      macrolide-resistant S.pneumoniae in pharynx in healthy volunteers; this difference was
      statistically significant within a period of 180 days11.

      Thus the aim of this project proposal is to evaluate the long term effects of H.pylori
      eradication on Gastro intestinal tract (GIT) microbiome, evaluate its effects on abundance
      and prevalence of extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) coding genes and develop cost
      effective ESBL screening test prototype. To reach this goal during within the scope of this
      project fecal samples will be collected of patients that are undergoing the eradication
      therapy at two time points: before the start eradication and one year after the final
      treatment. In order to decrease the number of feces samples that patients shall have to
      acquire and standardize the sampling procedure, participants should explore the possibility
      to employ fecal occult blood test containers. Since there are no conclusively positive
      reports on employment of these devices in such analyses within the scope of this research
      participants shall also develop an appropriate DNA extraction methodology. Further, employing
      Next generation sequencing based analyses participants shall determine the microbial
      community composition within each sample and through comparison of data from each time point
      participants should be able to estimate the long term effects of eradication therapy.
      Following this analysis participants should perform the identification of ESBL repertoire
      within each sample and also evaluation their abundances abundance. Similarly as in the case
      of community analysis the comparison of both time points shall allow to estimate the effects
      of eradication therapy. Following the acquisition of the data participants shall outsource
      the creation of ESBL screening test prototype, which shall be based on employment micro-bead
      technology.
    
  