
    
      Both statin drugs and exercise training are known to exert anti-inflammatory effects. We
      found that both high levels of physical activity and an exercise training program reduced
      markers of inflammation and lowered monocyte Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression. It has
      not been determined whether statins exert their anti-inflammatory effects through the
      toll-like receptors or whether combined statin/exercise treatment will exert synergistic
      anti-inflammatory effects. Thus, the primary purposes of this study are two-fold: 1)
      Determine whether rosuvastatin treatment downregulates LPS-induced inflammatory responses,
      serum hsCRP, and monocyte TLR4 expression in hypercholesterolemic patients; and 2) Determine
      whether adding exercise training to rosuvastatin treatment induces an anti-inflammatory
      synergy and further lowers LPS-induced inflammatory response, hsCRP, and TLR4 expression.
      Thirty two hypercholesterolemic (total cholesterol > 200 mg/dL, LDL > 130 mg/dL) will be
      randomly divided into two groups: statin (ST) and statin and exercise (ST+E). Sixteen
      physically active, no-statin subjects will also be recruited as a control group(CON). After
      baseline blood sampling, ST and ST+E groups will begin a 10-week course of rosuvastatin
      calcium treatment (10 mg/d) after which a second blood sample will be obtained. The ST+E
      group will then begin a 10 week (three days per week) combined endurance (20 min at 70% of
      heart rate reserve) and resistive training (2 sets of 10 upper- and lower-body exercises)
      program. The ST group will not exercise and both ST+E and ST groups will continue taking
      their medication, as prescribed. A final blood sample will be taken at the end of this
      10-week segment. Blood samples will also be taken from the CON group at 0, 10 and 20 weeks.
      Monocyte expression of TLR4, CD14 (LPS receptor) and CD16 (monocyte maturation marker) will
      be assessed using flow cytometry. LPS-stimulated inflammatory cytokine production and serum
      levels of hsCRP, TNF-a, oxLDL, LDL, HDL, endotoxin, LPS binding protein, and sCD14 will also
      be measured at each time point (baseline, 10 weeks, 20 weeks). These experiments will allow
      us to determine whether rosuvastatin downregulates TLR4, an important mediator of
      inflammation, and whether exercise, known to lower TLR4 expression, can augment the
      rosuvastatin effects. Regular exercise and statin treatment are known to reduce disease risk,
      but the benefits of these treatments is infrequently attributed to their anti-inflammatory
      effects. It is important to document mechanisms of anti-inflammatory action for exercise
      training and statin treatment and to determining whether these treatments have combined
      beneficial effects.
    
  