
    
      Our previous trial (known as HALT, Healthy Active Lifestyle Trial) suggests that improvements
      in aerobic fitness have beneficial effects on cognitive function that are rather specific.
      That is, improvements in aerobic fitness appear to result in improvements in executive
      control processes such as scheduling, planning, coordination, inhibition, and working memory
      - some of the very cognitive abilities most affected during aging. Indeed, executive control
      processes and the prefrontal and frontal regions which support them have shown substantial
      and disproportionate age-related declines. The main hypothesis that the investigators test in
      the present project is that such deficits may be particularly benefited by improvements in
      aerobic fitness combined with cognitive training in the form of dance. Additionally, we will
      compare the outcomes of these interventions with an aerobic condition (walking) group and an
      aerobic condition (walking) group that also is provided with a daily nutritional supplement
      (walking + nutrition). The investigators will examine the relationship between aerobic
      fitness, physical activity, cognitive status, and brain function with this six-month aerobic
      training intervention study. The investigators will collect psychosocial data and functional
      fitness data to assess other relevant changes in psychological and physical function brought
      about by exercise training. Healthy, non-active older adults (60 to 79 years of age) will be
      recruited from the local community. Half One quarter of the older adults will be randomly
      assigned to an aerobic/cognitive combination group (dance), one quarter will be while the
      remaining half of the older adults will be randomly assigned to a non-aerobic control group
      (stretching, strengthening, and stability), one quarter will be assigned to the walking
      group, and one quarter will be assigned to the walking + nutrition group. The exercise
      interventions will be conducted by trained exercise staff. The participants will be assessed
      before and after the intervention (6 months). Assessments will include (a) cardiorespiratory
      testing, (b) physical activity monitoring (c) performance on neurocognitive tests of
      executive and non-executive function (d) measures of brain activation (fMRI) during cognitive
      tasks in a 3.0 tesla MRI system (e) a battery of psychosocial questionnaires (f) functional
      performance measures and (g) a mock street walking task.
    
  