
    
      BACKGROUND Prostate biopsy is currently the standard of care for prostate cancer diagnosis,
      oftentimes reflexed after the detection of an elevated serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA).
      Unfortunately, prostate biopsy is not without potential complications, which include
      discomfort, pain, bleeding, and infections ranging from cystitis to septic sepsis and even
      death. Bleeding has been reported in 6-13% of patients undergoing prostate biopsy, while
      0.3-4% experience admission with sepsis. Furthermore, some newly diagnosed prostate cancers
      are indolent while other may be more aggressive with metastatic potential, with resultant
      risk of death. A PSA level ≥4.0 ng/ml is frequently used as a threshold warranting a biopsy
      evaluation. Elevated PSA level may reflect benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), inflammation,
      or malignancy. Some series suggest that only 20-30% of patients with PSA 4 - 10 ng/ml, have
      prostate cancer, resulting in a high number of patients undergoing an unnecessary biopsy. We
      recently reported the ability of "Liquid Biopsy" to predict the presence of aggressive
      prostate cancer using a combination of biomarkers detected in urine and peripheral blood
      plasma. Concluding that "Liquid Biopsy" can predict the presence of aggressive prostate
      cancer (GS ≥7).

      AIM With this study we want of compare "Liquid Biopsy", defined by our blood and urine panel
      against prostate biopsy in a large-scale randomized manner including men referred for a
      biopsy due to the suspicion of prostate cancer over the age of 70 (elderly).

      OBJECTIVE The primary objectives of this study are to test the ability of the "liquid biopsy"
      to

        1. Detect as many patients with aggressive prostate cancer as the standard method (PSA).

        2. Reduce the number of prostate biopsy sets taken and thereby reduce the number of
           patients detected with indolent prostate cancer.

      The secondary objectives are to evaluate

        1. The economic effect of implementation of the test with regard to reduced biopsies taken,
           iatrogenic infectious disease and reduced control of indolent prostate cancer.

        2. The association of the liquid biopsy to tumor grade and tumor volume in biopsied men.

        3. The Quality of life.

        4. Progression and survival: overall survival, prostate cancer specific survival, PSA
           recurrence, time to metastases, time to castration resistance

        5. Safety
    
  