
    
      Prevalence of alcohol and other drug (AOD) abuse and criminal activity is highest during
      emerging adulthood compared to any other developmental period, and causes extraordinary costs
      to society. Emerging Adults (EAs; ages 17-26) with AOD abuse have greater incarceration rates
      than EAs without AOD abuse, and AOD-abusing offenders have significantly more recidivism,
      severe offending, and incarceration than other offenders. Such serious behavior interferes
      with successful transition into adulthood in areas such as school completion, employment and
      housing. Thus, there is a strong public health need for effective treatment to reduce AOD
      abuse and justice involvement in EAs. Surprisingly, there are no interventions with
      established efficacy to reduce criminal activity among EAs, with or without AOD abuse. Among
      younger adolescents, the comprehensive causes of antisocial behavior are addressed by
      effective interventions (e.g., Multisystemic Therapy [MST]; Treatment Foster Care Oregon
      [TFCO]), and the present investigative team has developed and evaluated a well-defined
      age-tailored intervention for EAs with criminal behavior. The developed intervention is an
      adaptation of MST and integrates a skills coaching component from TFCO, both well-established
      effective juvenile justice interventions. Initial MST-EA research focused on justice-involved
      young adults who had mental health problems, a high-risk subpopulation of offenders, but AOD
      abuse quickly became a primary problem the MST-EA team treated. As a single-source
      intervention, MST-EA targets the EA correlates of criminal activity and AOD abuse, including
      gainful EA activities (positive relationships, school, work, and housing) and reduced AOD
      abuse-in part by targeting the proximal mechanism of poor self-regulation. In a successfully
      completed community-based open trial, the safety, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of
      the intervention were established.

      The proposed study will evaluate the effectiveness of MST-EA for reducing justice involvement
      and AOD abuse. EAs (n = 240) with AOD abuse and justice involvement (recent arrests or
      release from justice facilities) will be randomized to receive MST-EA or Enhanced Treatment
      as Usual (E-TAU). Assessments will be completed at months 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 16, with
      confirmation of outcome data using collateral reports and official records. Aims will be to
      evaluate the effect over time of MST-EA for reducing AOD abuse and criminal activity, as well
      as to evaluate the effect of MST-EA on the key proximal target of treatment (self-regulation)
      and intermediate outcomes of treatment (gainful activities). A final aim of the study will be
      to investigate if the direct effect of treatment on criminal activity is mediated by its
      effect on self-regulation, AOD abuse, and gainful activities. In this specific age group,
      there is a complete absence of AOD abuse and recidivism reduction treatments with
      demonstrated effectiveness. The ultimate effect of the proposed research would be decreased
      AOD abuse and justice involvement in a high-risk population, as well as improved outcomes
      that have significant societal impact (e.g., reduced homelessness and unemployment).
    
  