
    
      1. BACKGROUND

           Infertility affects approximately 10-15% of couples and costs associated with medically
           assisted reproduction (MAR) are growing, such that equitable access to high quality
           reproductive care is a challenge for the Canadian health care system. This is especially
           true for women with obesity. A modifiable risk factor for infertility is obesity (body
           mass index (BMI) >= 30 kg/m2), which accounts for as many as 19% of Canadian women of
           reproductive age. Moreover, obesity increases the costs of fertility treatments, reduces
           their effectiveness and predisposes to several pregnancy and neonatal complications. As
           important, maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and excessive gestational weight gain were
           consistently associated with early development of obesity and diabetes in the offspring.
           Childhood obesity is closely linked to adult obesity, which perpetuates the
           intergenerational cycle of obesity. Accordingly, we strongly believe that targeting
           women with obesity prior to conception may be essential to reduce the burden of
           infertility and MAR costs in Canada, as well as obesity and cardiometabolic diseases.

           To prevent these adverse effects, many organizations have recommended that obese women
           should be assisted to adopt a healthy lifestyle prior to conception and maintain it
           during pregnancy. In a recent survey, all women who were obese or overweight and
           considering pregnancy were interested in adopting a healthy lifestyle pre-conception and
           91% reported their willingness to participate in a lifestyle program. However, most
           Canadian women with obesity do not have access to such targeted lifestyle programs
           integrated with their fertility care. Our solution is therefore to give these women
           access to the Fit-for-Fertility Program, an interdisciplinary lifestyle intervention,
           integrated into the fertility clinic care pathway. This program supports participants in
           their adoption of sustainable healthy behaviours, prior conception and during pregnancy.

           To fill these gaps, in 2010 Dr. Baillargeon set up the Canadian network on reproductive
           and maternal health of women with obesity and infertility. Through this network, our
           team has conducted a CIHR-funded RCT evaluating the impact of the Fit-for-Fertility
           Program, which was implemented at the fertility clinic of the Centre hospitalier
           universitaire de Sherbrooke (CHUS), on 130 obese women randomized to 1) Control group:
           standard fertility treatments right away; or 2) Intervention group: follow the
           Fit-for-Fertility program alone for 6 months, then in combination with fertility
           treatments if not pregnant. The analysis of the 108 women who completed at least 6
           months in the study (83%) shows that after a maximum follow-up of 18 months and in
           comparison with the standard fertility treatments (n = 57), the Fit-for-Fertility
           program (n = 51) significantly increased the rates of total pregnancy (61% vs. 39%, p =
           0.02) and spontaneous pregnancy (31% vs. 12%, p = 0.01), as well as a tendency to
           increase live birth (51% vs. 37%, p = 0.14). Such results from the pilot study are
           highly clinically significant. The total cost of this intervention was only $870 per
           participant, as compared to standard fertility care costs averaging $4,400 per woman
           with obesity in the above-mentioned trial. As such, these preliminary results thus
           suggest that our low-cost lifestyle intervention for women who are obese and infertile
           may significantly improve their fertility and reduce the need for expensive MAR. These
           promising findings provide strong justification for further validation in diverse
           Canadian populations using a multicenter trial.

           The general goals of our research program are therefore to i) improve the fertility of
           women with obesity, ii) reduce costs associated with their fertility treatments, and
           iii) promote the health of mothers and their offspring. To achieve this goal, we ask the
           question: Does the Fit-for-Fertility Program improve in a cost-effective manner the live
           birth rate and other fertility outcomes, as well as pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, in
           women with obesity and infertility who consult a fertility clinic, as compared to usual
           care?

        2. OBJECTIVES

      Accordingly, the main objectives of our national multicenter RCT are to:

        1. Evaluate the effectiveness of the Fit-for-Fertility Program on fertility and lifestyle
           outcomes in a diverse Canadian population;

        2. Assess costs per live birth and other measures of cost-effectiveness of the program; and

        3. Determine the impact of the program on maternal and neonatal health.

      3. CENTERS INVOLVED IN THE TRIAL

      Seven fertility clinics covering Canada from coast to coast and having a good ethnic
      diversity will participate in this RCT: Olive Fertility Centre in Vancouver, with its Asian
      population; Pacific Centre for Reproductive Medicine in Edmonton, Mount Sinai Hospital in
      Toronto and Centre hospitalier universitaire (CHU) of Montréal, with large multiethnic
      communities; CHU of Sherbrooke and CHU of Québec, smaller centers with mainly Caucasian
      clientele; and Atlantic Assisted Reproductive Therapies Clinic in Halifax that has a
      Caucasian and Afro-American population. All clinics have provided strong support and
      partnership.

      4. RANDOMIZATION

      Randomization will occur following the baseline visit (V0), when all eligibility criteria
      will be available for the candidate. Group allocation will be concealed using on-line
      computerized randomization with permuted blocks of variable block sizes (2 to 6), stratified
      by center and PCOS status (yes/no), which decreases fertility and may affect response to the
      lifestyle intervention. Randomization list will be generated by an independent statistician.
      Participants will be randomized in two arms using 1:1 ratio. Central randomization will be
      conducted using a customized web-based program designed for the study. The randomization
      process will be initiated by the site investigator or delegate who will access the web-based
      system and enter the patient's confirmation of eligibility and informed consent. The
      patient's unique study identifier and open-label study treatment allocation will then be
      electronically delivered to the local site investigator or delegate.

      Following randomization, the research staff will inform the fertility care team of their
      patient's allocation group. If the participant is randomized to the control group, the
      fertility care team will be informed that their patient can undergo fertility treatments
      immediately, according to their usual care. On the other hand, if the participant is
      randomized to the intervention group, the fertility clinic will be notified that the patient
      will have to postpone any medically assisted reproduction (MAR) procedures for the following
      6 months, during which she will be enrolled in the Fit-for-Fertility Program. At the end of
      this first 6-month period, if the participant is not pregnant, the research staff will
      contact the fertility clinic team to inform them that the participant can now undergo usual
      fertility care, in combination with the Fit-for-Fertility Program.

      5. FOLLOW-UP

      As illustrated in the Study Flow Chart, page ix, research evaluation visits will take place
      in both groups at baseline and every 6 months for a total of 18 months if no pregnancy
      occurs. Women who will become pregnant within the first 18 months of follow-up will be
      evaluated at the beginning of pregnancy and at 24-28 weeks of pregnancy, or up to a total
      follow-up of 24 months. In our pilot trial, only one participant who became pregnant within
      18 months of follow-up delivered after a total follow-up of 24 months. Women who will become
      pregnant after 18 months of follow-up will not undergo research visits during their
      pregnancy. All measures and evaluations performed during these research visits are detailed
      below, in section 8.1, and are listed in the Schedule Table at page x. Patients will be
      instructed to contact the study team if events occur between visits or phone calls.
      Importantly, all clinical outcomes will be ascertained with participants and their medical
      records 24 months after participants' randomization, regardless of the timing of their last
      research visit and the occurrence of a pregnancy. Pregnancy and neonatal outcomes occurring
      after 24 months from a pregnancy achieved within 24 months will not be included in the
      primary analysis of the primary outcome, but will be recorded for secondary analyses.

      6. ANALYSES OF THE DATA

      6.1 Sample Size

      Experts from the Canadian network on reproductive and maternal health of women with obesity
      and infertility were surveyed, and they concluded that the minimal absolute increase in the
      18-month cumulative incidence of live birth (live birth rate) between groups of participants
      that would change clinical practice must be between 10% and 20%. The only RCT that is similar
      to our study was published in the NEJM26 and used an increase of 15% for their sample size
      calculation. Therefore, our sample size calculation was based on a 15% absolute difference,
      an estimated live birth rate of 35% in the control group (from our ongoing RCT), a power of
      95% and an alpha level of 5%, and resulted in 293 women per group (nQuery avisor 4.0).
      Assuming a withdrawal rate of 5% (eligibility criteria violation and loss to follow up), the
      number of women to recruit is 616. A 95% power will provide enough power for most of our
      secondary outcome analyses.

      In order to recruit a total of 616 participants in 18 months, the two clinics with smaller
      practices (CHUS and CHUQ) will need to recruit 53 participants (i.e. 39 per year), and the
      other 5 clinics will have to recruit 102 participants (i.e. 68 per year). These rates of
      recruitment are feasible since a survey of participating fertility clinics showed that
      smaller practices (CHUS, CHUQ) evaluate 80 to 315 new women with obesity per year, and larger
      practices, between 265 and 810.

      6.2 Quantitative Data Statistical Analyses

      The main variable of interest will be 24-month live birth cumulative incidence and the
      primary analyses of interest will be ITT, including all randomized participants with
      available data and no violation of eligibility criteria. The ITT analyses will be
      supplemented by per-protocol analyses where women will be excluded if they drop out of the
      study during the first 6 months. The 24-month cumulative incidences of live birth will be
      compared between the two arms using the Mantel-Haenszel test with stratification by center
      and PCOS status. This analysis will be supplemented by a survival analysis (log rank test)
      where the time to live birth will be used. To assess balance across arms, baseline
      demographic and clinical data of women will be compared between arms. In the very unlikely
      event that a substantial imbalance is found, additional analyses will be carried to assess
      the potential confounding effects of this imbalance, using multiple logistic regression and
      Cox proportional hazards model.

      Similar analyses will be used for other clinical outcome variables, which will be assessed as
      categories, and continuous variables. Subgroup analyses will be performed based on baseline
      age, level of obesity, ethnic origins, socio-economic status, the cause of infertility and
      polycystic ovary syndrome status. A 5% level of significance will be used for all analyses.

      7. ANTICIPATED CONTRIBUTIONS

      The results of our multicenter RCT will have major scientific impact since they will provide
      important data on the importance of a lifestyle program supporting women with obesity
      consulting in fertility clinics, in order to improve their fertility and response to ART as
      well as helping them to have a healthy baby. This study will also provide valuable
      information on potential cost savings for individuals and the healthcare system.
    
  