
    
      SYN-010 has previously been evaluated in consecutive Phase 2a clinical trials. Sixty-three
      (63) IBS-C patients with high breath methane (>10 ppm) at screening were enrolled in a
      multicenter, randomized, controlled, double-blinded clinical trial (RCT) in which they
      received SYN-010 21 mg, SYN-010 42 mg or Placebo once daily for 4 weeks. Fifty-four (54)
      subjects who completed the RCT continued into an open-label extension (EXT) in which all
      subjects received SYN-010 42 mg once daily for an additional 8 weeks.

      The SYN-010 Phase 2a studies were intentionally designed as mechanistic proof-of-concept
      studies, wherein reductions in breath methane were employed as a rapid and cost-effective
      means by which to determine if SYN-010 could be effective in treating an underlying cause of
      symptoms in IBS-C. Breath methane was reduced relative to baseline in SYN-010 treatment
      groups, and lower breath methane levels correlated with an increased number of complete
      spontaneous bowel movements (CSBMs) at week 12, consistent with the proposed
      methane-inhibiting action of lovastatin lactone.

      Since lovastatin has not previously been used to treat IBS-C patients, the SYN-010 Phase 2a
      studies were also focused on the safety of the SYN-010 dosage form. Daily doses of SYN-010
      were well-tolerated by IBS-C patients over the 12-week treatment period (at least 8 weeks of
      SYN-010 42 mg). SYN-010 did not cause clinically meaningful or persistent changes in serum
      liver and muscle markers in IBS-C patients at daily doses of 21 mg and 42 mg. Modest
      decreases from baseline in lipid parameters observed after 7 days of SYN-010 21 mg or 42 mg
      had largely faded by 28 days and were not evident after 12 weeks of dosing. Very few adverse
      events were reported over 12 weeks of SYN-010 treatment and all were of mild or moderate
      intensity. No serious adverse events were reported and there were no incidences of
      drug-related diarrhea, which is an important potential benefit of SYN-010 as an IBS-C
      therapy.

      Although the Phase 2a studies were not prospectively powered for formal statistical
      evaluation of clinical endpoints, compelling improvements in CSBMs, abdominal pain, and
      bloating were observed in SYN-010 treatment groups. These clinical findings have been
      presented in multiple public forums and a panel of clinical advisors affirmed that the Phase
      2a data validate the need to evaluate optimal dosing of SYN-010 in a larger patient
      population over a longer dosing period.

      Based on the potential clinical benefit observed in Phase 2a, this Phase 2b clinical study
      will evaluate in more detail the clinical effects of two dose strengths of SYN-010
      administered over a longer treatment period (12 weeks per FDA guidelines) to a larger number
      of IBS-C patients. The study will seek more definitive evidence regarding potential symptom
      improvements and safety in IBS-C patients. The study also seeks to provide new information of
      relevance to both efficacy and safety by measuring changes to the microbiome in patient stool
      samples; serum level of cytokine markers of inflammation; and expanded breath gas
      measurements.

      SYN-010 is a hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) capsule filled with enteric-coated tablets
      from which lovastatin is released at different intestinal pH values. The tablets are designed
      to pass through the stomach unchanged then release a small amount of lovastatin into the
      duodenum and the majority of the lovastatin dose into the ileocecal junction and colon. The
      amount of lovastatin to be released into the small and large intestine is anticipated to be
      consistent with the relative levels of methane-producing archaea in each location of the
      intestine.

      Methane production (methanogenesis) is a ubiquitous process in the human intestine, disposing
      of hydrogen and other by-products formed during bacterial fermentation. Methane production in
      humans is almost entirely due to the archeon M. smithii. Elevated intestinal methane
      production reduces intestinal motility and is a cause of constipation, pain and bloating in
      IBS-C.

      Interest in lovastatin as a potential inhibitor of methanogenesis originated with recognition
      that the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of archaeal lipid membranes is catalyzed by
      HMG-CoA reductase (HMGR) which is the target enzyme for cholesterol-lowering statins.
      Subsequent in vitro studies (described above) and computational studies have since determined
      that HMGR is not the target for lovastatin anti-methanogenic activity; rather, lovastatin
      lactone appears to exert a direct effect on methanogenesis enzymes. The mechanism by which
      lovastatin lactone inhibits methane production by M. smithii has not been conclusively
      determined; however, detailed computational studies showed that lovastatin lactone may
      competitively inhibit F420-dependent methylenetetrahydromethanopterin dehydrogenase (mtd), an
      enzyme that is integral to the M. smithii methanogenesis pathway.

      Methanogenic archaea reside predominantly in the human colon, with lower methanogen levels
      measured in the small intestine of some patients. Methane production at both sites
      contributes to reduced gastrointestinal motility and rat studies suggest that the ileocecal
      region may be of particular significance. SYN-010 utilizes a dual-pulse release profile to
      deliver a portion of the lovastatin dose to the small intestine and the majority of the dose
      to the ileocecal junction and colon where the most methane-producing organisms are found; the
      relative amounts of lovastatin released into the small and large intestine are consistent
      with the anticipated relative levels of methanogens in each location.

      Lovastatin lactone exerts its methane-reducing effect in the intestinal lumen and systemic
      absorption of lovastatin is not required for its therapeutic effect in IBS-C.
    
  