
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The specific aims of the study are to determine: (1) the effects of asthma with pre-existing
      airway hyper reactivity on the pulmonary function and airway reactivity and inflammation
      responses to chlorine; (2) the effects of chlorine concentration on the pulmonary function
      and airway reactivity and inflammation responses to chlorine; and (3) to assess the time
      dynamics of the pulmonary function and airway reactivity and inflammation responses to
      chlorine. It is hypothesized that both airway hyperactivity and higher chlorine concentration
      will result in larger changes in pulmonary function and airway reactivity and inflammation
      responses, and that these changes will have differential time courses following chlorine
      exposure. This study uses two controlled human exposure experiments, utilizing a
      single-blind, repeated-measures, and counter- balanced design. The two subject groups for
      both experiments will consist of 21 individuals with no airway hyperactivity, and 21
      individuals with both asthma and airway hyperactivity. In Experiment One, subjects are
      exposed for 15 minutes separately to each of: (1) chlorine at 0.4 ppm; (2) chlorine at 1.0
      ppm; and (3) filtered air (Control). Pulmonary function and airway reactivity are measured
      immediately pre-exposure and 1 and 20 hours post-exposure. Airway inflammation, as determined
      by cellular and biochemical components from sputum-induction, is measured 65 hours
      pre-exposure and 20 hours post-exposure. In Experiments Two, subjects are exposed for 15
      minutes separately to each of: (1) chlorine (concentration determined from Experiment One);
      (2) filtered air (Control). Pulmonary function and airway reactivity are measured immediately
      pre-exposure and at 3 and 72 hours post-exposure. Sputum-induction is performed 65 hours
      pre-exposure and at 3 and 72 hours post-exposure. The results of this study will provide
      information on a major irritant chemical relevant to occupational environments. Specially,
      the susceptibility of a large sub-population at increased risk, the dose-response effects,
      and the post-exposure time dynamics of the effects of chlorine gas will be determined.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  