
    
      Methods summary: Health departments will generate an out-of-care list using HIV laboratory
      surveillance data; collaborating clinics will concurrently generate out-of-care lists using
      appointment data. The combined out-of-care list will be reconciled by the health department
      and clinics, and discussed at monthly case conferences. All individuals determined to be
      out-of care will be randomized to receive either: (1) usual linkage and engagement in care
      services (standard of care [SOC]); or (2) an active health department field services
      intervention in addition to SOC. The active intervention activities will vary among
      jurisdictions; however all sites will include field services to locate, contact, and provide
      assistance, including a same-day appointment, to access HIV medical care.

      Study design: Each site will enroll 600 out-of-care HIV-infected individuals (300 per arm)
      during a two-year enrollment period. An out-of-care individual will be defined as: (1) a
      person who has received HIV medical care at a CoRECT clinic and then disengages from care; or
      (2) a person with newly diagnosed HIV infection who has an appointment at a CoRECT clinic,
      but has not linked to medical care within 90 days.

      Intervention: Individuals randomized to the intervention arm will receive field services to
      locate, contact, and provide assistance to access HIV medical care. Services provided as part
      of the intervention will vary by jurisdiction, but may include assistance with expedited
      medical appointments, transportation, access to community resources such as traditional case
      management, strengths-based case management, or financial incentives (Appendix A).

      Primary outcomes: The following outcomes will be compared between out-of-care HIV-infected
      individuals receiving the study intervention to those receiving usual services:

        1. Attend 1 clinic visit within 90 days;

        2. Remain engaged in care, defined as 2 clinic visits at least 3 months apart within 12
           months;

        3. Achieve viral load suppression within 12 months;

        4. Achieve durable viral load suppression, defined as 2 consecutive suppressed viral load
           results at least 3 months apart within 18 months
    
  