
    
      The Family Health and Development Project (FHDP) is a randomized controlled trial to evaluate
      the effectiveness of the Intensive In-home Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Service (IICAPS)
      intervention, targeting emotionally, behaviorally, and/or psychiatrically disordered children
      at risk of a psychiatric inpatient admission and their families. Children and families are
      randomized to receive IICAPS or Home-based Child Treatment Coordination (Home-based CTC), a
      home-based case management intervention for coordination of mental health services for
      children. Approximately 144 children and their families will be enrolled for a 12 month study
      period. Each study intervention is six to seven months in duration, with approximately 6
      additional months of follow-up.

      Data are collected from the identified child's parent/legal guardian during three in-person
      assessment interviews (at enrollment, at end of study treatment, and at 12-months), and
      during brief monthly phone interviews. Data are collected on child psychiatric symptoms and
      behavior, child psychiatric inpatient admissions and other service utilization, parenting
      practices, and parental problem solving skills. Additional data are collected from the
      child's teacher (child's behavior at school) and the child's school (days missed,
      suspensions, expulsions, disciplinary action) at baseline, 6-months, and 12-months. Service
      utilization data will be collected from the Connecticut Department of Social Services using
      claims data.

      The main study aim is to evaluate the efficacy of IICAPS for youth with serious and pervasive
      mental health problems that places them at risk for institutional placement, and test the
      hypotheses that children receiving IICAPS will be less likely to exhibit out-of-control
      behaviors and less likely to experience a psychiatric hospitalization and/or out-of-home
      placement during and up to six months post-discharge from services. The second study aim is
      to evaluate how the efficacy of IICAPS for youth with serious and pervasive mental health
      problems is achieved, with specific focus on parenting practices, parental problem solving
      techniques, and parental perception of the child.
    
  