
    
      Dementia is a chronic, progressive brain disease that may involve a number of symptoms,
      including memory loss and changes in personality, behavior, judgment, attention span,
      language and thought. The most common type of dementia is Alzheimer's disease. Over time,
      patients with Alzheimer's disease may lose ability to perform daily tasks related to personal
      care (for example bathing, dressing, eating) and may be unable to handle money or travel to
      familiar places. Several small clinical trials have shown galantamine to be safe and
      effective in treating the symptoms associated with Alzheimer's disease. Doses studied have
      ranged from 22.5 - 45 mg/day, with galantamine administered two or three times daily.
      Additional information is needed to determine the optimal dose regimen for galantamine in the
      treatment of Alzheimer's' disease. This multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      (neither the patient nor the study doctor know the dose of galantamine being given) study
      evaluates the safety and effectiveness of galantamine in the treatment of patients with
      Alzheimer's disease using a flexible dose regimen of two doses of galantamine. The flexible
      dose regimen was chosen in order to allow the physicians to give each patient an optimal dose
      of galantamine, to simulate what might be done in clinical practice, rather than to require
      all patients to receive a fixed dose throughout the study. All patients initially receive
      placebo for a 1-month period and then receive one of two doses of galantamine (beginning with
      4 mg twice daily and gradually increasing to 12 or 16 mg twice daily) or placebo for 3
      months. The primary measures of effectiveness include the change from baseline to the end of
      treatment in the ADAS-cog/11 score (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale: sum of 11 cognitive
      items) and the CIBIC-plus score (Clinician's Interview Based Impression of Change - Plus
      Caregiver Input). Additional measures of effectiveness assessed at the end of the treatment
      include the ADAS-cog/13 score (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale: sum of 13 cognitive
      items), the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD) score and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory
      (NPI)) score. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, quality of sleep (using the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Scale), electrocardiograms (ECGs), physical examinations, laboratory tests)
      are performed throughout the study. Blood samples are taken throughout the study to determine
      the concentration of drug in the blood. Patients who complete this study will have the option
      to receive open-label galantamine in a separate study. The study hypothesis is that
      galantamine administered in either dose is effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease
      as compared with placebo and well tolerated, and that using a flexible dose regimen will
      allow these patients to receive an individualized dose of galantamine that is effective and
      well tolerated. Galantamine tablets (or placebo), 12 or 16 mg by mouth twice daily for 3
      months, beginning with 4 mg twice daily and gradually increasing to 12 or 16 mg twice daily.
    
  