
    
      ALS is is characterized by a progressive degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons,
      leading to progressive weakness of bulbar, limb, thoracic and abdominal muscles. Although
      specific therapy is lacking, correct respiratory therapy improves quality of life and
      increases survival. Substituting the failing respiratory muscles by non invasive mechanical
      ventilatory assistance (NIV) is the current standard of care.Intradiaphragmatic phrenic nerve
      stimulation, has been the object of a preliminary proof-of-concept multicenter trial
      (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00420719).

      Aim of the study : To test the hypothesis that phrenic stimulation induced diaphragm
      conditioning can delay the need for mechanical ventilation in ALS patients.

      Methods : It is a double blind randomized study. Patients presenting with early signs of
      respiratory impairment (VC between 85 and 60%), but with a preserved electromyographic
      response of the diaphragm to phrenic nerve stimulation, will be randomized in 2 groups. All
      the patients will be treated according to current standards of care. They will all be
      implanted with a phrenic stimulator, and then randomized between actual diaphragm
      conditioning and sham stimulation.

      Respiratory function will be followed up on a trimonthly basis, with polysomnography and
      diaphragmatic EMG biannually. NIV (+ stimulation for both groups), will be initiated
      according to currently recommended criteria of hypoventilation.

      The main outcome of the study will be the number of months between the phrenic nerve
      implantation and the introduction of NIV. Currently available data, showing that diaphragm
      pacing can increase the number of patients without NIV at 2 years from 2,5% to 15% of the
      patients, requires the enrollment of 37 patients in each group. Secondary end-points will
      include i.Survival ii. Effects on sleep iii. Quality of life and daily activities
    
  