
    
      There is an urgent need for innovative approaches to pediatric obesity prevention and
      treatment. There is also a demand for targeted strategies that reduce attrition and improve
      compliance with obesity treatment. Intervening exclusively with parents of overweight
      children is a novel treatment approach, with demonstrated efficacy in reducing child body
      mass index (BMI) percentile. Motivational interviewing (MI), a brief communication style for
      exploring and resolving ambivalence about change, may enhance treatment engagement when
      implemented as part of obesity interventions. Further research investigating MI within
      pediatric obesity treatments is needed. In the current application, the investigators are
      examining whether MI implemented with parents for the treatment of their children's
      overweight can improve treatment effects. NOURISH+, a recently funded R01 (Nourishing Our
      Understanding of Role modeling to Improve Support and Health; PI, Mazzeo), is a culturally
      tailored parent intervention for overweight children ages 5-11. NOURISH+ targets
      lower-income, African American participants, a group at increased risk for pediatric
      overweight and associated complications, and builds on pilot work which yielded significant
      reductions in child BMI percentile. The investigators are adding an MI treatment into
      NOURISH+. Specifically, we will randomly select 60 parents at enrollment and investigate if
      adding two brief MI sessions prior to the NOURISH+ group intervention will enhance treatment
      effects. The investigators will be able to compare NOURISH+MI with participants from the two
      R01 treatment conditions (NOURISH+ and Control), matched on child ethnicity and gender. The
      investigators hypothesize that children whose parents participate in NOURISH+ MI will
      demonstrate lower attrition and greater compliance with NOURISH+, ultimately leading to
      greater treatment effects, compared with children whose parents are randomized to NOURISH+ or
      a control group.
    
  