
    
      Spontaneous 46,XX primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a cause of decreased fertility in
      approximately 1% of women before age 40. The most common known genetic cause of 46,XX POI is
      a pre -mutation in the Fragile X Mental Retardation (FMR1) gene. The FMR1 gene is located on
      the X-chromosome and contains a CGG repeat in the un-translated region; this CGG repeat is
      normally present in less than 55 copies, but has a tendency to expand across generations.
      Greater than 200 CGG copies results in Fragile X Syndrome (FXS), the most common form of
      heritable mental retardation. A pre-mutation in the FMR1 gene, defined as between 55 and 199
      CGG repeats, is associated with POI in women and carries a risk of expanding to the full
      mutation in a woman s offspring, resulting in a child with FXS. POI that is associated with
      the FMR1 pre-mutation is known as Fragile X-associated POI ( FXPOI ). Approximately 20% of
      women with an FMR1 pre-mutation develop FXPOI. Importantly, it is not known why some women
      with the pre-mutation develop FXPOI and others do not. The primary objective of this study is
      to characterize the natural history of reproductive function in women who are FMR1
      pre-mutation carriers by creating a patient registry that will allow us to follow them
      longitudinally. Given the relative rarity of this pre-mutation in the general population
      (<1%), a patient registry is necessary for enrollment of an adequate number of patients for
      clinically significant analyses to be performed.

      In order to characterize the natural history of reproductive function in this population, we
      will longitudinally track reproductive health of participants, including menstrual history,
      pregnancy rate, and biological (serum) markers of ovarian function. The FMR1 pre-mutation may
      also be associated with specific general health risks, such as hypertension, thyroid disease,
      neurological disorders, and psychiatric disorders. A patient registry will also allow us to
      track development of these and other common medical conditions to determine if women with the
      FMR1 pre-mutation have increased health risks. Currently, there are no screening guidelines
      regarding reproductive or general health for women who carry the FMR1 pre-mutation, and
      observations from longitudinal data will help to develop such guidelines. Finally,
      standardized guidelines for genetic counseling of women with the FMR1 pre-mutation regarding
      genetic risk to their children do not exist, and data collected in this study will enable
      this.
    
  