
    
      Because 70% of smokers have seen a PCP within the past year, primary care represents a
      valuable platform for reducing disparities in tobacco use that could be made more effective.
      The current national focus on expanding the use of EHRs also makes the proposed model to
      identify smokers with the goal of reducing disparities in tobacco use particularly timely.
      The adoption of EHRs in practices serving minorities is similar to that in all practices,
      suggesting that there is not a "digital divide" for PCP practices. In addition, the proposed
      intervention is novel because it addresses tobacco use at multiple levels (i.e., individual,
      health care setting, community), and is designed to provide smokers with tools to address
      socio-contextual contributors to disparities in tobacco use. Finally, the intervention will
      be informed by a broad approach using community resources for tobacco cessation. Conceptual
      models and empiric data suggest that this type of broad approach is needed to reach low-SES
      and minority smokers to reduce disparities in tobacco use. Telephone outreach may be
      particularly effective for minority and low-SES populations because cell phone penetration is
      higher in these populations. While disparities in tobacco use are rooted in social and
      economic problems that extend beyond the domain of health care and traditional treatment
      models, the health care system still represents a critical opportunity to initiate
      intervention.

      Although smoking has declined over the past decades, substantial socioeconomic disparities in
      smoking prevalence, risk of addiction, and tobacco-related disease remain in the US,
      particularly among different racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups. Despite relatively
      similar rates of tobacco use, for example, African Americans (a term used interchangeably
      with "blacks" throughout this proposal) suffer from a higher burden of tobacco-related
      disease, particularly lung cancer, than whites. Importantly, low socioeconomic status (SES)
      and minority smokers also have a relatively more difficult time quitting for several reasons,
      including more limited access to treatment, misinformation about the risks and benefits of
      treatment, more environmental exposure, lack of social support, and other life stressors.

      Primary care physicians (PCPs) are an important source of tobacco treatment, as the majority
      of smokers visit a PCP each year. While the US Public Health Service strongly recommends that
      clinicians identify and treat every tobacco user, such an approach is largely dependent on
      busy clinicians to provide counseling and treatment during a brief visit. Minority and
      low-SES smokers are more likely than whites to report that they did not receive counseling or
      treatment during a visit. For these reasons it is important to offer systematic opportunities
      for tobacco treatment beyond the provider's office, in addition to improving "best practices"
      for cessation treatment. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) is a phone technology that allows a
      computer to detect voice responses during a normal phone call (including calls from mobile
      phones). This technology offers a low-cost, efficient way to reach out proactively to large
      populations, independent of a visit. IVR scripts can be translated into other languages,
      facilitating systematic outreach to diverse populations. This technology can provide direct
      linkage to a tobacco treatment specialist, who can provide personalized advice for cessation,
      mood management, and stress reduction, and provide a course of free nicotine replacement
      treatment (NRT), as well as linkage to relevant community resources. Smokers who use NRT as
      part of their cessation plan are more likely to succeed than those who do not, and free NRT
      is a particularly important intervention for low-SES and minority smokers.

      Specific Aim 1: To develop an EHR-linked, IVR-mediated personalized tobacco treatment program
      for low-SES and minority smokers. To develop this program, we will first conduct formative
      qualitative research to identify the particular barriers to smoking cessation faced by these
      populations and subsequently, to create a Community Resource Guide to address socio-cultural
      barriers to cessation.

      Specific Aim 2: To measure the effectiveness of this personalized treatment program by
      conducting a randomized controlled trial of low-SES and minority smokers in 12 clinics from
      the Partners Primary Care Practice Based Research Network (PPC-PBRN). Patients in the
      intervention group will be offered three contacts with a tobacco treatment specialist over a
      12 week period, a free 6-week supply of nicotine patches, and linkage to local resources
      using the Community Resource Guide. Patients in the control group will receive visit-based
      "best practices" care facilitated by EHR decision support (received by both the intervention
      and the control group). The primary outcome of this trial will be the 7-day abstinence rate
      at 6 months.

      Specific Aim 3: To evaluate facilitators and barriers to the reach, adoption, and
      implementation of this personalized tobacco treatment program.

      This project fits well with other projects in the Lung Cancer Disparities Center (LCDC),
      complementing the other projects that seek to explain disparities in lung cancer at the
      molecular, neighborhood, and societal levels. Over 80% of those diagnosed with lung cancer
      are current or ex-smokers, supporting the critical importance of smoking cessation to
      reducing disparities in lung cancer.1 Our project adds another layer by focusing on the
      individual/ clinical interface to reduce disparities in tobacco use.
    
  