
    
      Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) is considered the fifth most common cancer in the word and the
      third leading cause of cancer death globally. The majority of GAC patients presents with
      advanced stages of disease leading to a dismal prognosis even after treatments with curative
      intent.

      Irrespective of these tumors' origin, the peritoneum is one of the most frequent sites of
      metastases and recurrences that generally determines the subsequent prognosis. Additionally,
      it is observed that none of the currently available perioperative chemotherapy regimens have
      been able to reduce the risk for peritoneal deposits. Peritoneal metastases (PMs) are formed
      during processes that entraps the malignant cells and this restrictive milieu is thought to
      hinder the penetrance of drugs delivered systemically and provides grounds for the early
      administration of intraperitoneal treatments. The presence of malignant intraperitoneal cells
      that is not cleared by chemotherapy before surgery, and/or seeding of malignant cells during
      surgery, are probably the major reasons for the development of PM and thus the poor prognosis
      after seemingly micro-radical surgery.

      Since only a fraction of the systemically administered chemotherapy reaches the peritoneum,
      the effect of intraperitoneal chemotherapy has been eagerly studied. A recent systematic
      review and meta-analysis identified three trials evaluating the effect of intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy and/or extensive peritoneal lavage in gastric cancer patients who underwent
      subsequent surgery. Two and five-year overall survival increased significantly in patients
      who had intraperitoneal chemotherapy (RR=1.62 and 3.10) and survival further increased by the
      addition of extensive lavage (RR= 2.33 and 6.19).

      The intraperitoneal delivery and subsequent uptake of chemotherapy is improved by a new
      aerosol technique. Pressurized Intraperitoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC) has shown
      promising results in patients with PM from colorectal, ovarian and gastric cancer (see
      below), and PIPAC is feasible, safe and well tolerated by the majority of patients. Our own
      database assessed the outcome of PIPAC, with low-dose cisplatin and doxorubicin, in GAC
      patients with chemotherapy-resistant PM. Objective tumor response was documented in 40% of
      the patients after PIPAC, including complete histological regression in some, whereas an
      additional 20% had no further tumor progression (manuscript in preparation). These
      observations in GAC patients deliver further evidence suggesting that PIPAC can induce
      regression of resistant PMs in several cancer types and might meet the clinical need for new
      and better therapies for fatal cancer disease states. Our results also provide evidence that
      low-dose PIPAC therapy might be effective in treating patients with recurrent,
      chemo-resistant gastric PMs, including the aggressive signet-ring histology.

      The imminent question is whether PIPAC delivered immediately after a laparoscopic gastrectomy
      for GAC, in patients being exposed to a significant risk of early recurrent disease, can be
      safely carried out? If so, for the first time, a corresponding therapeutic concept can be
      offered to similar GAC patients in addition to surgery with curative intent. This could
      potentially increase progression free and eventually overall survival.

      Twenty patients will be enrolled from two Danish and Swedish hospitals according to the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria and included in the data analysis if laparoscopic removal of
      the stomach and subsequent immediate PIPAC has been performed.
    
  