
    
      You will undergo a screening process to determine if you are eligible to participate in this
      trial. This process will include the following procedures: Tumor Biopsy, including a bone
      marrow biopsy, which is used to determine the kinds of cancer cells in your tumor and a
      Physical Examination, including weight, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and body
      temperature.

      Since we are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered safely
      without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have docetaxel resistant
      CRPC, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the
      study drug. The dose you get will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled
      in the study before you and how well they have tolerated their doses.

      If you take part in this research study, you will be given a study drug-dosing calendar for
      each treatment cycle. There will be a 14 day lead in phase of BKM120 alone to assess for
      toxicity from this agent. After the lead in phase, the standard dose of abiraterone and
      prednisone will be added to the BKM120 treatment regimen. Treatment cycles will last 4 weeks
      (28 days), during which time you will be taking the study drug in combination with the
      standard drug therapy once daily. Your time of participation in the study will be based on
      how well you tolerate the experimental drug. You could be participating in the study for a
      period of days, or years, depending on the course of your cancer.

      During each treatment cycle, you will be required to return to see your research doctor for a
      study visit on Day 1 of each cycle. For Cycle 1, you will also need to return on Days 8, 15
      and 22.

      The following procedures will be performed and samples will be collected at 1 or more study
      visits: Evaluation of side effects, Vital sign measurement, Heart function tests,
      Neuropsychologic exams, Performance status assessment, Tumor biopsy, Assessment of tumor,
      Blood samples.

      We would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of your life. We would
      like to do this by calling you on the telephone once a year to see how you are doing. Keeping
      in touch with you and checking your condition every year will help us look at the long-term
      effects of the research study. You will be required to return to see your research doctor for
      an end of study visit, which will take place 4-8 weeks after you undergo prostatectomy.
    
  