
    
      Patients who underwent an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, with biopsy
      proven GVHD, active acute GVHD requiring systemic immune suppressive therapy and that failed
      or did not respond to first line of therapy (corticosteroids ± other agent).

      Tocilizumab will be administered intravenously at a dose of 8 mg/kg once every three weeks.
      Patients with documented responses will continue to receive treatment at 8 mg/kg once every 3
      weeks for at least two months (day 56). Patients that have some degree of response but
      without complete resolution of signs and symptoms of acute GVHD may continue to receive 8
      mg/kg on a 3-week cycle until complete response is achieved or lack of further improvement.
      In patients who are beyond day 56 and whose GVHD has resolved, the dose of Tocilizumab will
      be reduced to 4 mg/kg every 3 weeks. Subsequent discontinuation of Tocilizumab will occur
      once patients are off other immune suppressive medications (including extracorporeal
      photopheresis, ECP) or are receiving sub therapeutic levels of immunosuppression (i.e.,
      Tacrolimus (FK) levels <5 ng/mL) or prednisone dose <20 mg/day (or equivalent) and are free
      of acute GVHD signs or symptoms for at least one month.

      Patients who fulfill criteria of progression of GVHD not in the setting of immunosuppressive
      taper, no response of GVHD or require initiation of other immune suppressive treatment for
      GVHD will have Tocilizumab discontinued.

      Tocilizumab shall be discontinued and not re-instituted if any one of the following criteria
      is met. The patient will be taken off study drug therapy at that point, but still followed
      for primary and secondary study endpoints. A response assessment will be made at the time of
      therapy discontinuation and at subsequent defined study endpoints. The patient will not be
      replaced on study. Follow-up data will be required unless consent for data collection is
      withdrawn:

        -  Additional systemic GVHD therapy is added for disease progression or non-response

        -  Steroid dose is escalated to ≥ 2.5 mg/kg/day of prednisone (or methylprednisolone
           equivalent of 2 mg/kg/day) for GVHD progression or no response

        -  Development of toxicity that requires withholding of study medication for more then 14
           days
    
  