
    
      Motor dysfunction after SCI results in substantial personal, social, and economic costs.
      Secondary complications related to muscle spasticity and motor dysfunction significantly
      reduce quality of life. Rehabilitation efforts are compromised because most therapeutic
      interventions rely heavily on sensory afferent feedback that is interpreted by malfunctioned
      neuronal networks. On the other hand, electrical signals delivered over the spine regenerate
      neurons of the spinal cord in injured animals, and paired associative stimulation produces
      enduring neuronal plasticity in healthy and injured humans and animals. A fundamental
      knowledge gap still exists on induction of functional neuroplasticity and recovery of leg
      motor function following repetitive pairing of transspinal cord stimulation with
      transcortical stimulation in people with motor incomplete SCI. Our central working hypothesis
      is that transspinal cord stimulation paired with transcortical stimulation strengthens
      corticospinal neuronal connections, decreases ankle spasticity, and improves leg motor
      function. This notion is based on the concept tested in the applicant's laboratory that this
      novel stimulation paradigm potentiates synaptic actions and activity of spared but
      compromised axons providing the necessary environment for functional neuroplasticity. The
      rationale of this research study is that neuromodulation methods that can modify effectively
      the input-output relations of cortical and spinal neuronal pathways in people with motor
      incomplete SCI are needed. Based on strong preliminary data, two specific aims will be
      addressed: Specific Aim 1: Establish induction of transspinal-transcortical paired
      associative stimulation (PAS) neuroplasticity and improvements in leg sensorimotor function
      in people with motor incomplete SCI when PAS is administered during robotic-assisted gait
      training. Cortical and corticospinal neuronal circuits via state-of-the-art
      neurophysiological methods in seated (Aim 1A), soleus H-reflex excitability during assisted
      stepping (Aim 1B), and sensorimotor function evaluated via standardized clinical tests (Aim
      1C) will be assessed before and after 15 sessions of transspinal-transcortical PAS delivered
      with subjects supine. Specific Aim 2: Establish induction of transcortical-transspinal PAS
      neuroplasticity and improvements in leg sensorimotor function in people with motor incomplete
      SCI when PAS is administered during assisted stepping. Cortical and corticospinal
      neuroplasticity via state-of-the-art neurophysiological methods in seated (Aim 2A), soleus
      H-reflex excitability during assisted stepping (Aim 2B), and leg sensorimotor function
      evaluated via standardized clinical tests (Aim 2C) will be assessed before and after 15
      sessions of transspinal-transcortical PAS delivered during assisted stepping. It is
      hypothesized that transspinal-transcortical PAS delivered at rest or during assisted stepping
      strengthens corticospinal connections, increases spinal inhibition, decreases ankle
      spasticity, and improves leg motor function. Further, transspinal-transcortical PAS delivered
      during assisted stepping normalizes the abnormal phase-dependent soleus H-reflex modulation
      commonly observed during stepping in people with motor incomplete SCI. To test the project
      hypotheses, 12 people with motor incomplete SCI will receive 20 sessions of
      transspinal-transcortical or transcortical-transspinal PAS during assisted stepping. In
      people with SCI, and assess improvements in leg motor function with standardized clinical
      tests. In all subjects, assessments of neuroplasticity in cortical, corticospinal, and spinal
      neuronal networks will be administered. These results will advance considerably the field of
      spinal cord research and change the standard of care because there is great potential for
      development of novel and effective rehabilitation strategies to manage spasticity and improve
      motor function after SCI in humans.
    
  