
    
      CD8(+) cells are suppressor/killer lymphocyte cells that act to limit replication of viruses.
      It is hoped that the reinfusion of activated autologous CD8(+) cells into patients with AIDS
      will help to control opportunistic infections such as cytomegalovirus and toxoplasmosis (two
      of the leading causes of sickness and death in AIDS patients). This treatment may also stop
      the HIV virus from replicating (reproducing itself) in the AIDS patient. Further activation
      of these cells, once infused, may be necessary. It is hoped that IL-2 will stimulate the
      patient's immune system against the AIDS virus along with the activated CD8(+) cells. Thus,
      IL-2 will be given, and its effects studied.

      AMENDED: 09/28/90 The CD8 lymphocytes are grown in vitro for 21 days before infusion.
      Leukapheresis and infusion continue every 21 days for 3 infusions with the last infusion
      during week 16. During weeks 13 and 16, indium 111 radio labelled cells are injected to
      permit determination of the distribution and pharmacokinetics of the infused cells. At week
      16, IL-2 is administered concurrently with Indium 111 labelled cells and the CD8+ lymphocytes
      - delivered by continuous infusion over 5 days following cell infusion. Patients are followed
      at the clinic 1 week prior to scheduled infusions, during infusion weeks and then every 2
      weeks to week 21 and at week 27. Original design: Patients undergo leukapheresis every 2
      weeks for a total of 6 times during the initial phase of the study. During this procedure, a
      catheter is placed in an arm vein, and the blood flows through a machine which separates the
      lymphocytes from the other blood components. The blood is then returned to the patient's body
      through the catheter. Less than 10 percent of the lymphocytes in the blood are removed during
      the process. The CD8(+) cells taken from the patient are cultured in the laboratory until
      they increase 10- to 1000-fold. These cells are then infused back into the patient from whom
      they were taken. The first two patients are admitted for 24 hours at the time of each
      infusion. In the absence of severe side effects, the subsequent four patients are infused at
      the clinic. Patients are admitted for 5 days for continuous infusion of IL-2 in week 13.
    
  