
    
      Pelvic organ dysfunctions are complex and difficult to treat. These conditions affect a
      substantial portion of the population, especially with increasing age. The two most frequent
      pelvic dysfunctions are the idio-pathic overactive bladder (IOAB) and erectile dysfunction
      (ED).

      In pelvic dysfunctions, sacral nerve stimulation was the first technique for pelvic nerves
      stimulation that typically involves electrical stimulation of the nerve via a dorsal
      transformational technique of implantation. SNS evolved as a widely used treatment for OAB
      but does not completely resolve symptoms in the majority of patients. Because PNS reach more
      "sphincter-vesico-anal" fibers than SNM, PNS has been proposed for patients who have failed
      to respond to sacral neuromodulation. The good effects of PNS in neurogenic and in some
      non-neurogenic disorders. However, the implantation of a lead to the PN is not easily
      accomplished and the risk for lead migration with implantation below the pelvic floor is
      increased. So there is definitively a need for a more suitable alternative for selective
      stimulation within the pelvic cavity, a method that cannot only be reserved for experts in
      this field but for all gynecologists dealing with patients suffering from functional
      disorders of the bladder in daily clinical practice. The stimulation of the dorsal nerve of
      the pe-nis/clitoris - GNS - emerges as a very attractive alternative that might result in
      great outcomes for controlling urinary and fecal disorders.

      Because part of the DNP lies superficially to the skin outside the pelvis, this nerve can be
      stimulated using surface electrodes attached to the overlying skin of the penis or close to
      the clitoris. This application is however limited, due to intolerance to required high
      stimulation amplitude. Surface electrodes have limitations such as difficulties in proper
      daily placement and issues related to hygiene as well as a lack of acceptance in some
      patients. Implanted electrodes are more suitable. However, implanted electrodes in the penis
      or near the clitoris, must endure the mechanical stress of penile erections and external
      pressure, carrying the risk of the cable/electrode breaking or being dislocated.

      The GNS consists of a two-step procedure with a preoperative non-surgical test-phase and a
      final surgical implantation of the neuroprothesis. In contrast to the classical technique of
      transcutaneous lead electrode implantation for sacral or pudendal nerve stimulation, the
      GNS-test-phase does not require any interventional procedure: because the genital nerves are
      located just few millimeter below the skin, test-stimulation can be achieved using skin
      surface or needle electrodes. Stimulation is achieved using a battery powered hand-held
      stimulator . The effect of the stimulation can be tested by the patient in their daily, home
      and professional environment, or at the practice under urodynamic testing, or if required
      other electro-physiological testing. After confirmation of the effectiveness of GNS,
      implantation of a permanent neuroprothesis can be planned. The procedure is performed either
      under general or spinal anesthesia or using only local anesthesia with IV-sedation as in the
      classical tension-free vaginal tape procedure (TVT). Because the GNS does not require two
      surgical procedures for both the test- and the final-implantation but rather only one for the
      final implantation, the presented protocol allows considerable cost reduction in comparison
      to the usual procedures for sacral or pudendal nerve stimulation.
    
  