
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate changes in the corneal thickness of scleral
      contact lens wearers in a keratoconic (KC) population and compare to age-matched controls.
      The hypothesis is that scleral contact lens wear is associated with low levels of corneal
      hypoxia including measurable changes in corneal thickness.

      This will be a prospective, dispensing study design. The study will involve up to 20
      keratoconic participants and up to 20 age matched controls. Participants will attend 1
      screening/fitting visit wearing their habitual contact lenses where the two test lens designs
      (350 and 450microns) will be fitted. There will then be a delivery visit for each design
      (randomly selected) and a single follow up visit after 8-10 hours of scleral lens wear, three
      weeks later. A washout period of a minimum of 48 hours will be applied between the cross-over
      of each lens design. Lenses to be worn in this study will be made of Boston XO material and
      are approved by Health Canada. The lenses will have a diameter of 14.8-17.0mm with a high and
      low sagittal depth in the corneal zone. As to which of the two lenses is being assessed, both
      the investigator and the participant will be masked as the assistant will provide the lenses
      in an unlabeled case. Masking the investigator will prevent bias when measuring corneal
      thickness and analyzing the data. The objectives of this study are to take a sample of
      keratoconic and control participants, fit them in scleral lenses, and to measure topographic
      corneal thickness after 8-10 hours of scleral lens wear after three weeks of wear, to compare
      two instruments in the measurement of corneal thickness, and to compare the effects of
      varying central corneal clearance of the scleral lens on corneal thickness. Secondary
      objectives include comparing ocular physiological outcomes between the two test lens designs.
      Corneal thickness will be altered post scleral lens wear compared to pre-lens wear and the
      amount of alteration will correlate to the fitting characteristics in the central zone of the
      scleral lenses.
    
  