
    
      The study aims are:

        -  Task 1: pathophysiological characterization of CFRD with assessment of the relative
           contribution of the insulin resistance and the β-cellular secretion impairment through
           the use of a Minimum Model applied to OGTT for the evaluation of insulin sensitivity and
           secretion

        -  Task 2:

           2a) determination of the prevalence of CFRD in relation to the mutations of the CFTR
           gene (presence of mutations with residual function of the CFTR protein) 2b)
           determination of the prevalence of CFRD in relation to the presence of candidate genes
           for the devel-opment of type 2 diabetes (NOTCH2, BCL11A, THADA, IGFBP-2, PPARG, ADAMTS9,
           CDKAL1, VEFGA, JAZF1, CDKN2A / 2B, HHEX, CDC123 / CAMK1D, TCF7L2, KCNJ11, DCD, TSPAN8 /
           LGR5, FTO, WFS1, SLC30A8 and INS).

           2c) determination of variations in the proteomic analysis of CFRD patients compared to
           CF without DM and a control group of healthy individuals.

        -  Task 3: evaluation of the effect of the therapeutic optimization of glycometabolic
           control on body composition and respiratory outcomes in patients on insulin therapy, in
           a follow-up period of 24 months.

        -  Task 4: identification of predisposing factors for the development of post-transplant
           diabetes in subjects without CFRD.

      METHODS:

      All CF patients currently followed at the Unit of Pulmonology of our Center (250 subjects)
      will be considered eligible for the study.

      Total duration of the study: 156 weeks (3 years).

      The enrolled patients will be divided into two groups:

      GROUP 1: subjects with a negative history for CFRD or with a CFRD diagnosis that does not
      require insulin therapy GROUP 2: subjects suffering from CFRD in insulin therapy

      Protocol 1: Group 1; metabolic and anthropometric evaluation and assessment of insulin
      sensitivity / secretion.

      Protocol 2: Group 1 and Group 2; genetic evaluation / proteomic evaluation Protocol 3: Group
      2; pre- and post-intervention metabolic, anthropometric and nutritional assessment.

      Protocol 4: Group 1 patients without CFRD undergoing lung transplantation (10); genetic,
      metabolic, an-thropometric and pre-and post-transplant assessment of insulin sensitivity /
      secretion.

      Patients will undergo a:

        1. METABOLIC EVALUATION: a venous sampling will be performed for blood glucose, HbA1c,
           total cholesterol, HDL, triglycerides, blood count, albumin, total proteins,
           pseudocholinesterase, AST, ALT, GGT, ALP, 25OHvitD

        2. GENETIC EVALUATION: the investigators will evaluate the specific genetic mutation of the
           CFTR gene and the presence of gene variants related to the development of DM2 (NOTCH2,
           BCL11A, THADA, IGFBP-2, PPARG, ADAMTS9, CDKAL1, VEFGA, JAZF1, CDKN2A / 2B, HHEX, CDC123
           / CAMK1D, TCF7L2, KCNJ11, DCD, TSPAN8 / LGR5, FTO, WFS1, SLC30A8 and INS)

        3. PROTEOMIC EVALUATION: the investigators will perform a Mass Spectrometry to identify
           variations in the protein pattern expression in CFRD patients if compared to CF patients
           without DM and healthy control individuals. The list of analyzed protein is available in
           supplemental data 2.

        4. ANTROPOMETRIC EVALUATION. the anthropometric evaluation will be performed with objective
           exami-nation (Body Mass Index - BMI, waist circumference - CV and hip circumference -
           CF) , DEXA total body and bioimpedentiometry

        5. DYNAMIC EVALUATION OF INSULIN SENSITIVITY AND β CELL SECRETION. Patients will undergo a
           5-hours OGTT with serial blood samples and with the application of a Mathematical Model
           adapted ad hoc (Appendix 1 for a detailed description of the model), in order to
           quantify the contribution of insulin resistance and β-cell secretion to the development
           of CFRD

        6. PULMONARY EVALUATION. According to clinical practice, patients will be subjected to
           respiratory function tests with the calculation of FEV1 (absolute and percentage),
           exacerbation rate, rate of severe exacerbation (need of hospitalization),
           patient-reported outcomes (PROs) obtained from the sCF-quality of life questionnaire,
           which will be provided to patients in paper form.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Referring to the primary objective of the project, the observational nature of the study and
      the absence of evidence about the topic make a precise evaluation of the power of the study a
      difficult issue. However, considering the number of patients available and followed by our
      Center (n = 136), it has been calculated that the present study will have the power of 80%
      and an alpha level equal to 5% to show a significant reduction of at least 25% in the 1st
      phase secretion in the group of diabetics if compared to the non-diabetic group (assuming a
      mean value in non-diabetics of 1500 (aggiungere udm) and a SD of 500 (udm) (Pass v. 11 NCSS
      software, LCC, Kaysville, Utah, USA).

      A series of descriptive analyzes will be performed: the continuous variables will be
      presented as averages and standard deviations or median with interquartile ranges, depending
      on the distribution. Frequency distributions will be presented as numbers and percentages.
      Data will also be presented graphically with histograms and "Box-and-Whisker" plots in order
      to evaluate potential anomalous values, allowing a further data-check phase in order to have
      reliable data for subsequent analyzes. Differences between the groups will be analyzed using
      parametric tests (t-test or ANOVA) without repeated tests or repeated tests, depending on the
      task of the project. If the normality of the distributions were violated (normal test based
      on the Shapiro-Wilk statistics), non-parametric technical correspondents will be used.
      Categorical data will be compared using contingency tables through the Chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test, where appropriate. All tests will be two-tailed and p-values less than
      5% will be considered statistically significant.

      A series of descriptive analyzes will be performed: the continuous variables will be
      presented as averages and standard or median deviations with interquartile ranges, depending
      on the distribution. Frequency distributions will be presented as numbers and percentages.
      The data will also be presented graphically through histograms and "Box-and-Whisker" plots in
      order to evaluate potential anomalous values that will allow a further data-check phase in
      order to have valid data for subsequent analyzes. The differences between the groups will be
      analyzed using parametric techniques (t-test or ANOVA) without repeated tests or with
      repeated tests, depending on the task of the project. If the normality of the distributions
      was violated (normality test based on the Shapiro-Wilk statistics), corresponding
      non-parametric techniques will be used. Categorical data will be compared using contingency
      tables through the Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, where appropriate. All tests will
      be two-tailed and a p-values less than 5% will be considered statistically significant.
    
  