
    
      The study will consist of two periods:

      Period 1. During Period 1 of the study, the patients who meet the eligibility criteria are
      enrolled to cohorts consisting of 22 patients and randomized to receive either RPH-104 4 mg
      or Voltaren® (diclofenac) in the 15:7 ratio (15 RPH-104: 7 Voltaren® (diclofenac)). In order
      to prevent damage to the gastric or duodenal mucosa, the patients receiving Voltaren®
      (diclofenac) will also be given Ortanol® (omeprazole) as a concomitant therapy agent.

      Period 2. Period 2 begins after 22 patients in period 1 have been enrolled. During Period 2,
      the enrolled patients are randomly distributed to one of five treatment groups: four groups
      to receive RPH-104 in different doses :20 mg, 40 mg, 80 mg and 160 mg and one active control
      group to receive Voltaren® (diclofenac). During Period 2, it is planned to enroll 14 patients
      into each of the RPH-104 -treatment groups and 7 patients into the Voltaren® (diclofenac)
      group.

      Subject enrolment during Periods 1 and 2 is successive. No intervals between enrolment of
      subjects in the dose cohorts are envisaged. Thus, the subjects in Period 2 will start to be
      enrolled immediately after the end of enrolment of the subjects in Period 1.

      Total number of patients which are planned to be enrolled for the study: 85 (15 patients in
      the group of treatment with RPH-104 4 mg and 14 patients in the each of the other treatment
      groups)

      For patients who cannot endure pain, a rescue therapy agent (Triamcinolone 40 mg) is
      administered intramuscularly 2 hours after the first dose of the test drug in order to
      enhance the treatment. If the disease attack relapses after using the rescue therapy,
      treatment of acute gout attack shall be conducted in accordance with routine practice adopted
      at the healthcare institution.

      The primary efficacy endpoints are evaluated 72 hours after the end of administration of the
      test drug. The secondary efficacy endpoints are evaluated for 45 days of the treatment period
      and follow-up. The safety parameters are evaluated for 60 days of the treatment period and
      follow-up. Total duration of the study for a volunteer is not more than 70 days.
    
  