
    
      Introduction: Chronic Heart Failure (HF) patients are a significant health care burden in
      many countries. Patients afflicted with HF typically do not maintain stable cardiac function
      for the remainder of their life and consequently require continuous medical management and
      intermittent hospital admissions. Several investigations have demonstrated that electrical
      muscle stimulation (EMS) produces positive physiologic and psychological adaptations in
      patients with HF. However not all the EMS modalities were been evaluated on this population
      or not even were tested based on present recognized gold standard clinical parameters after a
      short period of treatment. The impact of use of low frequency (FES) and medium-frequency
      currents (MAC and BMAC) as EMS on the VE/VCO2 and BNP has likewise not been investigated in
      patients with HF.

      Purposes: The primary aims of the proposed study is to: Determine the effect of a five week
      home based EMS modalities (a) Functional electrical stimulation (FES), (b) medium-frequency
      alternating current (MAC) and (c) burst-modulated medium-frequency alternating current (BMAC)
      training program on the VE/VCO2 slope, Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) level, peak VO2, VO2
      at Ventilatory Threshold (VT), perceived quality of life, muscle force and electrical
      activity in subjects diagnosed with HF (NYHA III and IV). Examine changes in the previously
      outlined outcome measurements five weeks after cessation of the EMS ((a) FES, (b) MAC and (c)
      BMAC) training program.

      Procedures: We will recruit 40 persons (10 for each EMS modalities and 10 control subjects)
      diagnosed with HF. A group of control subjects will participate using a sham current. The
      protocol can be conceptually divided into four sections in the following chronological
      sequence: (1) baseline assessment (body composition by a bone densitometer X-ray Dual energy
      X-Ray absortometry - DXA, Resting blood pressure and heart rate, complete blood count and BNP
      analysis); Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLWHFQ); A physician-supervised maximal
      aerobic exercise test using a metabolic cart (Vmax, Viasys, USA) (VO2, VE/VCO2, VT);
      isokinetic peak torque (Biodex System III, Isokinetic Dynamometer, Biodex Medical, Inc.,
      Shirley, NY) and electrical activity (Miotec, Brazil), (2) five week EMS training program
      (bilateral quadriceps and gastrocnemius for 5 days a week for 1 hour to each muscle group
      with FES, MAC and BMAC training program), (3) immediate post-training assessment within 5
      days of completion of the EMS training program and a (4) final analysis five weeks after
      cessation of the EMS training program.
    
  