
    
      Two smokers groups matched for age and sex will be assessed:

        1. a group of 30 current smokers with no diagnosed cardiovascular disease as the control
           group for chronic phase

        2. a group of 30 current smokers with no diagnosed cardiovascular disease who will be using
           the I quit ordinary smoking (IQOS) for 1 month.

      In the acute phase all 60 smokers will undergo a "sham" smoking for 7 minutes. Afterwards all
      60 smokers will be randomized to smoke either a normal cigarette or IQOS and the after 60
      minute washout period these subjects will be crossed over to the altenate mode of smoking
      (IQOS or normal cigarette respectively).

      After the completion of the acute phase all 60 smokers will start the use of IQOS for one
      month.

      In the acute phase, measurements will be performed at baseline, after sham smoking and after
      smoking of the normal cigarette or IQOS. The chronic phase measurements will be performed 1
      month after use IQOS. Thirty current smokers of similar age and sex will serve as controls
      and will have measurements at baseline and 1 month after baseline assessment.

      In both phases the investigators will assess: a) the aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) and
      augmentation index (AIx) by Arteriograph and Complior; b) the perfusion boundary region of
      the sublingual arterial microvessels using Sideview, Darkfield imaging (Microscan,
      Glycocheck); c) the exhaled carbon monoxide (CO) level (parts per million -ppm) as a smoking
      status marker; d) the vital signs; e) an electrocardiogram; and f) plasma levels of C-
      reactive protein (CRP), transforming growth factor-b (TGF-b), lipoprotein associated
      phospholipase A2 (LP- LPA2), tumor necrosis factor- α (TNF-α), interleukins 6 and 10 (IL-6
      and -10), procollagen propeptide type III (PIIINP), matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 (MMP-2
      and -9), and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (MCSF), malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein
      carbonyls (PCs).
    
  