
    
      Sepsis represents a significant burden to the healthcare system. National predictions
      estimate 751,000 cases of severe sepsis per annum which will increase at a rate of 1.5%.
      Sepsis accounts for >$23 billion in aggregate hospital costs across all payers and represents
      nearly 4% of all hospital stays. Six percent of all deaths in the US can be attributed to
      sepsis. Protocol driven care bundles improve clinical outcomes but require early and accurate
      detection of sepsis. Unfortunately, identifying sepsis early remains elusive even for
      experienced clinicians leading to diagnostic uncertainty.

      To improve diagnostic consensus, a task force in 2016 agreed upon a new sepsis definition.
      The task force also included a new risk stratification tool to improve early identification,
      the quick Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment (qSOFA) model, which was more accurate than
      the older Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) in predicting adverse clinical
      outcomes. However, due to the reliance of end organ dysfunction, the new definition has been
      criticized for its detection of sepsis late in the clinical course. Clinical decision support
      tools based on predictive analytics can provide actionable information and improve diagnostic
      accuracy particularly in sepsis.

      Several early warning tools have been described in the published literature based upon
      predictive analytics and large datasets. One example is the National Early Warning Score
      (NEWS), which was developed to discriminate patients at risk of cardiac arrest, unplanned
      intensive care admission, or death. Scores such as NEWS are typically broad in scope and not
      designed to specifically target sepsis. They are also conceptually simple, as they use only a
      small number of variables and compare them to normal ranges to generate a composite score. In
      assigning independent scores to each variable and using only the most recent value, they both
      ignore complex relationships between the variables and their evolution in time.

      In previous work, our group developed a framework to model multivariate time series using
      multitask Gaussian processes, accounting for the high uncertainty, frequent missing values,
      and irregular sampling rates typically associated with real clinical data can be read in our
      prior work. Our machine learning approach is superior to other sepsis detection models that
      use traditional analytics and machine learning techniques. A custom web application, Sepsis
      Watch, presents the risk score along with relevant patient information and prompts the user
      to further evaluate the patient and begin treatment, if appropriate. The Sepsis Watch system
      is now being implemented by clinical operations at Duke University Hospital.

      Our study employs a sequential roll-out study design in the Emergency Department at Duke
      University Hospital. Our study will involve pods A, B, C, and the Resuscitation Bay. The
      operational project is not being implemented on the psychiatry wing, fast track, triage or
      any inpatient encounters. The operational project and thus our study period is based upon a
      two-phase roll out:

        -  1st phase: The predictive model notifies the rapid response team through a dashboard.
           Nurse notifies team of the risk for sepsis and provides treatment recommendation to
           primary team and primary team will place orders. Rapid response team nurse documents
           assessment and actions taken in electronic health record.

        -  2nd phase: Improvement and optimization of the workflow integrated in phase 1. One
           workflow improvement includes the development of an ordering protocol and process
           whereby the rapid response team can place orders for patients who are deemed appropriate
           for sepsis treatment. A second workflow improvement includes the development of a
           clinician feedback and auditing report that would be sent to front-line staff with
           sepsis bundle compliance performance measures.

      In addition to observing patient outcome measures, we propose an additional mixed-methods
      study component to obtain richer information about the effects of the early warning system on
      clinicians' situational awareness, decision-making, and workflow. This part of our research
      will involve (1) gathering data from clinicians through a series of semi-structured
      interviews, surveys, and observations (2) analysis of this data and identification of
      relevant patterns and insights. Relevant clinicians include include rapid response team
      nurses, emergency department (ED) nurses, and ED physicians. These interviews will be
      conducted in three rounds over the implementation period: before the 1st arm, after the 1st
      arm, and after the 2nd arm. Electronic surveys will be administered at the end of the 1st arm
      and the 2nd arm to clinicians. The observations will take place during the 1st and 2nd arms.

      The goal of the interviews, surveys, and observations will be to (1) evaluate the effect of
      the early warning system on the clinicians' situational awareness and decision-making, (2)
      understand how the early warning system fits into clinician workflow, and, (3) identify
      opportunities to improve the implementation of the early warning system for future scale-up.

      We will be structuring interviews according to the situational awareness model which
      differentiates between 3 levels of situational awareness: 1) perception of relevant
      information, 2) comprehension of that information, and 3) anticipation of future events based
      on that information. Through the interviews, observations, and surveys, we also hope to learn
      more about clinicians' perceptions of and interactions with the early warning system, and its
      change on the existing Emergency Department workflow for sepsis diagnosis and management.
      Data analysis will be conducted with the help of trained qualitative researchers from Data &
      Society, a research institute in New York City that is focused on the social and cultural
      issues arising from data-centric technological development.
    
  