
    
      Rationale: Antibodies are proteins that are normally part of the immune system that bind to
      foreign agents in the body. Researchers manufacture antibodies outside of the human body that
      bind to specific targets such as proteins in cancer cells. Herceptin is a monoclonal antibody
      that binds to the human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER-2), and can kill HER2-positive
      cancer cells. Herceptin is used to treat breast cancer that is HER2-positive, and has spread
      after treatment with other drugs. Bevacizumab is a signal transduction inhibitor that works
      by preventing the growth of new blood vessels from surrounding tissue into tumors.
      Bevacizumab specifically inhibits the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a substance
      made by cells that stimulates new blood vessel formation. Research indicates that HER-2
      signaling helps to induce VEGF expression. Therefore, cancer treatments targeting both HER-2
      and VEGF may improve anti-cancer efficacy in patients. Docetaxel is a chemotherapy agent used
      against breast and other types of cancer. The current study builds on previous research
      suggesting the safety and potential for efficacy with combination trastuzumab, bevacizumab,
      and docetaxel.

      Purpose: The primary objectives are to determine the progression free survival and evaluate
      the safety of trastuzumab, bevacizumab, and docetaxel. Secondary objectives are to assess
      early changes in circulating tumor cells and circulating endothelial cells as predictors of
      progression free survival and clinical benefit, as well as to determine the overall clinical
      benefit rate.

      Treatment: Study participants will be given trastuzumab, bevacizumab, and docetaxel. All
      study drugs will be given through intravenous infusions once every 21 days. A cycle is
      considered 3 weeks. A minimum of 6 study treatment cycles is required unless study
      participants experience disease growth or intolerable toxicity. The decision to stop
      docetaxel after 6 cycles is up to the discretion of the treating physician and the patient.
      Study participants who are deriving a benefit from the study drugs may continue on
      trastuzumab and bevacizumab alone. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study
      to closely monitor study participants.
    
  