
    
      Methods:

      Experimental design: longitudinal study prospective in a single center.

      The Ankylosing Spondylitis Assesment Study (ASAS) criteria are: (1) age <45 years, back pain
      ≥ 3 months, sacroiliitis on imaging and ≥ 1 associated minor criterion, or (2) HLA B27
      positive and ≥ 2 minor criteria.

      Minor criteria are: inflammatory back pain, arthritis, enthesitis, uveitis, Dactylitis,
      psoriasis, Crohn's disease, good clinical response to NSAIDs, family history of Human
      Leukocyte Antigen HLA B27 and inflammatory syndrome.

      Plan Investigation:

      Patients in the study will be seen first in consultation to gather the necessary information:
      history taking (including venous and arterial embolic events and obstetric history), the
      usual treatment, ASAS criteria of therapeutic AS, current and previous, comprehensive
      physical examination.

      APLA will be measured at baseline and at least 3 months if initially positive.

      OUTCOME:

      The primary endpoint is the presence or absence of APLA: anti-cardiolipin antibodies (CLA)
      immunoglobulin M (IgM) or immunoglobulin G (IgG), circulating anticoagulant lupus (CCA),
      anti-beta2 glycoprotéine1 antibodies (β2GP1A) IgM or IgG.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  The presence of thrombosis (past or present) or obstetrical accident (anterior)

        -  Relationship between the presence of APLA and a particular form of AS (axial or
           peripheral)

        -  Relationship between the presence of APLA and anti-TNF alpha therapy

      Calendar:

      The expected study duration is 16 months.

      Statistical Analysis Plan A descriptive analysis will be performed. The variables are
      described by their number and percentage; quantitative variables are described by their mean
      and standard deviation. A calculation of the prevalence of APLA will be made. Univariate
      analysis will be performed for the secondary objectives by the Chi 2 test or Fisher exact
      test according to the application conditions.
    
  