
    
      Introduction:

      Electro resonance (PEMF) therapy is relatively new, despite the fact that it is considered a
      gold standard approach in healthcare application.

      The base premise of PEMF is to apply field (inducing force) energies to a host, producing a
      spectrum of physiological benefits (Bagnato et al., 2015). The advantages of PEMF approaches
      are the vast modalities available in which an inducing force is applied and is configured
      (low to high hz intensity, frequency and polarity). The disadvantages are, however,
      dissonances in paradigm trajectory and PEMF seldom interrogation of the in-situ / in-vivo
      metrics of change in recipient (Funk et al., 2008; Peterchev et al., 2012).

      PEMF data in healthcare enables an exercise of compelled judgement(s) across all critical
      level (pre-clinical, phase I, phase II, phase III, phase IV) system activity. Today there is
      an apparent disjoint of insight between systems-derived data (imaging) and treatment applied
      data (remedial action). Some example settings of this include i) electro resonance / surgery
      as an evidence based tool in clinical decision making (Phelps et al., 2018 and Strauch et
      al., 2009); ii) in-vitro electro resonance in skin equivalence model (Mitchell et al., 2015
      and Mitchell et al., 2016) and bone stimulus model (Ferroni et al., 2018) modelling in-vivo
      benefit; iii) phase IV anticoagulation and prothrombin ratio 'observations and
      stratification' using principle component positions, and observing all contributing variances
      in play (Sawhney et al., 2018).

      The unprecedented contribution of pandemic variance (Huang et al., 2020), is heightening a
      public awareness of how manifold real world evidence is in resolving the insight disjoints.
      Biomedical problems occur in forms where remote or aseptic application and self observation
      is paramount to care; particularly in the cases of infection, healing wounds and
      hydro-electrolyte restoration(s).

      In plentiful coverage, PEMF homeostatic benefits on Immunity compromise, Pain, Stress and
      Ageing are extensively reviewed with Mun et al., (2018); and although the mechanisms of
      actions are underpinned; our literature search shows that there are seldom real world
      initiatives, recording wide-spread physiological improvements that PEMF therapy enacts.

      Aim:

      Here we describe the calibration proforma of PEMF correspondence scoring in longitudinal,
      physiological and observational outcomes. This study will serve as method development for
      downstream real world evidence observations of PEMF in the field.

      Method:

      Ethics statement

      All participants provided written informed consent in the online basket checkout at
      hzclinic.co.uk opting to be therapy subjects. The registry is being conducted in accordance
      with local regulatory requirements, and the International Conference on Harmonisation-Good
      Pharmacoepidemiological and Clinical Practice Guidelines.

      Procedures and outcomes measures

      Baseline data collected at screening included participant characteristics (like age), type of
      clinical-problem (Stress, Pain, Immunity compromise), date and method of diagnosis if any
      formal, symptoms, and PEMF treatment (delocalised resonance over nucleotide source inducing
      post transcription modification (PTM) to ubiquitous properties (U.P.)) 2 hz PTM; 3 hz PTM; 4
      hz PTM; 5 hz PTM [request appendix for additional I.P. support].

      Data on all components of (and) the McGill Life (Sensory, Affectory, Evaluative,
      Miscellaneous) Index Chart (recordings) were collected to assess the sensitivities of Pain,
      Stress, Ageing and Immunity compromise states retrospectively.

      hz data were collected using a proprietary electronic case report form (eCRF) captured by
      trained personnel. Oversight of the operations and data management are managed by the
      coordinating centre hz Clinic, with supporting entities PropDesk (London, UK) and East London
      Electric Company (ELEC) (London, UK); and resourcing centres MedCity in conjunction with UCL
      Partners, Imperial College Health Partners and the Health Innovation Network.

      The hz protocol requires that 20% of all eCRFs are monitored against source documentation,
      that there is an electronic audit trail for all data modifications, and that critical
      variables are subjected to additional audit (Cohen et al., 2015).

      Statistical analysis

      This article describes the baseline characteristics, treatment patterns and 6 month outcomes
      based on national data and for participants included in the UK; data for these analyses were
      extracted from the registry database on 12th February 2020. Continuous variables are
      expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD) and categorical variables as frequency and
      percentage. Utility of PEMF at baseline was analysed by McGill Life Chart Index scores,
      calculated retrospectively from the data collected. Participants with missing values were not
      removed from the study. National normalised ratio (NNR) readings during the 6 months follow
      up were included in the analysis. We adapted the international normalised ratio (Bonar and
      Favaloro., 2016) with the acquisition and processing of urine samples for participant
      metabolome mass fingerprinting and hydration readings as an index, performed (request
      appendix for additional NNR guidelines). Implausible NNR value of less than 0.8 or greater
      than 20 were excluded. The distribution of NNR values are described by counts and percentages
      below, within, and above the therapeutic range, and by the mean, SD, median, and
      interquartile range (IQR).

      Occurrence of major clinical response (primarily, Pain-relief, Stress-relief, anti-oxidation
      (/ageing) and quenched inflammation) is described using the number of events, the proportion
      of participants with the event divided by the population at burden at the beginning of the
      follow-up-period, person-time event rate (per 100 person-years), and 95% confidence interval
      (CI). We estimated person-year rates using a Poisson model, with the number of events. Only
      the first occurrences of each event were taken into account. Data analysis was performed at
      the PropDesk with MatLab (MathsWorks, Massachusetts, USA).
    
  