
    
      In this study we will test the hypothesis that acetylcysteine exerts a renoprotective effect
      in RCIN by an antioxidant and/or renal vasodilator mechanism.

      We will take a structured 4-part approach, using randomised controlled cross-over studies to
      assess the effect of acetylcysteine on renal function in both normal and diseased kidneys,
      and then the effect of contrast on normal kidneys, with and without acetylcysteine treatment.
      We will also perform a parallel-group randomised controlled trial of angiography on CKD
      patients with and without acetylcysteine treatment. The four groups will be studied
      simultaneously. As per the decision of the MHRA, this study is a phase IV trial of an
      authorized medication rather than a phase I trial.

      The study will be performed simultaneously in four groups of participants, studying:

        1. healthy volunteers receiving acetylcysteine PO, acetylcysteine IV, or placebo

        2. volunteers with stage III CKD receiving acetylcysteine PO, acetylcysteine IV, or placebo

        3. healthy volunteers receiving radiographic contrast plus acetylcysteine PO,
           acetylcysteine IV, or placebo

        4. patients with stage III CKD receiving radiographic contrast for elective coronary
           angiography plus acetylcysteine PO, acetylcysteine IV, or placebo.

      The study will be performed in the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility at the Royal
      Infirmary of Edinburgh (RIE). Volunteers will be paid £120 to cover travelling and other
      expenses for each study arm.

      STUDIES 1 AND 2 These studies will assess the effect of acetylcysteine alone in healthy
      volunteers or in volunteers with stage III CKD. Volunteers will be randomised to a three-way,
      cross-over, double-blind comparison of matched placebo with oral and intravenous regimens of
      acetylcysteine. The primary outcome will be change in RBF (measured as para-aminohippuric
      acid [PAH] clearance). In addition, GFR (measured as inulin clearance), tubular function
      (fractional excretion of potassium and sodium), oxidative balance (total oxidative capacity,
      plasma and urinary isoprostanes), and plasma and urinary endothelin-1 will be assayed. The
      pharmacokinetics of acetylcysteine will be measured to compare IV and PO regimens.

      Volunteers will be randomised to receive on three occasions, separated by at least two weeks,
      one of:

      A) placebo capsules PO, plus an IV infusion acetylcysteine in normal saline. B)
      acetylcysteine capsules PO, plus an infusion of normal saline. C) placebo capsules PO, plus
      an infusion of normal saline.

      DOSE JUSTIFICATION There are currently no data to guide choice of an optimum oral or IV
      acetylcysteine regimen. This study will assess the effects of an IV and an oral dose of
      acetylcysteine (IV 200mg/kg; PO 68.6 mg/kg) that are very similar to those currently used in
      clinical practice. The oral dose is expected to produce a plasma concentration much lower
      than the IV dose; however, it is believed that a first pass effect after oral administration
      may increase conversion in the liver of acetylcysteine into cysteine and then glutathione,
      increasing the efficacy of an oral dose. The first clinical trials in RCIN used an arbitrary
      low dose oral regimen of acetylcysteine - 600mg twice a day (BD) for 2 days, starting the day
      before dye administration (total dose 2.4 g, 34.3 mg/kg in a 70kg patient). Recent studies
      have used higher total doses of up to 1500mg BD for 2 days (total dose 6 g, 85.7 mg/kg in a
      70kg patient). IV regimens have also been assessed since they have been proposed to be
      effective when started on the same day as the dye administration, rather than the day before.
      The first trial used a dose similar to that used for early treatment of paracetamol-induced
      hepatotoxicity - 150 mg/kg over 30 min, then 50mg/kg over 4 hrs (total dose 200 mg/kg) - and
      reported less nephropathy. Other studies used lower doses (eg. 500 mg over 15 mins [7.1 mg/kg
      in 70 kg patient] or 1000 mg twice, before and after the procedure, [28.5 mg/kg in 70kg
      patient]) and did not find any benefit. Overall, the choice of acetylcysteine regimen for
      previous studies seems to have been based on ease and prior practice in paracetamol poisoning
      rather than knowledge of acetylcysteine's effects on the kidney.

      We have chosen a revised IV high dose regimen derived from PK data published by Dr L Prescott
      after Monte Carlo simulations (Dr R Thanacoody, Consultant Clinical Pharmacologist, Edinburgh
      Royal infirmary, unpublished) for 2 reasons:

        1. the RCT that showed benefit with IV acetylcysteine used a high dose regimen similar to
           that used for paracetamol poisoning (150 mg/kg over 30 min, then 50 mg/kg over 4 hrs).
           The subsequent negative studies used much lower doses, suggesting that IV acetylcysteine
           may need to be given in high doses.

        2. the high peak plasma concentration that results from the rapid initial infusion of
           acetylcysteine for paracetamol poisoning produces nausea in about 40% of patients and
           anaphylactoid reactions in about 20%. Although these reactions are routine and normally
           easily treated, it is important to reduce the rate of such reactions in study
           participants. The revised regimen provides a similar amount of acetylcysteine but
           administers it more evenly across 7 hours, producing a lower peak acetylcysteine
           concentration and a lower likelihood of nausea and anaphylactoid reactions (Dr R
           Thanacoody, unpublished).

      The choice of oral acetylcysteine regimen is necessarily arbitrary. We will use 1200 mg since
      there is some evidence that it is more effective than the more usually administered 600 mg.

      STUDY 3 This study will assess the effect of acetylcysteine on renal function in healthy
      volunteers receiving a single IV 100ml dose of Visipaque 320 (iodixanol, equivalent to 320 mg
      iodine/ml), an iso-osmolar non-ionic radio-contrast agent, via a peripheral cannula. We chose
      this dose because 100 mls are routinely used in the Royal Infirmary for coronary angiography
      in CKD patients (Radiology Dept, personal communication). Larger doses of up to 400 ml are
      then used if an angioplasty is subsequently required. Such doses fall within the doses
      recommended in the summary of product characteristics, Martindale, and the literature. The
      safety profile of such doses in healthy adults is excellent; in patients with CKD, iodixanol
      is at least as safe as other contrast agents.

      Volunteers will be randomised in this study to a three-way, cross-over, double-blind
      comparison of placebo with oral and intravenous regimens of acetylcysteine. They will not
      receive coronary angiography, just the intravenous contrast.

      We will study healthy volunteers in order to identify the effects of NAC and contrast on
      healthy kidneys. This will provide baseline data for interpreting the studies in CKD
      patients. In addition, while healthy patients rarely get RCIN after contrast administration,
      the currently used marker of RCIN (raised serum creatinine) is a crude measure of renal
      dysfunction - since GFR will only fall after renal RBF has been substantially reduced for a
      significant period of time. It is likely that small sub-clinical changes will occur in
      healthy patients that will help determine how contrast and NAC affect the kidney.

      STUDY 4 This study will assess the effect of acetylcysteine on renal function in stable stage
      III CKD patients receiving 100 ml of iodixanol during routine coronary angiography. Recruited
      patients will not receive multiple angiographies so study 4 will not be a crossover
      comparison but a randomised controlled study of oral acetylcysteine vs. IV acetylcysteine vs.
      placebo. Results from studies 1-3 will inform the analysis and interpretation of this study.

      MEASUREMENTS OF RENAL FUNCTION Most previous RCTs have measured changes in serum creatinine
      concentration rather than any direct measures of renal failure. Serum creatinine
      concentration can provide information on GFR. However, it is not accurate since it is
      affected by diet, aging and muscle mass. Furthermore, acetylcysteine also lowers serum
      creatinine concentration itself, suggesting that the lower creatinine noted in the RCTs may
      not actually reflect improved renal function. GFR is the best marker of global renal
      function. It can be directly measured using the 51Cr-EDTA method but this is a complicated
      technique. We will use an alternative method by measuring plasma clearance of inulin. Serum
      cystatin C concentration may be a better marker of GFR than creatinine. Cystatin C is a small
      cysteine protease that is secreted at a fixed rate by all nucleated cells and is not affected
      by diet or muscle mass. In RCIN, serum cystatin concentration peaks and normalises more
      rapidly than creatinine. We will measure cystatin C in these patients to assess whether it
      would be a better marker of GFR in future RCTs.

      Changes in renal blood flow after acetylcysteine and/or contrast administration will be
      assessed by measuring plasma PAH clearance. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent endogenous
      vasoconstrictor and increased urinary ET-1 has been associated with the development of RCIN.
      Changes in renal ET-1 production will be measured following acetylcysteine and/or contrast by
      measuring ET-1 concentrations in plasma and urine and calculating its fractional excretion.
      Renal tubular function will be assessed by measuring the kidney's fractional excretion of
      sodium and potassium. Reductions in fractional excretion of these ions will supply
      information on renal perfusion and tubular function, and have been noted previously in RCIN.
      We will also measure urine levels of proteins released from damaged tubular cells.

      Since acetylcysteine should alter oxidative state, we will measure the oxidative balance
      through assays for plasma and urinary isoprostanes, plasma N-acetylcysteine, peripheral blood
      cell glutathione, and total antioxidant capacity.

      ADMINISTRATION OF ORAL ACETYLCYSTEINE/PLACEBO Participants will receive 3 blister packs of
      acetylcysteine or placebo capsules and be asked to take the appropriate capsules at 08.00 and
      20.00 on the day before the study day (Day 1; Day 2 being the day spent in the CRF). They
      will also be asked to drink an extra 500ml of water to ensure adequate hydration. Hard
      capsules containing acetylcysteine 600 mg or matched placebo (Lactose PhEur 600 mg) will be
      prepared by Tayside Pharmaceuticals, Dundee, and packaged in patient packs of 8 capsules. The
      capsules will be delivered to the hospital pharmacy and supplied to participants according to
      the randomized allocation order.

      INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION OF DRUGS Inulin and PAH will be administered through a 20G venous
      cannula inserted into the forearm. Inulin and PAH will be infused at a constant infusion rate
      throughout the 8 hour study period. Acetylcysteine/placebo will be administered through a
      second 20G venous cannula inserted into the same forearm. We will use the intravenous
      acetylcysteine preparation currently used in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh (Parvolex, UCB
      Pharma Limited). Placebo will be sodium chloride solution for infusion. Active or placebo
      infusions will be prepared by the Clinical Research Facility on each study day according to
      the randomized allocation order.

      VENOUS BLOOD SAMPLING Blood samples will be obtained via a 17G venous cannula inserted into
      the other forearm. Samples will be taken hourly on 10 occasions from -1h (beginning of the
      inulin/PAH infusion) to 8h; a total of 120 mls will be taken. Blood will also be sampled at
      24h (09.00 on day 3) and 72h 09.00 on day 5); 24 ml at each time.

      URINE SAMPLING 40ml urine samples will be taken after voiding every two hours, from 0h to 8h
      on day 1, and again at 24h (09.00 on day 3) and 72h (09.00 on day 5). Participants will be
      asked to void urine on waking on days 3 and 5. At the end of each study, the venous cannulae
      will be removed and haemostasis confirmed. Subjects will be provided with toast and a warm
      beverage and observed for 30 minutes before leaving the unit.
    
  