
    
      Respiratory dysfunction following cardiac surgery is well documented and due in part to the
      location of the incision and nature of the surgery (Weissman, 2000; Garcia-Delgado M, et al.,
      2014). Patients undergoing cardiac surgery are at an increased risk of postoperative
      pulmonary complications including hypoxemia, atelectasis, and pneumonia (Weissman, 2000;
      Garcia-Delgado M, et al., 2014; O'Donohue WJ, 1992); with an increased risk in older
      individuals and individuals with obstructive lung disease (Crowe & Bradley, 1997; Weissman
      2000; Jensen et al., 2007). Standard postoperative care includes early mobility and deep
      breathing and coughing (DB&C) (Stiller K, et al., 1995; Johnson D., et al., 1996) usually
      initiated within the first 24 hours following surgery. Although standard care is sufficient
      in some instances, postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) remain a significant problem
      following cardiac surgery and can cause prolonged length of stay in the hospital and an
      increase in morbidity and mortality (Weissman, 2000; Garcia-Delgado M, et al., 2014) in a
      significant number of patients. Positive expiratory pressure (PEP) therapy is thought to
      increase lung volumes and facilitate secretion clearance in many populations (Orman J &
      Wasterdahl E, 2009) and has been shown to be particularly effective in individuals with
      obstructive lung disease (Bott et al ., 2009). In consideration of the well documented
      respiratory dysfunction observed following cardiac surgery, PEP therapy may serve as a
      promising treatment in facilitating recovery in older, 'higher risk' individuals following
      elective cardiac surgery. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate whether the
      addition of oscillating PEP therapy is more effective than standard treatment alone in
      improving functional status at time of discharge, as well as decreasing oxygen requirements
      and the incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications (e.g., pneumonia, atelectasis,
      pneumothorax, pleural effusions) in 'high risk' patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery.

      Participants will be recruited from London Health Sciences Centre in London Ontario. Patients
      deciding to proceed with elective cardiac surgery will be screened in the surgeon's office,
      pre-admission clinic or the 6-inpatient ward for eligibility to participate in the study and
      provided with a letter of information. Each patient will be required to provide written
      consent in order to participate in this study. The study will be approved by the Health
      Sciences Research Ethics Board at Western University. Patients who have consented to
      participation in the study will be seen by the research coordinator at the patient's
      pre-operative clinic appointment where the research coordinator will explain the purpose and
      nature of the study and obtain written informed consent. Also, at that time, patient
      demographic information will be collected, as well as baseline data of chest x-ray (CXR) and
      a six minute walk test (6MWT). Pre-operative 6MWTs will be performed on a standardized 30
      meter track in the basement of University Hospital and will comply with the American Thoracic
      Society Guidelines (2002). Patients enrolled in the study will be randomized to one of two
      groups on the day of their surgery; OPEP treatment or sham treatment group. On the day of
      surgery or post-operative day (POD) 1, the research coordinator will bring the device (OPEP
      or sham depending on randomization) to the patient's room. The sham devices have been
      manufactured to be externally identical to the OPEP devices allowing for patient blinding,
      however the sham devices do not contain the internal mechanisms provided expiratory pressure.
      All patients (sham or OPEP) will be seen by a physiotherapist on the day of extubation and
      receive instructions on how to properly use the device, in addition to receiving standard
      post-operative care. Patients will be instructed to set the resistance on the device to the
      highest setting and perform up to 15 breaths in the sitting position at least twice per
      waking hour. The resistance and number of repetitions may be decreased to adjust for patient
      tolerance as deemed appropriate by the treating physiotherapist. Compliance will be measured
      through a log book completed by the patient and/or their family. Patients will be reassessed
      by a physiotherapist on POD #2 and #3 to ensure proper technique and compliance with the
      device. All patients will continue to receive standard care each day as per the clinical
      pathway and may receive additional cardiorespiratory PT techniques as deemed necessary by the
      PT. Patients will be instructed to continue with OPEP treatments (sham or OPEP) as described
      until POD #5. Outcome assessment will be conducted by a blinded assessor. The outcomes and
      timing of outcome assessment is described in the outcome measures section and will terminate
      on POD #7 or discharge from hospital, whichever occurs first. If patients require continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP), bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP), or reintubation
      during this period, they will be instructed to stop using their OPEP device and outcome
      assessment will occur only until POD#7.
    
  