
    
      Poor sleep is associated with significant cognitive health decline. Recently, sleep
      disturbances have emerged as notable predictive and exacerbating factors in the onset and
      development of neurodegenerative disease. Decades of research have implicated that sleep
      plays a critical role in memory consolidation (i.e. the transformation of recent experiences
      into stable, long-term memories), the decline of which is critical in the early stages of
      dementia. This literature affords that sleep, a period of reduced external interference,
      provides an optimal window for memory consolidation and that electrophysiological features
      that emerge during sleep are integrally involved in the consolidation process. Most of this
      literature has focused on the central nervous system and technologies like
      electroencephalography (EEG) to unpack neural correlates involved in memory processing.
      However, little impact from this work has translated into practical treatments and recent
      reviews of the literature question these sleep - memory associations. This lack of clarity
      suggests that there may be other factors critical to our understanding of sleep-dependent
      memory consolidation that have not been given due consideration. This proposal suggests that
      the autonomic nervous system (ANS) during sleep may reflect a critical, though understudied,
      pathway linking sleep and memory.

      An expansive body of research has supported the role of the ANS for memory formation. Rodent
      studies have found that the storage of new information in memory is either enriched or
      impaired following learning acquisition by directly modifying peripheral activity through the
      vagus nerve. The vagus nerve is responsible for communicating information about peripheral
      excitation and arousal via projections to the brainstem, which then projects to
      memory-related areas including the amygdala complex, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex.
      Indeed, in humans, researchers have demonstrated that direct stimulation of the vagus nerve,
      via surgical implants, can enhance declarative memory in epileptic patients and in patients
      with Alzheimer's Disease. Recently, in a sample of healthy older adults, non-invasive
      (transcutaneous) vagal nerve stimulation during wake boosted memory for face-name
      associations. Importantly, previous research has demonstrated the predominance of
      parasympathetic/vagal activity during sleep, particularly during slow wave sleep, which has
      received critical attention for its causal role in declarative memory consolidation. More so,
      the PI's work has shown that sleep acts as a regulatory influence over vagal activity and
      that vagally-mediated activity during sleep can predict post-sleep memory improvement. Yet,
      few investigations have examined the causal impact of vagal activity during sleep for memory
      outcomes, which is the central aim of this application.

      In this project, the investigators will utilize a within-subject, sham-controlled,
      counterbalanced design to determine the impact of active (inside of left ear) vs. sham (left
      earlobe) transcutaneous vagal nerve stimulation (tVNS) on: 1) sleep architecture, 2)
      autonomic activity during sleep, and 3) memory performance post-sleep. To this end, the
      investigators will utilize a daytime nap protocol, a common methodological tool used to
      assess the role of sleep for cognition. A nap approach allows for strict circadian-control of
      cognition and provides for an examination of tVNS's impact on a full cycle of sleep that
      includes both NREM and REM stages. The researchers will assess declarative memory
      performance, using a word-pair associates task, before and after the nap period for both the
      active and sham stimulation conditions. Autonomic physiology, including electrocardiography
      and impedance cardiography, will be gathered at baseline before the word-pairs task and
      continuously during sleep to examine vagal tone (i.e. heart rate variability) and sympathetic
      activation (i.e. pre-ejection period) in response to both the active and sham stimulation
      conditions. Polysomnography will also be gathered during the nap to examine sleep
      architecture.
    
  