
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (complete and partial) and duration of response
      of the combination of vorinostat and capecitabine in patients with recurrent and/or
      metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). (SCCHN) II. To determine the
      objective response rate (complete and partial) and duration of response of the combination of
      vorinostat and capecitabine in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic nasopharyngeal
      carcinoma (NPC). (NPC)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of vorinostat and capecitabine
      in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic SCCHN. (SCCHN) II. To determine the rate of
      progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months. (SCCHN) III. To determine the rate and duration
      of stable disease (SD). (SCCHN) IV. To determine the median PFS, and the rate of PFS at 1
      year. (SCCHN) V. To determine the median overall survival (OS), and rates of overall survival
      at 6 months and at 1 year. (SCCHN) VI. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the
      combination of vorinostat and capecitabine in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic NPC.
      (NPC) VII. To determine the duration of objective response. (NPC) VIII. To determine the rate
      and duration of stable disease (SD). (NPC) IX. To determine the median PFS, and the rate of
      PFS at 1 year. (NPC) X. To determine the median overall survival (OS), and rates of overall
      survival at 6 months and at 1 year. (NPC)

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label study of patients with SCCHN and NPC (Stage I),
      followed by a randomized study of patients with NPC (Stage II).

      STAGE I: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and vorinostat PO daily
      on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      STAGE II: Patients with NPC are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive capecitabine PO BID and vorinostat PO daily on days 1-14. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients will be followed up at 3-4 weeks and then every
      6 months for 1 year.
    
  