
    
      Recruitment Participants will be recruited from tribal health and wellness service agencies
      and counseling centers on the Reservation as well as through advertising in the community.
      Investigators will post flyers in public spaces like coffee shops, the library, the cultural
      center, and community centers. We will also send the flyer through the tribal listserv; post
      it on Facebook, and the local newspaper. Investigators will provide brief oral presentations
      at the local health centers to orient providers of the project and provide contact
      information and flyers. Providers and potential participants who are interested may contact
      the study coordinator for more information

      Screening

        -  Participants are screened in person or over the phone using a screening script.

        -  Participants who screen out will be given a community resource list either by mail,
           email, or in person.

        -  If a person is eligible but declines to participate, they will be given a one item exit
           question regarding general reason for non-participation.

      Consent and Baseline Assessment After completing the screener, the participant will be
      scheduled for an in-person consenting / baseline assessment appointment. Study staff will
      review the consent form with the participant. Once participant has consented, study staff
      will gather all relevant contact information. Next, study staff will set up the computer for
      the participant to complete the Audio Computer Assisted Self-interview (ACASI) survey, which
      will take approximately 30 minutes. While the participant is completing the survey, local
      study staff will call the Research Coordinator (RC) to confirm the consent has been obtained
      and to determine randomization. The RC will let the local study staff know which counselor
      the person should be scheduled with for the 1st counseling appointment. The counselor will
      inform which therapy the participant was assigned to at their first counseling session. Once
      participant completes the computer survey, study staff will schedule their first counseling
      appointment to take place within a week of the baseline appointment.

      Assessments The assessments will be conducted via Audio-Computer Assisted Self-Interviews
      (ACASI) programmed into study computers. Participants will complete 4 surveys: baseline,
      immediately after completing counseling, a three-month follow up and a six-month follow up.

      Counseling sessions Participants will be randomly assigned to either NET or MIST. To ensure
      the equivalence of groups and to reduce opportunities for selection bias we will stratify the
      randomization by gender (male vs. female) and age groups (<30 vs. >=30) and perform
      randomization in blocks with varying size (4/6/8). Participants will begin their six 90 to
      120 minute sessions in within a week of completing the Baseline assessment. Each counseling
      session is audio recorded in order for investigators to test for fidelity and adherence to
      the culturally adapted therapy.
    
  