
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of EGFRBi-armed autologous activated T-cells
      (ATC) when administered in combination with low-dose aldesleukin and sargramostim (GM-CSF) in
      patients with recurrent, refractory, or extensive (metastatic) advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary

      Assess clinical outcome based on tumor responses, overall survival, and progression-free
      survival.

      Monitor changes in sera concentrations of the tumor-associated biomarkers respective of the
      primary neoplasm (i.e. carcinoembryonic antigen(CEA); prostate specific antigen (PSA);
      Her2/neu (HER2); etc.) in association with EGFRBi-armed ATC administration throughout the
      study and at time points thereafter.

      Monitor patient sera for human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA).

      Evaluate immune response, which may reflect immune augmentation in response to EGFRBi-armed
      ATC infusions, in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples as well as purified immune
      cell populations.

      Investigate proliferation in response to ex vivo stimulation with tumor-specific antigens,
      sera cytokine profiles (Th1 vs Th2), cytotoxicity of patient PBMC, and interferon gamma
      ELISPOTS as a surrogate marker for assessing generation of EGFR-specific cytotoxic
      T-lymphocytes (CTL).

      OUTLINE: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are collected by 1 or 2 leukaphereses for
      the generation of activated T cells (ATCs). The PBMCs are activated with OKT3 (anti-CD3) and
      expanded in aldesleukin for up to 14 days. The ATCs are then armed with EGFRBi.

      Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous ATCs IV over 30-60 minutes twice weekly for 4 weeks
      (a total of 8 infusions) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients also receive low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) once daily and sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) SC twice weekly beginning 3 days before the first ATC infusion and continuing for 1
      week after the last ATC infusion.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.

      NOTE: For the purpose of determining safety and maximum tolerated dose of EGFRBi-armed ATC,
      patients enrolled at each dose level from this study will be combined with patients enrolled
      at each dose level in RWH 349-32 (NCT00569296): A phase I study of Anti-CD3 x Cetuximab-Armed
      Activated T Cells, Low Dose IL-2, and GM-CSF for EGFR-Positive, Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung
      Cancer (NSCLC) to count toward each dose level cohort. A total of three patients enrolled
      form either of the two trials will be treated at each dose level, but at least one NSCLC
      patient representative from protocol 349-32 will be enrolled and evaluated at each dose
      level.
    
  