
    
      Lung transplanted patients experience marked decrease in renal function post transplant
      mainly due to cyclosporine induced renal changes.

      Calcium channel blockers exert renal effects consisting mainly of renal vasodilation and
      facilitation of renal excretion of sodium through a direct action on renal tubules. Calcium
      channel blockers improve renal function in cyclosporine treated transplant recipients through
      their effects in avoiding cyclosporine-induced renal vasoconstriction and facilitating renal
      sodium output.

      Studies in both animal models and humans have demonstrated that calcium channel blockers
      maintain or reduce renal vascular resistance and preserve or enhance renal blood flow and
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR).

      The aim of this study is to examine if calcium channel blockade administered before lung
      transplantation prevent cyclosporine induced nephropathy.

      The design is an intention to treat randomized double blinded single center study. Patients
      are randomized to two groups, one that received felodipine and one that receives placebo.

      Study population is all patients listed for lung transplantation in Denmark in the study
      period.

      Sample size calculation estimated that 32 patients are needed, 16 patients in each group,
      with an estimated dropout incidence of 5 patients in each group. This will be able to detect
      an estimated 50% reduction in the decrease in measured GFR from 40 ml/min in the placebo
      group to 20 ml/min in treatment group, 80% power and a two-sided t-test, 5 % significance
      level.

      Intervention is tablet Felodipine titrated to 10 mg, one daily dose in 12 weeks

      Renal function is determined by 51-Cr-EDTA clearance measurement at times 0 before
      transplantation and after 1, 3 and 12 weeks.

      Primary endpoint is change in renal function as measured by 51-Cr-EDTA clearance in the
      felodipine treated group compared with the placebo group.

      Safety is monitored and adverse events are usually mild headache, tachycardia, leg edema,
      angina pectoris and hypotension.
    
  