
    
      Food has a significant effect on the health of the body, the relationship between diet and
      health actualizes the importance of expanding the research of functional products. In mare's
      milk contains about 40 biological components necessary for the human body: amino acids, fats,
      enzymes (lysozyme, amylase), microelements (calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, iron,
      magnesium, copper, iodine, sulfur, cobalt, zinc, bromine) and vitamins (A, C, B1, B2, B6,
      B12, E, H, PP, beta-carotene, folic acid) in optimally balanced proportions.

      A high percentage of nutrients, including vitamins, amino acids, contribute to
      immunomodulation, increasing the adaptogenic properties of the body. Valiev A demonstrated
      the effect of the essential fatty acids of mare's milk on immunocompetent cells and
      non-specific resistance after 6 weeks from the beginning of inclusion in the ration of mare's
      milk.

      Secretory IgA is the main immunoglobulin of mare's milk. The homology of human secretory IgA
      and mare's was previously demonstrated by cross-reactions using human anti-IgA antiserum.

      The mare's milk has a powerful detoxification effect, the mare's microflora neutralizes the
      effect of mutagens, possesses, replenishes with the necessary complex of nutrients and
      removes toxins from the body. The milk has a certain degree of antimicrobial effect in
      relation to opportunistic and pathogenic fungi, bacteria and viruses due to its own
      microflora.

      The mare's milk is rich in active substances, natural enzymes that help regulate intestinal
      flora, limiting the growth of unwanted bacteria and increasing the growth of bifidobacteria
      and lactic acid bacteria.

      In addition, the composition of mare's milk provided immunoglobulins A, M and G, which act as
      a marker of those microorganisms that can be pathogenic, which facilitates the protection
      task.

      The high antimicrobial activity of mare's milk is associated with the lysozyme contained in
      it, immunoglobulins, lactoperoxidase and lactoferrin. Getting into the digestive tract
      lysozyme has a powerful normalizing effect on the composition of the microbial flora of the
      mouth and intestines. Lysozyme of breast milk is 100 times more active than lysozyme of cow's
      milk. It not only inhibits the growth of pathogenic flora, but also promotes the growth of
      bifidoflora in the intestines of infants.

      In the framework of the project, methods for the restoration of the mucos layer of the
      intestine after antibiotic therapy will be developed. In order to develop the algorithm,
      preliminary studies will be made of changes in the structure of the intestinal microbiota
      after antibiotic therapy. Recruiting of patients with infectious / non-infectious pathology
      is supposed, clinical and laboratory examination, biomaterial sampling during antibiotic
      therapy, 1-5 days and 1-60 days after completion will be performed. Along with the study of
      microflora, local immunity studies will be carried out. To study the fundamental foundations,
      experimental studies will be carried out on laboratory animals. On the basis of the knowledge
      obtained, an algorithm for the restoration of the mucinous layer of the intestine after
      antibiotic therapy will be published in the form of methodological recommendations.
    
  