
    
      The initial aim of the project was to recruit 20 cognitively intact adults ages 60-80 from
      one health plan, assessing them at baseline with respect to their cognitive health, multiple
      lifestyle factors, biomarkers and biometrics, engaging them in a 12 week lifestyle
      intervention and re-assessing them immediately post-intervention.

      Specific Aims

        1. Design a multi-domain, lifestyle intervention to increase PA, social integration and
           cognitive stimulation, and improve nutrition in sedentary, cognitively intact adults,
           age 60 to 80.

        2. Assess the feasibility of implementing such a multi-domain intervention:

             1. recruit and screen 20 sedentary, cognitively intact adults aged 60 to 80 from a
                health plan,

             2. obtain baseline measures of cognitive function, physical and social activities,
                mood, nutrition, height and weight, vascular risk factors of blood pressure and
                fasting lipids, and biomarkers of inflammation,

             3. engage these adults in a 4 month pilot of this multi-domain lifestyle intervention
                with a phone coach and

             4. obtain post-intervention measures of cognitive functioning, physical and social
                activities, mood, nutrition, vascular risk factors of blood pressure and fasting
                lipids, and biomarkers of inflammation.

      After successfully recruiting the first 20 subjects, we determined that the grant budget
      would allow us to enrich the study by recruiting 40 more subjects. A second, comparison arm
      was added. The first study arm received the intervention as described above. Subjects
      assigned (by chance) to the comparison arm received study materials but did not have a phone
      coach assigned. The additional 40 subjects were genotyped with respect to the apolipoprotein
      E4 (apoE4) allele.

      This feasibility pilot of an evidence-based intervention targets protective lifestyle factors
      related to cognitive health, including physical and social activities, cognitive stimulation
      and nutrition. The information gained on intervention design, implementation, and subject
      recruitment, will guide development of a full-scale intervention study of primary prevention
      of cognitive decline.
    
  