
    
      MV parameters, as well as other physiological variables, will be monitorized during the ICU
      stay in all patients. A neurocognitive and psychopathological assessment will be administed
      in all patients at 1-month and 1-year follow up.

      After data collection, an asynchronies index will be calculated. A clusters analysis, based
      on clinical variables and asynchronies index, will be performed. The relationship between
      patients' clusters and the neuropsychological/ psychopathological data will be analized.

      CLINICAL STUDY Univariate descriptive analysis: for quantitative variables the mean, standard
      deviation, percentiles 25, 50 and 75, minimum is calculated and maximum. For qualitative
      variables, the absolute and relative frequencies were calculated. Population interval will be
      estimated at 95% confidence level.

      Multivariate analysis: cluster analysis, with the intention to investigate possible
      associations of individuals and characterization of the profile of each cluster. Comparison
      of standardized scores (z) of the neuropsychological variables and asynchronies index between
      clusters will be carried out by parametric or nonparametric techniques, as more appropriate.

      Association of asynchrony with the neuropsychological variables: conditional logistic
      regression (case-control) of the scores of neuropsychological variables (dichotomized) versus
      asynchronies index will be performed, controlling for confounding covariates or factors that
      may have a modifier effect. The multivariate case-control matching will be performed by the
      method of propensity score or by genetic algorithms. The odds ratio and confidence interval
      of 95% was estimated.

      Sample size: has been used rule of thumb for logistic regression models include between 10-15
      cases per covariate. In this case, the sample will consist of 150 patients.
    
  