
    
      Severe mental illness (SMI) refers to the most burdensome forms of psychiatric disorder,
      including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and severe depression. These illnesses typically
      emerge in adolescence or young adulthood and are associated with substantial impairment in
      functioning. A significant proportion (~30%) of individuals with SMI remain resistant to any
      form of available pharmacotherapy. The combination of early onset, poor response to treatment
      and persistent disability makes SMI the most problematic group of illnesses to individuals
      and society. The need for early interventions to pre-empt the onset of SMI is pressing
      because once SMI develops, quality of life is poor for patients and their families. There is
      substantial overlap in the genetic and environmental risk factors for individual forms of
      SMI, and predictors of SMI are not specific to any one disorder. It is therefore necessary to
      conceptualize SMI as transdiagnostic and include diagnoses of schizophrenia, bipolar
      disorder, and depression, rather than focusing on single illnesses when developing
      preventative interventions. Prevention of SMI is currently hindered by the inability to
      identify those at risk early enough to normalize their developmental trajectory. Recent
      advances in genomics and the understanding of important gene-environment interactions may
      help overcome this challenge and enable effective and targeted prevention of SMI. Cannabis
      exposure during critical periods of brain maturation is an avoidable environmental risk
      factor for SMI. A replicated gene-cannabis interaction shows that carriers of a common
      genetic variant (C alleles at rs2494732 in the AKT1 gene) are at up to 7-fold increased risk
      of developing psychosis if they use cannabis. Genetic counselling provides a powerful tool to
      communicate genetic information to youth in a way that empowers and enhances health. The
      present project involves the delivery of a genetic counselling intervention to inform youth
      of their personalized risk of developing SMI based on genotype, family history, and whether
      or not they choose to use cannabis. This project will be the first application of molecular
      genetic information and genetic counselling to prevent SMI.

      Aim: To test if genetic counselling regarding personalized risk information based on a
      replicated gene-cannabis interaction reduces cannabis use in youth at high risk of developing
      severe mental illness.

      Hypotheses:

        1. A genetic counselling intervention will be acceptable to youth at high familial risk of
           SMI.

        2. A genetic counselling intervention with personalized feedback of AKT1 genotype will
           reduce cannabis use among vulnerable youth.

        3. The effect of the intervention will be moderated by AKT1 genotype, with greater
           reduction of cannabis use among carriers of the sensitive C alleles.

      Method: A cohort of over 450 youth (aged 3-29) has been enrolled as part of the Families
      Overcoming Risks and Building Opportunities for Well-being (FORBOW) study. The investigators
      have obtained biological samples for measurement of genetic variation and the investigators
      will obtain biological samples to measure cannabis exposure. The investigators will randomly
      select one in every two eligible youth (aged 12-21) to be offered genetic counselling during
      which the participants will be provided with personalized genetic information and they will
      be counselled regarding risk of developing SMI based on genotype, family history, and whether
      or not they choose to use cannabis. The investigators will follow the participants through
      the developmental period with the highest risk of cannabis use initiation and the
      investigators will assess cannabis use and psychopathology annually. The primary outcome will
      be abstinence from cannabis reported by participants in confidential interviews and confirmed
      by measurement of the primary metabolites of psychoactive Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol in blood
      and urine samples.

      Significance: This project will realize the first translational application of a
      gene-environment interaction to improve mental health and test an intervention with potential
      public health benefits.
    
  