
    
      This study is divided into 2 phases: provider training (Phase 1) and patient level
      intervention (Phase 2). Phase 1, provider training, is managed through an administrative
      grant at Johns Hopkins. Providers will be notified of the research project locally but all
      training and assessments will be through Johns Hopkins.

      Phase 1:

      Training providers to offer alcohol pharmacotherapy (APT) to at-risk drinkers interested in
      quitting or reducing their drinking as part of overall HIV care could be an important
      strategy to reduce hazardous alcohol use in this medically-ill population. However, it is
      unknown how Infectious Disease providers will feel about treating alcohol use disorders
      within HIV clinics. Further it is uncertain the specific provider and clinic barriers to
      implementing this type of program in a primary care setting. A web-based alcohol
      pharmacotherapy provider training will be provided across the Center for AIDS Research (CFAR)
      Network of Integrated Clinical Systems (CNICS), a national network of 8 clinical cohorts. At
      the two intervention sites (University of Alabama at Birmingham and the University of
      Washington), providers will receive an on-site training in addition to the web-based training
      on alcohol pharmacotherapy administered at all 8 sites.

      The following are the specific aims of this project:

      Aim 1: To evaluate provider attitudes before and after alcohol pharmacotherapy training.

      Aim 2: To determine barriers and facilitators to alcohol treatment implementation in HIV
      specialty clinics.

      Phase 2:

      Determine the effectiveness of computer-delivered brief interventions (CBI) for reducing
      hazardous drinking in the HIV clinical care setting at two intervention clinics: University
      of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) and the University of Washington (UW). The combination of CBI
      plus alcohol pharmacotherapy (APT) provider training (Phase 1) will be piloted in two clinics
      in the Center for AIDS Research (CFAR) Network of Integrated Clinical Systems (CNICS), a
      national network of 8 clinical cohorts. Across all 8 CNICS sites, all patients will be
      screened for hazardous or binge drinking using the AUDIT (Alcohol Use Disorders
      Identification Test) and MINI (Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview) instruments. At
      UAB and UW, patients who screen eligible (self-report of hazardous or binge drinking using
      the AUDIT and MINI instruments) will be approached for participation. The data collected
      through this protocol will be used to compare Standard of Care as noted in Aim 2 below.
      Standard of Care at UAB includes potential referral to an in-house substance abuse program or
      an outside agency, both of which are based on the provider's discretion. Providers have the
      option of offering alcohol pharmacotherapy but this has not been used to date routinely.

      Specific aims of this proposal are:

      Aim 1: Develop a tailored CBI intervention that addresses alcohol risks specific to
      HIV-infected patients.

      Aim 2: Compare the effectiveness of CBI + APT versus standard care for reducing alcohol use
      among hazardous drinking HIV infected individuals.

      Aim 3: Determine patient-level predictors of CBI and APT engagement and effectiveness.

      Aim 4: Determine the facilitators and barriers to successful integration and implementation
      of these interventions into HIV clinical settings.
    
  