
    
      The goals of the RCT are to: 1) examine the effects of the BSP vs. a control group on
      targeted family and youth competencies at post-test, multiple systems of youth
      self-regulation at 6-month follow-up, and multiple youth outcomes at 1-year follow-up; 2)
      examine whether effects are mediated by program-induced improvements on targeted parent and
      youth competencies and by changes on multiple indicators of youth self-regulation; 3) examine
      program language (English vs. Spanish), baseline youth risk (including biological risk), and
      baseline family risk as moderators of BSP effects on youth outcomes and mediators; 4) examine
      whether variability in implementation accounts for variability in mediators and outcomes; and
      5) conduct a cost analysis of the BSP vs. the original Bridges program, as well as estimate
      the cost-effectiveness of the BSP vs. the control group on delayed SU initiation and quantity
      and frequency of SU at 1-year follow-up.

      Following pretest interviews, 7th grade students and their parents will be randomized to
      receive the BSP 4 -week program or the control group within each school. Those parents and
      adolescents assigned to the BSP will attend separate 1.25-hour groups simultaneously and then
      meet together for 45 minutes. Group meetings will be conducted at the school once per week
      for four weeks. Each week will cover a different topic. The parent program will focus on
      positive parenting and goal setting, parent-adolescent relationship strengthening, behavior
      management, and monitoring. The adolescent program will focus on personal goals and
      motivation, emotion regulation, cognitive control, and adaptive coping. Free dinner and
      childcare will be provided during group meetings.

      The trial will include 3 additional assessment points beyond pretest: immediate posttest in
      7th grade (W2), 6-month (W3) and one-year follow-up in 8th grade (W4). Assessment of multiple
      dimensions of self-regulation will address innovative questions for prevention. Teachers are
      asked to complete questionnaires; archival school data are also collected. The resulting
      intervention package and findings from the randomized trial will lay the foundation for
      dissemination of the BSP.
    
  