
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the safety of administering cord blood derived mesenchymal stem cell (CB-MSC)
      infusions for treatment of COVID-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In the group of patients who present intubated on ventilator support, assess the
      proportion that are able to be successfully extubated.

      II. In the group of patients who present requiring supplemental oxygen but otherwise
      breathing without assistance, assess the rate of progression to intubation.

      III. Estimate the survival rate at day 30 post treatment separately by group.

      IV. Determine the treatment effect on clinical parameters, oxygenation and respiratory
      parameters:

      IVa. Resolution of fever. IVb. Changes in oxygen demand (increased oxygen saturation at
      similar fraction of inspired oxygen [FiO2] or decreased FiO2 requirement).

      IVc. Progression to mechanical ventilation. IVd. Length of mechanical ventilation. IVe.
      Decrease in positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) in intubated patients. IVf. Decrease in
      FiO2 in intubated patients.

      V. Determine the treatment effect on laboratory markers:

      Va. Complete blood count. Vb. C-reactive protein (CRP). Vc. Ferritin. Vd. D dimer. Ve.
      Procalcitonin. Vf. Cytokine levels. VI. Estimate hospitalization and intensive care unit
      (ICU) stay. VII. Report on study related adverse events.

      OUTLINE:

      Currently not shipping cells outside of MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.

      PILOT STUDY: Patients receive MSCs intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours on day 1. Patients may
      receive a second infusion of MSCs within 7 days after the first infusion per physician
      discretion.

      PHASE II STUDY: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive MSCs IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Patients may receive a second
      infusion of MSCs within 7 days after the first infusion per physician discretion.

      ARM II: Patients receive standard of care.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 7, 14, 30, 60, and
      months 6 and 12.
    
  