
    
      Participants are allocated in two groups ( randomized). Study is conducted in Dar El Teb
      infertility and IVF centre, Egypt. Normoresponder patients (9-15 mature follicles on day of
      HCG administration) and candidates for fresh embryo transfer are recruited to the study. 788
      patients will be randomized on the day of ovum pick up in a 1 to 1 ratio to platelet rich
      plasma (PRP) group and control group. Patients wee randomized using computer generated
      randomization list and sequentially numbered sealed envelopes containing allocation
      information written on a card. The embryologist and doctors responsible for follow up after
      ovum pick up aew blinded to received treatment. Ovarian stimunlation is achieved by highly
      purified urinary FSH (Fostimon, IBSA, Switzerland)started on the 2nd or 3rd day of
      menstruation. The initial dose ranged between 150-300IU/d depending on expected ovarian
      response and serum E2 level. GnRH antagonist (Cetrotide, Serono international, Geneva,
      Switzerland) 0.25mgSC/day will be give when the leading follicle is 14mm and continued till
      day of HCG. 10,000 IU HCG will be given when 3 or more follicles are 18mm on mean diameter.
      Oocyte retrieval will be performed 34-36 hours after HCG administration. In PRP group, 1 ml
      autologous PRP prepared from blood of participants and injected under ultrasound guidance
      inside the uterus while performing the mock embryo transfer. In control group, mock embryo
      transfer was performed without injecting anything inside the uterus. All participants will
      receive progesterone vaginal pessaries (Prontogest, Marcyrl, Egypt) 400 mg twicw daily,
      starting on day of oocyte retrieval till 12weeks gestation or negative pregnancy test. No
      more than 3 embryos will be transferred2-5 days after oocyte retrival. B HCG levels will be
      measured in blood 14 days after HCGadministration. Transvaginal ultrasound will be performed
      4 weeks after embryo transfer to confirm clinical pregnancy.
    
  