
    
      This will be a home-based, single blind, randomised, controlled trial comparing
      immediate-start home-based Pilates with a delayed-start control group. The study protocol was
      approved by the University Research Ethics Committee. Participants will provide written
      informed consent prior to testing. The home-based setting promotes national recruitment of
      participants through the MS Society of Ireland, via distribution of posters and participation
      information leaflets on social media and text alerts to members. Interested participants will
      be invited to contact the lead researcher via phone or email, who will answer any
      study-related questions. Potential participants will be screened for selection criteria over
      the phone and provided with Participant Information Sheet (PIS), informed consent, Physical
      Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q), and Patient Determined Disease Steps (PDDS) form
      via post or email. Following screening and initial baseline testing, eligible participants
      will be randomized to immediate-start home-based Pilates, or delayed-start control, by an
      independent researcher who will not be involved in outcome assessments, using a
      computer-generated randomisation tool (www.randomizer.org). The Home-based Pilates group will
      perform two weekly sessions for eight weeks, completed with at least 48-hours between
      sessions, in their own home, supported by a DVD developed and previously implemented and
      evaluated by the lead researcher in a feasibility trial among people with Multiple Sclerosis.
      The instructor on the DVD is a certified Pilates Instructor. Each participant will receive
      documented details of the Pilates protocol, along with the DVD which will operate on a DVD
      player or participant's laptop computer. On activating the DVD, participants will be provided
      with an opening screen, offering four options to choose from; "Play all" plays the entire
      contents of the DVD from start to finish; "Warm Up", provides introductory teaching points on
      the core principles of Pilates along with teaching and demonstration of the Pilates' warm-up
      exercises; "Main Phase" provides demonstrations and key teaching points of the fourteen
      Pilates exercise routine, and "Post Stretch" demonstrates and teaches the post-stretch
      exercises. Each Pilates session will last approximately one hour and is comprised of seven
      Pilates warm-up exercises and fourteen mat-based beginner's level exercise. Four repetitions
      of each Pilates movement will be performed during sessions in the first two weeks, with
      intensity being self-regulated by the participant based on level of physical condition.
      Repetitions will gradually progress at biweekly intervals, resulting in ten repetitions being
      performed for the final two weeks of the trial (Weeks 7 and 8). Six post-training stretches
      will be maintained for a minimum of thirty seconds. Fidelity, adherence, dose and compliance
      shall be monitored via self-report exercise diaries containing session date, number of
      repetitions completed per exercise, and session RPE (Rate of perceived exertion), recorded by
      the participant immediately following session completion. Exercise diaries will be
      supplemented by a weekly telephone call consisting of direct questions about the frequency,
      intensity, and duration of the Pilates they have completed and whether they have experienced
      difficulties with exercise completion, any adverse events or relapses.

      The Delayed-Start Control group be instructed to maintain their pre-intervention physical
      activity levels during the trial and will be contacted by the lead researcher by email or
      telephone to ensure timely completion of the on-line outcome assessments at biweekly
      intervals. Following the 8-week intervention, Delayed-Start participants will be provided
      with the Pilates DVD for their own use, but no data will be collected. For both groups,
      participants who experience a relapse will be immediately withdrawn from the study, which
      will be recorded by the lead researcher.
    
  