
    
      Background:

      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is diagnosed in approximately 15 % of all the lung cancer
      cases. SCLC is recognized by its rapid tumor growth, with a high chemo- and radio
      sensitivity, and by its high metastasizing potential. Patients with extensive-stage disease
      have a 5-year survival rate of 1% to 2%.

      Almost 2/3 of the patients have already extensive disease (ED) upon diagnosis.The recommended
      treatment of ED-SCLC is systemic chemotherapy, considered to be the standard first line
      treatment option in all patients with SCLC regardless of performance status and age.
      World-wide, the most commonly used regimen for 1st line treatment is the combination of
      cisplatin-etoposide, while in the Netherlands the cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and etoposide
      regimen is widely used.Survival outcome with these regimens appear similar.

      Unfortunately, relapses occur in all patients and responses to second-line chemotherapy have
      proven to be of short term. Until recently, there were no registered drugs for treatment of
      relapsing SCLC. Phase II studies with docetaxel in first line - and second line treatment of
      SCLC demonstrated that docetaxel is an active agent in these patient groups. Therefore
      docetaxel seems suitable for evaluation in combination with other cytotoxic drugs active in
      this disease. Until now no studies have been performed with a combination of docetaxel and
      platinum in this group of previously treated SCLC patients.

      A phase II study in previously untreated patients with SCLC shows that the combination
      docetaxel and cisplatin/carboplatin is an active and well tolerated regimen in extensive
      SCLC.

      Study objectives:

      To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of a docetaxel/carboplatin regimen in patients with
      refractory or relapsed SCLC. Furthermore to asses the safety profile of the
      docetaxel/carboplatin combination.

      Trial design:

      This study will be a open label non-randomized study conducted in patients with refractory or
      relapsed SCLC. It is a phase II study with 50 patients.

      Docetaxel infusion 75 mg/m2, carboplatin AUC = 6 mg/ml·min day 1, every 21 days for 4-6
      cycles.

      Population:

      Patients with histologically or cytologically proven SCLC at the first diagnosis with
      refractory or relapsed SCLC after first line treatment. Signed informed consent. Age > 18
      years. WHO ps 0,1 or 2.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: response rate. Secondary endpoint(s): time to progression, response
      duration, safety profile and survival.

      Stress and risks for the patient:

      Hospital visits and tests are not different from the standard treatment. Stress due to
      adverse events is not essential higher estimated. Special risks are not expected. Frequently
      medical examination and control of laboratory results will be done. Detailed instruction will
      be given about what do to in case of serious toxicity.
    
  