
    
      1. Purpose:

           The overarching goal of the Living Well project is to maintain or improve quality of
           life for people with prostate cancer on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and their
           partners by providing the couples with the tools to promote confidence and motivation to
           remain both physically and psychosocially healthy and intimate. The primary objective is
           to determine the effect of our comprehensive community-based survivorship program on
           psychosocial health of people with PCa on ADT and their partners. Secondarily we intend
           to explore the impact of the program on biomarkers associated with the metabolic
           syndrome often observed in men on ADT, the program's operational and perceived (by
           patients and partners) impact of the program.

        2. Hypothesis:

             1. The intervention group will show a larger magnitude of improvement on measures of
                QOL, fatigue, and intimacy, ultimately leading to increased benefit when compared
                to the control group.

             2. We believe through the engagement of peer volunteers that compliance and adherence
                to positive lifestyle changes will be higher on the intervention group when
                compared to the control group.

        3. Justification:

           ADT has offered people with prostate cancer (PCa) improved curative outcomes when
           combined with local radiation therapy and has been fundamental in controlling disease
           for those with a biochemical recurrence or metastatic disease. Due to its effectiveness,
           ADT is offered to up to 50% of people with PCa.

           ADT reduces the occurrence of metastases by lowering testosterone levels. Unfortunately,
           decreased testosterone can lead to hot flashes, diminished libido, erectile dysfunction,
           depression, diminished muscle strength, reduced bone mineral density, increased fat
           mass, and increased cholesterol levels. This conglomerate of secondary effects can lead
           to osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, stroke, and diabetes. Poor lifestyle habits can
           further aggravate these secondary effects of ADT therapy. Being overweight may increase
           the risk of mortality from PCa. However, the increase in vascular disease and diabetes
           seems to be more strongly correlated with death than the cancer itself. Those with
           pre-existing cardiac problems and receiving ADT, have a 75% chance of dying from
           cardiovascular disease rather than PCa.

           There is growing evidence that healthy lifestyle practices that include a healthy diet
           and regular physical activity can improve the overall prognosis of PCa patients and
           diminish the negative effects of ADT. Many cancer survivors are motivated to seek
           information about food choices and physical activity to improve their response to
           treatment and quality of life. Recent research has shown that a preemptive educational
           program built around a book, the "Androgen Deprivation Therapy: An Essential Guide for
           Prostate Cancer Patients and Their Loved Ones", or the "Workbook" for short, which
           addresses all issues of life style management, can be effective in helping patients and
           their families in overcoming the challenges of ADT.

           The Workbook was created by a national team of PCa experts (the ADT Working Group) and
           is endorsed by the Canadian Urological Association. The Workbook addresses the
           well-established, physical and emotional adverse effects of ADT. Although not all ADT
           side effects directly reduce a patient's survival, they may greatly impact a patient and
           his partner's QoL. Important aspects explored in the Workbook include the psychosocial
           effects of ADT, exercise needs, and the nutritional recommendations for men on ADT.
           Previous research indicates that the effectiveness of the Workbook is enhanced when
           distributed to patients prior to the start of ADT, before side effects manifest. The
           Workbook's effectiveness is also enhanced when combined with motivational sessions led
           by trained educators.

           Given that people with PCa on ADT and their partners generally struggle with aspects of
           their sexual health, nutrition, and physical activity concurrently, we propose for the
           first time to test a comprehensive PCa survivorship approach, the Living Well program,
           which addresses concerns related to all three components. This is a community-based
           program designed for PCa patients prior to starting on ADT and will also be extended to
           their partners. The program will make extensive use of the ADT Workbook and will be
           primarily delivered using existing resources.

        4. Objectives:

           The primary outcomes are:

             -  Quality of Life

             -  Fatigue

           Secondary outcome is

           - Intimacy

           We will also explore:

             -  Effects on biomarkers associated with the metabolic syndrome secondary to ADT *

             -  Effects on erectile dysfunction, PSA and testosterone levels*

             -  The perceptions of patients and partners about the impact of the program on their
                psychosocial health

             -  Operational impact

           Note: *Patient's health records will be checked to obtain annual blood measures of
           cholesterol, glucose, lipoprotein, PSA, testosterone levels and for responses to the
           Sexual Health Inventory for Men - SHIM, all part of usual care.

        5. Research Method:

           We propose a prospective randomized control trial. Over twelve months, a sample of 100
           English-speaking people, who are scheduled to start androgen deprivation therapy or have
           started within the last 7 days for prostate cancer at will be recruited for the study.
           Every two consented participants (and their partners if available) will be randomized.
           Therefore, one patient/partner will receive the intervention and one is placed in the
           control group. Both arms will receive the workbook and sexual counseling. The
           experimental group will also have access to an exercise and a nutrition program, with
           all three components supported by peer volunteers. Over the course of one month we
           predict eight patient/partners will be consented (four control, four intervention).
           Every four participants (and their partners if available) randomized to the intervention
           will form a group that will proceed through the program.

           Potential participants will be identified and invited by physicians. The Research Intern
           will consent participants. After consenting the participant will be instructed to bring
           their signed PAR-Q+ (24, 25) and consent form to the Introductory Meeting at the
           Prostate Centre. The research intern will also access participant's medical records to
           collect demographic information (cancer stage and treatment, co-morbidities, age) before
           they start the program.Participant's partners will also be invited to participate in the
           program The control group will attend the Introductory meeting and two sexual health
           counseling sessions .The intervention group will attend the Introductory meeting, the
           two sexual health meetings plus the exercise component (eight weekly exercise sessions)
           and the nutrition component (four monthly nutrition sessions) over a period of 6 months.
           A peer volunteer will be assigned to each intervention couple and will provide support
           during the intervention to help maintain participant's adherence to physical activity
           and healthy eating goals.Both intervention and control groups will provide measurements
           at each sexual health session (body-mass index -BMI, waist circumference, grip strength,
           blood pressure and heart rate) , describe their medical history and current medications.
           Both groups will attend follow-up measurement sessions at 12 and 24 months after
           baseline. Participants and their partners will fill out separate questionnaires at
           baseline, 6 months and at the two follow-up measurement sessions Participants and their
           partners will be interviewed at baseline, six, twelve, and twenty-four months.
           Interviews will be conducted until saturation at baseline (expected n=10) and the same
           couples will be interviewed again at the other time points. During these interviews
           qualitative data will be collected and transcribed for analysis. Questions related to
           their current physical activity experience, nutritional habits and barriers to
           maintaining a healthy diet and regular physical activity routine will be asked. In
           addition interviews with intervention participants will ask questions related to
           participants' satisfaction with the timing, quality, relevance & usefulness of topics
           discussed during the physical activity and nutrition sessions, motivation provided by
           instructors and peer volunteers and overall feedback about the program.

        6. Statistical Analysis:

      The Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 14.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL)
      will be used for the statistical analysis. Significance will be set at P = 0.05 (two-tailed).
      Descriptive statistics [mean ± standard deviation (SD)] will be calculated for all
      characteristics. Differences between groups will be examined using Mann-Whitney U-test or
      Kruskal-Wallis test. A sample size calculation was based on the Quality of Life primary
      outcome measured by the FACT-P questionnaire (36). Change in quality of life will be
      determined by calculating change scores between different time-points. Considering mean score
      difference of 5, at the 5% level (2-tailed) and 80% power, a sample size of 41 should yield
      significant statistical differences. Based on our clinical and research experience with this
      population, we estimate recruiting about 50 patients per group in 12 months. Qualitative data
      will be systematically organized and sorted using ATLAS.ti 6.2 and analyzed through thematic
      analysis.
    
  