
    
      The Project will include four studies:

      Study 1: (Comparative cross-sectional study) The main objective in this study is to assess if
      patients with carotid atherosclerosis have increased serum levels gut microbiota dependent
      metabolites compared to healthy controls.

      This study will be done on prospectively collected information already available in our
      existing database. Approximately 215 patients will be included in this study where collected
      samples will be analyzed and levels of metabolites quantified. These metabolite levels will
      be compared to a control group of 70 healthy controls without carotid atherosclerosis
      (verified by ultrasound), cardiovascular outcome defined as stroke/TIA or vascular death, as
      well as traditional risk factors for ischemic stroke (diabetes, hypertension, smoking and
      coronary artery disease).

      Study 2: (Comparative cross-sectional study) The aim of this study is to asses if microbiota
      and microbiota metabolite Levels are Associated With certain types of diet, in particular
      Rich in red meat and egg yalk.

      In this study, 215 patients with ultrasound verified carotid atherosclerosis with or without
      symptoms of TIA/stroke will be compared to 70 controls. Dietary intake and food habits will
      be recorded using the SmartDiet questionnaire developed by 'Lipidklinikken Rikshospitalet'.
      Feces, saliva and blood will be collected analyzed for microbiota and metabolites.
      Antroprometrics, blood pressure and pulse will be recorded.

      In patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy and immunohistochemical analysis will be done.

      Study 3: (Comparative cross-sectional study) The aim of this study is to evaluate correlation
      between the microbiota and microbiota metabolite Levels With other inflammatory markers in
      blood, as well as known risk factors for stroke and inflammation on imaging modalities
      (ultrasound, 3-T MRI and PET/CT) .

      In this study, 215 patients with ultrasound verified carotid atherosclerosis with or without
      symptoms of TIA/stroke will be compared to 70 controls.

      Patients will undergo investigations with carotid ultrasound, carotid and cerebral MR
      imaging, blood tests including inflammatory biomarkers. A sub-group of patients will in
      addition undergo PET/CT imaging of carotid arteries.

      Study 4: (Follow up study) The aim of this study is to evaluate the ability of microbiota and
      microbiota metabolites to predict ischemic stroke in patient With carotid stenosis.

      Patients in study 2 and 3 will be followed up after 2 years with repetition of
      investigations. Findings with serum levels of microbiota metabolites, traditional risk
      factors and imaging will be correlated to clinical and radiological ischemic events and
      plaque progression.
    
  