
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a central nervous system (CNS) autoimmune disorder characterized
      by chronic inflammation, axonal demyelination, and neuronal degeneration. The complex
      pathophysiology of MS is mediated by autoreactive T cells that ultimately invade and attack
      the CNS by traversing the blood-brain barrier (BBB), resulting in persistent irreversible
      axonal damage and physical disability. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) metrics contribute
      substantially to the diagnosis and management of MS, providing critical information regarding
      disease activity in addition to serving as secondary endpoint measures for clinical trials
      evaluating MS therapies. Traditional MRI techniques (e.g., contrast enhanced [CE] T1-weighted
      imaging, spin-echo [SE] T2-weighted imaging [T2-WI]) have proven effective for detecting the
      presence of macroscopic white matter (WM) MS lesions but are limited by the inability to
      effectively delineate microscopic tissue damage occurring in normal-appearing white matter
      (NAWM) and microscopic and macroscopic tissue damage in normal-appearing gray matter (NAGM).
      Furthermore, the brain-lesion burden on traditional MRI scans correlates only modestly with
      clinical disease progression. Thus, a need exists to use alternative non-conventional MRI
      techniques and approaches that more accurately monitor clinical disease activity and efficacy
      of disease-modifying therapies.

      Dimethyl fumarate (Biogen Idec, Inc, Cambridge, MA, USA) is an FDA approved oral treatment
      for relapsing MS. One phase II and 2 phase III randomized, placebo-controlled and
      double-blinded clinical trials established that dimethyl fumarate significantly reduces
      relapse rates and improves disability along with neuroradiologic outcomes relative to
      placebo.

      There is growing evidence to suggest that oxidative stress has a significant role in the
      pathogenesis of MS. Therapies that reduce oxidative stress, as well as inflammation, are of
      increasing interest. Fumaric acid esters are known to activate anti-oxidative pathways, as
      well as modulate the inflammatory cascade. Several in vivo studies have shown that nuclear
      factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) has a role in attenuating proinflammatory stimuli through
      the modulation of cytokine signaling and through its involvement in glutathione homeostasis.
      For example, in one animal study, Nrf2-deficient mice were found to have increased expression
      of proinflammatory mediators, including cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin (IL)-1b, IL-6 and
      tumour necrosis factor-a, compared with wild-type mice. Nrf2 is also established as the
      guardian of redox homeostasis and has been shown to be critical for attenuating oxidative
      stress. Under oxidative conditions, Nrf2 enters into and accumulates within the nucleus of
      cells and activates the expression of a battery of cytoprotective and detoxification genes. A
      number of in vitro and in vivo studies have consistently demonstrated the key role of the
      Nrf2 signaling pathway in protecting the CNS from oxidative stress-related damage. Currently,
      oral dimethyl fumarate is the only agent that appears to directly target Nrf2, which it does
      by inducing the cleavage of kelch-like erythroid cell-derived protein with "cap'n'collar"
      homology-associated protein 1 (Keap1) from Nrf2 in the cell cytoplasm. By cleaving this
      Keap1-Nrf2 complex, Nrf2 is free to cross the nuclear membrane and interact with other
      nuclear transcription factors to upregulate the antioxidant response element. Via this
      mechanism, dimethyl fumarate appears to have a distinct dual mechanism of action in
      attenuating oxidative stress as well as in reducing inflammatory response.

      Dimethyl fumarate showed robust effect in suppressing the appearance of new CE, T2
      hyperintense and T1 hypointense lesions along with their volumes. In a recent study, dimethyl
      fumarate also exerted potential for cytoprotection and remyelination, as evidenced by changes
      in magnetization transfer ratio. However, the dimethyl fumarate effect on non-conventional
      MRI metrics, such as diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) has not been explored.
    
  