
    
      Myeloma patients who develop bortezomib and lenalidomide-resistant disease have a very poor
      survival of only a median of 9 months, indicating that new agents are urgently needed. Recent
      studies have shown that daratumumab as a single agent is effective and well tolerated in
      these heavily pretreated MM patients. However, approximately 60% of patients do not achieve a
      partial response, and ultimately all patients will develop progressive disease during
      daratumumab therapy. In less pretreated patients daratumumab-based combinations (daratumumab
      plus lenalidomide-dexamethasone or daratumumab plus bortezomib-dexamethasone) were very
      effective and well tolerated. Therefore, in this study, the investigators will combine
      daratumumab with other agents to improve survival of heavily pretreated MM patients.

      The PD-1 blocker nivolumab, as single agent, does not induce objective responses but induces
      stable disease in approximately 67% of relapsed/refractory MM patients. We have recently
      shown that daratumumab treatment results in increased T cell frequencies by eliminating
      CD38-positive immune suppressor cells, which probably contributes to the durable responses
      observed with daratumumab.

      Cyclophosphamide, at a dose substantially lower than the maximum tolerated dose, has next to
      its direct anti-tumor activity serveral other effects including anti-angiogenic effects,
      induction of changes in the micro-environment, and also improvement of the anti-tumor immune
      response.

      In this study, the investigators will combine two or three immune modulating agents with
      different mechanisms of action in order to improve the outcome of relapsed/refractory MM
      patients.

      The investigators will evaluate in Part A, nivolumab combined with daratumumab with or
      without low-dose cyclophosphamide (total 40 patients). Based on efficacy and tolerability,
      the investigators will treat in Part B 20 additional patients with nivolumab combined with
      daratumumab either with or without low-dose cyclophosphamide based on tolerability and
      efficacy data obtained in Part A.
    
  