
    
      Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder among women in
      reproductive age with an estimated prevalence of 5% to 19.5%. It is a chronic complex
      syndrome with psychological (depression and anxiety), reproductive and metabolic
      abnormalities. The etiology seems to be multifactorial. It seems there are both genetic,
      epigenetic and environmental contributors (almost 100 susceptible genes were identified).

      The quality of life (QQL) of women suffering from PCOS is significantly reduced in all
      domains (functional ability, physical and emotional) and major health problems is correlated
      to PCOS. Women with PCOS demonstrate hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. They have an
      increased risk for type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance. Studies have shown that
      adipocyte function is considerably aberrant in women with PCOS including: lower lipase
      activity, defective glucose transport and dyslipidemia. Obesity is more prevalent in women
      with PCOS. They are also exposed to long term risk for additional disorders like
      cardiovascular diseases (atherosclerosis) or even cancer (endometrial or ovarian) .

      PCOS is the primary cause of anovulatory subfertility. Furthermore, women with PCOS are at
      risk for pregnancy and obstetrical complications including preterm birth, pre- eclampsia and
      meconium aspiration syndrome of neonates after birth.

      PCOS is diagnosed according the Rotterdam criteria . It requires 2 out of 3 symptoms: 1.
      Hyperandrogenism or excess levels of androgen)- clinical and/ or biochemical (presence of
      hirsutism, acne or alopecia). 2. Oligo or anovulation (including menstrual dysfunction). 3.
      PCO-M polycystic ovaries morphology (over 12 follicles, 2-9 mm or increased ovarian volume).

      The term microbiome describes the genetic material of all the microbes (bacteria, fungi,
      protozoa and viruses) that live onside and inside the human body. It is important for
      development of the body, immunity and nutrition. The microbiome may influence the
      susceptibility to different infectious diseases and contribute to chronic illnesses.

      The gut microbiota contains 100 trillion microbes. When discussing gut bacteria, it is
      primarily referred to the large intestine (colon). Lately, interest regarding the association
      between PCOS women and gut macrobiotic have been emerged. Hyperandrogenism was correlated
      with those changes in the microbiota which reflects the fact that the microbiome can
      influence the development and pathology of PCOS . Preliminary studies have shown that
      different bacterial species colonize the gut of PCOS induced animals compared to controls.

      A novel theory was developed concerning the development of PCOS. A diet high of sugars sets
      as a convenient platform for gram negative bacteria ("bad" bacteria) while reducing "good"
      bacteria. The cell wall of the gram negative bacteria is comprised of lipopolysaccharide
      (LPS) which stimulates the immune system. The high sugar diet increases the permeability of
      the gut ("leaky gut") leading to chronic inflammation which produces impaired insulin
      receptor function. The insulin facilitates an increase in the production of androgens by the
      ovaries which leads to PCOS .

      The dysbiosis was correlated with sex hormone levels and ovarian changes. In addition,
      treating PCOS using lactobacillus ("good" bacteria) transplantation showed improved ovarian
      functions.

      Even though, several studies established the connection between the dysbiosis of the gut and
      PCOS, only a few studies were conducted on the association between the vaginal microbiome and
      the development of PCOS. To detail, the vaginal microbiome in PCOS is more diverse and
      heterogeneous, with the relative abundance of certain species (such as Mycoplasma) and lower
      level of others (such as Lactobacillus which keeps the vagina acidic) .

      Moreover, should this association be strengthen between the microbiome of the gut and vagina
      to PCOS, it could serve as grounds to new horizons for treatment. There are several therapies
      for PCOS treatment (Life style interventions, improving metabolic dysfunction and medical
      treatment ), however, currently, there is no ideal therapy that fully treats all the clinical
      features.

      Due to all the aforementioned, we aim of this study is to explore the diversity and
      alternations of the vaginal and the gut microbiome in patients with PCOS during common
      therapeutic interventions and connect them to different phenotypes of the syndrome.

      Study design A prospective longitudinal case control study that will be conducted at Sheba
      Medical Center (tertiary medical center).

      Study group will include 20 women in fertility age (age 18-42) diagnosed with PCOS according
      to the Rotterdam Criteria who haven't started any kind of treatment. The control group would
      be healthy women matched by age. Women in both groups will be recruited at the Endocrine
      outpatient's clinics. All women will sign informed consent form after receiving information
      on the study from one of the research team members.

      Vaginal and rectal samples will be collected during the regular clinic visits that will be
      set by the medical interventions requirements (including: dietary recommendations, physical
      activity, hormonal contraception, insulin resistance treatment, fertility treatment,
      pregnancy follow-up):

        1. at first visit after recruitment

        2. 1 month following first intervention

        3. 3 month following first intervention
    
  