
    
      Shoulder pain is a common secondary condition in people with spinal cord injury (SCI) that
      often results in loss of function and of independence and imposes limitations on self-care,
      work, and leisure activities, and leads to decreased quality of life. More than 40% of
      individuals with SCI report shoulder pain at the beginning of inpatient rehabilitation; this
      number increases to 50% at hospital discharge. The onset of shoulder pain within the first
      year after injury may lead to lifelong chronic shoulder pain. Although information is known
      about shoulder pain in patients with long-term SCI, little is known about the beginning of
      shoulder problems and how they progress early after the injury. In addition to physical
      problems, psychosocial factors are also associated with chronic pain.

      This study will investigate the progression of musculoskeletal (shoulder muscle flexibility,
      muscle strength, movement coordination, and rotator cuff health) and psychosocial (fear of
      movement, pain catastrophizing) impairments for the first year following SCI, starting with
      inpatient rehabilitation, at 6 months, and at 1 year following SCI. Age- and gender-matched
      controls will be compared at baseline and at 1 year.

      Instead of routinely screening patients to identify and treat related factors before shoulder
      pain and dysfunction become problems, the current practice is to start treatment after
      shoulder pain occurs. We will use the information obtained from this study information to
      develop a biopsychosocial prospective surveillance model, a method for early detection,
      intervention, and moderation of shoulder pain. Specifically, we will identify sources of
      biopsychosocial shoulder pain to establish effective physical and cognitive-behavioral
      treatment to prevent loss of function and independence in individuals with SCI who depend on
      their arms for activities of daily living, transfers, and wheelchair propulsion. Early
      identification of problem areas may provide a method to refer a patient for treatment or to
      change ongoing intervention. Development of a biopsychosocial prospective surveillance model
      will provide a proactive approach to reduce the debilitating consequences of activity
      limitations and participation restrictions in individuals with SCI, reducing the burden
      currently experienced by military service members, veterans, and their families and
      caregivers.
    
  