
    
      Renal graft failure due to chronic rejection, also known as chronic allograft nephropathy, is
      one of the leading causes for repeat renal transplantation. Chronic rejection is
      characterized by progressive fibrosis and scarring. Renal biopsies of patients undergoing
      chronic rejection show greater expression of profibrotic cytokines, including TGF-beta and
      PDGF, than normal kidney tissue. Moreover, the cytokine activity of chronic rejection
      resembles that of other fibrosing renal diseases. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors
      (ACEinh) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been shown to protect effectively against
      other types of fibrotic disease. These drugs may protect against fibrosis and preserve renal
      function in renal transplant patients with chronic rejection, in part by blocking activation
      of TGF-beta and PDGF. This study evaluates the impact of irbesartan (an AII-RB which acts
      similar to an ACEinh) and pravastatin on the clinical progression of chronic rejection and on
      the expression of TGF-beta, PDGF, and connective tissue genes in the chronically rejecting
      kidney.

      Prior to intervention, patients undergo a transplant renal biopsy to: 1) confirm the presence
      of chronic renal allograft nephropathy and 2) quantify baseline mRNA levels for TGF-beta,
      PDGF, and selected cytokines and connective tissue components. Patients are randomized to 4
      arms: Group 1 receives pravastatin placebo plus irbesartan placebo; Group 2 receives
      pravastatin plus irbesartan placebo; Group 3 receives pravastatin placebo plus irbesartan;
      and Group 4 receives pravastatin plus irbesartan. Pravastatin is administered at a dose of 20
      mg/day. Irbesartan is initiated at 150 mg/day and is titred to 300 mg/day after 2 weeks.
      Patients are evaluated routinely for serum creatinine and potassium levels, blood pressure,
      and other markers of kidney function. In addition, they are monitored for toxicities and
      adverse events, particularly an early rise in serum creatinine or muscle enzyme changes. At
      Month 6, or when serum creatinine has risen above 5.0 mg/dl if that is earlier, a repeat
      transplant kidney biopsy is obtained to compare to baseline. Changes in chronic allograft
      nephropathy and cytokine mRNA levels are evaluated to determine any correlation between
      clinical effect and changes in activity of profibrotic pathways. Study endpoints are death or
      renal failure manifested by initiation of dialysis or retransplantation.
    
  