
    
      This protocol is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial designed to study the
      effects of the lipid lowering statin, atorvastatin on HIV-1 viremia.

      Untreated HIV-1 infection results in an incurable, progressive immunodeficiency and death,
      usually from opportunistic infections. Combination antiretroviral therapy (ARV) has been
      successful in suppressing HIV replication and reducing morbidity and mortality. Long term ARV
      therapy is associated with the development of HIV-1 drug resistance, and significant adverse
      side effects including metabolic and cardiovascular complications. Prolonged therapy with
      certain antiretrovirals is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and a
      number of dyslipidemic syndromes, including increased levels of cholesterol, LDL, and
      triglycerides in peripheral blood. New therapeutic strategies to suppress HIV-1 infection are
      essential.

      Previously, in vitro studies suggested that exposure to cholesterol-lowering statins results
      in decreases in HIV-1 replication. The mechanisms of inhibition remain uncertain, but
      possibilities include disrupting membrane trafficking or cytoskeletal processes necessary for
      intracellular transport of viral proteins, or altering cellular activation state necessary
      for viral gene expression. Initial in vivo studies of the effects of statins on HIV-1 have
      been largely anecdotal in nature and have yielded conflicting results. Although statin
      therapy is commonly used in HIV-1 infection, adverse effects from the combination of
      antiretrovirals and statins are possible. A more thorough understanding of the effects of
      statins on HIV-1 replication is essential to determine the potential therapeutic effect and
      to investigate the risks and benefits of this approach in vivo.

      We plan to conduct a double blind randomized placebo controlled trial, with a cross over
      design, to study the effects of atorvastatin in 22 HIV-infected patients not currently taking
      antiretroviral therapy. Patients will be randomized to receive either placebo or atorvastatin
      80mg for 8 weeks. After a 4-week wash out period patients on the atorvastatin arm will
      crossover to placebo and, vice versa patients in the placebo arm will cross over to
      atorvastatin for an additional 8 weeks. Upon completion of study medications all patients
      will be followed for 4 weeks. Each arm will have a minimum of 11 patients each. The primary
      outcome measure in this study is the effect of lipid lowering agents on HIV-1 RNA levels;
      additional secondary outcome measures include effects of lipid lowering agents on lipid
      profile, markers of inflammation and immune activation and investigations of host and viral
      genetic factors.
    
  