
    
      In the proposed study, the investigators will examine whether these training exercises are
      effective when practiced at home. There are two specific aims in this project:

      Aim #1 (Year 1): to develop a web-based meta program that will administer the training
      exercises. For convenience, in this proposal, the investigators will refer to this platform
      as PAECT (Platform for Administering Eye movement Control Training). The PAECT meta program
      will incorporate all of the exercises that the investigators have developed and validated
      over the course of our previous Merit Review grants (Seiple, Szlyk et al., 2005, 2011). The
      PAECT platform will be designed to allow patients to easily run the training exercises in
      their homes and to practice at their convenience. The PAECT will employ an executive
      component that will keep track of the exercises that are practiced and record performance.
      Each time a subject opens the platform, it will choose the exercise for that subject based
      upon previous training and performance. The development of the software and the design of the
      hardware interface for administering the system will take place during the first year of the
      project. This will be done through a series of software/hardware iterations based upon
      feedback derived from direct patient testing of the system. The investigators will recruit
      ten patients with AMD to test and comment on the system during this phase of the project.

      Aim #2 (Years 2-4). To compare the effects of PAECT training on reading outcomes in two
      training situations: (1). training done in the clinic with feedback on performance provided
      by a trained low-vision therapist, and (2) training done at-home with expanded opportunity
      for practicing the exercises, but with no therapist feedback. Patients will be assigned to
      one of two groups: Patients in Group 1 ("Clinical") will undergo weekly two-hour training
      sessions for three months using the software/hardware system. This training will be conducted
      in the low-vision clinic using the PAECT, with feedback on performance provided by a trained
      low-vision therapist. Patients in Group 2 ("At-home") will practice all of the exercises at
      home using the PAECT system over a three-month period. The subjects will be encouraged to use
      the system as often as possible, but no less than two hours per week. Sixty patients (30 in
      the clinical setting and 30 at home) will be tested for each of three years.
    
  