
    
      The goal of this pilot study is to collect preliminary data that will allow the investigators
      to formulate theories about ER-related brain function change during intervention-like
      training that will be tested in larger, externally-funded grant proposals submitted to the
      National Institutes of Health. The investigators are not especially interested in any
      existing specific, manualized therapeutic technique. Existing ER-based psychotherapies
      typically incorporate a variety of related interventions, not all of which focus on the ER
      component itself. Instead, the investigators will focus on the "building blocks" of such
      therapies, i.e., the ER interventions themselves and their effect on negative emotional
      reactions. Here, the investigators ask a specific question - How does ER-elicited brain
      function change with repeated sessions of guided practice of various ER techniques? In other
      words, does increasing familiarity or mastery of ER skills through practice change brain
      function, and how? There are logical hypotheses about the likely nature of brain function
      changes that can be gleaned from prior neuroimaging research. For instance, if prefrontal
      cortex activation is important to ER, perhaps practice simply increases such activation.
      However, pilot work for the current NIMH R01 suggests instead that ER practice might work by
      enhancing the functional integration among key frontolimbic regions. Complicating such
      hypotheses is the recognition that different ER tactics engage many distinct brain regions
      depending on which approach is employed. So a participant's individual brain function
      differences prior to ER training might be a potent determinant for what sorts of neural
      changes result from repeated practice. Because all these issues must be evaluated through the
      lens of a preliminary study before any coherent theoretical model can be formulated, a pilot
      study is proposed here. Not only will this provide empirical data upon which to base future
      research, conducting such a pilot will showcase any methodological hurdles or challenges that
      need to be overcome in order to successfully conduct a larger-scale study.
    
  