
    
      Initially a phase I will be performed to determine the appropriate dose of Cytarabine to be
      used in Flag-Ida regimen in combination with Velcade; for that reason, first 9 patients will
      be distributed to 3 different cohorts with 3 patients in each cohort, which will be treated
      at each Cytarabine dose level (200 mg/m2-500 mg/m2-1000 mg/m2)in combination with the other
      drugs from Flag scheme and the fixed dose of Velcade at 1,3 mg/m2.

      Once the appropriate Cytarabine dose is determined,the recruitment will be completed with 40
      patients and evaluations and visits program will be realized in three periods: Pre-treatment,
      Treatment and Follow-up.

      The Pre-treatment includes Screening and baseline visits. After providing informed consent,
      patients will be evaluated for study eligibility.

      Eligible patients included in the study will receive the first cycle, which consist of
      Fludarabine, Cytarabine and Idarubicin in combination with 2 times per week of Velcade
      administration. Each 28-day treatment, patients will be evaluated, and in absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity, patients will start second cycle with Bortezomib in
      monotherapy two times per week followed by a 10 days rest period. That is, patients who
      response with acceptable toxicity will receive the combined sequential scheme twice (as
      induction and consolidation).

      Patients will be evaluated the day 1 of each cycle,during the treatment period, in order to
      know the response before carrying on the treatment. Once the Treatment period is completed,
      patients will be evaluated during the Follow-up period, one monthly visit in year 1, and
      every 3 months for 3 next years. On each center criteria, autologous/allogeneic transplant
      can be planned depending on age and HLA identical sibling donor make it possible: it will be
      done following the sequential scheme (Velcade-Flag-Ida and Velcade in monotherapy); if the
      patient is not candidate for a transplant or has no donor, he/she will receive 2 sequential
      scheme.

      Safety will be evaluated through all adverse events monitoring, physical exploration, vital
      signs, hematimetric and biochemical analysis. The treatment response will be evaluated using
      Cheson's standardized criteria, and MRD impact will be necessary evaluated the day 1 of each
      new cycle before to carry on the treatment.
    
  