
    
      Elderly homebound recipients of home delivered meals (HDM) are at increased risk for
      foodborne disease and particularly vulnerable to disruptions that might prevent the delivery
      or safe consumption of food. In addition, there is a great deal of variability in the
      cognitive and physical abilities of those within this population, as well as a range of
      access to financial resources and social support that may vary both individually and
      geographically. Moreover, the agencies serving this population depend heavily on the time and
      donations of volunteers to carry out their important work. Therefore, to ensure their
      implementation, interventions designed to address food safety issues within this population
      must be relatively simple, efficient, and cost effective.

      To address these issues, a multi-method research approach will be used, incorporating
      Universal Product Code (UPC) scanning technology combined with a dynamically growing database
      of foods and their associated nutritional parameters to catalogue the in-home food supply, an
      extant home food safety audit form, modified for study use, and a computer-enhanced
      questionnaire administered during an in-home interview. This project will provide a useful
      understanding of the nutritional and food safety gaps in this at-risk population that will
      allow for the design and testing of interventions to improve the food safety of both the HDM
      and the in-home food available to the homebound elderly. It will also provide clear and
      useful guidelines about the amount and types of food most needed by this population in
      emergency situations. Dissemination of the resulting research findings and recommendations
      will be accomplished through a partnership with the Extension Disaster Education Network
      (EDEN) and MOWA, both of whom have national constituencies poised to act on the
      recommendations.

      HDM agencies from 5 states (AR, CA, IA, NJ, SC) will be purposively selected because of the
      varied characteristics of their HDM clients, as identified in an analysis of HDM recipients
      by state. The purposive sample of states included at least one from each of four of the
      quintiles on the MOWA Senior Hunger state ranking, with two states from the top quintile. The
      chosen states also represented a range in terms of the percentage minority clients, with some
      high in minority population and one extremely low. Finally, the percentage of rural clients
      ranged from zero in one state to almost 70% in another. Each of the five agencies will be
      asked to complete the study protocol with 200 eligible HDM recipients drawn from those on
      their client rolls using random numbers generated by the study investigators. Sampling with
      replacement will be carried out until a quota of 200 participants is reached, or no
      additional eligible clients can be recruited within each agency. A targeted sample size of
      200 participants for each agency was selected to provide an overall target sample of 1000 HDM
      recipients to yield an overall sampling error rate of ± 3.1%, based on a population of
      approximately 900,000 HDM recipients.

      The study:

        1. Will analyze the food safety and quality parameters of the home food environments of
           homebound elderly recipients of HDM, and identify specific barriers to safe
           food-handling and storage practices by members of this high risk population.
           Refrigerator/freezer temperatures will be taken and adjustment made as needed to ensure
           that refrigerated foods are stored below 40 °F and frozen foods below 0 °F.

        2. Will estimate the nutrient density and adequacy of the home food supplies of homebound
           elderly recipients of HDM, and identify areas of nutrition in which this population is
           deficient and would benefit from specific supplemental nutrition, especially during
           emergencies.

        3. Two interventions will be proposed to improve food safety in homebound elderly
           recipients of HDM: the implementation of dating labels on the meals to help prevent the
           consumption of potentially unsafe older foods; checking refrigerator/freezer
           temperatures to determine temperature adherence/ maintenance, with adjustment made as
           needed.

        4. Will partner with nutritionists, emergency preparedness experts, MOWA, and the Extension
           Disaster Education Network (EDEN) to develop and disseminate food safety and emergency
           preparedness recommendations specifically tailored to the needs of the homebound
           elderly. Materials will be developed for emergency food providers, home delivery meal
           providers and the elderly themselves.

      Rutgers will partner with the Meals on Wheels America (MOWA) and selected MOWA affiliated
      agencies in five states to conduct an in-depth study of this vulnerable population designed
      to improve the nutrition and safety of food consumed by homebound elderly recipients of HDM,
      and to strengthen the nation's food defense system by identifying and addressing the critical
      nutrition needs of this population, particularly during times of emergency.
    
  