
    
      Despite strong support of breastfeeding by organizations such as the American Academy of
      Pediatrics, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the American
      Academy of Family Physicians, the rate of breastfeeding initiation at the time of delivery
      and continuation at 6 months postpartum is below the Center of Disease Prevention's Healthy
      People 2010 goals (1). UNICEF and the World Health Organization (WHO) have estimated that if
      all babies were breastfed for a minimum of the first six months of their lives, the rate of
      morbidity and malnutrition would significantly decrease all over the world (2). The benefits
      of breastfeeding are numerous for both mothers and infants, with infants obtaining optimal
      nutrition and passive immunity, and mothers obtaining a more rapid return of postpartum
      uterine tone, postpartum weight loss, delay of ovulation, and decreased risk of breast,
      ovarian, and endometrial cancers (3). As a result of this information, in 1991 WHO and UNICEF
      launched the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) to encourage proper infant feeding
      practices starting at birth. It is based on ten steps, which the hospital must meet and
      maintain to obtain certification. In support of Step Four of the BFHI to "help mothers
      initiate breastfeeding within one hour of birth," the skin-to-skin variation of Kangaroo
      Mother Care was initiated (4).

      Kangaroo position, or skin to skin contact (SSC) on a mother's chest, provides
      thermoregulation, physiological stability, appropriate stimulation, and encourages bonding
      and breastfeeding (5). In fact, early SSC was significantly associated with type of feeding
      at discharge through 3 months postpartum (6). Regrettably, according to the American Academy
      of Pediatrics, some obstacles to SSC and breastfeeding include insufficient prenatal
      education, disruptive obstetrical practices, and a lack of family and societal support (7).
      Delivery room and postpartum hospital routines may also significantly disrupt early
      maternal-infant interactions (8). These barriers to breastfeeding and SSC are more prevalent
      amongst vulnerable groups, which includes low income, low educational level, and black
      populations. While effective initiatives such as BFHI are present in hospital settings,
      guidelines for primary care based interventions originating in a clinician's office currently
      do not exist (3). Through encouraging education regarding SSC before the time of delivery,
      patients can actively participate in SSC during delivery and advocate for early SSC (9).

      Education can easily influence behavior habits and does not need to require special
      difficulties on behalf of providers (9). In fact, educational programs have the single
      greatest effect of any single intervention on both initiation and short term duration for
      breastfeeding (3). Women who attended breastfeeding classes with lactation consultants - with
      or without video supplementation - had significantly increased breastfeeding at six months
      when compared to controls (1). Currently, common office practices include provision of
      written materials and discharge packets. Neither practice has been shown to be effective in
      increasing rates of breastfeeding. On the contrary, discharge packets have been shown to
      reduce the rates of breastfeeding (3). Ideally, breastfeeding education would use both
      individual or group sessions where both benefits of breastfeeding and SSC would be discussed
      (10). However, in a busy clinic setting filled with a vulnerable patient population, having
      the ability to get to extra educational classes is not always an option.

      Regardless of amount of prenatal education provided, Southview Medical Center will study
      participating patients at the time of admission for delivery who watch an 8 minutes 52 second
      patient education DVD titled "Jumping into Kangaroo Care" by the Ohio Department of Health.
      Of importance, studies so far have shown no clear pattern for the outcome of breastfeeding in
      respect to intervention timing (7). In an analysis regarding video modeling, patients who
      viewed videotapes regarding treatment options had a greater understanding of the risks and
      benefits of those choices and were more apt to be active participants in decision making
      (11). Audio-visual material can also be entertaining and can be used by those who have
      limited literacy. Moreover, the information provided to patients on video has the advantage
      of being repeatable and consistent, which would allow us to provide the same information to
      all of our patients (12). By educating patients in a video format at the beginning of their
      delivery admission, patients will have time to formulate questions and opinions to help them
      engage in an active dialogue with the staff that will be preforming the delivery. The goal of
      educating mothers is not only to increase their knowledge and skills but also to influence
      their attitudes (13). By providing a video which models SSC to all non-emergent anticipated
      vaginal deliveries upon admission to the hospital, the investigators' hope is to encourage
      patients to actively participate in SSC at the time of delivery and become their own
      advocates.

      The main purpose of this study is to determine the effect of prenatal video education on
      pregnant women's intention to practice SSC after birth. This study is critical as quality
      measures for Southview Medical Center for quarter one of 2017 showed that the hospital has
      only been 50% successful at initiating skin to skin in vaginal deliveries after 37 weeks
      gestation with a 5 minute APGAR of 7. The hospital's goal per BFHI is 82%. The investigators'
      hypothesis is that 30% or more women who did not plan to use SCC would indicate their
      intention to use SSC post-intervention as compared to those who did not receive the
      intervention.
    
  