
    
      Patients scheduled for TAVI at our institution are screened for inclusion into this
      prospective, observational study. A multidisciplinary expert committee evaluate all high-risk
      patients diagnosed with aortic stenosis. If rejected for open-heart surgery, and without
      contraindications for transcatheter approach, the patient is offered treatment with TAVI
      using the CoreValve ® (Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota) system. The Human Ethics
      Committee of the University of Gothenburg, approved the study protocol, and all patients sign
      an informed, written consent. CoreValve ® is a TAVI system delivering a tri-leaflet
      bioprosthetic porcine pericardial tissue valve mounted and sutured in a self-expanding
      nitinol frame, using a trans-femoral or trans-subclavian artery access approach. Details
      regarding the TAVI procedure have been described previously . On the evening before surgery,
      the patients receive a loading dose of clopidogrel 300 mg. The morning of surgery an
      additional dose of clopidogrel 75 mg, together with acetylsalicylic acid 75 mg is given.

      No sedative premedication is given before the procedure. On arrival at OR, standard
      perioperative monitoring is established, including an Auditory Evoked Potential (AEP) monitor
      for anaesthetic depth measurements (AEP Monitor/2, Danmeter, Odense, Denmark) and radial
      arterial and central venous lines. General anaesthesia is induced with propofol 0.5-1 mg/kg
      and fentanyl 100-150 μg. Tracheal intubation facilitated using atracurium 0,5 mg/kg. A
      propofol infusion is used to maintain an anaesthetic depth adjusted to an AAI index of 15-30
      as recorded by the AEP monitor. Hemodynamic stability is obtained by the use of colloidal
      solution administration, guided by the use of intra-operative transesophageal
      echocardiography, and norephineprine to maintain a mean arterial pressure above 75 mmHg.
      During the procedure, intravenous heparin is administered to achieve an activated clotting
      time > 250 sec. Catheters and guide-wires are flushed and cleaned according to standard
      procedures at our laboratory. The preparation of the valve is performed according to the
      instructions of the manufacturer. The balloon valvuloplasty of the native aortic valve is
      performed under rapid right ventricular pacing (180 bpm) and the self-expandable prosthesis
      deployed stepwise without pacing. The same team of two interventional cardiologists and one
      cardiothoracic anaesthesiologist perform all procedures. A certified cardiologist or
      anaesthesiologist assess focal neurological impairment before and within 24 hours after the
      procedure.
    
  