
    
      The perinatal period, from pregnancy through the first postpartum year, has important
      implications for women's health. Excessive gestational weight gain is linked to deleterious
      health outcomes; yet most women exceed guidelines established for gestational weight gain ,
      particularly women who begin pregnancy overweight or obese. These women are likely to remain
      overweight or obese at one year postpartum even if gestational weight gain is within
      guidelines and pregnancy-related weight gain is lost postpartum. Efforts to mitigate the
      health risks related to perinatal overweight can have substantial benefits for women's
      longer-term obesity and cardiometabolic health. To date, interventions to minimize excessive
      gestational weight gain alone have had limited impact. Some women may require continued
      intervention in the postpartum period to achieve optimal weight management. Alternatively,
      intervention delivered only postpartum may be sufficient to achieve a healthier weight at one
      year postpartum. It also is important to adapt intervention as women's needs vary over the
      course of pregnancy and postpartum. Accordingly, this application proposes a sequential
      multiple assignment randomized trial (SMART) to determine the efficacy of different
      intervention sequences during pregnancy, postpartum, or both. This non-restricted SMART also
      will allow investigators to investigate the impact of different combinations of intervention
      as a function of gestational weight gain. The proposed SMART is innovative as the first
      effort to evaluate different sequences of intervention across the perinatal period to
      mitigate maternal health risk by one year postpartum.

      Pregnant women (N=300), stratified by prenatal weight status (body mass index=25-29.9 vs.
      ≥30) will be enrolled at entry into prenatal care and randomized initially to intervention
      that addresses the challenges of weight and self-regulation during pregnancy, Health and
      Behaviors in Transition (HABITpreg), or an educationally-enhanced treatment as usual
      (TAUpreg). At delivery, women will be re-randomized to a postpartum self-regulation
      intervention (HABITpost) or educationally-enhanced treatment as usual (TAUpost). Women will
      complete assessments at a prenatal baseline, the end of pregnancy, and 6- and 12-months
      postpartum.
    
  