
    
      The individual and societal costs of the COVID-19 pandemic are wide-ranging. Based on past
      epidemics and on emerging data, anxiety and depression rates will increase, along with anger,
      grief, somatic complaints, and post-traumatic stress. Coping skills will be challenged,
      particularly as anxiety, uncertainty, and personal loss increase.

      While anxiety is a healthy response to danger, excessive anxiety can be debilitating and
      impair our coping skills. Illness anxiety may also increase given concerns about infection
      risks to self and others.

      This randomized on-line study is for individuals with anxiety and distress triggered by
      COVID-19 who have not yet been infected with the novel corona virus. .

      The primary study goal is to examine the extent to which anxiety can be reduced through the
      use of on-line training programs. All participants will receive Anxiety Reduction Training
      using cognitive-behavioral methods known to be helpful in reducing stress, anxiety,
      depression, and insomnia. In addition, two-thirds of participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive training in either Kundalini Yoga (KY) or mindfulness meditation. The
      investigators will assess the degree to which each of these training programs lead to reduced
      stress, improved well-being, decreased multisystem symptoms, enhanced mood, and reduced
      cognitive complaints. Participants will complete self-report assessments at 2-week intervals
      during the 8 weeks of the acute phase of the study and then again 3- and 6-months later.

      The current study may reveal that addressing emergent anxiety early through online
      self-guided treatment approaches can lead to improved short- and long-term outcome. Findings
      from this study may reveal that these inexpensive easily disseminated on-line programs can be
      helpful to enhance coping and improve mental health in the context of large-scale public
      health crises.
    
  