
    
      The over-riding goal of the EVINCE study is to conduct a cluster RCT of a video Advance Care
      Planning intervention in nursing home residents with advanced dementia. A total of 360
      nursing home residents with advanced dementia (N=180/arm) in 20 matched nursing homes (10
      intervention/10 control) will be recruited. These residents' proxies with also be recruited
      for a total sample size of 720 residents and proxies (resident/proxy dyads). Outcomes will be
      compared between residents in the intervention vs, control nursing homes at baseline and
      every 3 months up to 12 months. At baseline proxies of residents in the intervention nursing
      homes will view a 12-minutes video describing three level of care options in advanced
      dementia (intensive, basic and comfort) and their choice will be communicated to the
      resident's primary care providers. Residents in the control nursing homes will receive the
      usual advance care planning practiced in those facilities.

      UPDATE SEPT 19, 2014: During the first 18 months of the study, recruitment of resident/proxy
      dyads was lower per facility than anticipated at the time of study design. Therefore, the
      number of matched pairs of NH recruited was increased. As of September 19, 2014, 19 NH pairs
      (38 NHs) were recruited and randomized with a plans to continue to up to 30 pairs as needed.

      NHs were originally randomized using a paired approach matched for for-profit status and
      whether or not the NH had a special care dementia unit (SCU). In March 2014, the state of
      Massachusetts changed legislation defining an SCU. Many of the changes focused on specifics
      of staff training. As a result, SCUs in several participating facilities did not meet the new
      criteria and lost this official designation, although the actual clinical structure of the
      existing units did not change. Nonetheless, we opted to maintain the initial matching
      criteria of the first 19 NHs which included SCU based on the definition before the
      Massachusetts legislation change, but dropped this matching criterion after the legislation
      change. Thus, beginning with matched pair 20, NHs were matched solely on for-profit status.

      UPDATE MARCH 2016 To reach subject recruitment numbers, additional facilities were recruited.
      As of this date, 60 NHs (30/arm) have been recruited, randomized and have had subject
      enrolled.

      To achieve additional for power for Outcome 2, (aquisition of new decisions to forego
      hospitalizations) the target sample size was increased to 400.
    
  