
    
      Bone marrow stem cell transplant studies carried out by the NHLBI BMT Unit have focused on
      approaches to optimize the stem cell and lymphocyte dose in order to improve transplant
      survival and increase the graft-vs.-leukemia effect. A CD34 stem cell dose of greater than 3
      x 10(6)/kg was found to increase survival and reduce relapse, while a CD3+ lymphocyte dose of
      less than 1 x 10(5)/kg was associated with a very low incidence of GVHD. Although processing
      of 2 peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collections with the CellPro immunoabsorption
      method (combined CD34-positive selection and CD2-negative selection) provided an improvement
      over previous methods, the system did not always achieve these optimal cell doses. A recent
      preclinical evaluation by the Department of Transfusion Medicine of a new immunomagnetic cell
      selection system available from Nexell, Inc. has demonstrated improved recovery of CD34+
      cells and increased depletion of T lymphocytes, compared to the CellPro method. Incorporation
      of the Nexell system (Isolex 300i) into this clinical protocol will allow us to more
      consistently achieve CD34+ cell doses above the threshold of 3 x 10(6)/kg and CD3+ lymphocyte
      dosing in the region of 0.5 x 10(5)/kg. This will make it possible to test (1) the potential
      benefit of optimized transplant cell doses, (2) elimination of post transplant
      immunosuppression to enhance immune recovery.

      In this study, we will use the Nexell Isolex 300i system to obtain more data on the
      relationship between CD34+ stem cell dose and outcome. In recipients who receive a T cell
      dose less than 0.5 x 10(5) CD3+ cells/kg the effect of withdrawing cyclosporine on
      development of GVHD will be evaluated in a cohort study: 20 patients will receive low dose
      cyclosporine. If the incidence of grade II or worse GVHD is 10% or less, no post transplant
      immunosuppression will be given to the next cohort and the incidence and severity of acute
      GVHD again assessed. Stopping rules for unacceptable GVHD severity will be applied. Two match
      groups HLA 6/6 and 5/6 donor-recipient pairs will be separately studied using this approach.

      In a second phase of the study we will continue to accumulate data on T lymphocyte add-back
      given on day 45 and day 100 after transplant. For this phase, cyclosporine will be
      reintroduced on day 44 and continued until day 120 to accelerate immune recovery.

      Up to 70 patients aged between 10 and 55 years will be studied in each subset (HLA 6/6 and
      5/6 matched cohorts). The major endpoint of the study is acute GVHD after transplant. We will
      also measure engraftment, acute and chronic GVHD, leukemic relapse, transplant-related and
      all causes of mortality, cytomegalovirus reactivation and leukemia-free survival. Patients
      will be followed for a minimum of 5 years.
    
  