
    
      Background:

      Fibromyalgia is a clinical syndrome with chronic pain, fatigue, and sleep disorders being the
      main symptoms. There is no commonly accepted efficacious treatment modality. Training in
      mindfulness meditation or mindfulness-based stress reduction(MBSR) is based on procedures
      derived from Buddhist insight meditation and developed into an eight-week structured program
      by Kabat-Zinn (e.g. 1982, Gen Hosp Psychiat 4:33-47). However, although mindfulness
      meditation derives from Buddhist practices, the procedures are completely nonesoteric and
      nonsectarian. In essence, it may be largely characterized in terms of a cognitively and
      affectively oriented intervention program, and has been shown to produce health benefits in a
      number of pilot studies, uncontrolled observational studies, and randomized investigations.
      Promising pilot data are also available for fibromyalgia patients. In a meta-analysis
      conducted by the PI (principal investigator), clinically important and statistically
      significant health benefits were found across individuals with a wide range of conditions.

      Hypotheses:

        1. A mindfulness-based stress reduction program (MBSR) is effective in improving the
           quality of life, psychological well-being and diminishing fibromyalgia-related symptoms
           in chronically ill patients;

        2. the mindfulness component of the MBSR, a spiritual-based method, allows the patient to
           receive the energy of love which is then transformative; 3) the effects of the
           mindfulness training will be visible in physiologic measurements including autonomic
           nervous system activity.

      Method and Results:

      This is a randomized, controlled, clinical study with the aim of testing the efficacy of an
      MBSR for fibromyalgia. Because fibromyalgia is almost exclusively a female disorder, the
      investigation is limited to 180 female, fibromyalgia patients who will be randomized into
      three groups: Mindfulness training, Active control and Wait-list Control.

      The main outcome criteria are self-reported and fibromyalgia-specific Quality of Life, and a
      Biobehavioral Fibromyalgia Index composed of a variety of psychophysiological and behavioral
      variables. This index will be generated from data parameters of mobility, sleep quality, and
      cardiovascular well-being. These and other relevant variables (depression score, general QOL,
      pain quality, anxiety, mindfulness, compliance, and other therapeutic measures) will be
      assessed at the beginning and end of the training, as well as at 4- and 12-months
      post-treatment. A primary focus will be assessing whether it is possible to promote
      psychological well-being through the learning of attentive presence and any resultant
      affective affirmation.

      Anticipated Results:

      MBSR will be proven to be a reliable and efficacious treatment for fibromyalgia as reflected
      in an improvement in patient reported health variables. It is also expected that a better
      understanding of the autonomic nervous system in the process of generating and maintaining
      fibromyalgia will be achieved.
    
  