
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and progression-free survival in patients with
           hormone-refractory, metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with docetaxel and
           estramustine vs mitoxantrone and prednisone.

        -  Compare the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of these regimens in this patient
           population.

        -  Compare the quality of life, including palliation of metastatic bone pain and global
           quality of life, of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Record prostate-specific antigen values for future correlations with response and
           survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the responses in patients with bidimensionally measurable disease treated with
           these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease status (measurable or evaluable disease progression vs rising PSA only), NCI Common
      Toxicity Criteria version 2.X pain scale (grade 2 or greater vs less than 2), and SWOG
      performance status (0-1 vs 2-3). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral estramustine 3 times daily on days 1-5 and docetaxel IV
           over 1 hour on day 2.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive mitoxantrone IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and oral prednisone
           twice daily on days 1-21.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 3 weeks for a maximum of 12 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after courses 4 and 8, and then at 1 year after
      randomization.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 620 patients (310 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 3.5 years.
    
  