
    
      Principal Hypotheses: An intervention program designed to provide developmentally appropriate
      guidance to parents of infants on responsive parenting and healthy lifestyle will prevent
      rapid weight gain in infancy and overweight at age 3 years. Further, compared with control
      infants, intervention infants will have lower BMI percentiles at age 3. We also hypothesize
      that control infants will gain weight more rapidly over time, adjusting for trait-stable and
      time-varying covariates (e.g., maternal pre-pregnancy BMI, percent of feedings that are
      breast milk vs. formula, sleep duration, and feeding frequency).

      The Intervention Nurses Start Infants Growing on Healthy Trajectories (INSIGHT) Study, will
      test these hypotheses in a two arm randomized trial where participants in a program to
      prevent childhood obesity will be compared with those in a child safety control program.
      Nurses will deliver interventions to first-time parents and their infants in both study
      groups at four home visits in the first year after birth followed by annual clinical research
      center visits until age 3. Blood samples for genetic testing on appetite, growth, and
      temperament will be collected from mother, child, and father. The obesity prevention program
      focuses on messages of responsive parenting and healthy lifestyle, extending from infancy
      through age 3 years. The intervention will teach first-time parents to interact with their
      infants in a way that is prompt, emotionally supportive, contingent, and developmentally
      appropriate. This information is especially important during the first year after birth as
      infants make a dramatic dietary transition from the initial exclusive milk diet to one with
      many foods of the adult diet of their culture. During this transition, as foods are being
      introduced to children, there are numerous opportunities to address dietary content as well
      as parent feeding style. In addition to these messages, intervention parents will be given
      education on growth charts, the meaning of growth chart percentiles, and healthy growth
      patterns during early life. The intervention program is hypothesized to show efficacy in both
      breast and formula fed infants as measured by the primary outcome, body mass index (BMI)
      percentile at age 3 years. Additionally, participants will be followed to collect
      anthropometric measurements at 4,5,6,10,14,and 17 years of age to provide significant insight
      into long-term obesity risk.

      The proposed research adds two major pieces by enrolling second born siblings and collecting
      genetic specimens from both siblings and their parents. Specifically, this translational
      research will a) prospectively evaluate obesity-related parenting similarities and
      differences as well as weight-related outcomes between first and second-born siblings, b)
      explore how genetic differences among siblings that are associated with appetite,
      temperament, and obesity susceptibility affect parent-child interactions, degree of
      responsive parenting, and weight status, and c) determine whether INSIGHT study intervention
      carryover effects occur among families participating in the observation-only second-born
      child evaluation.
    
  