
    
      Subjects will complete the following screening research procedures:

        1. Baseline reported outcome measures (PROMs) questionnaires and surveys that will take
           approximately 25 minutes to complete:

             -  Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) questionnaire to assess subject ADL and
                function ability

             -  Mayo Clinical Scoring System questionnaire (MAYO) to assess subject pain, activity
                and function

             -  American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society questionnaire (AOFAS) to assess subject
                pain and function

             -  Manchester Foot and Ankle Disability Index to assess subject foot pain/discomfort

             -  Pittsburgh Foot Survey to assess subject pain, activity, life satisfaction/quality
                of life

             -  Offload Device Survey to assess the ease and comfort of the offload device

        2. Foot ultrasounds will be performed to assess and measure baseline thickness of the
           plantar fascia, forefoot, or heel.

        3. 2D Photographs of both feet will be performed for a visual baseline assessment skin and
           soft tissue thickness.

      If the clinical fat graft procedure occurs on a day different from the screening visit, the
      following research activities will be completed at Visit 2 if the subject continues to remain
      interested and eligible for study participation:

        1. Collection of subject's vital signs (Temp, HR, Resp., BP), medication profile,
           allergies, weight, BMI calculation and adverse event collection and reporting.

        2. Medical and surgical history collection review - the Investigator will confirm that the
           subject's medical status has not changed since last seen and the subject continues to
           satisfy eligibility criteria for study intervention.

        3. Performance of a limited physical and foot exam by PI and /or Co-investigator MD

        4. Women of childbearing potential will receive a urine pregnancy dip test with results
           documented to study chart.

        5. Diary cards with instruction to start entry on the diary card 24 hours after the fat
           grafting surgery to continue through Post-operative Visit 4 (Month 1) and be placed to
           study chart. The subject will be instructed to document self-assessment of the following
           events pertaining to the surgical site: Pain, Bruising, Redness of the skin, Itching,
           Swelling, Bleeding, Other (any concerns/issues not listed). The subject will be
           instructed to identify on the diary card the location, date and day of each documented
           event. Unresolved events at Visit 4 will be carried over for documentation to the
           adverse event log.

        6. 2D Photographs of both feet

        7. Offload Device Distribution to remain in use at all times during ambulation and activity
           instruction to stay off of feet as much as possible for 3 days, then limit ambulation to
           10 minutes per hour for 4 weeks and no sports, kicking, running or exercise for 4 weeks.
           Devices will be provided for both feet to maintain symmetry and gait stability between
           the two feet.
    
  