
    
      50 Patients with a single ventricle (e.g. univentricular heart), as defined by the ACC-CHD
      classification, with a mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) > 15 mmHg and a
      trans-pulmonary gradient (TPG) > 5 mmHg, and aged 15 years old and above, will be
      prospectively recruited in the participating centres during their regular follow-up.

      Patients wil be randomised into 2 groups:

        -  Patients randomised in the group 1 will receive sildenafil in 3 oral doses of 20 mg per
           day (t.i.d.), as defined in the marketing authorization indicated for PAH in adolescent
           and adult patients, and for a period of 6 months.

        -  Patients in the group 2 will receive a placebo (t.i.d.), for the same period of 6
           months. To guarantee the double blind, capsules will be similar in size and colour and
           will be differentiated only by a vial number regarding to the randomization list. The
           clinical trials unit of the sponsor's pharmacy will centralize treatment allocation and
           supply to the participating centres. Drug management (reception, storage, delivery and
           traceability) will be ensured by the pharmacies of the participating centres.

      After the 6 month-treatment period, patients will be followed for 3 months, and undergo at
      least 2 safety visits (1 and 3 months after intervention, and if necessary, any supplementary
      unscheduled visits). In accordance with the recommendations of the drug notice, the treatment
      will be suspended progressively over 1 week (20 mg b.i.d for 3 days, then 20 mg q.d. for 4
      days, and then stopped) with a reinforcement of the surveillance. Patients will be able to
      contact an emergency number during this period and the investigator may decide to continue
      open treatment with sildenafil if clinically justified.

      The study will be conducted in compliance with the Good Clinical Practices protocol and
      Declaration of Helsinki principles. It was approved by a drawn National Ethics Committee
      (CPP) and by the French National Agency of Medicine and Health Products Safety (ANSM).
      Informed consent will be obtained from all patients and their parents or legal guardians for
      minors.
    
  