
    
      Kidney transplantation is a common procedure in hospitals, but organ rejection and serious
      side effects are potential problems for patients. Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody to
      CD52 that binds to and depletes excess of T cells in the bone marrow of leukemia patients. In
      this study alemtuzumab will be used to deplete the recipient's white blood cells (WBCs) at
      the time of transplantation.

      An experimental group of patients will receive two injections of autologous
      CD4+CD25+CD127lowFoxP3+ T regulatory cells expanded ex vivo at day 30 and day 180 after
      transplantation. T regulatory cells are responsible for immune system tolerance induction.
      Treatment with these cells is believed to create tolerance when T cell immune responses to
      transplant alloantigens are decreased. This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness
      of an antirejection regimen including alemtuzumab and other immunosuppressive medications
      combined with autologous T regs injections in patients undergoing kidney transplantation
      (Tx). Patients will receive i.v. injection of alemtuzumab on Days 14-21 before Tx and on Day
      0. Starting on Day 0, patients will begin taking either tacrolimus or cyclosporine, and on
      Day 2-3 - mycophenolate mofetil.

      This study will continue during three years. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either the full immunosuppressive therapy and autologous T regs by s.c. injection
      (group 1) or immunosuppressive therapy alone (group 2). Prior to immunosuppressive therapy in
      the group 1, blood samples will be collected twice with at least one-week interval between
      collections in the amount of 70 ml/1,73 m2 . Two ml of blood will be collected before
      starting of immunosuppressive therapy and levels of T regs in periphery blood will be
      examined by flow cytometry analysis in both groups. T cells CD4+ will be separated from these
      blood samples and will be frozen in liquid nitrogen.

      All patients will undergo kidney transplantation. One month after transplantation the flow
      cytometry analysis of blood samples will be performed in both groups. The patients in group 1
      will undergo by subcutaneous injection of approximately 2x10^8 autologous T regs expanded
      from previously frozen CD4+ cells in a month and 180 days after transplantation. One week
      following the injection, an additional flow cytometry analysis will be performed to evaluate
      T reg levels in patient's blood.

      The level of T regs in patient's blood will be repeated in both groups after 90-120 days
      following transplantation.

      Patients will be monitored during three years post-transplantation. Urine samples will be
      collected after one week and 1, 3, 6, and 9 months following transplantation. Kidney biopsy
      will be performed at Months 1, 12, and 36. Based on results of biopsy analysis, kidney
      function and signs of over-immunosuppression, some patients will be switched from CNIs
      (calcineurin inhibitors, tacrolimus or cyclosporine) to PSIs regiment (sirolimus or
      everolimus).
    
  