
    
      Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic, progressive, inflammatory arthritis that occurs as a
      condition associated with patients with psoriasis and may result in permanent joint damage
      and an increased risk of mortality. Synovial membrane inflammation characterized by increased
      vascularization and immune cell infiltration is an important feature of psoriatic arthritis.
      This inflamed synovial microenvironment leads to the formation of synovial pannus, entheseal
      inflammation, and joint damage. Although PsA is generally thought of as a benign arthropathy,
      structural damage has been shown with the progression of the disease, along with joint
      inflammation.As a result of the researches, it has been stated that tissue biomechanical
      stress and microtraumas that lead to the activation of abnormal natural immune responses in
      psoriatic arthritis can trigger joint inflammation. In parallel, inflammation is expected to
      be more common in peripheral joints, which are known to be more exposed to microtrauma.
      Studies have reported that hand joint involvement is frequently seen in patients with PsA and
      is an important cause of loss of function and that erosions in hand joints are associated
      with statistically significant loss of hand strength. Theoretically, either the mechanical
      effect of the fluid in the acute joint effusion or the components of the inflammatory fluid
      and the changing capsular compliance after chronic effusion and has been reported that
      problems may occur in proprioception due to causes such as pain, trauma, and fatigue.
      However, pain, decreased joint ROM and grip strength, muscle weakness, and hand deformities
      can affect hand fine hand skills and function. The hypothesis of this study is that
      supporting the clinical condition of the participants with parameters related to general hand
      function will be effective in predicting disease progression and disability. Accordingly, the
      aim of the researchers is to evaluate the effect of PsA on the grip and pinch strength of the
      hand, proprioception, skill, coordination and functional status, and to determine the
      relationship of disease activity with these parameters.
    
  