
    
      Traumatic dental injuries (TDIs) are considered a public health concern representing 5% of
      all injuries. According to the world health organization (WHO) about 16-40% of children
      across the world are subjected to TDIs with the most susceptible age group between 6-12 years
      old. Dental trauma may be caused by falls, blows to the face and sports which could be mild
      as concussion or subluxation, or complicated as avulsion ). The majority of the injuries took
      place at home followed by school, so teachers are one of the first to be present at the site
      of action, making their knowledge of emergency management essential to the provision of
      proper care to an injured child .

      For example, in cases of avulsion of permanent tooth the proper management is to find the
      missing tooth and immediately replant, or transport the tooth in suitable transportation
      media, then referral to the dentist for treatment and follow up. The prognosis of such case
      mainly depends on the time between the injury and the replantation and the media of
      transportation . The unnecessary negative consequences of not providing proper first aid
      management in such case could lead to more time consuming and costly treatment and in a
      worst-case scenario permanent loss of one or more tooth . This could cause pain and have
      significant functional, esthetic, speech, and psychological effects on children thus
      affecting their quality of life .

      A number of studies have evaluated the knowledge level of schoolteachers with respect to
      dental trauma and its emergency management concluded that teachers lack knowledge towards
      traumatic dental injuries. They recommended establishing oral health educational programs to
      raise the teachers' knowledge and improve their attitude towards TDIs . Other educational
      studies showed remarkable increase knowledge after oral health educational program and that
      is why educational programs and training are needed to improve proper management of traumatic
      injuries by schoolteachers and avoid unnecessary negative consequences.
    
  