
    
      While indinavir is currently the most commonly prescribed protease inhibitor, the optimal
      therapy for a person on an indinavir-containing regimen who experiences a rebound in viral
      load or never experiences a decrease in viral load below 500 copies per milliliter is
      unknown. Current clinical practice for such patients typically involves empiric use of a
      combination of other protease inhibitors (saquinavir/nelfinavir or saquinavir/ritonavir) and
      at least 1 other antiretroviral agent to which the patient has had little or no prior
      exposure. This may involve the use of 1 or more reverse transcriptase inhibitors (RTIs) or
      nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs). This study attempts to formally
      evaluate some of these options in indinavir-experienced patients.

      Patients are stratified by HIV RNA (2,000 - 20,000 copies/ml versus 20,000 - 200,000
      copies/ml), and randomized to 1 of 6 treatment arms as follows:

      Arm A: Saquinavir (SQV) plus ritonavir (RTV) plus delavirdine (DLV) plus adefovir dipivoxil
      placebo.

      Arm B: SQV plus RTV plus DLV placebo plus adefovir dipivoxil. Arm C: SQV plus RTV plus DLV
      plus adefovir dipivoxil. Arm D: SQV plus nelfinavir (NFV) plus DLV plus adefovir dipivoxil
      placebo. Arm E: SQV plus NFV plus DLV placebo plus adefovir dipivoxil. Arm F: SQV plus NFV
      plus DLV plus adefovir dipivoxil. In addition to assigned study treatment patients receive an
      L-carnitine supplement.

      Therapy is administered for 24 weeks. Patients who have an average HIV RNA value for Weeks 12
      and 16 that is less than 5,000 copies or a least 1 log below their baseline value may
      continue their assigned study treatment for an additional 24 weeks. [AS PER AMENDMENT
      3/30/98: Subjects with plasma HIV RNA greater than 5,000 copies/ml may elect to continue or
      discontinue study medications in the treatment extension and seek the best available
      treatment.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 06/11/98: The dose of adefovir dipivoxil is reduced at or after
      Week 16. Alternatively, patients may discontinue adefovir dipivoxil/placebo and substitute
      appropriate antiretroviral agent(s) or add appropriate antiretroviral agent(s) to their
      reduced-dose regimen. Also, at the discretion of the protocol chairperson, patients who have
      been on study for more than 16 weeks may substitute appropriate FDA-approved antiretroviral
      agent(s) for any study medication that must be discontinued because of toxicity. Addition of
      nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, protease inhibitors, or investigational
      agents is specifically excluded.]
    
  