
    
      Epoetin alfa administered three times weekly (150 U/kg) or once weekly (40,000 U) results in
      a response rate (defined as >= 2 g/dL hemoglobin (Hb) increase or Hb >= 12 g/dL) of
      approximately 65% of anemic chemotherapy patients and produces a mean hemoglobin rise of 1.8
      g/dL. Higher weekly dosing may result in a higher response rate and a more timely mean
      hemoglobin rise while remaining safe. Additionally, limited data are available to show
      whether epoetin alfa maintenance therapy can be administered less frequently than weekly and
      still maintain hemoglobin levels. This is an open label, multicenter, non-randomized study to
      determine the safety and effectiveness of epoetin alfa given to cancer patients receiving
      chemotherapy every week or every four weeks.

      Patients will receive up to 12 injections of epoetin alfa 60,000 U once every week (QW)
      subcutaneously (under the skin) for up to 12 weeks. Once a patient's hemoglobin level (Hg)
      has reached a target level of 12 g/dL, they will begin the Maintenance Phase. Patients who
      qualify for Maintenance Phase will receive up to 6 injections of 60,000 U every other week
      (Q2W) epoetin alfa under the skin for up to an additional 12 weeks to maintain hemoglobin
      11.5 g/dL during chemotherapy administration. Doses will be held and adjusted downward if
      hemoglobin level rises to >13 g/dL or if a very rapid hemoglobin response occurs (e.g., an
      increase of more than 1.3 g/dL in a 2-week period).

      Safety evaluations include clinical laboratory tests (hemoglobin and hematocrit), vital sign
      measurements (blood pressure), and incidence and severity of adverse events. In addition, the
      incidence of anti-erythropoietin antibodies at baseline and study completion/early withdrawal
      will be evaluated in patients who receive multiple doses of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa). Patients
      will receive up to 12 injections of 60,000 U once every week (QW) epoetin alfa subcutaneously
      (under the skin) for up to 12 weeks. Once a patient's hemoglobin level (Hg) has reached a
      target level of 12 g/dL, they will begin the Maintenance Phase. Patients who qualify for
      Maintenance Phase will receive up to 6 injections of 60,000 U every other week (Q2W) epoetin
      alfa under the skin for up to an additional 12 weeks to maintain hemoglobin 11.5 g/dL during
      chemotherapy administration.
    
  