
    
      The problem and its importance: According to an estimate two hundred million or a third of
      the world's youngest children do not achieve their potential due to lack of stimulating,
      nurturing, safe, and responsive caregiving. The importance of caregiving cannot be
      underestimated for early child development (Engle et al.,2007). However, parents and
      caregivers need to be supported in fulfilling this role. The results from parenting programs,
      across high-, middle and low-income countries indicate significant trends in obtaining
      positive results for parents and children (MOCEP).

      In Saudi Arabia, youth represents almost 50% of the population and those < 5 years of age
      account for 10.6% (GaStat, 2019). As for the crude birth rate among the Saudi population, it
      hits 17.23 live children for every 1,000 persons. Thus, the government has stressed the
      importance of investing in national programs that focus on childhood within the scope of the
      2030 vision. MOCEP was implemented in Saudi Arabia by the Child Care Association (CCA) which
      is an NGO established in 2006. The CCA's main objective is to promote Early Child Development
      (ECD) through the MOCEP since 2011.

      The purpose of the present evaluation study--a collaboration between CCA and KAIMRC--is to
      evaluate the impact of MOCEP on child and parent outcomes among families in Riyadh, Saudi
      Arabia, using a randomized wait-list controlled trial. Specifically, the aim of the study is
      to empirically assess the impact of MOCEP on maternal and child outcomes and to explore key
      moderators of the programmatic impact including characteristics of the program implementation
      and contextual characteristics.

      Specific Objective 1: We will characterize the impact of MOCEP on child outcomes including
      executive function, social-emotional skills, and cognitive skills such as emergent numeracy,
      literacy and verbal skills.

      Specific Objective 2: We will characterize the impact of MOCEP on parental knowledge,
      attitudes, practices, and skills.

      A comprehensive sociodemographic characterization of participating mothers and children will
      be conducted. Maternal and child outcomes will be measured before and after the intervention.
      Maternal outcomes will include knowledge, attitudes, and practices regarding parenting, child
      development, and education; disciplinary style; wellbeing; social support; and empowerment.
      Child outcomes will include executive function, social-emotional skills, nutritional status,
      and school readiness. Mothers will complete a demographic questionnaire at baseline to
      characterize social, demographic, home, family, and community characteristics. Mothers will
      also complete a battery addressing parenting and child development-related knowledge,
      attitudes and practices at baseline and endline.

      The assessors will use IDELA which provides a direct measure of children's learning and
      development and assesses child school readiness through a holistic exploration of children's
      early literacy, math, problem-solving, social-emotional development, and gross and fine motor
      skills. The tool is available in Arabic and has been validated in multiple countries.

      To assess the social-emotional skills of children, in addition to the IDELA subtest, we will
      apply the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire. This parent-report measure assesses
      children's emotional and conduct problems, hyperactivity, and peer relations.

      The Disciplinary Style Questionnaire (DSQ), a parent-report measure of parental disciplinary
      style, will be used to assess the frequency with which parents engage in seven forms of
      discipline when dealing with children's undesirable behavior: inductive discipline, physical
      punishment, manipulating privileges, harsh verbal discipline, argument, shaming, and
      ignoring. These outcomes will be measured before and after implementation of the 25 weeks
      MOCEP program.

      Process evaluation:

      Program dosage: will be measured by mothers' attendance at training sessions and the number
      of sessions delivered by group leaders will be collected using attendance sheets.

      Program engagement: will be measured by a set of items that will be developed by the Yale
      study team, based on constructs examined in other studies (Durlak & DuPre, 2008; Reyes et aL,
      2012). The tool measuring program engagement will be administered to both parents and group
      leaders participating in MOCEP.

      Program quality: will be measured with observational tools and self-report measures. An
      ethnographer will be present during the training to document facets such as trainer
      responsiveness to parents' needs, clarity of delivery, trainer motivation, parent engagement,
      and group cohesion. Also, supervisors will complete the MOCEP Supervisor's Checklist;
      supervisors and parents will rate the overall quality of training using items developed by
      the research team. Finally, MOCEP curriculum worksheets will be used to determine the degree
      to which mothers deliver the program as intended in their homes.

      Data will be collected in paper forms by trained assessors and then entered into a secured
      electronic database prepared by KAIMRC using the KoBo Toolbox program.

      Sample size: We aim to recruit 100 mother-child dyads for the wait-list control and 100
      mother-child dyads for the intervention group.

      Sampling technique: The target population will be recruited based on the catchment areas for
      the program in the Riyadh area (convenience sampling). We will randomize the enrolled
      participants to the intervention and control groups.
    
  