
    
      Guided by extensive prior work, the investigators have designed an innovative mHealth
      behavioral pain coping skills training (PCST) intervention to reduce pain and disability in
      cancer patients in medically underserved areas (mPCST-Community). Our prior work has tested
      PCST protocols through in-person sessions at major medical centers where resources and
      literacy levels are relatively high. mPCST-Community is different and innovative; it uses
      mHealth technology (e.g., videoconferencing) to decrease access barriers for patients in
      medically underserved areas. The protocol is brief (4 sessions) and delivered in the
      community clinic by a remote well-trained pain therapist. Importantly, this protocol has been
      carefully adapted for low literacy patients.Beverly Thorn, PhD, a nationally recognized
      expert in strategies for adapting pain coping interventions to low literacy, medically
      underserved patients, was instrumental in developing the mPCST-Community protocol.
      mPCST-Community extends to the patient's daily life through use of a simple mobile
      application that provides low literacy text/audio protocol summaries, relaxation audio, daily
      assessment and personalized feedback, and coping messaging.

      The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of the
      developed mPCST-Community protocol in breast cancer patients with pain receiving cancer care
      in medically underserved areas (N=180). The investigators have done careful and extensive
      pilot work to prepare for the proposed trial. Our pilot work (Journal of Psychosocial
      Oncology) was conducted in breast cancer patients with pain in three medically underserved
      rural community clinics. First, focus group data (3 groups; n=19) were used to further refine
      the adapted protocol. Second, the mPCST-Community protocol was evaluated in a single-arm
      trial with 20 patients. The invesitgators found high feasibility (i.e., recruitment met), low
      attrition and high adherence (90% completion), and high acceptability. Importantly,
      impressive and positive pre- to post-intervention changes were found for pain severity
      (t=-2.52, p=0.01,gav=0.62; 30% change), pain interference (t=-2.62,p=0.01, gav=0.62), and
      self-efficacy for pain management (t=3.57, p=0.0004, gav=0.98; 30% change).8Study specific
      aims are:

      Aim 1:Test the extent to which mPCST-Community reduces breast cancer patients' pain severity
      (primary outcome), pain interference, fatigue, physical disability, and psychological
      distress. Hypothesis:mPCST-Community will lead to decreases in these pain-related outcomes
      compared to a Health-Ed control condition.

      Aim 2:Examine mediators through which mPCST-Community leads to benefits. Hypothesis:The
      effects of mPCST-Community on pain severity, pain interference, fatigue, physical disability,
      and psychological distress will be mediated by increased self-efficacy for pain management
      and decreased pain catastrophizing.

      Aim 3:Evaluate the cost and cost-effectiveness of mPCST-Community. Hypothesis:
      mPCST-Community will be cost-saving or cost effective in terms of its incremental cost per
      quality-adjusted life-year from a societal perspective, inclusive of healthcare, intervention
      and patient-time costs. Its sustainability will be further demonstrated by documenting
      successful accrual, retention, and protocol adherence.
    
  