
    
      Coffee is one of the most consumed drinks in the world and its consumption has doubled in 20
      years. Because of the health benefits of caffeine (present in many foods and medicines), but
      also adverse effects, its physiological actions deserve to be better known and its use better
      framed.

      Indeed, caffeine is the most used psychoactive substance to prevent the deterioration of the
      cognitive performance of night workers and soldiers in operation. Its "strategic" use is even
      recommended in many armies. In its sustained-release dosage form (Caffeine 300 mg), it is the
      only drug, increasing alertness, authorized in the French military. Caffeine also has
      beneficial effects on inflammatory response, muscle activity, insulin sensitivity,
      cardiovascular risk, weight gain, neuroprotection, chronic pain. Usual consumption of 2 to 3
      coffees a day is recommended by the American Nutrition Society.

      However, coffee consumption is associated with many side effects such as anxiety, sleep
      disorders, increased blood pressure, cardiovascular and obstetric conditions or depression.
      Many authors therefore recommend limiting its use. In particular, it is considered a risk
      factor for sleep disorders such as insomnia.

      The physiological effects and sensitivity to side effects of caffeine are characterized by
      very high individual variability3 related to age, sex, habitual coffee consumption, smoking,
      but also to genetic polymorphisms. Indeed, multiple polymorphisms are associated with changes
      in pharmacokinetics (see Table 1) or pharmacodynamics (efficacy, see Table 2) of caffeine.
      Sensitivity to caffeine is associated in particular with greater vulnerability to sleep
      deprivation, sleep disorders and stress.n particular, polymorphisms of the adenosine receptor
      (ADORA) gene, a therapeutic target for caffeine, are particularly involved in the individual
      variability of caffeine sensitivity, side effects and consumption habits. But many other
      polymorphisms of genes encoding enzymes involved in metabolism or physiological effects are
      also associated with the individual variability of caffeine.

      On the other hand, some gene polymorphisms such as the adenosine deaminase gene (ADA) which
      degrades caffeine and regulates intra- and extracellular concentrations, are associated with
      greater vulnerability to sleep deprivation, without the effects on caffeine sensitivity are
      known.

      Currently, it is difficult to assess the impact of these polymorphisms on the beneficial
      effects and / or risks associated with caffeine consumption due to their number and
      lifestyle, including coffee consumption. In other words, are sleep disorders favored by
      polymorphism and / or habitual consumption of caffeine? Are there profiles of high
      vulnerability to sleep deprivation and sensitivity to caffeine? Do these polymorphisms have a
      link with burnout, work stress, diseases?
    
  