
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To describe changes in cognitive function among patients with ovarian, primary peritoneal,
      or fallopian tube cancer receiving front-line chemotherapy as measured by a web-based
      assessment of cognitive function as measured by the HeadMinder Customized Research Tool
      (CRT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of these patients who experience possible or probable acute or
      persistent impairment in cognitive function while receiving chemotherapy as measured by a
      web-based assessment of cognitive function as measured by the HeadMinder CRT.

      II. To explore the association between the patient-reported neurocognitive function as
      measured by the Patient Assessment of Own Functioning (PAF) scale and web-based assessment of
      cognitive function as measured by the HeadMinder CRT.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between patient-reported quality of life as measured by the
      FACT-O and cognitive function as measured by the web-based and patient-reported assessments,
      respectively. (Exploratory) II. To explore whether the patient-reported cognitive function or
      the web-based assessment of cognitive function is associated with anxiety and depression as
      measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. (Exploratory) III. To explore the
      changes in cognitive function using the web-assessed (CRT) and self-reported (PAF)
      assessments, respectively, among patients with advanced ovarian cancer (stage III-IV,
      optimally debulked disease at enrollment) receiving IV as compared to intraperitoneal
      treatment. (Exploratory) IV. To explore whether the cognitive impairment as measured with
      web-based assessment is associated with patient age, hemoglobin, platelet count,
      patient-reported neurotoxicity symptoms as measured with FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale, or body
      weight. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive standard chemotherapy. Treatment repeats for 6 courses. Patients complete
      neurocognitive evaluations (Patient Assessment and Own Functioning scale and HeadMinder
      Custom Research Tool) and quality-of-life assessments (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale,
      FACT-O, and FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale) at baseline, before the fourth course of chemotherapy, at
      3 weeks after the sixth course of chemotherapy, and at 6 months after the sixth course of
      chemotherapy.
    
  