
    
      Patients in intensive care units frequently require intravenous fluid because the treating
      clinicians consider that the patient's blood pressure or circulating blood volume needs to be
      increased to clinically acceptable levels. Despite fluid resuscitation being a fundamental
      part of standard medical treatment for critically ill patients, clinicians are left with
      uncertainty about the optimal choice and volume of fluid that should be administered.

      This study is a prospective, multi-centre, blinded, randomised controlled trial.

      The two fluids being compared are 0.9% sodium chloride (saline) and 6% hydroxyethyl starch
      130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride,(starch). The null hypothesis assumes no difference in
      all-cause mortality between patients given starch in comparison with patients given saline
      for fluid resuscitation.

      Each patient who meets all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      randomised to receive one of the two study fluids for fluid resuscitation.

      Once treatment has been assigned the participant will continue to receive either starch or
      saline only for all fluid resuscitation requirements in intensive care. The treating clinical
      team will decide the amount and frequency of the fluid given for resuscitation based on
      standard care.

      During their ICU stay, participants will have information on the use of study fluids, other
      fluids, kidney function, blood pressure, heart rate and other haemodynamic data that is
      routinely recorded in the medical record collected. All participants will be followed up at
      day 90 and at 6 months after randomisation.

      The participants status (alive, in hospital and length of stay) will be recorded at day 28
      and day 90 after randomisation. At the 6 month follow-up all participants or their carer will
      be interviewed by telephone using standardised questionnaires about the participant's quality
      of life. In addition, participants who were admitted to intensive care with a traumatic brain
      injury will be interviewed to determine how well the participant is recovering.

      After all patients have completed the 6 months of follow-up, data linkage will also be used
      to link patients (in NSW only) to health databases in order to obtain information on their
      use of health services.
    
  