
    
      In this study, the first phase of the study will be to develop the online psychoeducation
      course. Once the course is developed it will be reviewed by experts in the field of
      accommodations (e.g., Human Resource professionals, lawyers) and their suggestions will be
      reviewed and possibly implemented before the course is delivered to employees. Experts
      providing feedback will be asked to review and complete a consent form prior to reviewing one
      or more lessons. After reviewing a lesson, they will be provided with an opportunity to give
      lesson feedback through the completion of a short questionnaire. Total participation time is
      expected to be 1 hour. Experts will be eligible for the study if they meet the following
      criteria: (1) are 18 years of age or older; (2) have knowledge or experience with workplace
      accommodations; and (3) are Canadian residents. Experts will be excluded if he/she: (1) is
      not 18 years of age or older); (2) Do not have knowledge or experience with workplace
      accommodations; (3) are not a resident of Canada

      The course will be comprised of the following lessons:

      Lesson 1: Anxiety and depression in the workplace. This lesson will include information on
      how to identify symptoms of depression and anxiety in the workplace. To accomplish this the
      DSM-5 criteria for depression and anxiety will be provided along with practical work examples
      (e.g., difficulty with concentration in meetings). Participants will also be presented with
      examples of the functional limitations that are commonly associated with depression and
      anxiety symptoms (e.g., missing important deadlines due to procrastination behaviours).
      Information on the prevalence of depression and anxiety in Canada/World will also be provided
      to counteract any stigmatic attitudes or beliefs.

      Lesson 2: Accommodations for mental health concerns. Within this lesson, participants will be
      presented with the Canadian legislation on reasonable workplace accommodations. This
      information will include a discussion on undue hardship and how this may impact the receipt
      and types of accommodations available within Canadian enterprises. Participants will also be
      provided with common examples of accommodations frequently identified within the research
      literature (e.g., flexible work schedules, quiet spaces). In addition, the benefits of
      receiving accommodations for mental health concerns (e.g., improved productivity, reduced
      symptomology) will be discussed. The lesson will conclude with the potential barriers (e.g.,
      stigma, organizational barriers) and facilitators (e.g., supportive work environments) to
      requesting and receiving accommodations. Strategies to overcome potential barriers will also
      be addressed.

      Lesson 3: Requesting an accommodation and disclosure. This lesson will focus on strategies
      for requesting an accommodation within a Canadian enterprise. This will include information
      on when, how, to whom, and what should be disclosed when requesting an accommodation.
      Employees will also be provided with information on the pros and cons of making an
      accommodation request. In addition, they will be provided with information on what to
      disclose when making the request (i.e., full disclosure ["I have depression] or selective
      disclosure ["I have an illness]), the pros and cons of disclosure, and information on the
      tasks for preparing to disclose. It will also be emphasized within the lesson that full
      disclosure may not be required to receive an acceptable accommodation.

      Lesson 4: Future management. The psychoeducational course will conclude with a lesson on
      strategies for managing depression and anxiety symptoms within Canadian enterprises with or
      without an accommodation. This will include information on managing symptoms within the work
      environment such as, managing expectations, tackling avoidance strategies, progressive muscle
      relaxation, and fostering workplace relationships/supports.

      The second aim of the proposed study will be to test the efficacy of the course using a two
      arm, randomized controlled trial. The sample size of 43 participants per arm is based on a
      power analysis for an ANOVA: repeated measures, between factors, with a medium effect size (f
      = 0.25), an alpha of 0.05, correlation among repeated measure of 0.5, and power of 0.80.

      All interested participants will be directed to the study website (www.onlinetherapyuser.ca),
      where they will be presented with a consent form explaining the screening protocol (i.e.,
      online screening consent). After consent is given, participants will be assessed for program
      eligibility using an Internet-delivered screening questionnaire. The online screening
      questionnaire captures demographic information (e.g., sex, ethnicity, location), contact
      details (e.g., telephone number, email address), eligibility information (e.g., medical
      history, mental health history, symptom measurements), and information on workplace
      functioning (e.g., self-reported absenteeism, presenteeism, disclosure questions,
      self-efficacy, self-stigma, workers' relation scale, workplace inclusion). This data will be
      made available to participants in an online survey created and hosted by REDcap (Research
      Electronic Data Capture) software.

      Once participants have been assessed for program eligibility using the online screening tool,
      they will asked to schedule a telephone interview. During the telephone interview, the
      primary investigator will ask a series of follow-up questions (i.e., Telephone Interview
      Guide) to the online screening questionnaire to ensure program eligibility as per exclusion
      criteria. Participants who meet any of the exclusion criteria during the online screening
      phase will be provided with an explanation for their ineligibility and encouraged to contact
      the researcher via email if they have any questions or concerns.

      Participants who are appropriate for the study will be assigned to their randomized group
      (i.e., Psycho-education course or wait-list control group). At this point, participants
      assigned to the psycho-education group will be provided user-names and temporary password
      words by phone to access the course. Participants assigned to the wait-list group will be
      provided with their user name and password 8 weeks following the telephone screening date.
      Before beginning the course, all participants will be presented with a course consent form
      that will explain the nature of the intervention.

      The lessons will take approximately 30 to 45 minutes for participants to review. Once
      participants have completed a lesson, they will be granted access to the next lesson the
      following day, which will allow them to complete multiple lessons within any given week. To
      minimize time pressures, participants will be instructed that follow-up measures (i.e., same
      measures included in the screening questionnaire minus the AUDIT/DUDIT and clinical history)
      will be available four weeks and eight weeks after they have been provided access to the
      course. Should negative effects be observed (e.g. self-reported symptoms increase,
      absenteeism/presenteeism numbers significantly rise) at any point, participants will be
      reminded of the resources (e.g., family doctor, mental health websites, mental health
      agencies) available to them. These resources will be documented and posted on the website for
      easy reference.

      The use of a wait-list control group will provide a comparison group to determine the effects
      of the psychoeducation course. It will also circumvent any ethical concerns with failing to
      provide a potentially helpful intervention. Participants assigned to the wait-list group will
      be assigned a start date eight weeks after the pre-screen interview and sent an automatic
      reminder email a few days prior to their start date. The wait-list group will also be sent a
      link through email to complete measures (i.e., PHQ-9, Accommodation/Disclosure questions, WHO
      HPQ) four-weeks after the telephone screen for comparison purposes and to maintain engagement
      in the study. No further contact will be provided during the eight-week wait-list period.
      Following completion of the wait-list period, the participants will be provided their user
      name and password so they may access the psycho-education course and measures will be
      requested again at 4-weeks and 8-weeks post course access.
    
  