
    
      Pituitary adenomas have an estimated prevalence in the population of approximately 10%, and
      although they are predominantly benign tumors, they can cause significant disability from
      mass effect (visual field deficits and cranial nerve deficits) and from hypersecretory
      syndromes (Cushing's disease, acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia). Approximately 30% of all
      pituitary adenomas are nonfunctioning or endocrinologically silent, and despite the lack of
      hormonal overexpression they represent the great majority of patients of who undergo surgery
      given the threat of apoplexy and compression of adjacent neural structures. Surgical
      resection via transsphenoidal surgery remains the primary treatment modality for almost all
      pituitary adenomas except prolactinomas. Residual tumor, however, is quite common after
      surgical resection and is seen in up to 20% of surgical cases. By ensuring a negative margin
      through imaging during surgery, it would be possible to minimize the need for postoperative
      radiation therapy and/or radiosurgery and subsequent surgery as well.

      Gross total resection (GTR) of a pituitary adenoma is theoretically simple but practically
      difficult given the intimate association of the pituitary gland with critical neurovascular
      structures including the internal carotid artery, optic nerves, cavernous sinus contents and
      adjacent frontal lobe and third ventricle. In a recent meta-analysis, functioning pituitary
      adenoma (Cushing's disease, prolactinoma, acromegaly) was demonstrated to have a gross total
      resection rate of only 78% (n=664). In another review, tabulated through multiple studies,
      demonstrated that for nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma, gross total resection rate ranged
      from 66 to 93% (n=778). Moreover, a comparison of endoscopic and microscopic removal of
      pituitary adenoma found the gross total resection rate was 66% using endoscopic pituitary
      techniques. In this context of limited ability to achieve GTR, intraoperative MRI was
      introduced for assessment of the degree of resection for pituitary adenoma. The
      intraoperative MRI is expensive, cumbersome, and impractical. A simpler means of determining
      the degree of resection is greatly needed in the field of brain surgery, and specifically
      pituitary surgery.

      Pituitary adenomas are the ideal disease to investigate intra-operative imaging. Multiple
      studies have demonstrated that nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas express folate receptor
      alpha (FRα), therefore making folate receptors (FR) the ideal targets for imaging agents.
      While folate will initially distribute to all cells, redistribution, metabolism, and
      excretion will eliminate most of this agent from healthy tissues within 2-3 hours. Tumor
      cells that over express FRα will retain folate and any fluorescent labeled folate conjugate
      (such as OTL38) and internalize this.
    
  