
    
      Objective: To establish which combination of diuretics is the most effective in promoting
      diuresis in congestive heart failure patients. Secondary Objectives: To determine the
      duration of action of furosemide as monotherapy and in combination with either
      hydrochlorothiazide or metolazone. To determine the effect of diuretic combination therapy on
      neurohormonal activation. Background: Diuretic resistance occurs when a potent diuretic drug,
      such as furosemide, is given in therapeutic doses and fails to reduce extracellular fluid
      volume to the desired level in an edematous patient. Studies have shown that metolazone and
      hydrochlorothiazide have demonstrated a synergistic response when used in combination with
      furosemide in congestive heart failure patients. The current guidelines for treating diuretic
      resistance in congestive heart failure patients recommend the metolazone-furosemide
      combination. However, there is no evidence to conclude that this combination is superior to
      hydrochlorothiazide-furosemide in increasing diuresis. Methods: Randomized, double-blind,
      crossover study to compare the efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide and metolazone in combination
      with stable doses of furosemide in 13 patients with congestive heart failure. The primary
      endpoint will be change in urinary output. Secondary endpoints will be changes in weight,
      neurohormones (angiotensin II, catecholamines, brain natriuretic peptide, aldosterone), and
      electrocardiographic parameters of ventricular instability. Study procedures will be
      performed at the UNM General Clinical Research Center. Patients will be hospitalized for 2
      separate 4-day admissions, separated by a 1-week washout period. At each admission each
      patient will receive furosemide in combination with either metolazone or hydrochlorothiazide
      (metolazone for one admission and hydrochlorothiazide for the other). Following
      administration of combination therapy, blood and urine samples will be collected throughout
      the day to chart the onset and magnitude of effect of each treatment regimen. Various
      hemodynamic, renal, endocrine, and neurohormonal parameters will be assesed as will the
      effect of each combination treatment on ventricular instability using 12-lead
      electrocardiography. Data will be analyzed using ANOVA to compare changes from baseline and
      the Student t-test to analyze intertreatment differences.

      All statistical analysis will be performed using SAS v6.12.
    
  