
    
      Subjects will be ages 18 years or older and scheduled for routine urologic surgery. To
      randomize subjects, the investigators will employ a random number generator, which will
      minimize difference between study groups.

      Screening Visit:

      Obtain signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization. Review past medical history
      in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) to verify the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria including previous encounter, vital signs review, medication
      list, co-morbidities, prior surgical history, demographics, problems list, and note any prior
      acupuncture received.

      Subjects will be given a Medication Log to assist them in documenting the amount of pain
      medications that they are taking as part of standard of care.

      Subjects will be given a handout of standard BFA Discharge Instructions including what an
      infection looks like and what to do in the event of an infection (see attached).

      Visit 1 (Baseline):

      Subjects will be randomized into 1 of 2 groups:

      Group 1: Standard operative and standard post-operative care plus BFA (up to 5 acupuncture
      needles* in each ear at points cingulate gyrus, thalamus, omega 2, shen-men, point zero,
      identified by point-finder) Group 2: Standard treatment alone. Subjects will be given
      treatment according to their randomization group. The investigators review the subject's
      medical record and document any standard of care pain assessments that were performed upon
      admission and after pain intervention to the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) and Same Day
      Surgery Unit (SDSU). The investigators will also record the amounts of standard of care pain
      medications used during their hospital stay.

      All subjects, regardless of randomization group, will be instructed to have no heavy meals,
      no excessive hot or cold foods, no heavy exercise or intercourse, and no alcohol for 24 hours
      after Visit 1.

      Ear Acupuncture needles will fall out on their own within about one week.

      Visit #2 (24 hours post-surgery):

      Subject will be contacted in-person, via phone, email, or text message asked:

      On a scale of 0-10, with 10 being the worst pain, what is their pain level? Have they
      returned to work or resumed normal household duties? If so, how many hours post-surgery? What
      pain medication are they taking? And what strength? How many total doses have they taken
      since their surgery? Essentris electronic inpatient medical record will be reviewed to
      determine total dose of pain medications received if still in hospital.

      Is the patient voiding without irritative symptoms? Urinary frequency, urgency, dysuria,
      hematuria will be assessed.

      Visit #3 (48 hours post- surgery)

      Subject will be contacted either in-person, or via phone, email or text message and asked:

      On a scale of 0-10, with 10 being the worst pain, what is their level of pain? Have they
      returned to work or resumed normal household duties? If so, how many hours post-surgery? What
      pain medication are they taking? And what strength? How many total doses have they taken
      since their surgery? Essentris electronic inpatient medical record will be reviewed to
      determine total dose of pain medications received if still in hospital.

      Is the patient voiding without irritative symptoms? Urinary frequency, urgency, dysuria,
      hematuria will be assessed.

      Visit #4 (1 week post-surgery)

      Subject will be contacted either in-person, or via phone, email or text message and asked:

      Have they returned to work or resumed normal household duties? If so, how many days
      post-surgery? What pain medication are they taking? And what strength? How many total doses
      have they taken since their surgery? USSQ (Stent in Situ) will be administered to patients.

      Visit #5 Visit (1 month post surgery with stent in-situ or 5 weeks post stent removal at week
      1)

      Subject will be contacted either in-person, or via phone, email or text message and asked:

      Have they returned to work or resumed normal household duties? If so, how many days
      post-surgery? What pain medication are they taking? And what strength? How many total doses
      have they taken since their surgery? USSQ (Post Stent) will be administered to patients.
    
  