
    
      Prospective volunteers will be screened by phone and, if eligible, invited to a clinical
      evaluation in the laboratory, located at Northwestern University. At the laboratory,
      prospective volunteers complete written informed consent and learn about the study.

      All evaluations will measure the following variables: Anhedonia will be assessed using the
      Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale, Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale, and Effort-Expenditure
      for Rewards Task; Mood symptoms will be assessed by the Structured Clinical Interview for
      DSM-IV, Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Clinician Version, Clinician-Administered
      Rating Scale for Mania, Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Clinician version, and
      Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale. Treatment preferences will measured with the Stated
      Preferences Inventory for Bipolar Disorder. The presence of side effects from medications
      will be evaluated using the Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects measure.
      Maternal function will be evaluated using the Barkin Index of Maternal Function self-report.
      Behavioral Inhibition System/Behavioral Activation System and the Behavioral Activation for
      Depression Scale are used to evaluate activation levels. Reward processing will be measured
      using the Monetary Incentive Delay Task on the computer and the Reward Probability Index
      questionnaire.

      Enrollment is determined on a set of criteria, whereby participants will be randomized into
      one of three treatment groups using a computerized randomized number generator using a 1:1:1
      ratio. Allocation concealment will be set up so the person enrolling the participant will not
      know in advance which treatment the participant will receive. Moreover, evaluators will
      remain blind to treatment assignment. Participants are randomized to receive one of three
      treatments: 12 weeks of BA, 8 weeks of BA with option to add 4 weeks, and 12 weeks of BDCC.
      Participants are asked to participate in two follow-up evaluations at the laboratory,
      scheduled at Weeks 8 and 12. The study ends after the Week 12 evaluation (approximately 12-14
      weeks after enrolling into the treatment).
    
  