
    
      Cohort A: 10 Subjects

      10 subjects that have recently undergone a standard "in the sleep-lab" diagnostic
      polysomnography (PSG) and have been diagnosed with OSA will be recruited into the research
      study to assess the beneficial effects of oxytocin treatment.

      These 10 subjects will undergo another "in the sleep-lab" diagnostic polysomnography that is
      identical to the one that they had for standard of care to diagnose OSA. Within one hour
      prior to the research polysomnography the subjects will be given oxytocin (40 IU)
      intranasally. Outcome measures will be assessed.

      Cohort B: 10 Subjects

      Once enrollment in Cohort A is complete, then enrollment into Cohort B will begin.

      10 Subjects that have recently undergone either a standard "in the sleep-lab" diagnostic
      polysomnography or an "at home" PSG test and have been diagnosed with OSA will be recruited
      into the research study where we will assess the beneficial effects of oxytocin treatment.

      These 10 subjects will undergo an "in the sleep-lab" diagnostic polysomnography that would be
      identical to the one they had for standard of care medical guidelines if they were diagnosed
      with OSA "in the sleep-lab". This research polysomnography should be performed within 4 weeks
      of their OSA diagnosis PSG.

      Subjects will be randomized by the Investigational Drug Services Pharmacy of the MFA to be
      administered either Oxytocin (40 IU) or placebo within one hour prior to beginning the study
      polysomnography. Subjects will then return within 4 weeks to have a second research study
      polysomnography performed by the sleep-lab. Subjects will be administered the intervention
      that they did not received during the first research PSG study within one hour prior to
      beginning the second polysomnography. Either Oxytocin (40 IU) or placebo. For example: If at
      study polysomnography 1 a subject is randomized to receive placebo 1 hour prior to the start
      of the polysomnography, then at study polysomnography 2 the subject will be administered
      oxytocin (40 IU) 1 hour prior to the start of the polysomnography. Outcome measures will be
      assessed.
    
  