
    
      Our study is supported through the Chief Scientist Office Rapid Research in Covid-19
      (RARC-19) programme. Our study will clarify the pathogenesis of cardiopulmonary injury,
      notably endotypes of myocardial injury including myocarditis, in patients with COVID-19.

      The study involves a prospective, observational, multicentre, longitudinal cohort design.The
      investigators aim to minimise selection bias by adopting consecutive screening of all-comers
      hospitalised with COVID-19 and the eligibility criteria are broad. For example, severe renal
      dysfunction is not an exclusion criterion. The sample size is 180 patients enrolled at
      baseline with 160 attending for the primary outcome evaluation (cardiac imaging) at 28 days
      post-discharge. The investigators will use advanced cardiovascular imaging to identify the
      number (proportion) of patients with myocardial inflammation (myocarditis) that is
      sub-clinical (i.e. not diagnosed) or clinically overt. Cardiovascular MRI and CT coronary
      angiography will provide a comprehensive examination one month after discharge is intended to
      detect persisting cardiovascular complications and diagnose clinical endotypes. The
      investigators aim to clarify the pathological significance of serial changes in circulating
      troponin, NTproBNP and renal function. By correlating the MRI findings with troponin I and
      other measures of cardiovascular injury, such as NTproBNP, our results will inform care
      pathways that use these blood tests to guide the management of patients with COVID-19.
      Correlation of imaging findings with baseline clinical information, biomarkers, patient
      reported outcome measures and well-being in the longer term will help to clarify the clinical
      significance of cardiovascular complications in COVID-19. Since the design is observational,
      an interim analysis may be undertaken with the timing informed by the enrolment rate.
    
  