
    
      Background : An increase in asthma prevalence (or asthma-like symptoms) has been established
      in obese subjects, especially women. The aim of this pathophysiological study is to evaluate
      whether the modifications of respiratory mechanics due to severe obesity (Body Mass Index
      [BMI]>35) may explain the increase in asthma prevalence. Our hypothesis is that a decrease in
      variability of tidal breathing (evaluated by the coefficient of variation of Tidal volume:
      CVTV) (which traduces a physiological response to the increased work of breathing) associated
      with a decrease in the frequency of deep inhalations (FDI) (physiological sighs). The
      bronchodilatory and bronchoprotective roles of these deep inhalations have been demonstrated.
      The avoidance of deep inhalations during 10 minutes in healthy subjects is responsible for a
      non specific transient airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) to methacholine. Consequently,
      obesity-related asthma could be due to the loss of bronchoprotective effect of deep
      inhalations.

      Aims: The aim of this study is to evaluate whether 1) the variability of their diurnal
      ventilation (based on the measurement of CVTV and FDI) in three groups of women: obese with
      AHR, obese without AHR and healthy non obese (main objective), 2) obesity-related asthma
      pathophysiology is linked to atopy, and 3) obese asthmatic women have a greater decrease in
      ventilation variability as compared to non asthmatic obese women (secondary objectives).

      Methods: The prevalence of AHR and confirmed asthma (international clinical and functional
      definition) are determined based on pulmonary function test (spirometry, volume
      determinations, arterial blood gas, measurement of the resistance of the respiratory system
      with evaluation of the response to deep inhalation, methacholine challenge, exhaled NO
      measurement, nocturnal polygraphy and oeso-gastroscopy) results obtained from 150 obese (BMI
      > 35). The FDI and CVTV will be determined based on the tidal volume obtained from thoracic
      and abdominal plethysmography inductance measurements during the polygraphy. A nocturnal
      polygraphy is systematically done in these women to search for a Sleep Apnea Syndrome. 30
      healthy (non asthmatic, normal exhaled NO value, BMI 18.5 to 25) women will constitute a
      control group. The size of the groups have been calculated based on literature data
      concerning the FDI and CVTV.

      Analysis criteria: The prevalences of asthma (or asthma-like symptoms) and AHR will be of 30%
      and 50% (based on a personal preliminary study), respectively. The FDI and CVTV will be
      compared in obese women with and without AHR and in healthy women (primary objective), and
      subsequently in obese asthmatic women and obese non asthmatic women. The measurement of
      exhaled NO and the bronchomotor effect of deep inhalation will allow the determination of
      underlying pathophysiology of obesity-related asthma (secondary objective).

      Perspectives: If our hypothesis is verified, obesity treatment will become part of the
      management of asthma in women.
    
  