
    
      C225-ILS-DOX

      This is a phase 1 trial of anti-EGFR-immunoliposomes, an investigative nanoparticle targeted
      against EGFR-overexpressing tumor cells. The investigators have constructed anti-EGFR
      immunoliposomes by using Fab' fragments of the chimeric MAb cetuximab (C225, cetuximab,
      erbitux™, ImClone Systems Corp., NY, USA; Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany), which were
      covalently conjugated to the liposome membrane. This approach was designed to provide maximal
      drug delivery to cancer cells via a receptor-targeted and internalizing drug carrier that is
      stable, non-immunogenic, long-lived with extended blood and tissue residence times and
      capable of delivering large payloads of diverse types of drugs.

      Based on extensive preclinical studies, the investigators decided to perform a first-in-human
      clinical trial in patients with EGFR-overexpressing solid tumors who have already received
      all available standard treatments. The therapeutic compound tested in the trial is
      C225-ILs-dox, a doxorubicin-loaded anti-EGFR-immunoliposome. Doxorubicin is one of the most
      active agents in many human tumors, and a high percentage of these malignancies do express
      EGFR. Therefore, the targeting of doxorubicin to EGFR-expressing tumors via the EGFR-specific
      antibody C225 should enhance the specificity and efficacy of chemotherapy, while the
      encapsulation of the cytotoxic drug within pegylated liposomes should at the same time
      decrease its toxicity.

      This is a single center, open study. The aim of the trial is the definition of the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) for future phase 2 studies. Secondary endpoints include the overall
      response rate, the time-to-progression and the assessment of the pharmakokinetic of the
      compound. The trials follows a canonical 3+3 design and allows an additional recruitment of
      up to 6 patients on the dose level defined as the MTD. Planned dose levels are as follows:

      Level 1 = 5 mg/m2 Level 2 = 10 mg/m2 Level 3 = 20 mg/m2 Level 4 = 30 mg/m2 Level 5 = 40 mg/m2
      Level 6 = 50 mg/m2 Level 7 = 60 mg/m2 Level 8 = 70 mg/m2 Level 9 = 80 mg/m2

      At each dose level, 3 patients may be enrolled simultaneously. Escalation to the next higher
      dose will be allowed after patient 3 of a given dose level has received at least one full
      cycle of therapy if no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occured at a given dose level. The
      decision to enter a next dose level will be made by the study team after reviewing all
      available toxicity data of the previous groups. A DLT is defined as any grade 4 toxicity, any
      grade 3 toxicity lasting more than one week or/and febrile neutropenia grade 3 (defined as
      neutrophils < 1.0 x 10e9/l and fever > 38.5 °C). Nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and alopecia
      (grade 2) will be excluded as dose limiting toxicities. Similarly, adverse events that are
      clearly related to the primary tumor, such as progression of disease will not be considered
      as DLTs. In addition, preexisting toxicities must be taken into account when defining and
      analyzing DLTs.

      Patients will be treated until disease progression but for a maximum of 6 cycles. Patients
      having completed the treatment phase (24 weeks) and showing complete or partial response as
      well as stable disease will enter the observation phase of the study. This phase will end 12
      months after the last patient has been included. At any time during treatment phase or
      observation phase, patients with signs of disease progression according to RECIST criteria
      for reporting results of cancer treatment or having discontinued treatment due to
      unacceptable toxicity will go off study and be treated at the investigator's discretion.
    
  