
    
      This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was approved by the institutional
      ethics committee (# 0189-19; approval 22-09-2019) and written informed consent was obtained
      from all participants. The sample was composed of women who were referred for tubal patency
      evaluation as part of their fertility workup. Exclusion criteria were a known allergy to
      lidocaine, unprotected intercourse, profuse vaginal bleeding and genital tract inflammation
      or infections (e.g. pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) or suspected sexually transmitted
      diseases (purulent vaginal discharge upon speculum insertion), salpingitis or tubo-ovarian
      abscess), psychological or neurological lesions affecting sensation, prior cervical surgery,
      cervical stenosis.

      Randomization took place on the day of the procedure so that the staff had sufficient time to
      prepare the instruments and the medication/placebo. Women were randomized into one of two
      groups in a 1:1 ratio, using a predetermined randomization code, prepared by a research
      nurse. They were allocated to receive either: (1) an intrauterine infusion of 2% lidocaine
      (Rafa laboratories, Israel) ('lidocaine flushing' group), or (2) an intrauterine infusion of
      0.9 % normal saline (placebo group) just prior to HyFoSy.

      An assigned nurse prepared the medications according to the allocation group. Lidocaine and
      normal saline were placed in identical 10-mL disposable syringes. The lidocaine solution as
      well as the normal saline were both colorless and thus indistinguishable by the women and the
      performing sonographer, all of whom were blind to the group assignment.

      No form of premedication was given before HyFoSy. The exam was performed after complete
      cessation of menstrual bleeding and before the 14th day of the ovulatory cycle. The women
      were placed in the supine position on an examination couch and a baseline transvaginal scan
      was performed by one of two experienced clinicians to detect any pelvic pathologies. A
      vaginal speculum was introduced into the vagina for visualization of the cervix. The cervix
      and vagina were cleansed with iodine solution. A balloon-less GIS catheter (GynaecologIQ)19
      with a soft tapered tip was inserted into the endocervical canal for all HyFoSy procedures.
      The use of a tenaculum for uterine traction or a cervical dilatator to introduce the catheter
      was avoided in all cases. The speculum was then removed, taking care not to dislodge the
      catheter, and the ultrasound transducer was introduced vaginally. The abovementioned phase of
      the exam was performed by the same physician in all cases. The un-labelled solution (2%
      lidocaine solution or normal saline) was instilled slowly into the uterine cavity through the
      catheter until good distension and clear visualization of the uterine cavity was obtained.
      The ExEm® Foam-kit was used to produce foam according to the manufacturer's instructions9.
      The foam was then injected slowly via the GIS catheter under direct ultrasound guidance,
      until its passage or non-passage through both fallopian tubes had been assessed. All
      examinations were performed using a Samsung WS80A ultrasound system equipped with a V5-9 MHz
      endovaginal probe.

      Pain scores were obtained before the procedure to collect a baseline value and were
      reassessed after the HyFoSy examination. All patients were asked to stay for 10-20 min in a
      waiting area and were asked to score the level of pain they experienced during the procedure
      on a visual analog scale (VAS) as described in20. The VAS consisted of a 10 cm line ranging
      from 0 to 10 (anchored by 0=no pain and 10=very severe pain). Patients were asked to mark the
      number that represented their perceived level of pain. Based on the VAS scores, the pain
      level ratings were classified as: mild (rated 1-3), moderate (4-6) or severe (7-10).

      Sample size was calculated to detect 1 unit of mean difference of pain score between the two
      groups using the VAS, assuming that 1 was the SD (standard deviation) within the group.
      Twenty-seven women were needed in each group to reject the null hypothesis of 0.05 with a
      power of 0.9. Adding 30% to that number to compensate for any missing data gave a number of
      39 women in each group.
    
  