
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Extracorporeal photopheresis:

      In this immunomodulatory therapy, the apheresis leukocytes of the patients are irradiated
      with ultraviolet (UV) A in the presence of a photosensitizing agent, 8-methoxypsoralen prior
      to reinfusion to the patient. The mechanism of action of ECP has not yet been conclusively
      clarified. However, it has been shown that ECP modulates dendritic cells, modifies the
      cytokine profile and stimulates several T cell subpopulations, in particular regulatory T
      cells (Treg). The accumulated experience shows ECP to be well tolerated, with no clinically
      significant side effects and no long-term complications. Extracorporeal photopheresis is
      available as first-line as well as second-line therapy and can be combined with systemic drug
      therapies.

      Scleroderma and ECP:

      Scleroderma comprises a spectrum of autoimmune fibrosing disorders characterized by vascular
      alterations, fibrosis, and subsequent atrophy of the skin, subcutaneous tissue and muscles.
      Depending on the form of the disease, internal organs may also be affected in various degrees
      (e.g. alimentary tract, lungs, heart, kidney, central nervous system). It is usually
      classified into systemic sclerosis (generalized scleroderma) and morphea (localized
      scleroderma), distinguished by visceral involvement in the generalized form and disease
      limited to the skin and subcutaneous tissue in the localized form. Prognosis depends mainly
      on renal, cardiac and pulmonary manifestations.

      The pathogenesis of scleroderma is not well understood. However, it is assumed that there is
      an initial damage to endothelial cells, a subsequent inflammatory reaction in which mainly
      T-lymphocytes, macrophages and mast cells are pathologically altered, and an activation of
      fibroblasts causing increased and disturbed collagen production, which finally leads to
      fibrosis. In addition, alterations in the innate and acquired immune response, a disturbed
      microcirculation and fibroblast dysfunction are also involved.

      The therapy of patients with scleroderma is very limited. It is based on immunosuppression,
      which includes systemic steroids, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, mycophenolate
      mofetil or interferons. Phototherapy is also a major component in the treatment of
      Scleroderma and ranges from narrowband to broadband UVB, UVA, UVA1, Psoralen-UVA (PUVA), and
      ECP. The key advantage of ECP for the treatment of scleroderma is the improvement of its skin
      manifestations. Nevertheless, there is also emerging evidence that suggests that ECP may play
      a role improving oral aperture size, joint mobility, skin ulcers and functional status.
      Furthermore, in contrast to the available immunosuppressive therapies, ECP has a low side
      effect profile. Τhe European Dermatology Forum recommends ECP as a second-line therapy or as
      part of adjuvant therapy in patients with scleroderma. There is currently no consensus on the
      duration and frequency of ECP for the treatment of scleroderma.

      Graft-versus-Host Disease and ECP:

      Graft-versus-host disease is a complex multiorgan disease, which can occur as a complication
      following allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Involvement of the skin represents the most
      common appearance of GvHD. According to the Consensus of National Institute of health further
      sub-classification can be done into acute and chronic GvHD.Corticosteroids are first-line
      therapy for both acute and chronic GvHD but due to its significant toxicity and an increasing
      number of patients developing steroid-refractory disease, many rescue therapies are currently
      available. ECP is a widely recommended treatment approach as a second-line treatment,
      especially in steroid refractory form of GvHD.

      Eosinophilic fasciitis and ECP:

      Eosinophilic fasciitis is a rare sclerodermiform syndrome of unknown etiology, characterized
      by the fibrosis of the muscular fascia and subcutaneous tissue accompanied with infiltration
      of eosinophils. There is little data regarding ECP in Eosinophilic fasciitis, however ECP may
      be beneficial.

      Objectives:

      The aim of this study is to investigate the influence of ECP on patients with autoimmune
      fibrosing disorders, including systemic sclerosis, morphea, sclerodermiform GvHD and
      eosinophilic fasciitis. More specifically, the following topics are going to be investigated:

        1. Quality and functionality of skin lesions:

             1. Examination of lesional and clinically uninvolved skin during ECP treatment, using
                clinical evaluation and skin functional parameters. If possible, the examinations
                will take place before the initiation and during the ECP treatment. This depends on
                the stage of therapy of the participants, at the time they get included in the
                study.

             2. Evaluation of the influence of the frequency and the duration of ECP on the
                progress of the disease.

        2. Alteration of biomarkers during the ECP treatment:

             1. Observation of specific potential biomarkers during the treatment in order to
                understand the mechanism of action of ECP as well as its influence in those
                biomarkers.

             2. Evaluation of biomarkers as possible prognostic markers.

      Study design:

      Prospective, monocentric, exploratory study with a single group of 10 subjects. Ten patients
      with sclerotic skin lesions due to systemic sclerosis, or morphea, or sclerodermiform GvHD or
      eosinophilic fasciitis will be enrolled in this clinical study. Subjects not having started
      first ECP treatment yet will be preferred for inclusion. The modified Rodnan skin score is
      widely accepted as a validated method to evaluate skin sclerosis, therefore its results will
      be considered as the primary outcome in this study. The study will include 8 visits for each
      included patient:

      Screening visit, between week -2 and week 0

      Baseline/inclusion visit, week 0

      Intermediate visits, every 4 weeks ± 2

      End of study visit, week 24± 2

      Study setting:

      The study will be conducted by the Clinical Research Center for Hair and Skin Science,
      Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin.

      Patients with systemic sclerosis or sclerotic skin lesions who already receive or are planned
      to receive ECP treatment will be recruited in this study. In other words, they will receive
      the treatment regardless of their inclusion in the study. Normally, a 3-day inpatient stay in
      the clinic is required for a cycle of ECP treatment. The study visits will be carried out
      during this inpatient stay at the Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Charité -
      Universitätsmedizin Berlin. If necessary, additional appointments with the subjects will be
      made in the same setting.

      Recruitment strategies:

      Patients who receive ECP in the Department of Dermatology, Venerology and Allergology -
      Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin will be informed about the study by the study
      investigators.

      Data collection methods:

        1. Demographic data, medical history: An extended interview of the patient on his
           demographics, medical history, treatments and medications will be performed by an
           investigator during the inclusion visit.

        2. Modified Rodnan skin score: The modified Rodnan skin score is a validated method to
           evaluate skin thickening in SSc worldwide.It will be performed by an investigator.

        3. Skin physiological and functional parameters: Skin functional parameters will be
           determined at the uninvolved skin of the volar forearm or the gluteal area (control) and
           at one lesional skin area (target lesion), which may differ among the subjects but
           preferably would be in a contralateral area to the uninvolved skin area chosen. Before
           measurements are performed, subjects will rest for 30 minutes in a room with controlled
           environmental conditions (room temperature 22 °C± 2 °C; relative humidity 50% ± 10%) for
           acclimatization. The skin of the investigational sites must be open to air.

           Following parameters will be determined:

           Stratum corneum hydration (SCH): SCH will be measured using the Corneometer CM 825
           (Courage + Khazaka, Colonge, Germany), which measures the hydration level of the stratum
           corneum as electrical capacitance. The measurement is based on the differences of the
           dielectric constant of water and other substances. The arbitrary units range from 0 to
           120, higher readings indicate higher stratum corneum hydration.

           Transepidermal water loss (TEWL): TEWL will be measured using the Tewameter TM 300
           (Courage + Khazaka, Colonge, Germany). The probe of the instrument measures the density
           gradient of the water evaporation from the skin indirectly by the two pairs of sensors
           (temperature and relative humidity) inside the hollow cylinder. Water evaporation is
           captured in gram per hour per m². Higher values indicate a higher transepidermal water
           loss.

           Skin firmness: A Cutometer Dual MPA 580 (Courage + Khazaka, Colonge, Germany) will be
           used. The instrument measures skin deformation after repeated cycles of suction and
           release. The resistance of the skin to the negative pressure and its ability to return
           into its original position are displayed as curves (penetration depth in mm/time) in
           real time during the measurement.

           Skin surface sebum level: A Sebumeter SM 815 (Courage + Khazaka, Colonge, Germany) will
           be used. The measurement is based on grease spot photometry. The measurement cassette
           contains a special tape that becomes transparent when it comes into contact with sebum
           on the surface of the skin. In order to make a measurement the cassette is inserted into
           an aperture on the device where the transparency of the tape is measured. The
           transparency is measured by sending light through the tape, using a light source in the
           aperture. The light is reflected by a mirror behind the tape and a photocell measures
           the transparency. The change in the amount of light transmission represents the sebum
           content of the tape, which is displayed in units from 0-350. Higher values indicate a
           higher lipid level.

           Skin thickness: A Dermascan C ultrasound scanner (Cortex Technology, Denmark) with a
           20MHz probe will be used.

        4. Biomarkers: Biomarkers will be determined via blood sampling. Two CPDa tubes and two
           serum tubes will be used at each blood collection. Blood samples will be collected at
           three time-points during an inpatient stay; immediately before the start of ECP on day
           one, immediately after the ECP treatment on day one and at the patient's discharge on
           day three. Serum levels of specific cytokines and chemokines will be determined using
           ELISA. Percentage counts of specific T-cell subpopulations will be obtained by
           fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis (FACS), using the following surface
           markers: CD3, CD4, CD45RA, CD127, CD25, CXCR3, CXCR5 and CCR6.

      Data management:

      A paper source data will be created for this study. Data including demographics, medical
      history, measurement results and clinical score results will be completed during the study
      visits in written form. Data from the source data will be extracted and entered into a data
      file by the data manager using the software IBM SPSS Statistics 26. The database will be
      stored on a secured digital server of the Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin.

      Statistical methods:

      Descriptive comparative statistical analysis will be conducted. All parameters will be
      described using measures of central tendency and measures of variability or dispersion. This
      is an exploratory study therefore a formal sample size calculation is not planned.

      Monitoring:

      Data Monitoring: Planned.

      Harms: The participants will not be monitored for adverse events because the study is
      considered as non-interventional. All subjects will receive ECP treatment regardless of their
      inclusion in this study. Furthermore, all non-invasive measurements as well as the blood
      sampling will be conducted during the subjects' planned hospitalization.

      Auditing: Not planned.
    
  