
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular and
      overall mortality. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death, primarily ischemic
      heart disease, which is often early and can occur in asymptomatic diabetic patients, hence
      the potential benefit of routine screening to improve their cardiovascular prognosis.

      There is a notable disparity between the recommendations of the french High Authority of
      Health (HAS) and those of learned societies. The HAS does not recommend routine screening for
      silent ischemic heart disease in all asymptomatic T2DM patients without known coronary heart
      disease, apart from a resting electrocardiogram (ECG). Functional cardiovascular examinations
      should be reserved for situations of high cardiovascular risk, particularly the presence of
      history, clinical symptoms or ECG abnormalities in favor of cardiovascular disease. On the
      other hand, the main learned societies of diabetology and cardiology recommend systematic
      screening for silent ischemic heart disease in a larger T2DM population (age> 60 years,
      duration of diabetes> 10 years and at least 2 cardiovascular risk factors). In terms of
      current clinical practice, a majority of physicians prescribe screening for silent ischemic
      heart disease in diabetic patients by functional examinations (stress test, myocardial
      tomoscintigraphy coupled with a stress test, stress echocardiography) . The investigators
      carried out two surveys with fellow cardiologists and diabetologists in Bordeaux and at the
      national level which confirm this frequent practice of screening.

      The level of scientific evidence currently seems sufficient not to recommend systematic
      screening for silent ischemic heart disease in all diabetic patients. Four main randomized
      and controlled studies have not shown any benefit from this screening in terms of reducing
      major cardiovascular events in all T2DM patients. However, doubt remains in T2DM patients at
      very high cardiovascular risk, who may benefit from this strategy, but in whom no studies
      have been performed to date.
    
  