
    
      Study design: this is a 14-week, randomized controlled trial. 114 participants will be
      recruited from the medical services of the National Institute of Rehabilitation (NIR).

      Participants: Adults between 65-75 years old, with a body mass index between 25-30 kg/m^2,
      sedentaries, non-smokers, with compensated comorbidities, and who do not consume nutritional
      supplements will be recruited. Participants with uncompensated metabolic diseases, with high
      risk of falls (evaluated with Tinetti scale), frailty syndrome, and b2-adrenergic agonists,
      glucocorticoids, diuretics or peripheral vasodilators users will not be recruited.

      Intervention: Participants will be randomized to 1) power/resistance exercise program (GEx),
      2) oral supplementation with 1.5 g/day of HMB (GHMB) or 3) power/resistance exercise program
      + HMB group (GExHMB) with computer-generated random numbers. The exercise program will
      consist of training to improve muscular strength, neuromotor skills, flexibility, endurance,
      and a greater emphasis on maximum strength and power. Every training session will consist of
      15 minutes of warm-up, 40 to 60 minutes of power/resistance training, neuromuscular and
      aerobic exercises, and 15 minutes of cool-down. The power/resistance and neuromuscular
      training will be performed 3 days/week, 2-5 sets, 5-15 repetitions for each exercise
      according to the recommendation of the American College of Sports Medicine training
      progression models; the aerobic exercise will be performed 2 days/week. All exercises will be
      performed at moderate intensity and will take place in the NIR Sports Medicine therapeutic
      gym.

      Oral supplementation with HMB will be from a commercial polymeric formula in liquid form
      (Ensure Advanced®, 230 ml); the supplement intake will be 1 bottle/day. All patients,
      regardless of the intervention, will be monitored by sports medicine physicians and
      nutritionists in order to promote adherence to treatment.

      The muscle quality index (MQI) will be obtained from the determination of muscular strength
      by isokinetic dynamometry (at 60°/s) for the lower extremities and by hand dynamometry for
      the upper extremities; the lean segmental mass in the upper and lower extremities will be
      determined by 3-frequency electronic bioimpedance analysis. The MQI will be calculated from
      the muscular strength divided by the muscular mass.

      Lower extremities muscular power will be determined by isokinetic dynamometry at 180°/s,
      physical performance will be assessed by the Short Physical Performance battery (SPPB) and
      quality of life perception will be evaluated by the EuroQoL-5D questionnaire. As part of the
      safety measures for the participants, liver function will be monitored by laboratory tests
      (liver enzyme profile and general urine test) which will be performed at the NIR laboratory.

      For each participant the study length will be 14 weeks with 61 exercise sessions for the GEx
      and GExHMB groups and 98 days of oral supplementation for the GHMB and GExHMB groups. The
      beginning of the study corresponds to session 1 of exercise and/or day 1 of supplementation
      intake. Initial evaluations will be performed 5 days prior to the start of the intervention,
      while final evaluations will be conducted at the end of 14 weeks of follow-up (2 days after
      the last day of the intervention). Data will be recorded by study investigators blinded to
      participant assignment.

      Comparison: Comparison groups will receive the unique intervention of a strength/resistance
      exercise program or oral supplementation with HMB.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is the upper and lower extremities MQI mean change. The
      secondary outcomes are mean changes in muscular power, physical performance, and health
      related quality of life.
    
  