
    
      Dental caries is one of the most common preventable diseases which is recognized as the
      primary cause of oral pain and tooth loss. WHO claimed that poor oral health may have a
      profound effect on general health as well as quality of life. Dental caries is not an
      infectious disease that needs to be "cured" by removing bacteria or, even less so, a
      particular bacterial species. Instead, dental caries can be managed behaviorally by
      controlling its causative factors-namely, the supply of fermentable carbohydrates and the
      presence and maturation of bacterial dental biofilms.

      Resin modified Glass ionomer cement (RMGIC) has been used as a material for placement of
      dental restorations and is known to release fluoride which can help to remineralize carious
      lesion. RMGIC has excellent compressive and tensile strength compared to water based
      material, very less sensitive to moisture during initial setting time, excellent bonding with
      tooth, long working time with rapid set and early strength, have lower modulus of elasticity,
      twice flexible compared to water based glass ionomers. Chisini et al conducted a systematic
      review and showed 93.6% success rate of RMGIC, 91.2% for compomer, 79.3% for composite resin
      in primary teeth restoration.

      The Hall Technique (HT) is a method for restoring children's carious primary molars uses a
      preformed stainless steel crown (SSC) cemented with no caries removal, tooth preparation, or
      local anaesthesia. Schwendicke F reported that HT showed high cost-effectiveness, dominating
      conventional restoration mainly because HT is clinically more successful and result in
      significantly fewer retreatments. The Hall Technique has been shown to be a durable (being
      likely to last the lifespan of the primary molar) and economical management option for
      primary molars with carious lesions, which in addition offers the benefit of full coronal
      coverage, reducing the risk of future carious lesion development.

      The patients will be randomly allocated into two groups:

      Group 1 - 45 Teeth will be treated using Hall Technique. Group 2 - 45 Teeth will be treated
      using resin modified glass ionomer cement(Vitremer).
    
  