
    
      Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA) vasculitis is a systemic autoimmune disease
      characterized by small vessel inflammation caused by pathogenic autoantibodies directed
      against proteinase 3 (PR3) or myeloperoxidase (MPO). Immunosuppressive therapy can result in
      remission; however, many patients relapse, which results in additional injury.

      Rituximab, a humanized murine monoclonal antibody directed against CD20 located on the
      surface of B-lymphocytes (B cells), is effective in depleting B cells. The RAVE and RITUXVAS
      trials have shown efficacy of rituximab with steroids for induction of remission in ANCA
      vasculitis, similar to cyclophosphamide and steroids. Rituximab is now FDA-approved for
      induction of remission therapy in ANCA vasculitis. The utility of anti-B-cell therapy for
      early induction of remission in ANCA vasculitis is not surprising given that ANCA are
      pathogenic in vitro and in vivo. It is clear that remission in many patients is not sustained
      with a single induction course of rituximab, and relapses often occur after B cell
      re-population suggesting that scheduled, serial dosing of rituximab could result in sustained
      remissions.

      Despite yielding promising outcomes, rituximab is also associated with a number of adverse
      events including infectious complications and late onset of neutropenia5, 15. Furthermore,
      the complications of continuous B cell depletion for extended durations are unknown. One of
      the major goals in the field is to utilize prolonged B cell depletion only in the
      subpopulation of patients where the risk of disease relapse outweighs the risk of
      treatment-related adverse events.

      A rise in ANCA titers and reconstitution of B cells are promising biomarkers of impending
      disease relapse following treatment with rituximab4-6

      A prospective and longitudinal clinical trial is needed to determine the ideal treatment
      strategy for long-term maintenance of remission. We propose to compare intermittent rituximab
      dosing based on B cell return and a serologic ANCA flare

      The study design is an open-label, single center, randomized and two-arm controlled trial to
      evaluate the optimal maintenance of remission strategy that provides the best relapse-free
      survival in patients with ANCA vasculitis as determined by relapse-free remission at 18, 24
      and 36 months from enrollment. The investigators are looking to enroll and randomize 200
      subjects with ANCA vasculitis on rituximab-induced continuous B cell depletion for a minimum
      of two years to one of two arms as follows:

        1. Intermittent B cell depletion with rituximab re-dosing upon B cell return: Subjects will
           not receive their regularly-scheduled every-six-month dose of rituximab and will instead
           receive rituximab 1000 mg IV x 2 doses (spaced 2-3 weeks apart) once peripheral B cells
           return ( ≥ 10 B cells/mm3). This cycle will then re-start. Subjects will be seen in
           clinic every three months.

        2. Hold continuous dosing with rituximab with re-dosing upon a significant ANCA titer
           increase: For MPO, a significant increase will be defined as a 5-fold rise in ANCA titer
           and a level greater than 4 times the cutoff value for the assay. For PR3, a significant
           rise will be defined as a 4-fold rise in ANCA titer to a level at least twofold above
           the cutoff for the assay. Subjects will not receive regularly scheduled every six-month
           doses of rituximab and will instead be monitored every three months. Subjects who
           sustain a significant increase in ANCA titer will receive rituximab 1000mg IV x 2 doses,
           ~2-3 weeks apart. If the ANCA titer remains two-fold above baseline and above a
           specified threshold (the cutoff value of the assay for PR3 and 4 times the cutoff value
           for MPO) , subjects will continue to receive rituximab 1000mg IV every 6 months for a
           maximum of 2 doses, at which time a new baseline ANCA titer will be established and the
           cycle will re-start.
    
  