
    
      Introduction:

      The percentage of elderly in the general population is increasing rapidly. Currently, the
      Dutch population comprises for one fifth of persons aged 65 years or older and recent
      estimates show this will increase to roughly a quarter in the next 20 years. Since th
      incidence of peripheral arterial disease increases with age, this rise in elderly will also
      reflect on the population of patients being referred for vascular surgery. Elderly patients
      are at higher risk for postoperative complications, mortality or functional decline than
      younger patients. In frail elderly this effect might be more pronounced. Frailty is an
      umbrella term that encompasses patient related factors such as weight loss, muscle wasting,
      inactivity, comorbidities and polypharmacy. Current scoring systems that are used to predict
      postoperative mortality and complications following vascular surgery perform poorly in the
      elderly population and do not take into account frailty. Moreover they are designed to
      predict mortality and complications and are not validated to predict patient reported outcome
      measures such as quality of life or functional status. The aim of the AGE VASC study is
      assess the value of frailty factors in predicting an improvement in quality of life one year
      after peripheral vascular surgery.

      Methods:

      The AGE VASC study is a prospective observational cohort study. All patients aged 70 years or
      older, scheduled for peripheral vascular surgery of the lower limb, mentally competent and
      have signed informed consent are eligible for the study. Before surgery patients will be
      screened for frailty using different questionnaires and physical tests. The battery of tests
      exists of Short Form 36 (SF36), Walking Impairment Questionnaire (WIQ), Multi Nutritional
      Assessment (MNA), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Nagi's scale for disability,
      Geriatric Depression Scale -8 (GDS8), three physical tests: five meter walking speed, timed
      get up and go test and hand grip strength. And a non-invasive measurement of Advanced
      Glycation Endproducts (AGEs). A blood sample will be taken to determine vitamin status,
      immune status and iron deficiency. After surgery, electronic patients charts will be studied
      to score postoperative complications or mortality. Three and twelve months after surgery
      patients will receive SF-36, WIQ, and World Health Organization Disability Assessment
      Schedule (WHODAS) 2.0 questionnaires to determine quality of life and functional status.
    
  