
    
      Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is defined as bleeding into the ventricles of the premature
      infant brain-the highest risk for the lowest gestational ages. IVH almost always occurs
      between birth and the first 72 hours of life. The four grades of IVH are based on the degree
      of bleeding; the greater the severity of the bleed, the more likely to have a poor outcome.
      Complications can include hydrocephalus, mental retardation, cerebral palsy and seizures.
      Neurologic sequelae can lead to death. Even for low grade bleeds the studies show the
      negative effects on cognitive scores and an increased incidence of learning disabilities. In
      addition, these same children often suffer from attention deficit disorder and other
      behavioral dysfunctions, which require intervention in order for the child to successfully
      integrate into school and society.

      Since increased risk of IVH can be associated with changes of intracranial pressure, many
      medical protocols have established IVH bundles which are designed to help reduce fluctuations
      in intracranial pressure while managing the micro-preemie infant during the first few days of
      life.

      The correlation between IVH and head positioning of the extremely low birth weight infants
      has made its way into research literature suggesting that venous obstruction can result from
      increased external pressure on the venous system when the micro-preemie infant has their head
      positioned to the side rather than maintaining a neutral position.

      Therefore, the investigators are aiming to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial
      in order to answer the research question: Does early use of the Tortle Midliner reduce the
      incidence and/or level of severity of intraventricular hemorrhage if used in infants born at
      ≤ 30 6/7 weeks and neutral position is maintained for the first 72 hours of life? The
      investigators hypothesize that the use of early consistent neutral positioning compared to
      the standard care (nested positioning) practiced in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
      will reduce the risk of intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants born at ≤ 30 6/7 weeks
      and have a positive effect on the incidence and/or level of severity of intraventricular
      hemorrhage in this population.
    
  