
    
      Stem cell transplant studies carried out by the NHLBI BMT Unit have focused on approaches to
      optimize the stem cell and lymphocyte dose in order to improve transplant survival and
      increase the graft-vs.-leukemia effect. The aim is to create the transplant conditions that
      permit rapid donor immune recovery without causing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) by using
      no post-transplant immunosuppression in conjunction with a transplant depleted of T cells to
      a fixed low dose, below the threshold known to be associated with GVHD.

      We have found that the outcome from transplant is improved by controlling the stem cell
      (CD34+ cell) and T lymphocyte (CD3+ cell) dose. In the last study, in this series, we used
      the Nexell Isolex 300i system to obtain high CD34+ doses depleted of lymphocytes to a fixed
      CD3+ T cell dose of 2 x 10(4)/kg. The use of the cell separator and the monoclonal antibodies
      was covered by IDE 8139. The study measured the incidence of acute GVHD and used chimerism
      assays to determine the percentage of donor and recipient cells circulating at different
      time-points after transplant. We found that in the first six weeks donor T cell chimerism
      varied widely reaching 100% only in 10/22 patients. Thus the goal or rapid donor immune
      recovery was achievable only in about half the patients. Patients with mixed donor-recipient
      T cell populations are known to be at higher risk for late graft rejection and leukemic
      relapse after transplant. Therefore the achievement of full donor chimerism is an important
      therapeutic goal.

      To improve donor T cell chimerism we will test whether the addition of irradiated donor
      lymphocytes during the preparative regimen of the transplant can increase the chance of
      achieving 100% donor T cell chimerism within six weeks of transplant. It is known that
      irradiated lymphocytes do not cause GVHD and that they can suppress residual host immunity,
      thus promoting donor lymphocyte engraftment. The end point of the study will be the
      proportion of patients achieving full donor chimerism six weeks after transplant. Apart from
      this addition of irradiated lymphocytes and some minor modifications, this protocol will be
      identical to the predecessor protocol 02-H-0111. This involves the continued use of the
      Isolex 300i cell separator and the monoclonal antibodies provided by CTEP (anti CD 6, anti
      CD2, anti CD7). This is covered by a continuing IND for the selection of CD34+ and CD3+ cells
      for T cell depleted peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.
    
  