
    
      The early identification of individuals at high risk for development of CVD has been a
      challenging and highly relevant pursuit for clinicians and epidemiologists. The clinical
      significance of early identification of CAD becomes apparent because several of the cardiac
      risk factors are modifiable. Numerous studies have been performed to identify risk factors
      for CVD. These studies resulted in clinical guidelines for identification and risk reduction
      for CVD, currently summarized in the Third Report of the Expert Panel on Detection,
      Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults: Adult Treatment Panel (ATP
      III). ATP III identifies five major risk factors for CVD: hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
      current smoking, abdominal obesity, and diabetes; individuals with two or more risk factors
      are considered at increased risk, although this recommendation may be changed to one risk
      factor in the upcoming ATP IV.

      From a clinical perspective however, shortcomings in the prognostic value of the current
      conventional risk factors are becoming increasingly apparent. Retrospective reviews of large
      cohort studies and clinical trials conducted in the general population have found that ≥1
      major conventional risk factor was present in 90% of patients who had diagnosed CAD. However,
      approximately 70% of subjects with established risk did not develop an event related to CAD
      during a 21-30 year follow-up period. These findings suggest that major predictors of CAD
      risk, although up to 90% sensitive, may be just 30% specific.

      In persons with chronic SCI (> 1 year), cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of
      mortality, as it is in the general population. Compared to the general population,
      CVD-related morbidity in persons with SCI, specifically CAD, occurs earlier in life and is
      more prevalent. Based on this knowledge, the need for appropriate risk stratification in SCI
      population becomes apparent. Existing tools do not take into account specific consequences of
      SCI, possibly underestimating the actual risk for CVD. For example, most of the risk factor
      algorithms incorporate HDL cholesterol into their equations to determine CAD risk, with a
      cutoff level of HDL cholesterol below which the general population is at a heightened risk
      for disease. Such an approach does not factor in the severity of depression of HDL
      cholesterol. It is appreciated that the morbidity risk ratio for CAD in men rises above unity
      at an HDL cholesterol <40 mg/dL, and the risk continues to rise in a linear fashion as the
      values for the lipid moiety decrease. In individuals with SCI, HDL cholesterol levels may be
      markedly depressed, with higher, more complete lesions having the lowest values. Thus,
      individuals with SCI will have additional risk for CAD based on extremely depressed values of
      HDL cholesterol that are not captured by conventional categorization. In addition, higher
      cord lesions (above thoracic level six) are frequently hypotensive, activating the
      renin-angiotensin axis in an attempt to maintain normotension. Elevated levels of
      angiotension are appreciated be atherogenic. Once again, this pathophysiologic condition-that
      is, hypotension and elevated angiotensin levels- is not captured by conventional risk factor
      paradigms. Because of these considerations, as well as the extreme immobilization of SCI that
      may independently confer additional CAD risk, the use of conventional risk assessment tools
      in this population is fraught with obvious difficulty and potential error. For years, the
      need for development of new non-conventional assessment tools has been recognized in the
      able-bodied population, and the need for a more reliable vehicle to identify individuals at
      heightened risk is even more the case in individuals with SCI.

      The predictive value of emerging risk factors has been studied in an attempt to increase both
      the sensitivity and specificity of the identification of individuals at heightened risk of
      CAD, and thus to improve early diagnoses and result in the appropriate institution of
      efficacious risk modification approaches. Abdominal fat, inflammatory biomarkers, CAC,
      arterial stiffness, increased C-reactive protein (CRP), vitamins and antioxidant deficiency,
      endothelial dysfunction, increased arterial intima media thickness (IMT), triglyceride
      response to fat load, and genetic factors have been extensively studied as potential
      predictors of increased risk for CAD in the general population.

      Among the non-conventional approaches, measurement of CAC scores has been most promising. CAC
      is highly specific to the atherosclerosis and is thought to develop late in its
      pathophysiology, reflecting a chronic plaque burden. CAC has been used in the global CVD risk
      stratification of asymptomatic patients to identify additional risk among those with a
      seemingly low-risk; the additional predictive value of CAC for CAD risk was greater than that
      provided by the conventional risk factors, regardless of racial or ethnic considerations. The
      higher the CAC score, the greater the prevalence of myocardial perfusion abnormalities
      associated with obstructive CAD and risk of death or myocardial infarction within 3 to 5
      years. Approximately two-thirds of persons with SCI have intermediate risk for CAD; evidence
      suggests that many have silent CAD. Of note, and somewhat troubling, in reports in
      symptomatic individuals without CAC, 16-24% have obstructive CAD, an observation corroborated
      by the finding that approximately 20% of occluded vessels may not have detectable
      calcification.
    
  