
    
      Objective:

      Our goal is to transfuse autologous umbilical cord blood into 23 children with T1D in an
      attempt to re-establish immune tolerance and perhaps regenerate pancreatic islet
      insulin-producing beta cells and improve blood glucose control. As secondary goals, we aim to
      study the potential changes in metabolism/immune function leading to islet regeneration.

      Background/Rationale:

      Stem cells provide an exciting approach towards curing T1D. Autologous bone marrow
      transplants have been used successfully for patients undergoing high dose chemotherapy, and
      for a variety of cancers and autoimmune disorders such as multiple sclerosis, lupus, and
      rheumatic disorders. Recent studies in immunodeficient mice with chemically-induced
      pancreatic damage have shown that bone marrow-derived stem cells preferentially home to the
      pancreas and may have the capacity to initiate pancreatic regeneration, thereby restoring the
      endothelial interactions in the pancreas and correcting the associated elevated blood sugar
      levels Human umbilical cord blood cells transfused into a model of amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (ALS) resulted in delayed disease progression of two to three weeks and increased
      lifespan. Umbilical cord blood has shown promise as an excellent source for deriving stem
      cell populations, and has been used successfully in transplantation for a variety of
      diseases, including acute lymphocytic and myeloid leukemia, lymphoma, Fanconi anemia, and
      sickle cell disease. Furthermore, umbilical cord blood-derived stem cells have the capacity
      to differentiate into a variety of non-blood cell types, including hepatocytes, neural cells,
      and endothelial cells. In addition, umbilical cord blood contains a greater proportion of
      hematopoietic stem cells than bone marrow.

      In addition, cord blood contains a large number of immune cells called regulatory T cells,
      These regulatory T cells may be helpful in diminishing autoimmunity. The need to re-establish
      tolerance in patients with established autoimmunity provides another potential mechanism for
      cord blood as a therapy for type 1 diabetes.

      Description of Project:

      23 children > 1 year of age with T1D and stored umbilical cord blood are being be recruited.
      The cord blood will be infused into the children in the GCRC in an attempt to regenerate
      pancreatic islet insulin-producing beta cells and improve blood glucose control. As secondary
      goals, we aim to track the migration of transfused cord blood stem and study the potential
      changes in metabolism/immune function leading to islet regeneration.

      Anticipated Outcome:

      It is hoped that there will be preservation of beta cell function assessed by mixed meal
      stimulated C-peptide secretion. Changes in immunological markers/function may be observed

      Relevance to Type I Diabetes:

      Type 1 diabetes is still associated with tremendous morbidity and premature mortality.
      Patients require multiple daily insulin injections throughout their lives as well as close
      monitoring of their diet and blood sugar levels to prevent complications. Unfortunately,
      there is presently no permanent cure for diabetes. Whole pancreas or islet cell
      transplantation is available only to a very limited number of patients and necessitates
      potential lifelong immunosuppressive therapy. The need to find a cure for T1D cannot be
      overstated -autologous stem cell transfusions either with their potential to differentiate
      into islet cells or provide immune tolerance that leads to islet regeneration appear to be a
      safe and potentially viable option.
    
  