
    
      The use of medical hypnosis has been developing for about fifteen years in several health
      facilities.

      The Hospital Group Paris Saint-Joseph has progressively introduced first this technique from
      2007 to the operating room and in the various services of conventional and ambulatory
      hospitalizations.

      The French Society of Anesthesia and Intensive Care (SFAR) recognizes the hypnosedation as
      sedation technique that can be used in acute pain and anesthesia (operating theater,
      emergency, painful treatments ...).

      There are currently many quality scientific papers published in international journals in
      particular by the team of Pr. M. E. Faymonville Liege, who explained the mechanisms and
      consequences of hypnosedation.

      The use of hypnosedation in the context of anesthesia is validated. This is a technique that
      combines the hypnosis procedure as intravenous sedation. For surgery, it is associated with
      local anesthesia surgical site. It can favorably replace general anesthesia if surgery or
      endoscopy allows but doctors will always need local anesthesia surgical site where surgery.
      It can also complement a regional anesthesia to increase patient comfort (less stress,
      anxiety and pain) .If necessary, the conversion of general anesthesia hypnosedation is always
      possible during surgery or gastrointestinal endoscopy.

      In the Paris Saint joseph Hospital facility, several anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists
      are trained in medical hypnosis. Now, a common practice in surgery hypnosedation (inguinal
      hernia, thyroid and para-thyroid surgery) and endoscopy (colonoscopy, gastroesophageal
      gastroduodenal endoscopy) .On a period of 3 years, 414 acts were carried out under
      hypnosedation. When digestive endoscopy adding sedation is not systematic and, if the patient
      is comfortable enough without conscious sedation, only hypnoanalgesia is used (use of
      hypnosis in the prevention or relief of acute pain or chronic).

      This technique is part of the panel modes of analgesia and anesthesia can be offered to
      patients. However, little is known about patient satisfaction and their experiences during
      the procedure under hypnosedation.

      The objective is to evaluate these parameters on a prospective cohort of patients supported
      by hypnosedation in Paris Saint Joseph hospital for an endoscopy or surgery.

      This evaluation is part of the evaluation of professional practices (EPP) recommended by the
      HAS (french High Authority of Health) and the ARS (Regional Health Agency).

      Main objective / secondary

      Primary objective :

      Measure satisfaction of patients resorted to hypnosedation or hypnoanalgesia during an
      endoscopy or surgery

      Secondary objective:

      Measure the doses of drugs used for conscious sedation

      Methodology :

        -  DESIGN: Prospective cohort single-center, non-interventional kind EPP on the
           satisfaction of patients who underwent hypnosedation for surgery or endoscopy

        -  Duration of the study: 8 months (November 2015-June 2016): the estimated number of 80
           patients

        -  Acquisition of data:

        -  Age, weight, height, gender, ASA (Physical status score) score

        -  Type of surgery or endoscopy

        -  Previous history of surgery or endoscopy

        -  Names and doses of treatments

        -  Conversion to general anesthesia yes / no

        -  Length of management in operating room

        -  Adverse events during surgery and in recovery

        -  Evaluation using a numerical scale from 0 to 10:

        -  Patient anxiety during the pre- and per-interventional

        -  The per-Interventional Pain, Interventional immediate post-and before the release of the
           SSPI (The post-interventional surveillance room)

        -  The feeling of active participation in the intervention

        -  The quality of the relationship with the hypnotist during surgery

        -  Overall satisfaction during surgery

        -  Acceptance or not the patient to repeat surgery or examination under the same terms

        -  Acceptance or not to recommend the patient to the relatives hypnosedation

        -  Case open for any comments or suggestions obviousness
    
  