
    
      Diabetes is considered a worldwide health problem. Its prevalence is increasing every year
      despite efforts by health systems in different countries to reduce its impact. Most studies
      have focused on prevention and the effectiveness of drug treatment and diabetes education.
      However, in order to achieve greater adherence to therapy we must incorporate one more
      measure, the activation of patients suffering from this condition. This activation is based,
      above all, on the perception of self-efficacy, life experience in the face of the disease,
      confidence that adequate care is being received, and the positive assessment that a better
      result is being achieved. To achieve this, health systems are committed to redesigning the
      care process to achieve better short and long term results through the inclusion of patients
      in the assessment of how the care process is developed (through the patient experience
      measures) and the results of the care provided (through the outcome measures from the
      patients' perspective). This approach is being addressed worldwide and is being carried out
      in various pathologies, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease, asthma, etc.

      Although the Ecuadorian Health System has undergone a transformation since 2008 with the new
      constitution and the existing political reform, it has not yet achieved all of its
      objectives. Despite the significant increase in the number of medical consultations, this is
      not sufficient as it has not been possible to reflect a real impact on the population.
      Currently, health systems are aware that it is no longer enough to obtain clinical and
      administrative data to obtain better clinical results and increase the health of a
      population, but that they are turning their attention particularly to incorporating the
      perspective and experience of patients when evaluating the incorporation of changes in the
      care process. This new focus on patient-centered care is forcing health systems to
      incorporate new measures to assess the patient's experience through PREMs (Patient Reported
      Experience Measures) and the results of this care from the patient's perspective through
      PROMs (Patient Reported Outcome Measure). Thus, at the international level, this type of tool
      is being developed more and more, and is even being considered in consensus at the
      international level, a task headed by the International Consortium of Health Outcomes
      Measures.

      In this way, through the development and elaboration, from the perspectives of patients and
      professionals in the field, tools will be obtained that will allow for adding value to the
      health care provided by the Ministry of Public Health of Ecuador, expanding the indicators
      that monitor quality, incorporating patient-centered care and consequently improving clinical
      results through patient activation and satisfaction.

      This is a mixed-methods study. A first component that will focus on the design and validation
      in Ecuador of PREM and PROM tools through a qualitative study. And a second component,
      consisting of a prospective cohort study for the implementation of the questionnaires
      obtained during the first phase that will allow the validation of instruments.
    
  