
    
      Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) affects nearly 6.8 million adults in the United States.
      GAD is diagnosed when a person spends at least 6 months excessively worrying over everyday
      problems to the point that carrying out normal life becomes difficult. People with GAD face
      each day with intense anxiety and tension and are unable to alleviate their worries. Physical
      symptoms of GAD include muscle aches, nausea, sweating, exhaustion, irritability, frequent
      urination, shaking, and hot flashes. People with GAD often experience other anxiety
      disorders, depression, or substance abuse, all of which can worsen symptoms of GAD. This
      makes early and appropriate treatment for GAD important. Current treatments for GAD include
      medication and/or types of psychotherapy. This study will assess whether adding cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) to the antidepressant escitalopram is effective in reducing anxiety
      in older adults with GAD.

      Participation in this double-blind study will last up to 13 months. Participants will be
      asked to stop any current treatments for anxiety or depression for the duration of the study.
      Participants will begin taking one pill of the medication escitalopram daily for 12 weeks.
      Dosage will be increased to two pills each day if symptoms do not improve within 4 weeks.
      After 12 weeks, all participants will continue taking escitalopram for an additional 16
      weeks. In addition, some participants will be randomly assigned to receive 16 weekly sessions
      of CBT, lasting 1 hour each. CBT sessions will involve learning relaxation techniques and
      other skills to manage anxiety and completing 30-minute at-home practice assignments each
      day. A family member will accompany participants to the first four CBT sessions. All
      participants will be asked to provide information for a close contact, who will be
      interviewed at baseline, Month 3, and Month 7 about how the participant's anxiety is
      affecting his or her relationships.

      After the 16-week period, participants will again be randomly assigned to receive either
      continued escitalopram or a placebo for an additional 28 weeks. Participants assigned to the
      placebo will be gradually tapered off escitalopram over a 6-week period. Participants who
      were receiving CBT will receive three more sessions. Throughout the study, participants will
      be asked to complete various assessments, including questionnaires, memory and thinking
      tests, and attention evaluations. Blood samples will be taken at Weeks 2 and 8, and saliva
      samples will be taken at baseline and Weeks 12, 28, and 56.
    
  