
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Elevated concentrations of plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), a major risk
      factor for coronary heart disease, cluster significantly in families. This clustering has
      been observed in cross-sectional studies in both black and white families, but longitudinal
      data on the familial clustering of LDL-C are virtually nonexistent.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The longitudinal study will provide new and important information about changes in the
      familial low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) correlations in black and white families
      from the period of shared household environments to that of separate households, using
      families from the Princeton Lipid Research Clinics (LRC) Prevalence (1973-75) and Family
      Studies (1975-76). The study will also provide important information on changes in individual
      LDL-C levels over the same 25 year period. The former student participants were six to 18
      years of age and are now 32 to 45 years of age; their parents were (largely) 26 to 55 years
      of age and are now 51 to 80 years of age. Plasma LDL-C concentrations in children and adults
      have been shown to associate with the apolipoprotein (apo) E genotype, with obesity, and with
      such elective behaviors as diet, cigarette smoking, and physical activity. In the LRC Study,
      measurements were made of LDL-C, body habitus, elective behaviors, and the family history of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). The study will obtain repeat measures of these factors, plus
      determine the apo E isoforms. Changes in individual LDL-C levels and in familial associations
      can then be assessed in association with apo E isoforms, body composition, elective
      behaviors, and family history of CVD. Family members share ranges of body weight, patterns of
      fat distribution, dietary and smoking habits, and physical activity levels. The extent to
      which the familial clustering of LDL-C levels is determined by apo E isoforms interacting
      with the similar levels of obesity, and with the similar behaviors, is not currently known.
    
  