
    
      In developed countries only 5-10% of chronic stroke patients receive an active rehabilitation
      program. In Turkey, there is no community based rehabilitation program available to stroke
      patients in the subacute - chronic phase of the disease, even though it is known that
      functional gain can continue in this part of the disease when supported by an adequate
      rehabilitation program. Equally, functional gain can be lost over time if appropriate
      physical therapy is discontinued.

      Recent Advances in technology have allowed for the development of new approaches in stroke
      rehabilitation. Computer based treatment options include virtual reality (VR), robotic
      training and computer based task specific games. Computer based rehabilitation can encourage
      patients in performing high intensity, repetitive exercises which in turn aids
      neuroplasticity; the benefits of such treatments in upper extremity rehabilitation following
      stroke have been established. It is also believed that the stimulating environment provided
      by computed based exercises can enhance the development of problem solving and functionality
      in stroke patients. However, the effects of such technology on cognitive function in stroke
      patients has not been established in the literature. The disadvantages of VR and robotic
      training is that the necessary hard and software is often expensive and use of the machinery
      requires special training. Therefore, these options are often unavailable in rehabilitation
      centres. Contrary to this, computerized task specific gaming systems can be more economical
      and practical for both therapist and patient and can be used in the home environment without
      the necessity of direct supervision of a physiatrist.

      A review by Johansson et al. on home computer based task specific gaming exercises in stroke
      patients concluded that patients enjoyed the treatment but determining the benefits of
      treatment require further randomized control studies of better quality to be conducted. A
      pilot study based on a six week computer based task specific gaming exercise program in
      chronic stroke patients resulted in an improvement in learnt tasks and clinical evaluation.

      Rejoyce (Rehabilitation Joystick for Computerized Exercise), is a computer game based task
      specific exercise system developed by Rehabtronics Inc. for use as part of the treatment of
      stroke and spinal cord injury patients. Rejoyce aims to improve upper extremity and hand
      function by encouraging neuroplasticity through repeated task specific games.

      The aim of this study was to study the effects of computer game based task specific exercise
      system on upper extremity and hand function as well as cognitive function and quality of life
      compared to conventional rehabilitation in stroke patients.

      Patients who have developed a stroke in the past year and who have been admitted to our
      Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine (PRM) Department in Turkey for stroke rehabilitation
      will be included in the study. The total number of patients to be included in the study to
      obtain a study power of 80% and 5% type I error is thirty.
    
  