
    
      While cancer studies among YLWHIV in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are rare, available literature
      demonstrates that HIV+ children have a greater risk for cancer (prior to antiretroviral
      therapy (ART)- >40-fold higher; post-ART- 4-14-fold higher) than their uninfected peers.
      Although ART is available to all Ugandan HIV+ children, only 47% were on ART in 2016.
      Additionally, some of the worst pediatric cancer survival rates worldwide are in SSA, with
      the majority dying from their disease. These dismal odds are influenced by several barriers
      to accessing cancer services and staying in treatment, including cultural misconceptions
      about cancer, and inadequate patient/family level resources. Based on our prior study
      findings among YLWHIV and informed by Asset theory, the investigators hypothesize that the
      main barriers to uptake of available cancer diagnostic testing, care and treatment adherence
      are financial and that through increased household and financial stability, the investigators
      can improve engagement with the health care system and seeking cancer care when confronted
      with a possible diagnosis.

      Therefore this study is significant because the investigators will:

      Aim 1. Identify confirmed and suspected cancer cases in a cohort of >3000 HIV+ youth (ages
      10-24) seen at 39 clinics in 5 districts heavily affected by HIV/AIDS in southern Uganda

      Aim 2. Identify those lost to follow-up from the cohort in Aim 1 and determine reasons for
      loss to follow-up through qualitative interviews.

      2.1. Identify those who have not returned to the clinic in ≥ 60 days (~2 months) from their
      expected return visit date.

      Approach: We will identify lost to follow-up individuals who in consultation with clinics
      government guidelines, and our records. We will exclude those with a reported vital status of
      the dead where it can be determined that they died of a condition other than possible cancer.
      We will also exclude those identified as having transferred to another clinic (also referred
      to as transfer outs), although, if well-documented, efforts will be made to track them and
      find out whether they are visiting the clinics/health care centers where they may have
      transferred to.

      2.2. Determine reasons for loss to follow-up or death.

      Approach: From those identified as lost to follow-up in 2.1, we will extract names, sex,
      birth date, and contact information including addresses, phone numbers, caregiver
      information, and clinic id. We will engage an expert client at each clinic to assist us with
      tracing of these individuals or their caregiving families for those documented as deceased
      where cancer/suspected cancer for child/youth was reported or no cause for death was
      reported. We will conduct in-depth interviews to determine reasons for not returning to HIV
      care, if not available from existing records and/or clinic personnel.

      For those with phone numbers, we will contact them by telephone to tell them about the study
      and to determine if they are interested in participating. We will invite them to the clinic
      to present the study and allow them adequate time to consider whether or not they want to
      participate. If they participate, we will arrange to meet them to interview them for the
      study following consent.

      For those without phone numbers, we will contact via expert clients available at each clinic,
      who will assist us with tracing of the individuals and inviting them for an introductory
      meeting to take place either at the clinic/healthcare center, in ICHAD's private research
      field offices in Masaka; or at the participants' homes (if they request it and there is
      sufficient privacy to ensure confidentiality). Flexibility in location when re-engaging and
      interviewing participants has been critical to our ICHAD studies success to date, including
      Suubi+Adherence whose infrastructure the current studies builds on.

      Traced participants will be asked whether they are interested in participating in the study.
      We will provide them with a consent form (for caregivers) and assent forms for any child
      below 18 years of age.

      Interviews determining reasons for lost to follow-up will focus on 1) experiences around HIV
      care at the clinic where they were a patient; 2) multi-level facilitators and barriers to
      access care; and 3) multi-level facilitators and barriers to staying in treatment.

      2.3. For those determined to have died of cancer or with a suspected cancer identified from
      lost to follow-up interviews and from medical record abstraction for Aim 1, we will conduct
      the same interview as in 2.2 with additional questions with them or their identified primary
      caregiver to determine barriers and facilitators to cancer care.

      - More specifically, the interviews will focus on1) experiences with their healthcare
      provider on communication around suspected cancer, and referral process; and 2) experiences
      with accessing services for further cancer testing, including barriers and facilitators to
      access

      Aim 3. Conduct an open clinical trial to establish the feasibility and acceptability of the
      Suubi4Cancer intervention.

      For cases identified with suspected cancers to date as a part of Aim 1 activities (n=7),
      those that are eligible will be invited to participate in an open clinical trial testing an
      economic empowerment intervention (Suubi4Cancer) to determine feasibility and acceptability.

      We will conduct qualitative interviews to explore participants' experiences with the
      intervention, including feasibility and acceptability.
    
  