
    
      OBJECTIVE The goal of this study is to survey patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia to
      determine if there is a relationship between self-reported sexual function and treatment with
      antipsychotic medication.

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Schizophrenia The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders (4th Edition) classifies Schizophrenia as an AXIS I disorder with psychosis as the
      prominent aspect of its presentation. The essential features of Schizophrenia are a mixture
      of characteristic signs and symptoms that have been present for a significant portion of time
      during a 1-month period, with some signs of the disorder persisting for at least 6 months,
      and are associated with significant social or occupational dysfunction. Characteristic
      symptoms include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, grossly disorganized or
      catatonic behavior, and negative symptoms, such as flattening of affect, alogia, and/or
      avolition. The prevalence of schizophrenia has been estimated in the range of 0.5%-1.5%, and
      has been observed in all societies and geographical areas, and incidence and prevalence rates
      are roughly equal worldwide. The median age of onset is typically between late-teens and
      early 30s, although is most commonly diagnosed in a person's 20s. The course may be variable.
      Some patients experience exacerbations and remissions, whereas other patients remain
      chronically ill, some stable, others displaying progressive worsening.

      Antipsychotic Medication Two major classes of medications are used to treat Schizophrenia and
      other psychotic disorders, dopamine receptor antagonists (typical antipsychotics) and
      serotonin-dopamine antagonists (atypical antipsychotics). While both classes are efficacious,
      the atypicals are associated with fewer neurological adverse effects, and are effective
      against a broader range of psychotic symptoms. Most dopamine receptor antagonists have
      significant effects on other types of receptors, including adrenergic, cholinergic, and
      histaminergic receptors. Effects on sexual function are mediated primarily through the
      resulting imbalances in adrenergic and cholinergic activities, decreases in catecholamine
      activity, and endocrine effects. Blockade of the dopamine receptors in the tuberoinfundibular
      tract results in the increased secretion of prolactin, which can result in breast
      enlargement, galactorrhea, impotence in men, and amenorrhea and inhibited orgasm in women.
      The incidence of these effects is believed to be significantly underestimated. Up to 50% of
      men taking dopamine blockers may experience ejaculatory and erectile dysfunction. Both men
      and women can experience anorgasmia and decreased libido.

      Treatment Studies Sexual dysfunction is prevalent among psychiatric patients in general, and
      may be related to both psychopathology and pharmacotherapy. There have been many studies that
      highlight the problems with sexual functioning experienced by patients with schizophrenia.
      One study which used a self-completed gender-specific questionnaire revealed that 82% of men
      and 96% of women with schizophrenia reported at least one sexual dysfunction. As unwanted
      side effects often play the most significant role in medication non-compliance, on-going
      research in these areas remains necessary. A number of studies have addressed the issue of
      sexual function and schizophrenia. One study found that patients with untreated schizophrenia
      exhibit decreased sexual desire. Treatment with neuroleptics was associated with restoration
      of sexual desire; however, it created erectile, orgasmic, and sexual satisfaction problems.
      It was clear that more research was needed. Multiple studies have been conducted which have
      shown that antipsychotic medications, both typicals and atypicals, contribute to alterations
      in prolactin levels. Some studies were able to correlate changes in prolactin levels to
      problems with sexual function, however, other studies have shown that while antipsychotics do
      alter prolactin levels, they are not always specifically correlated to improvements in sexual
      side effects or self-reported sexual dysfunction. However, the majority of the aforementioned
      studies focused solely on laboratory markers (prolactin and other reproductive hormones),
      have compared only one drug to another, and/or studied men only. The majority of these
      studies that did use a self-report measure of sexual dysfunction used the Arizona Sexual
      Experience Scale, a 5 item scale, which may not be inclusive enough to fully assess the full
      scope of sexual dysfunction. One study, similar in design to this proposed study, did compare
      multiple agents in both men and women, used the CSFQ for assessment of sexual function and
      controlled for severity of illness. The study found that high rates of sexual impairment were
      found in both male and female patients. For males, higher scores on the PANSS-positive
      subscale were associated with a lower frequency of sexual activity. For females, higher
      scores on the PANSS - positive subscale and PANSS- general psychopathology subscale were
      significantly associated with more difficulty in both sexual arousal and orgasm.
      Interestingly, no significant differences were found between medication groups. However, of
      the 124 patients enrolled in the study, only 69% (84 subjects) completed at least part of the
      CSFQ assessment. Meaning even less completed the entire questionnaire.

      GOAL AND HYPOTHESES The current study aims to study the relationship between self-reported
      sexual dysfunction in both men and women diagnosed with schizophrenia, treatment with
      antipsychotic medication, and disease severity.

      Hypotheses: 1. Patients on typical antipsychotics will rate their sexual function as lower
      than those on atypical agents. 2. Patients on multiple antipsychotics will rate their sexual
      function as lower than those on a single agent.
    
  