
    
      There are three planned analyses:

        1. An exploratory analysis (proof of principle) on the first 10 enrolled patients. In the
           case the experimental treatment will be safe and some tumor responses will be recorded,
           the chairman, after due multidisciplinary discussion, could propose to proceed with an
           open, non-comparative phase II trial, with overall response rate (complete and partial
           responses) as primary endpoint. The maximum overall response rate considered of low
           interest will be 30%, and the minimum response rate considered of interest will be 50%;
           to demonstrate that difference, a total of 28 patients will be needed (one-sided test;
           trype I error .10; power .9). Importantly, BBB permeabilization will be investigated
           using different methods. Variations in tumor microvasculature and vessel permeability
           will be assessed by DCE- and DSC-MRI. Permeability will be assessed in contrast-enhanced
           lesions, perilesional areas and normal appearing brain; results will expressed as KTRANS
           values normalized using contralateral normal appearing white matter, and compared by
           Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test. Concentrations of R-CHOP drugs were assessed on matched CSF
           and serum/plasma samples.Moreover, BBB permeability will be also assessed by
           99mTc-diethylene-triamine-pentacetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) brain scintigraphy.

        2. First of the two stages of Simon Minimax design, where 12 patients will be entered
           (including the 10 patients of the exploratory phase) and, if at least 4 responses will
           be observed, the study will be continued until a total of 28 patients will be entered.

        3. Second stage of Simon Minimax design: final analysis of activity on the whole series
           (n=28); the experimental treatment will be declared active if at least 12 responses will
           be observed.
    
  