
    
      The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high fat, very low carbohydrate diet that promotes a variety of
      changes in the chemical processes on the body associated with reduced frequency and severity
      of seizures in patients with epilepsy. The reasons for this improvement are not yet fully
      understood and the answers can be related to changes in the biochemical process and the use
      of different substrates as the main source of energy for the body.

      The quality of life (QoL) of patients with epilepsy is highly affected by stigmatization,
      difficulties with employment, and physical limitations. There is some evidence that the KD
      may have beneficial effects on QoL in patients with epilepsy, which can be investigated by
      changes in body energy expenditure (e.g. physical activity level). Studies that associate
      changes in body energy requirements, body composition and biochemical measures with seizures
      and QoL are currently limited in the scientific literature.

      The main objectives of this study are to investigate the influence of the KD on changes in
      the frequency and severity of seizures, QoL, energy substrate metabolism, body energy
      expenditure components, fat mass and fat-free mass in adults with epilepsy. To achieve this
      objective, twenty-five male and female participants between the ages of 18 and 45 years (or
      over 18 years old for remote participation, no metabolic analysis will be complete on remote
      participants) will be recruited according to inclusion/exclusion criteria. Data will be
      collected at baseline (time of enrollment), and again at 3 and 6 months following diet start.
      Stable isotope compounds (doubly labeled water) will assess total daily energy expenditure
      (TDEE) and body composition (fat mass; fat-free mass). Indirect calorimetry will assess the
      resting energy expenditure (REE) and respiratory quotient for energy substrate oxidation.
      Biochemical blood exams (fasting glucose and insulin, and ketone bodies) and anthropometric
      data will provide data on the nutritional and metabolic status of the participant. Seizure
      frequency, severity, and QoL will be evaluated using validated self-report questionnaires.
      The physical activity level, obtained through the ratio between TDEE and REE and by wearing
      of a physical activity monitor, will be used as a predictor of QoL.

      The hypothesis is that KD therapy promotes differences in energy metabolism and energy
      substrate oxidation, which will lead to better metabolic control of epilepsy, reduced
      frequency and severity of seizures, and also an improved patient QoL. This study is expected
      to help elucidate the metabolic changes associated with reduced seizure frequency and
      severity, and improvement of QoL in patients with epilepsy.
    
  