
    
      Ascorbic acid [AA] (vitamin C) is an essential nutrient that, in addition to aiding tissue
      repair, also functions as an enzyme co-factor, an antioxidant, and a key component in
      lymphocyte development and function. Lymphocytes are responsible for adaptive immunity, the
      immune response following vaccination, in addition to playing a vital role in protection
      against viral disease progression. Both sepsis and aberrant lymphocyte activation have been
      associated with severe AA deficiency. We hypothesize that the administration of increasing
      concentrations of pharmacologic AA promotes lymphocyte activation and signaling in newly
      admitted, non-ventilator dependent COVID-19 patients via hydrogen peroxide generation and/or
      DNA de-methylation, and that this will lead to improved clinical outcomes.

      This is a single-center, prospective, randomized, open-label, phase II clinical trial
      designed to assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of pharmacologic AA administration
      in hospitalized patients newly-diagnosed with COVID-19 who will likely not require mechanical
      ventilation within 24 hours of study intervention. All subjects enrolled will be pending
      inpatient admission or already admitted as they will require supplemental oxygen. Within 12
      hours of admission to the E.D. or medical/surgical floor (rapid screens to determine
      eligibility must be completed within this time), patients will receive escalating
      pharmacologic AA over 2 hours once daily for 3 escalating doses, then continued on the
      highest dose for a total of 6 infusions.

      Subjects will be randomized 2:1, with 66 subjects receiving AA treatments and 22 subjects
      receiving routine clinical care. The open-label design allows investigators to evaluate the
      safety and clinical progress in real-time. Any subject randomized to AA treatment who is
      upgraded to ICU-level care, requires high-flow O2 supplementation, or is intubated, will no
      longer receive AA infusions in order to maximize patient safety during this study. Given the
      robust safety data on the treatment, a phase II design was chosen with an interim safety
      analysis after 21 patients. Randomization will be stratified according to high vs. low risk
      of complications. Patients will be considered to be high risk if they have any of the
      following characteristics: age>60, hypertension, structural lung disease, cardiovascular
      disease, diabetes, immunocompromising conditions or meds (such as immunosuppressing meds in
      transplant patients).
    
  