
    
      In recent years, the effectiveness of continuous antibiotic prophylaxis in children with
      vesico-ureteral reflux (VUR) has been intensely discussed. The question is not only whether
      antibiotics are effective in preventing recurrent urinary tract infections (UTI), but also
      whether they alter the natural history of disease and help to prevent the appearance of new
      kidneys scars. The evidence on the effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis is scanty:
      randomised controlled trials (RCT) published until now are poorly designed and carried out in
      very heterogeneous samples of children, i.e. spanning from 6 months to 14-18 years of age and
      pooling patients with and without VUR. A recently updated Cochrane Systematic Review
      concludes that high quality RCTs are needed to determine the effectiveness of long-term
      antibiotics for the prevention of UTIs in susceptible children. Moreover, the presence of VUR
      has not been firmly shown to be a risk factor for recurrence of pyelonephritis, and a direct
      association between VUR and the presence of scars or the appearance of new scars has not been
      demonstrated; there is just an association between VUR of grade IV-V and prenatal renal
      dysplasia, almost exclusively in male infants. In spite of this uncertainty, several practice
      guidelines recommend long term antibiotic prophylaxis in children with different degrees of
      VUR.

      The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis in preventing
      pyelonephritis and in avoiding the appearance of new scars in a sample of children under 36
      months with VUR.

      Comparison: In a multicentre trial, 100 patients with VUR diagnosed with cystourethrography
      after a first episode of acute pyelonephritis or for prenatal evidence of pyelectasia will be
      assigned randomly to receive prophylaxis or not. Randomization will be carried out using a
      centralized minimization procedure to balance for sex, age group and VUR grade.
    
  