
    
      Spinal tumors may be metastases or primary tumors; the former are more common. About 40% of
      cancer patients will have spinal metastasis. Primary spinal tumor is relatively rare,
      accounting for only about 8% of spinal tumors. For both metastasis and primary tumor, the aim
      of treatment is to reduce pain, maintain or improve neurological function, and maintain or
      restore spinal stability.

      In patients who cannot undergo surgery or need additional treatment after surgery, radiation
      therapy can relieve pain, prolong survival, improve the success rate of surgery, and reduce
      risk of metastasis and recurrence. However, the complex anatomy of the spine, and the
      numerous important organs around it, makes radiation treatment challenging. High-dose
      radiation therapy is necessary for long-term control of the tumor and for prevention of
      spinal column instability; however, this is impossible with traditional radiotherapy due to
      the presence of the radiosensitive spinal cord. Outcomes therefore tend to be poor for large
      and complex lesions. The CyberKnife-a stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) platform
      that combines a lightweight linear accelerator, a robotic arm, an imaging system, and a
      respiratory tracking system-offers a feasible approach. It can achieve submillimeter
      level-precision treatment under imaging guidance.

      Currently, the effectiveness of CyberKnife radiosurgery for spinal tumors is decided by
      assessing imaging changes, relief of clinical symptoms, and needle biopsy, but all of these
      methods have limitations. On imaging, for example, change in lesion volume is used to assess
      tumor regression, but the size of a spinal tumor is not easy to measure and, moreover,
      decrease in tumor volume after treatment may take time . Post-treatment signal intensity
      changes in conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T1-weighted and T2-weighted
      sequences are difficult to interpret, and their relationship with treatment efficacy is also
      not clear.

      Generally speaking, alterations in microscopic structure and biological activity of the tumor
      occur much earlier than changes in gross morphology . Functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (fMRI) can therefore be more useful than conventional MRI for assessing treatment response.
      In fMRI, sequences such as diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI
      (DCE-MRI), and diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) reflect functional information of tissues
      from different perspectives.

      Application of artificial intelligence technology for analysis of medical imaging data is now
      an area of intense research. This new method, which is called radiomics, can help in solving
      many difficult clinical problems. By extracting a large number of highly representative
      quantitative imaging features from high-throughput medical image data, radiomics can help in
      evaluating treatment efficacy and predicting prognosis of spinal tumors.

      Investigators intend to explore the use of the combination of fMRI and radiomics for
      evaluating the effectiveness of CyberKnife radiosurgery for spinal tumors. The method will be
      able to evaluate both volume and functional changes in the tumor, and thus provide important
      information for planning of individualized therapeutic schedules for patients with spinal
      tumors.
    
  