
    
      Tracheal intubation is the only technique to ensure airway protection, meaning preventing
      aspiration, and providing mechanical ventilation during general anesthesia (GA). This is an
      extremely frequent procedure. After intubation, the head of the patient is often moved as the
      patient is positioned for the surgical procedure (ENT, thoracic and abdominal surgeries,
      lateral or prone positioning…). This may even happen several times during the same procedure.
      It is well demonstrated that these head movements are responsible for secondary shifting of
      the tube (1-9). This can cause accidental extubation or selective bronchial intubation.

      The anesthesiologist secures the tube with tape to prevent secondary displacement of the
      tracheal tube. The two most common sites to tape the tube on patient's face are the maxilla,
      because it is a fixed spot on the face, and the mandible, because its mobility coming from
      the temporomandibular joint may allow a better interlock with the larynx.

      There is no study and no recommendation about the best site of tape. Both techniques are
      commonly used, depending on the anesthesiologist's preference.

      Investigators designed a, controlled study in Brest university hospital to compare two groups
      by cross-over intervention (one group "maxilla fixing then mandible fixing" and one group
      "mandible fixing then maxilla fixing").

      The population is composed of adult patients undergoing bronchoscopy or endobronchial
      ultrasound under GA and after tracheal intubation. The bronchoscope allows a permanent
      control of the tracheal tube's position, and the possibility of shifting it without
      compromising patient security, which is not possible in other daily surgical procedure.

      Statisticien estimate that the total number of patients to include is 36. In order to avoid a
      sequence effect, the order of the fixing technique will be randomized. Every patient will be
      its own control as there is a cross over-design.

      The main outcome is the maximal amplitude of the tracheal tube shifting when the head is
      bended on the chest and extended in the back, controlled by bronchoscopy with each fixing
      technique.

      The anesthesiologist investigator will use the first fixing site according to the patient's
      randomization group. Then, he will display an opaque cover around the tracheal tube, so that
      the operator, who will measure the tube displacements, will stay blind. As the intervention
      is performed under GA, the patient will also be blind. The same procedure will be performed
      after the second fixing site is used, before the end of the intervention.
    
  