
    
      Introduction

      Bridging the know-do gap is one of the most important challenges for public health in this
      century. It also poses the greatest opportunity for strengthening health systems.

      Health knowledge, or education, refers to the knowledge and understanding individual have
      about health-related issues. It is important to understand benefits for health and the causes
      of ill-health and recognize the extent to which they are vulnerable to, or at risk from, a
      health threat. In other words, knowledge is a necessary component of behavioral change .

      Health knowledge is an important but not sufficient factor in order to provoke a behavioral
      change toward a healthier life style. Knowing that something is beneficial or a risk to your
      health and perceiving it as a chance or threat are not the same. Schwarzer proposes the
      Health Action Process Approach for helping to bridge the know - do gap underlining the
      importance of adoption, initiation, and maintenance of health behaviors conceived of as a
      structured process including a motivation phase and a volition phase. The proposed study
      fosters acquisition and maintenance of health behaviors like activity in form of amount of
      steps performed during a day, sleeping behavior and monitoring of the heart rate.

      The context in which the described interactions between human beings and the wearable
      technology takes place, can be linked to learning concepts and instructional methods like
      knowledge building, situated, self-regulated and active learning. In situated learning it is
      important to create a meaning from the real activities of daily living where learning can
      also occur in an informal setting and connects prior knowledge to new contexts. According to
      recent reserach researchers, a selfregulated student is a student who is metacognitively,
      motivationally, and behaviorally engaged in its own learning processes and in achieving its
      own goals. Active learning refers to any instructional method that engages students
      (actively) in the learning process. Active learning requires students to do meaningful
      learning activities and to reflect what they are doing. Reserachers describe Knowledge
      building by an activity resulting in the creation or modification of so called public
      knowledge, knowledge that lives 'in the world' and is available to be worked on.

      Wearable technologies can also provide a vehicle and act as motivator for the effective use
      of IT tools and resources from the internet and other information and media channels.
      Students' learn to work with their own, real data delivered over a long period of time, and
      through these experiences they may become more critical about encountered information
      deriving from other sources and so develop literacies related to the use of digital
      information in order to enhance their health. This literacy is called eHealth literacy.

      eHealth literacy is not well developed for students in higher education. Wearable
      technologies like wristwatch trackers open an opportunity for development of new literacies
      and especially eHealth literacy by delivering in real-time, situated, personal information.
      Having access to these data and critically using it will stimulate individuals' interests in
      health issues and mediate deployment of interacting new literacies while locating and
      engaging with health information resources.

      Methodology:

      Procedure and data collection

      To understand the qualitative aspect of the changes in eHealth literacy semi-structured
      interviews pre and post intervention will be conducted on a sub-group of 35 students.

      During one academic semester 35 students from the course: 'Physical Activity and health' will
      be recruited. Participants will be asked to sign ethic clearance and the consent to
      participate to the study including the permission to publish the results of the study after
      anonymizing provenience of the collected data. Students of a higher education institution in
      Hong Kong aged 18 years and above. To understand eHealth literacy development in higher
      education in Hong Kong an existing ePortfolio tool will be used. Each of the participants
      will use a wearable device over a period of five month (1 semester), reflect on emerging
      personal data, document their thinking and share and communicate to other participants
      (optional) in their ePortfolio. The ePortfolio will allow the researchers to intervene at any
      time and to ask questions related to the participants reflections. Evidence regarding change
      in eHealth literacy at the beginning and end of the intervention will be collected with a
      well-established questionnaire. The same questionnaire will be used for Pre and Post
      intervention. Interviews and data from reflections and forum posts will be analyzed and
      triangulated to understand emerging issues influencing the development of eHealth literacy.
      After establishing a case report for each of the participants a cross-case analysis will be
      performed.

      The participants will be asked to reflect weekly about their use of the trackers. It will
      enable participants to enter their experiences with the biometric data, like relevance of
      difference sensor data, lifestyle adaptations (like e.g. more sleep), special situations
      (e.g. hike, changes in heart rate during activity) and how these experiences lead to specific
      searches and actions in the web and/or in their real social network. Students will be able to
      publish different formats of reflections as text, hyperlinks to health related web pages and
      images. The quality of the materials, collected and published within the ePortfolio tool, has
      been shown to improve during the previously conducted pilot work during the development of
      this tool. The created ePortfolio is expected to provide a fundamental platform for
      meaningful and sustainable interaction between the students and the teacher in the continuous
      construction of knowledge towards any undergraduate programmes' intended learning outcomes.
      It is expected to enhance the metacognition of own learning through repeated reflection. This
      will be assessed as suggested previously. Students have access to all their reflections and
      can retrieve past events of their reflective ePortfolio, described above.

      Study design and methodology

      The presented research will employ a multi case methodology study to explicate the
      affordances of wearable trackers, as they emerge from the ten students using this technology.
      The study will constitute an inductive, hypotheses generating naturalistic inquiry, whose aim
      is to accumulate an understanding and propose recommendations relevant to the study context.
      It will focus on the larger picture, the whole picture, and begin with a search for
      understanding of the whole. The research findings will provide a broad picture of the events
      taking place in particular contexts, allowing readers to draw their own conclusions. The
      sample size of the presented study, conducted over 5 months with an exemplary group of 35
      students across the four key areas, is sufficiently large for a multi case methodology study.
      The interview data will be collected by a research assistant and by the principal
      investigator. The questionnaire data will be collected by the research assistants. The data
      from the tracker (individual reflections and biometric data) will automatically be recorded
      into a database. Interview and questionnaire will take place at the University, 30 minutes
      for each interview, 20 minutes for each questionnaire (1 hours and 40 minutes for each
      participant). A consistency technique will be applied across the 35 cases to allow
      comparability. The adopted case study methodology is adequate for retrieving a well rooted
      set of arguments and recommendations related to the learning process performed by the 35
      students during the intervention related to eHealth literacy.
    
  