
    
      Objective

      Despite the growing use of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a treatment
      for unipolar major depression, its typical effect sizes have been modest, and both
      methodological and conceptual challenges remain regarding how to optimize its efficacy. Two
      key elements have been missing from current work: first, to take an RDoC approach and link
      the treatment to a comprehensive model of the neurocircuitry underlying depression, where
      applying such a model to personalize the site of stimulation is likely to significantly
      improve the efficacy of rTMS; and second, to maximize neural changes to the engaged
      depression network by utilizing cognitive paired associate stimulation (C-PAS), a technique
      we have developed over the last decade in which noninvasive stimulation is applied to the
      targeted region while the circuit is engaged in processing related to desired behavior (here,
      through the simultaneous use of cognitive behavioral therapy). The concurrent firing in the
      emotional regulation circuit caused by TMS pulses and by the CBT will lead to neural
      plasticity according to the Hebbian conception of fire together, wire together, while
      repeated stimulation over the course of multiple TMS sessions will induce neuroplasticity to
      accelerate and strengthen those changes, which are expected to be therapeutic. We thus intend
      to test a novel integrative multimodal treatment for MDD consisting of a theory-based
      protocol for individualized optimization of rTMS site of stimulation plus concurrent
      behavioral interventions targeting the same dysfunctional neural circuitry. Our targeting
      procedure is based on recent developments in the psychology and neurobiology of
      self-regulation which offer a promising conceptual framework for identifying neural network
      mechanisms of action in rTMS for depression, as well as for developing guidelines for
      individualized rTMS treatment. As preliminary data, we report initial feasibility data from a
      clinical paradigm in which five adults with major depressionreceived TMS to the left middle
      frontal gyrus targeted on an individual basis using fMRI, while simultaneously receiving a
      previously validated self-regulation-based psychotherapy (self-system therapy or SST). Here,
      we will test this individualized method in a larger randomized trial.

      Study Population

      The study population will consist of 50 individuals between the 18 and 65 years of age, with
      a diagnosis of treatment-resistant Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).

      Study Design

      This single site study is a proof-of-concept clinical trial to test both functional states
      associated with an antidepressant response to a six week course of C-PAS using concomitant
      SST and 10 Hz rTMS neuronavigated to left DLPFC, as well as the feasibility and safety of
      such a course for long-term improvement in depressive symptoms. The proposed study will be
      conducted over 3 phases. Phase I will consist of screening, consent, and baseline measures.
      Screening will occur under the ETPB screening protocol (01-M-0254). Phase II will consist of
      a 6-week double-blind sham controlled trial of neuronavigated TMS/SST. Participants will be
      randomized to two groups, one (Active group) using fMRI-guided coil targeting and combined
      TMS/SST, the other receiving sham TMS (Sham group) and a sham therapy. Subjects will
      participate in 30 daily sessions over 6 weeks, with MRI sessions both prior to and
      immediately after the course of TMS. Additionally, MEG may optionally be performed at
      baseline, immediately after the first TMS/SST session, and immediately after the entire
      course of TMS, and an optional battery of TMS/EEG excitability and plasticity measures may be
      performed pre- and post-TMS/SST course. In Phase III, the study team will provide standard of
      care for depression for up to three months, and will prescribe a relapse prevention strategy,
      in consultation with the referring physician, including TMS (which is consistent with
      standard of care).

      Outcome Measures

      Primary outcome measures are change in magnitude of BOLD signal recorded in pre- and post-TMS
      course MRI sessions, in the DLPFC region targeted with TMS based on individual activations in
      that region found at baseline using the priming task, and pre- and post-TMS course
      connectivity changes between DLPFC (measured with DTI and resting state functional
      connectivity), and other regions associated with the emotional regulation network,
      specifically OFC, medial PFC, precuneus, and ACC. Pre and post TMS course change in
      depression severity scores (HDRS, MADRS) will also be found, in order to look for
      correlations with these MRI measures. Secondary outcome measures will be ratings from the
      BSL, C-SSRS, CTQ, HAM-A, NIH-BFI, PANAS, RBANS, RRS, SHAPS, and TLEQ, as well as
      electrophysiological changes using MEG and EEG measures.
    
  