
    
      Approval Status: Approved Approval Number: 2007-06 Board Name: CPP Sud Ouest et Outre-Mer 3
      Board Affiliation: French Ministry of Health (DGS) Phone: Email: cpp.soom3@orange.fr No
      France: Afssaps - French Health Products Safety Agency

      During general anesthesia, airway closure and the formation of atelectasis impair
      oxygenation. During one-lung ventilation, large tidal volumes are used to resume atelectasis
      with a risk of regional over distension and Ventilator-Induced Lung Injury (VILI). The
      reduction in TV should reduce the occurrence of VILI but lead to a consistent alveolar
      derecruitment. This harmful effect may be counteracted by PEP. We, therefore, study the
      impact on oxygenation, of increasing PEP during OLV, in order to maintain alveolar
      recruitment when TV is reduced.

      A recent study reported that mechanical ventilation with large intraoperative TV is
      associated with an increased risk of post-pneumonectomy respiratory failure. Indeed, large TV
      during OLV may lead to Ventilator-Induced Lung Injury (VILI) with the creation of alveolar
      stretch injury and the development of permeability pulmonary edema. The reduction in TV
      should reduce the occurrence of VILI but lead to a consistent alveolar derecruitment. This
      harmful effect may be counteracted by PEP. Therefore, once TV is reduced, PEP may play a key
      role in minimizing lung collapse and preventing lung units from repeated opening and collapse
      phases. Such "protective" ventilatory strategy may be proposed if it does not lead to
      hypoxemia during exclusion. We, therefore, study the impact on oxygenation, of increasing PEP
      in order to maintain recruitment, keeping Pplat constant when TV is reduced. We will compare,
      in each patient without severe pulmonary obstructive disease (FEV1 and FEV1 /CV > 70%), two
      strategies of ventilation with two different levels of TV and PEP, but keeping the same Pplat
      :

      After induction of anesthesia, fiberoptic bronchoscopy confirms the correct position of the
      tube. Anesthesia is maintained with sevoflurane with a BIS® objective between 45 and 55.
      Boluses of sufentanyl and cisatracurium are done when clinically necessary. Patients are
      ventilated in VCV with a ZEUS® respiratory device (Dragger, Germany). Before incision,
      patients are switched to one-lung ventilation in the lateral position. The tidal volume (TV)
      is 8 ml/kg of ideal body weight, with a maximal plateau pressure limited to 32 cm H2O. The
      ventilatory frequency is adjusted in order to maintain end tidal concentrations of carbon
      dioxide (PetCO2) between 30 to 35 mmHg. 5 cmH2O of positive end expiratory pressure (PEP) is
      used, and the inspired oxygen fraction is adjusted in order to maintain the pulse oxymetry
      above 95%. During OLV, if SpO2 decreases to less than 90% with 100% of inspired oxygen
      fraction, surgery is temporarily stopped to resume two lungs ventilation until SpO2 recover
      at least 95%. If necessary, a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) with 5 cm H2O of
      oxygen is maintained to provide the non dependent lung. Datas are recorded when the chest is
      opened. The alveolar pressures and the inspiratory and expiratory flow time curves are
      monitored. After a period of 15 min, the two strategies are compared in a random order :

        -  TV of 8 ml/kg of ideal body weight and a PEP of 5 cmH2O during 10 minutes

        -  TV of 5 ml/kg and a PEP level in order to keep the same plateau pressure during 10
           minutes.

      Arterial blood gases are measured after 10 minutes using each strategy and before any vessels
      are ligated. The occurrence of PEPi is detected on the expiratory flow time curve.
    
  