
    
      The study is a prospective, cluster-randomised placebo controlled trial using a 4-arm
      non-inferiority design with 12 months of follow-up. Healthy recruits of the Tanzanian
      National Service Program JKT Mgambo Camp will be enrolled in the trial. The recruits come
      from all over Tanzania. The transmission in the camp is relatively high: the incidence of
      malaria infection in Mgambo camp among recruits in the last quarter of 2014 was 0.68 per
      person per year measured by RDT.

      One thousand five hundred recruits will be enrolled in the trial. Randomisation will be based
      on combania (the company, comprising typically 30-50 recruits). Recruits in a combania
      perform all activities together as a group. The randomisation will be unequal since the
      investigators expect that the primary comparison requiring the greatest precision is that of
      adding DEET lotion to PTU. Investigators will randomise 500 recruits for each arm of the
      primary comparison (PTU plus DEET, PTU uniform only) and 250 recruits to each of DEET only
      and placebo.

      Compliance will be maximised by requesting participants to use their uniforms and lotions
      only at night. Monitoring of uniform use will be conducted by random spot checks of
      participants in the evenings by study staff. In addition, bottles of lotion will be weighed
      on a monthly basis during active case detection as a direct measure of compliance with lotion
      use.

      Artemether-lumefantrine (Co-Artem) will be given to any participant with a temperature of
      ≥37.5 degrees centigrade or a history of fever in the past 48h, and P. falciparum parasites
      detected by RDT in the absence of other detectable cause of fever.

      The participants' activities for the previous two weeks will be recorded by questionnaire by
      study staff during active case detection. Time away from the camp or in the sick bay and
      prophylactic periods in the case of antimalarial treatment will be excluded from time at
      risk.

      Soldiers are a vulnerable group because they have limited ability to protect their own
      interests. It is therefore, particularly important that they should be prevented from being
      involved in the research project because they feel it is their duty to do so or that they may
      be subject to penalty from senior members of the army. Therefore, in order to protect the
      soldiers from coercion the ethical review process for the research is conducted the same
      processes procedure as is required by a civilian Institutional Review Board (IRB). In
      addition, service members' commanders or supervisors may not be in the room during the
      consent process. It will be stressed to Tanzania People's Defence Force (TPDF) staff
      performing spot checks that they are merely to monitor compliance and should not coerce
      participants into wearing their uniforms when in the barracks
    
  