
    
      1. The relationship between iodine deficiency during pregnancy and maternal offspring health

        1. Screening of pregnant women with iodine deficiency:

           A prevalence survey of pregnant women was conducted in iodine-sufficient area, combined
           with the results of single spot urinary concentration, 24h urinary iodine concentration
           and thyroglobulin level, screening out pregnant women with iodine deficiency during
           first, second and third trimester of pregnancy. There are 60 pregnant women in each
           group. At the same time, 60 pregnant women with iodine-sufficient during early pregnancy
           were selected, and the total number of the four groups is 240.

        2. Effects of iodine deficiency on pregnant women during different pregnancy:

           Pregnant women with iodine deficiency were gived nutritional guidance, and were advised
           to take iodine supplements. Follow-up with regularly collecting fasting venous blood,
           dried whole blood and single spot urine was conducted, in order to dynamically grasp the
           iodine nutritional status and thyroid function of pregnant women during different
           pregnancy, and clarify the influence of iodine deficiency on pregnant women in each
           group.

        3. Effects of iodine deficiency on offspring during different pregnancy:

           The offspring of follow-up pregnant women were observed, collecting the heel blood at
           birth for measuring TSH, and performing physical examination. Assessment of
           neuropsychological development in offspring for two years after delivery was performed ,
           in order to clarify the effects of iodine deficiency on the neuropsychological
           development of offspring in each group.

        4. Statistical analysis:

      Normally distributed variables were reported as the mean ± standard deviation, comparison
      between groups were analyzed with the use of t-test or analysis of variance (ANOVA), and
      Pearson linear correlation was used for correlation analysis; Urinary iodine level is
      lognormal distribution, so it was converted into logarithmic form and then analyzed.
      Non-normally distributed variables were presented as median and interquartile range. The
      Wilcoxon rank sum test was used for comparison between groups, and correlation analysis was
      performed using the Spearman rank correlation test. The chi-squared test was adopted for the
      comparison of enumeration data. P values below 0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      2. Study the RNI of iodine on pregnant women during different pregnancy:

        1. Screening of pregnant women during different pregnancy:

           A prevalence survey of pregnant women was conducted in iodine-sufficient area, based on
           24h urinary iodine concentration, thyroglobulin level, related health check and medical
           history query results, screening out pregnant women who meet the requirements of this
           study during first, second and third trimester of pregnancy. Each group has 20 pregnant
           women, and the total number is 60.

        2. Reasearch of the iodine EAR of pregnant women during different pregnancy:

           Iodine balance studies were performed on healthy pregnant women during first, second and
           third trimester of pregnancy to evaluate the daily iodine intake and excretion,
           including collecting and testing 24h dietary iodine intake, 24h urinary iodine and fecal
           iodine excretion of subjects. The daily respiratory iodine intake and excretion of
           subjects was assessed by measuring the iodine content in the air and exhaled breath. In
           addition, according to the positive correlation between iodine balance value and iodine
           intake, a scatter plot was drawn and curve fitting was performed. According to the
           results of iodine balance experiment, the iodine balance regression curves of first,
           second and third trimester of pregnancy were established , in order to determine the
           level of iodine intake when the pregnant women reach the iodine balance, which is the
           estimated average requirement (EAR) of pregnant women during different pregnancy.

        3. Research of iodine RNI on pregnant women during different pregnancy:

      Based on the obtained EAR values of iodine for different pregnancy and the 20% coefficient of
      variation (CV), according to the formula: RNI=EAR+2CV=1.4EAR, the iodine RNI values of
      pregnant women in different gestation were derived.

      3. Study on the relationship between iodine excess and maternal offspring health and iodine
      UL of pregnant women

        1. Prospective study:

           Pregnant women during early pregnancy who were exposed to different excessive water
           iodine intake were enrolled in a large-scale epidemiological prospective study, in order
           to assess the levels of iodine intake by collecting and testing random urinary iodine
           and 24h urinary iodine levels, and to detect the thyroid function indicators under
           different iodine intake levels to evaluate the health effects and harms of different
           high iodine intake on pregnant women. At the same time, the growth and development of
           the offspring and the level of neuropsychological development were evaluated to
           determine the long-term iodine excess exposure to the health of pregnant women and
           offspring.

        2. Discussion on iodine UL of pregnant women:

           According to the urinary iodine level during pregnancy, the subjects were divided into
           groups with different iodine intakes, with the TSH abnormal rate of pregnant women > 5%
           and the increase of FT3/FT4 as the end point, comprehensively determining the harmful
           effects of different iodine intake on pregnant women and offspring, analyzing the iodine
           safety intake level suitabled for pregnant women, and exploring the iodine UL of
           pregnant women.

        3. Statistical methods:

      Epi-data was used to enter survey data. Univariate statistical analysis was used to analyze
      the differences in evaluation indicators between different iodine intake levels..
      Multivariate statistical analysis methods were used to analyze the safety of each iodine
      intake level under multiple factors.
    
  