
    
      GERD and asthma likely co-exist, and may be pathogenetically linked. However, it is
      controversial whether GERD per se is an important risk factor for severe asthma, and whether
      treatment of GERD and/or GERD symptoms improves asthma control. In addition, there are no
      published data on how often asthmatics are treated with the anti-secretory agents proton pump
      inhibitors (PPIs) for GERD. However, a preliminary survey from the American Lung
      Association's Asthma Clinical Research Centers consortium show diverse practice patterns
      among clinics with about 15% of children and 20% - 30% of adults being prescribed medical
      treatment (unpublished data).

      The NIH Expert Panel on The Diagnosis and Management of Asthma, recommends that "…for
      patients with poorly controlled asthma, particularly with a nocturnal component,
      investigation for gastroesophageal reflux may be warranted even in the absence of suggestive
      symptoms". The American Thoracic Society (ATS) workshop on severe refractory asthma,
      concluded that GERD "…could contribute to the severity" of asthma and recommended that all
      patients with severe refractory asthma undergo esophageal pH probe monitoring to evaluate for
      the presence of GERD". Noticeably absent in both of these "expert panel" documents were
      randomized placebo controlled trial data in all populations, and properly designed clinical
      trial information in the pediatric population with clear case and control definitions of GERD
      and asthma. The American Gastroenterological Association recommends ambulatory pH probe
      monitoring in adult patients with reflux-triggered asthma; but, to date has developed no
      recommendations for children 20. While these are reasonable recommendations, there is no
      convincing evidence that GERD is more common in patients with severe asthma than mild asthma,
      or that treatment of reflux can decrease asthma severity. PPIs, the most effective treatment
      for GERD (i.e., resolve both symptoms and mucosal disease), have a retail cost between $100
      and $153 per month. However, recent hospital data demonstrates that anti-reflux surgery is
      being performed at an increasing rate in children with respiratory manifestations of their
      GERD at a sizeable cost and with no long term outcome studies to date. Thus, it can be
      estimated that the cost for diagnosing and treating GERD in symptomatic asthmatics ranges
      from $1 to $8 billion dollars per year if all poorly controlled asthmatics were both
      investigated and treated. Therefore, randomized controlled clinical trials are critically
      needed to reduce overall healthcare costs and the public health burden of these two chronic
      conditions.
    
  