
    
      Adherence to chronic medication is often suboptimal. However, existing interventions to
      improve adherence are either too complex or expensive for implementation and scale-up in
      low-middle income countries and/or not particularly effective.

      A cluster randomized controlled trial with 3-months follow-up will be conducted in 10
      Community Health Centers (CHCs) in Indonesia. Patients aged ≥18 years, diagnosed with type 2
      diabetes and reported non-adherence to antihypertensive drugs according to the Medication
      Adherence Report Scale (MARS) are eligible to participate. Patients in the five CHCs
      randomized to the intervention group will receive a targeted and tailored pharmacist
      intervention at baseline (first session) and at 1-month follow-up (second session). The
      intervention will be low-cost, align with the current CHC workflow and will not require a
      substantial change to the current system. Before dispensing antihypertensive drugs during the
      first session, the pharmacist will discuss patient-specific barrier(s) for medication
      adherence based on their responses on MARS and three additional questions, which are derived
      from the Brief Medication Questionnaires. The intervention strategies will then be tailored
      to their identified adherence problems. Based on current literature, the investigators
      defined four non-adherence problems that can be addressed by the community pharmacist, i.e.
      (1) forgetfulness, (2) lack of knowledge, (3) lack of motivation or (4) other drug-related
      problems. Of note, patients might need a combined intervention strategy to address all
      experienced problems. The four non-adherence problems and recommended intervention strategies
      are specified below:

        1. Strategies to cope with forgetfulness include reminders, habit-based strategies and/or
           involvement of family members.

        2. The content of the counselling to cope with lack of knowledge will focus on educating
           patients about about the purpose of the medication, when and how to take the medication,
           the need for long-term use, the importance of medication adherence, and how to deal with
           possible side effects. To explore which education is needed, the patient will be asked
           whether they know why and how to take their medication. The teach-back method will be
           used, where the patient is asked to explain the pharmacist what he/she has understood
           after receiving the education.

        3. The content of the counselling to cope with lack of motivation will focus on exploring
           and discussing the patients' concerns and necessity beliefs (motivational interviewing).

        4. The content of the counselling to address other drug related problems will focus on
           exploring other problems underlying the non-adherence, for example experiencing side
           effects, costs, polypharmacy, difficulty to refill antihypertensive drugs in time, or
           medication intake problems, and offering solutions/alternatives when possible.

      The follow-up session will be conducted in one month after the baseline session, when
      patients refill their medication at the next regular outpatient visit. The purpose of the
      follow-up session is (1) to evaluate the short-term effect of the intervention and discuss
      the patients' implementation of and experiences with the offered information and
      recommendations, and (2) to address non-adherence problems that were not yet addressed during
      the first session. Where needed, the pharmacist, together with patient, can make changes to
      the coping plan and discuss additional interventions. As the quality of the intervention will
      depend on the competences and skills of the pharmacist, treatment integrity will be enhanced
      by an obligatory communication training focusing on motivational interviewing and the
      teach-back method, and by providing supportive material as part of the intervention.

      Patients in five CHCs randomized to the control group will receive pharmacist counselling
      based on the Indonesian guideline of pharmacy practice. At each visit, they can receive
      information about the quantity and dose of the dispensed drugs, when and how to use and store
      the drugs, side effects and how to deal with them, the importance of medication adherence,
      and confirming if the patient understands how to take medications correctly. Patients in the
      control group will complete all assessments at the same time points as those in the
      intervention group

      The primary study outcome is the difference between intervention and control group in change
      in total adherence scores using the MARS between baseline and 3 months follow-up. Secondary
      outcomes are blood pressure (BP), medication beliefs using the Beliefs about Medicines
      Questionnaire (BMQ)-specific, and evaluate the intervention using the RE-AIM framework
      (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance).
    
  