
    
      Rationale Lumbar laminectomy is commonly performed to alleviate local or nerve root pain in
      the lower back and legs. Post-operative pain relief may consist of oral or parenteral
      medication, with an increasing body of research focussing on the use of epidural analgesics
      and anaesthetics (see references). It is the current practice of surgeons at this hospital to
      use an epidural infusion of pethidine in some patients.

      Epidural medication has sometimes been administered at the conclusion of an operation as a
      single dose, in the form of a spray1 2 3, paste 4, or been sponged onto the exposed epidural
      space.5 Agents used in this manner have included morphine, tramadol, buprenorphine and
      methylprednisolone. In one such study Bourke6 found that a single dose of epidural morphine 3
      mg reduced pain scores and analgesic requirements for 24 hours when compared to the same dose
      given intramuscularly, suggesting that direct epidural administration is superior to
      parenteral administration.

      As an alternative, analgesics have been infused post-operatively via and epidural catheter
      placed at the end of surgery under direct vision. Cohen7 compared an epidural infusion of
      morphine and bupivacaine to PCA morphine in 54 patients and found no difference in outcome
      between groups. Other studies which have been uncontrolled or unblinded have demonstrated the
      efficacy of epidural narcotic administration (morphine, fentanyl and hydromorphone) following
      lumbar laminectomy surgery.8 9 10 11 12 Thus there is some evidence supporting the use of
      this form of analgesia, despite a report of an incidence of technical failure in
      surgically-positioned epidural catheters. 13

      To date, no published study has investigated the use of epidural pethidine following lumbar
      laminectomy. Pethidine has some theoretical advantage over other agents used.14 As an opioid
      with intermediate lipid solubility, it is less likely to leave the epidural space than
      fentanyl. The low lipid solubility of morphine increases its likelihood of causing central
      respiratory depression as it crosses the dura to the site of action at a slower rate than
      pethidine.14 Pethidine also has an intrinsic local anaesthetic activity.

      An early study showed that patients receiving a single dose of epidural pethidine at the end
      of major surgery had a longer period before further analgesics were required than patients
      receiving equipotent doses of morphine or pethidine. Blake15 compared patient-controlled
      epidural pethidine (PCEA) with intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pethidine
      following abdominal aortic surgery, where all patients also received epidural bupivicaine.
      The PCEA group had lower pain scores, despite having lower plasma pethidine concentrations,
      confirming the central action of epidural pethidine. In a similar study, Chen16 compared
      epidural and PCA pethidine in 37 patients following gastrectomy. Pain and satisfaction scores
      were similar, but the epidural group had lower plasma concentrations of pethidine and
      norpethidine.

      The current proposed study will compare the efficacy of a continuous infusion of epidural
      pethidine through a surgically-placed catheter to PCA pethidine in patients who have
      undergone a lumbar laminectomy. Both strategies are considered usual practice for this
      institution. PCA pethidine has been used for postoperative analgesia following a variety of
      surgeries. Compared to PCA morphine and fentanyl it has been shown to associated with similar
      patient satisfaction17. Pethidine also caused less vomiting and pruritis than other agents.18

      One potential consideration with the use of pethidine is its metabolite norpethidine.
      Norpethidine is an excitatory neurotoxin that has been shown to cause seizures in animals. It
      is renally excreted, and hence may accumulate in patients with renal failure. There are case
      reports of patients experiencing seizures during the use of PCA pethidine.19 20 21 In each of
      these cases the patients had received high doses, long-term therapy, or both. The average
      reported dose administered in the 24 hours prior to the seizure was 1900 mg. By contrast, the
      mean 24-hour dose in the Woodhouse study18 was 410 mg, and none of the 135 patients in those
      studies18 17 exhibited any excitatory side effects.

      Hypothesis The hypothesis is that epidural pethidine is an effective form of pain relief
      following lumbar spinal surgery, resulting in significantly lower usage of concomitantly
      administered (intravenous) PCA pethidine.

      Methods A double-blind randomised controlled trial comparing a continuous epidural pethidine
      infusion to a placebo normal saline epidural infusion following lumbar laminectomy surgery.
      Both groups will receive intravenous PCA pethidine analgesia as well as routine analgesic
      adjuvants (paracetamol, diazepam). The follow-up period will be 48 hours.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adults undergoing lumbar spinal surgery

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Lack of informed patient consent

        -  Acute or chronic renal failure

        -  Known allergy or intolerance to pethidine or tramadol

        -  Chronic respiratory insufficiency

        -  Epidural contraindicated (coagulopathy, systemic infection)

      All consenting patients will be randomised to one of two groups, the epidural pethidine group
      (group P) or the placebo group (group N). All patients will receive fentanyl 2 - 3 mcg/kg
      intra-operatively as part of a balanced anaesthesia. Otherwise the anaesthesia will not be
      controlled. At the conclusion of surgery, all patients will have an epidural catheter placed
      under direct vision by the consultant surgeon. In the recovery room, all patients will have a
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) machine attached to the side arm of the intravenous
      infusion line. All participants will receive written as well as standard verbal instruction
      on the use of the PCA. The 30 ml PCA syringe will contain pethidine 10 mg/ml saline. Patients
      will be given standard instructions on the use of the PCA machine. The PCA machine will be
      set to deliver a one millilitre bolus with a five minute lockout, and a maximum dose of 20 ml
      (200 mg) over four hours. In addition, an infusion will be connected to the epidural
      catheter, containing either pethidine 250 mg in 250 ml saline (group P) or saline 250 ml
      (group N). The infusion will be commenced at 10 -20 ml/h according to the preference of the
      attending anaesthetist. This will generally depend on the age and weight of the patient.

      Patients will in the high-dependency area of the neurosurgical ward and will be reviewed
      frequently in the usual manner of patients receiving parenteral narcotics. Patients who
      develop pain will be encouraged to use the PCA. Any patient expressing dissatisfaction in
      their pain relief will be offered an injection of intramuscular morphine (50 mcg/kg) as a
      rescue medication up to every 2 hours. At the same time, the epidural infusion will be
      increased by 10 ml/h to a maximum of 40 ml/h. All patients will be visited by blinded study
      personnel at 1, 4, 24 and 48 hours for collection of data, and also twice daily by the
      hospital acute pain service. At the end of 48 hours, the epidural catheter will be removed
      and patients will be treated according to usual hospital pain management practices.

      In the event of a severe adverse reaction, or uncontrollable pain, the patient will be
      excluded from further participation in the study, and will be unblinded. Pain management will
      be in accordance with the wishes of the acute pain team and treating unit. Data from these
      patients will be analysed according to "intention to treat" criteria.

      Primary end-point:

        -  Cumulative 24-hour pethidine consumption

      Patient data:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Body mass index

        -  Current medications

        -  Preoperative opioid analgesic use (none, low, high - high dose being > 300 mg codeine or
           dextropropoxyphene daily or oral morphine or parenteral opioid use)

        -  Compensable status (HNC, TAC, WCV or PMI/SUR) 22

      Surgical data:

        -  Anatomical extent of surgery (number of spinal levels)

        -  Highest anatomical surgical level

        -  Experience level of primary surgeon (trainee or consultant)

        -  Anatomical level of epidural tip (identified from postoperative X-Ray when taken as
           routine care only)

        -  Dural tear at the time of surgery (yes/no)

        -  Spinal instrumentation (yes/no)

      Other end-points (all at 1, 4, 24 and 48 hours unless stated):

        -  Cumulative pethidine dose

        -  Cumulative morphine dose

        -  VAS scores for pain at rest and during movement

        -  Sedation score (1 - 4) 16

        -  VAS scores for nausea, pruritis

        -  Other adverse events: agitation, tremor, hallucinations, seizure

        -  Patient satisfaction scale for pain control during study (48 hours) (very dissatisfied,
           dissatisfied, neutral, satisfied, very satisfied) 17

        -  Plasma pethidine and norpethidine levels (24 hours)

        -  Physiotherapy assessment of ability to deep breathe & cough (unable, poor, adequate,
           good)

        -  Length of inpatient stay

      Statistical considerations The study will be powered to detect a difference in cumulative
      24-hour pethidine consumption. Based on a baseline 24-hour consumption of 410 mg 18 with a
      standard deviation of 100 16 , a power of 0.8 and a significance level of 0.05, the sample
      size required to detect a 20% difference in pethidine consumption is 24 subjects per group.
      This difference would be considered clinically significant. A total of 60 patients will be
      enrolled to allow for loss of data due to participant drop-out.

      The analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis. The unpaired Student's t-test and the
      Mann-Whitney U-test will be used to analyse univariate parametric and non-parametric data
      respectively. Serial measurements will be analysed by using repeated measures analysis of
      variance; any significant overall differences between groups will be investigated with
      t-tests at individual time intervals. The Chi-squared test will be used to compare
      categorical data. A p value < 0.05 is considered significant. The number and reason for
      participants not completing the study will be reported.

      Adverse event reporting Information concerning adverse events is to be collected as
      end-points for the study. This includes pain scores, sedation scores, respiratory depression,
      nausea, pruritis, agitation, tremor, hallucinations, and seizures.

      All other adverse events, whether resulting from the use of study medication or procedural
      errors, or apparently independent of the study, will be recorded.

      A serious adverse event is defined as one which causes patient death, is life threatening,
      prolongs hospital stay or results in a persistent or significant disability or incapacity
      (TGA). An independent physician will be appointed to review all serious adverse events. This
      review will occur within 24 hours of the adverse event occurring. The monitoring physician
      may suspend the study if warranted on the basis of the occurrence of adverse events. All
      serious adverse events will be reported to the Drug Trial Subcommittee of the Human Research
      Ethics Committee as soon as possible.
    
  