
    
      History and current related studies Periprosthetic fractures are one of the challenges for
      orthopedic surgeons that are more likely to appear during hip replacement with a cementless
      prosthesis. Hip replacement with a collum femoris preserving (CFP) prosthetic stem allows the
      preservation of the femoral neck and preserves bone tissues as much as possible for
      prosthetic revision in the future. However, the occurrence of periprosthetic fractures will
      result in a failure surgery. Existing evidence has shown that although hip replacement with
      the CFP prosthetic stem can reduce complications and pain, periprosthetic fractures that are
      more likely to occur during the surgery badly impact functional recovery in patients.

      Adverse events Adverse events which occurred during the follow-up, including hip pain,
      prosthetic loosening, spinal cord and nerve injuries, soft tissue infection and poor
      prosthetic position, were recorded.

      If severe adverse events occurred during the follow-up, their details including the date of
      occurrence, type of adverse events and measures taken were recorded and reported to the
      principal investigator and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis, and open access Data collection Clinical data,
      including demographic data, disease diagnosis, accompanying diseases, allergic history (drug
      allergy) and adverse events, were collected and summarized using standardized case report
      forms. These data were processed using Epidata software and electronically input using double
      entry system.

      Data management After database confirmation, only the project manager was able to access the
      database. The locked data were unable to be altered and were preserved by the Third Hospital
      of Hebei Medical University.

      Data analysis All data were statistically analyzed by professional statisticians who were
      responsible for completing an outcome analysis report that was submitted to the project
      manager. An independent data monitoring committee was responsible for data monitoring and
      management throughout the entire trial to ensure scientific accuracy, stringency,
      authenticity, and integrity.

      Statistical analysis All data were statistically analyzed by statisticians using SPSS 21.0
      software in line with the intention-to-treat principle. Normally distributed measurement data
      were expressed as means, standard deviations, minimums, and maximums, while non-normally
      distributed data were expressed as lower quartiles, medians, and upper quartiles.

      Wilcoxon matched paired test was used for comparative analysis of Harris hip scores and
      imaging parameters as determined before and 6, 12, 24 months after operation. Then, a
      multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to calculate the regression coefficient,
      OR, 95% CI with the Harris scale as the dependent variable for each imaging parameter which
      had significant difference. The statistical significance level was α = 0.05.
    
  