
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the rates of durable engraftment in patients with severe aplastic
      anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, inborn errors of metabolism, or inherited hematopoietic
      disorders refractory to medical management, who are undergoing high dose chemoradiotherapy
      followed by unrelated cord blood (UCB) transplantation. II. Determine the incidence and
      severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease in these patients. III. Monitor
      overall and event-free survival of these patients. IV. Evaluate rate and quality of
      immunologic reconstitution of these patients. V. Determine whether nucleated cell or
      progenitor cell content of the graft is predictive of engraftment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to low vs high
      weight. Patients with severe aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or bone marrow
      failure receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3 or melphalan IV over 20
      minutes on days -4 to -2, antithymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over 4 hours or methylprednisolone
      IV over 1 hour twice a day on days -3 to -1, and total lymphoid irradiation on day -1. On day
      0, patients receive umbilical cord blood (UCB) infusion. Patients with inborn errors of
      metabolism or inherited hematopoietic disorders receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days
      -9 to -6, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2 or melphalan IV over 20 minutes on
      days -4 to -2, and ATG IV over 4 hours or methylprednisolone IV over 1 hour on days -3 to -1.
      On day 0, patients receive UCB infusion. Patients with Fanconi's anemia receive ATG IV over 4
      hours or methylprednisolone IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -1, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour
      on days -5 to -2, thoracoabdominal irradiation on day -1, and then the UCB infusion on day 0.
      Patients also receive cyclosporine and methylprednisolone beginning on day -2 and continuing
      as necessary as graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis. Patients are followed indefinitely for
      survival and late toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4-90 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  