
    
      The objective of this registry is to collect outcomes data via a registry on the uses of CAM
      in the post-market setting, including:

        -  Adverse events related to the treatment, or the product, will be collected for up to 12
           weeks following the treatment.

        -  Improvements in appropriate effectiveness markers for CAM use in patients treated for
           various conditions.

        -  Improvements in overall quality of life resulting from CAM treatment in patients.

      An additional objective is to determine standard of care follow-up for the target treatments,
      including effectiveness metrics used and typical follow-up schedule.

      This registry is intended to collect clinical data from patients for analysis purposes only
      and will not be used to treat patients. The plan does not allow for any deviation from
      standard of care practice. Therefore, there is no added risk to patients from participating
      in the registry.

      The sponsor will use an electronic data capture (EDC) system for capturing all the data from
      the sites. The system will be built and validated prior to initiation of the sites. Each
      participating physician or appropriately trained designee shall enter data into the EDC
      system, providing all applicable data and documentation to the sponsor. Data will be reviewed
      for missing data, data consistency, and reasonableness of responses. Discrepancies will be
      resolved through a formal query process within the EDC system, and may involve direct contact
      with hospital staff.

      The conduct of the registry will be supervised through a process of centralized and on-site
      monitoring. The sponsor may remotely monitor the registry for data completeness and for
      adverse events. On-site monitoring will be implemented as necessary throughout the course of
      the registry. The physician/clinic will provide direct access to source data/documents for
      registry-related monitoring, audits and IRB review.
    
  