
    
      EXPERIMENTAL PLAN Serum This will separated from peripheral blood taken from 2 healthy
      subjects, 2 patients with ulcerative colitis (one with quiescent and the other with active
      disease), and 2 patients with Crohn's disease (one with quiescent and the other with active
      disease). It will be used wither fresh or freshly thawed from serum stored at -20 oC.

      Infliximab

      Two sources of infliximab will be used:

        -  Orig-IFX from Janssen

        -  MSD-IFX from Merck Sharp & Dome.

      Preparation of simulated serum samples Fresh or thawed serum will be spiked with IFX to
      obtained serum at concentrations of 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 15 and 20 ug/ml. This range
      covers that seen in routine practice. These preparations will be used fresh or stored in
      aliquots at 4 oC or -20 oC.

      Assays to be evaluated These commercially-available assay kits have been chosen on the basis
      that they are commonly used. They will all be used according to manufacturer's
      recommendations.

        -  SHIKARI Q-INFLIXI from Matriks Biotech;

        -  LISA TRACKER Premium from Theradiag;

        -  Promonitor ELISA kit from Grifols;

        -  Quantum Blue Infliximab trough level rapid test from Buhlmann. Testing protocol The two
           IFX molecules will be tested on the same plates in duplicate at the concentrations
           prepared (as above). One assay plate will be sufficient for sera from 2 individuals. One
           assay only will be performed on any one day.

      For the direct comparisons, 3 ELISA assay kits will be required to assess 6 pairs of
      IFX-spiked sera. The rapid test will be performed in duplicate in a similar way.

      In order to assess the effect of storing at -20 oC followed by freeze-thawing, and storage at
      4 oC, sera from two subjects will be prepared at one concentration (7 ug/ml), will tested
      fresh and then again 7 days later after storage at the two temperatures. This will l be
      performed with one assay kit only (the one performing the best in the comparative studies if
      differences in kits emerge).

      Analysis The result of MSD-IFX will be compared to those of Orig-IFX by plotting the
      respective curves of concentrations and visually comparing them for each assay. The percent
      deviation for each concentration will be calculated. The results will also be compared across
      assays for each IFX source and then the findings compared.
    
  