
    
      1. Introduction:

           Plantar flexors play a crucial role in gait cycle, during foot clearance. It assists in
           forward propulsion, and is also responsible for maintaining the static and dynamic
           balances. Single heel-rise test is a physical examination which evaluates the strength
           of plantar-flexors. This study aims to assess the intra-rater and inter-rater
           reliability and normative value of single heel-rise test in healthy school-going
           children of age group 8-12 years.

           1.1.Problem Statement: The documented evidences does not have normative value for single
           heel-rise test in children. The normative value is provided only for adults. Therefore,
           there is an absolute need of deriving normative value for this test in children.

           1.2.Purpose of the study: The purpose of this study is to derive the normative value of
           single-heel rise test along with reliability.

           1.3.Objectives of the study: 1.3.1.To establish inter-rater and intra-rater and
           test-retest reliability of single heel-rise test 1.3.2.To derive normative value of
           single heel-rise test

        2. Procedure:

      The study will be a cross-sectional study. The study protocol has been approved from the
      Institutional Ethics Committee of Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University).

      All the anthropometrics of the children will be taken prior to the test which includes
      height, weight, calf muscle girth and length. The maximum number of heel-rises will be
      performed by the child in single limb stance until maximal exertion will be recorded. The
      test will be repeated in standing position on both the sides. For balancing, 2-finger support
      on wall will be allowed.

      Reliability testing: For inter-rater, 2 raters will assess on two different sessions on same
      day. For intra-rater, same rater will assess the test twice on same day, and after 24 hours
      for test-retest reliability.

      Normative value: The mean of all the test-values for each age group will be normative value
      for that particular age group.
    
  