
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether the addition of temozolomide to fractionated radiotherapy improves
           the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with symptomatic or progressive
           low-grade gliomas.

        -  To determine whether the addition of temozolomide to fractionated radiotherapy improves
           the median overall survival (OS) of these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether combination therapy with temozolomide and radiotherapy improves or
           maintains cognition and quality of life compared to radiotherapy alone.

        -  To compare the toxicities (severe or worse [≥ grade 3]) of radiotherapy with vs without
           temozolomide in these patients.

        -  To assess the impact of the presence or absence of 1p and 19q deletion on PFS and OS.

        -  To determine the impact of 1p and 19q status on PFS and OS of patients treated with
           temozolomide.

        -  To create a tumor and tissue bank, including plasma and germ line DNA, within the ECOG
           Pathology Coordinating Office.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (< 40 years vs
      ≥ 40 years), 1p and 19q status (both deleted vs either/both intact vs undeterminable),
      pre-operative maximum tumor diameter (< 6 cm vs ≥ 6 cm [based on T2 or FLAIR MRI]), Karnofsky
      performance status (60-70% vs 80-100%), and contrast enhancement on pre-treatment MRI scan
      (present vs absent). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo 3-dimensional conformal or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once
           daily 5 days a week for 5½ weeks (28 fractions).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I and receive concurrent oral
           temozolomide once daily for 5½ weeks. Beginning 28 days after completion of
           chemoradiotherapy, patients receive oral temozolomide alone once daily on days 1-5.
           Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Some patients undergo quality-of-life and neurocognitive (e.g., visual scanning speed,
      divided attention, language, memory, and fine motor skills) assessments at baseline, annually
      until disease progression, and at the time of disease progression.

      Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline for confirmation of diagnosis and
      determination of 1p and 19q deletion status. Peripheral blood, serum, and additional tumor
      tissue samples may be collected for further research studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 15
      years.
    
  