
    
      Total Hip Replacement (THR) is the gold standard for treatment of severe arthritis of the hip
      as it relieves pain, restores function of the joint, and improves quality of life for
      patients. The restoration of hip mechanics can be influenced by the selected femoral stem
      design and also by choices made by the surgeon during the surgical implantation. The
      combination of femoral neck resection level and angle are key factors, particularly in
      cementless hip arthroplasty, in determining post-operative leg length and femoral
      anteversion. Historically, an estimation of prosthesis sizing and positioning has been made
      via a process of manual or digital templating either pre or intraoperatively using images of
      the implants positioned over the standard AP and lateral view hip x-rays taken in advance of
      surgery with generic instruments used during the surgery to execute the femoral head
      resection at the planned level. This process has a number of limitations. The OPS™ system
      utilizes detailed pre-operative imaging including a CT scan to generate a plan for the
      femoral neck resection level and angulation based on the anatomy of the individual patient.
      Following validation of this plan by the operating clinician, a patient specific femoral
      guide instrument is generated to help facilitate the reliable delivery of the planned
      resection intraoperatively. The purpose of this study will be to evaluate the use of the
      patient-specific femoral instrument in the hands of one surgeon using a protocol-specific
      choice of prosthesis combinations and one surgical approach. A total number of 100 subjects
      will be enrolled. Participants in this study will return for a single post-operative visit at
      6 weeks to have x-rays taken and to enable any postoperative study hip-related complications
      recorded. Once this has been completed, participants will be routinely followed-up by their
      Orthopedic surgeon as required in accordance with the standard clinical practice.
    
  