
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Elevated blood pressure has been established as an important risk factor for the development
      of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. The major manifestations of end-organ
      pathology associated with hypertension include congestive heart failure, ischemic heart
      disease, stroke, and peripheral artery disease, including renal failure and retinopathy. As
      blood pressure has been studied in children, it has become evident that adult essential
      hypertension and its complications may have origins in adolescence and childhood. Clinical
      observations have shown that some individuals with elevated blood pressure will develop one
      form of morbidity, while others develop a different form, and still others do not develop any
      complications. The reasons for this are unknown. Few studies have been done which attempt to
      delineate risk factors for the development of the different end-organ pathologies in
      hypertensive individuals. Two end-organ problems are particularly amenable to study in
      children. Ultrasound examination of the heart allows the non-invasive study of left
      ventricular hypertrophy which is an important precursor to the development of congestive
      heart failure. Retinal examination by fundal photograph and fluorescein angiography allows
      the examination of the effects of elevated blood pressure on the vessels of the eye.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The first phase of the study had a cross-sectional design. In this phase, echocardiography
      was used to measure left ventricular dimensions, mass, volume and function and fundoscopic
      examination and fluorescein angiography were used to determine retinal vascular
      abnormalities. Data were collected on the independent variables of age, sex, race, obesity,
      level and duration of increased blood pressure, ambulatory variability of blood pressure,
      family history of hypertension, treatment with antihypertensive medication, sodium intake,
      smoking, alcohol use, fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin, basal plasma renin activity, plasma
      catecholamines, cardiovascular reactions to mental stress and to exercise. Multiple
      regression analysis was used to determine which of the independent variables were
      independently associated with left ventricular mass, creatinine clearance, and retinal
      vascular abnormality.

      The second phase of the study was a longitudinal investigation of the development of left
      ventricular hypertrophy, changes in left ventricular function and retinal vascular disease,
      and the temporal relationship of these complications to the risk factors found in the first
      phase, using a cohort design.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  