
    
      Just-in-time adaptive interventions (JITAIs) have recently been proposed as framework for
      health interventions that exploit the potential of mobile health information and sensing
      technologies. By obtaining contextual information for example from smartphone sensors (e.g.
      location, time of day), a JITAI adapts the provision of interventions over time with the goal
      to deliver support when the person needs it most (state of vulnerability) and is most likely
      to be receptive (state of receptivity).

      To facilitate the development of a JITAI for physical activity, the present study has the
      following objectives:

        1. To quantify main effects and interactions of three intervention components of Ally, a
           mHealth intervention for physical activity.

        2. To identify moderators for these intervention components to formulate evidence-based
           decision rules.

        3. To train machine learning models that predict the user's state of receptivity

      A micro-randomized trial design is used to meet the objectives of the study. Customers of a
      large Swiss health insurance company will use Ally over a 10-day baseline and a 6-week study
      period. During the baseline period, participants only have access to the dashboard of the app
      and no interventions are administered. During the intervention period, Ally provides daily
      personalized step goals and different interventions via an interactive chatbot interface
      based on the MobileCoach system (www.mobile-coach.eu). We investigate the following
      intervention components as between-subject or within-subject experimental factors during the
      intervention period: daily self-regulation coaching (two levels, within-subjects), a weekly
      planning intervention (3 levels, within-subjects) and different incentive strategies (3
      levels, between-subjects).

      Primary outcome will be the difference in achievement of the daily personalized step goal
      between intervention and control conditions for all intervention components. We expect all
      intervention components to increase the probability of goal achievement. Sensitivity analyses
      will be conducted for per protocol analysis and adjustment for covariates. Moderators of
      intervention components will be investigated exploratively.

      To reach objective 3, we will collect a wide range of smartphone sensor data as well as usage
      logs of the Ally app throughout the study.
    
  