
    
      The causes of spontaneous miscarriage are diverse and comprise chromosomal, genetic,
      anatomical, immunological, hormonal, infectious and psychological factors, the other factors
      contribute to an increased risk include advancing paternal and maternal age and mothers with
      systemic diseases, such as diabetes or thyroid dysfunction. However, the incidence is
      difficult to determine precisely due to occur very early during a pregnancy and almost 30% of
      early pregnancy may go unrecognized; the pathogenesis of pregnancy loss in this condition is
      still remains obscure. Compared with healthy women, the women with threatened miscarriage not
      only were found to have increased rate of antepartum haemorrhage, prelabour rupture of the
      membranes, preterm delivery, and intrauterine growth restriction, but also suffer significant
      psychological impairment including considerable anxiety and stress, depression, sleep
      disturbances, anger, and marital disturbances.

      To date, therapies have limited effectiveness in treating threatened miscarriage and are
      empirical. Bed rest does not prevent pregnancy loss. Acetaminophen may have some effects on
      relieving pain only. The most commonly used prescription medication was human chorionic
      gonadotropin (hCG), maintaining the luteotrophic effects to support continued secretion of
      estrogen and progesterone, However, the beneficial effects of hCG still cannot be verified.
      Progesterone is another most commonly used traditional medication to treat threatened
      miscarriage, maintaining the endometrial proliferation and preventing spontaneous pregnancy
      loss. A number of recent studies in women with threatened miscarriage that has shown a
      reduction in pregnancy loss with progesterone treatment. Progestogens are a group of
      hormones, including both the natural female sex hormone progesterone and the synthetic forms.
      Micronized progesterone is a kind of progesterone; it is structurally and pharmacologically
      very similar to natural progesterone and has good oral bioavailability. It is especially
      suitable for women with threatened miscarriage as it does not have androgenic or oestrogenic
      effects on the foetus. A recent review of maternal use of Micronized progesterone during
      pregnancy also found no evidence for an increased risk of congenital malformations. However
      it may only be suitable to treat women with threatened miscarriage who have low progesterone
      levels due to corpus luteum deficiency at the first trimester pregnancy. There is no evidence
      to identify the beneficial effects of progesterone to treat threatened miscarriage due to
      others factors. At the same time, progesterone treatment is also expensive. New or adjuvant
      treatments that are suitable to treat women with threatened miscarriage due to various
      factors, and readily accessible, affordable, and safe are needed.
    
  