
    
      Experimental Procedures:

      Lymph nodes are oval-shaped glands where immune reactions occur. For patients with
      endometrial cancer, lymph node status is an important factor for planning the cancer
      treatment course and predicting the status of the cancer. The "sentinel" node is the lymph
      node closest to the main tumor area, and it is believed to be at greatest risk for spread of
      the cancer. If the sentinel node does not contain cancer cells, then the remaining lymph
      nodes are usually cancer-free.

      In this study, researchers want to study possibly using lymphatic mapping in future patients
      as an alternative to completely removing the lymph nodes in the pelvis (hip area) and
      para-aortic (upper abdomen) area.

      Intraoperative sentinel lymph node identification (lymphatic mapping) uses 2 techniques. The
      first technique involves injecting a small amount of weak radioactive material, and the
      second involves injecting a drug called isosulfan blue or methylene blue. These techniques
      are being studied to see if the surgeon can locate ("map") lymph nodes that may contain tumor
      cells.

      Routine Surgical Treatment:

      As part of routine care, all participants in this study will have surgery to remove the
      uterus, cervix, 1-2 inches of the vagina, fallopian tubes, ovaries, and the lymph nodes in 2
      areas of the waist.

      Study Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, after you have been given the anesthetic for your
      surgery, your uterus will be examined to locate the tumor(s). After the tumor(s) are located,
      they will be injected with a radioactive substance called Tc-99m sulfur colloid. The tumors
      will then be injected with a dye called isosulfan blue or methylene blue, which is used to
      turn the sentinel node blue.

      Before and during your surgery, a gamma counter (a special hand-held instrument that measures
      radioactivity) will be used to identify lymph nodes that have absorbed the Tc-99m sulfur
      colloid. The surgeon will also be able to see the lymph nodes that have absorbed the blue
      dye.

      Information Collection:

      In addition to the study procedures, researchers will collect clinical information about you
      that will be compared with the study results. This information includes your date of birth,
      age, race, height, weight, number of any past pregnancies and deliveries, any other medical
      conditions, and any earlier surgeries. It also includes the date of the cancer diagnosis, the
      status of the cancer diagnosis before surgery, the status of the disease, and the results of
      routine scans before surgery (chest x-ray and computed tomography [CT] or magnetic resonance
      imaging [MRI] scan, if performed).

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in this study will be over after the 15-20 minute procedure for
      identifying the sentinel nodes. The routine surgery will occur after that, which can take up
      to 5 hours.

      This is an investigational study. Tc-99m sulfur colloid, the blue dye (either isosulfan blue
      or methylene blue), and the gamma counter are FDA approved for the procedures used in this
      study.

      Performing lymph node mapping and sentinel node identification during surgery in patients
      with endometrial cancer is considered experimental.

      Up to 20 women will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 10 will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  