
    
      Paliperidone ER has been shown to be effective compared to placebo ("a sugar pill") in the
      acute treatment and maintenance of patients with schizophrenia. Paliperidone ER combines an
      active metabolite of another antipsychotic, risperidone, with manufacturing technology
      allowing more gradual release of the drug and less difference in high and low blood levels of
      the drug. Side effects to medications are sometimes due to wide differences in these high and
      low blood levels. Recent research has shown that many patients with schizophrenia discontinue
      their antipsychotic medication due to "subject-choice". Therefore, it is important that
      research studies attempt to measure patients' satisfaction with antipsychotic medication, in
      addition to measuring how they respond on tests of effectiveness. This study has been
      designed to evaluate antipsychotic medication satisfaction in patients who continue to have
      symptoms of schizophrenia, and who say they are dissatisfied with their current risperidone
      treatment. The primary outcome is the change in the Medication Satisfaction Questionnaire
      (MSQ) score, from baseline to the Week 6 endpoint. These patients are randomized (like
      flipping a coin) as to when their risperidone (4 mg to 6 mg per day) is switched to
      paliperidone ER. Because the study is 'blinded', neither the study doctor nor the patient
      will know when treatment with risperidone is stopped and treatment with paliperidone ER
      begins. Throughout the study all patients continue to receive antipsychotic medication daily.
      Patients will continue on the same daily dose of risperidone until their randomly assigned
      switch to paliperidone ER. All patients will be switched to paliperidone ER over the course
      of study and once switched continue to take paliperidone ER for the remainder of the study.
      Paliperidone ER is started at 6 mg/day and can be increased to 9 mg/day or 12 mg/day at the
      doctor's discretion. Effectiveness and safety will be measured at visits scheduled weekly for
      the first four weeks and then at the Week 6 endpoint. At each visit, patients will be asked
      to complete psychiatric tests and questionnaires that will measure effectiveness and patient
      satisfaction with the medicine. They will also complete tests and evaluations for safety,
      including electrocardiograms (ECGs, electrical tracings of the heart) and blood samples at
      the beginning and end of the study. Each patient receives two blinded capsules by mouth once
      daily in the morning for 6 weeks. Patients taking risperidone receive either a 4-mg or 6-mg
      capsule plus a placebo capsule. When patients are switched, Paliperidone ER is started at 6
      mg/day the day after risperidone is discontinued and can be increased to 9 mg/day or 12
      mg/day at the doctor's discretion. Paliperidone 3-mg and 6-mg capsules are combined with
      placebo to equal the total dose in two capsules.
    
  