
    
      Gliomas account for almost 80% of primary malignant brain tumors, and glioblastoma is the
      most common subtype. Despite treatment with surgery, radiation, and
      chemotherapy(Temozolomide) almost all patients with glioma experience recurrence and the
      median survival for most patients is less than 2 years. In recurrent disease, salvage
      therapies have been limited and result in minimal improvement in OS. This overwhelming need
      for improved treatments has driven the development of novel drugs that target glioma biology,
      specifically anti-VEGF therapies.

      Malignant gliomas are considered among the most angiogenic of cancers and are mostly fueled
      by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling via its endothelial tyrosine kinase
      receptor VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2). Levels of VEGF and its receptor are correlated with the
      histologic grade of gliomas, with the highest levels present in glioblastoma.Thus
      glioblastoma has emerged as an attractive tumor in which to conduct clinical trials of novel
      anti-VEGF agents, such as monoclonal antibodies and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

      Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that binds all VEGF isoforms,
      causing reduced tumor vascularization and inhibiting tumor growth. In a single-institute,
      phase II trial of patients with recurrent high-grade glioma, bevacizumab in combination with
      irinotecan demonstrated 46% 6-month PFS and 57% OR rates. Following on from the results of
      this study, another phase II trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      bevacizumab alone and in combination with irinotecan, again showing promising results. On the
      basis this study, as well as a study by Kreisl and colleagues, FDA has approved to
      bevacizumab for patients with recurrent glioblastoma in 2009. Despite bevacizumab therapy,
      6-month progression-free survival (PFS) for relapsed or progressive high-grade gliomas is
      30.8% to 50.3%, and median overall survival (OS) is less than 42 week. Thus, recurrent
      high-grade gliomas remains a largely unmet medical need, which highlights the need for novel
      and effective therapies.

      Apatinib is a small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that highly selectively binds to
      and strongly inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2). Apatinib has
      been demonstrated as monotherapy prolongs OS in patients with gastric or gastroesophageal
      junction adenocarcinoma after two or more lines of chemotherapy with moderate, reversible,
      and easily managed adverse events.

      The study is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Apatinib and Irinotecan in patients
      with recurrent high-grade glioma.
    
  