
    
      Background

      Antimicrobial resistance has become a world-wide problem and antibiotic consumption is a
      major driving force for the development of resistance. Thus optimization of antibiotic
      prescription and reduction of unnecessary antimicrobial treatment are essential in the
      prevention and reduction of antimicrobial resistance rates.

      The goal of this study is the qualitative and quantitative improvement of antibiotic
      prescription in outpatient care. The study will take place within a Swiss-wide sentinel
      surveillance network consisting of general practitioners, pediatricians and physicians
      specialized in internal medicine. The participating physicians will be randomised in a
      control and intervention group. The intervention group will receive therapeutic guidelines
      for the treatment of upper and lower respiratory tract infections and lower urinary tract
      infections. Furthermore, regular feed-backs on the prescription pattern of the sentinel
      physicians in the last months will be provided.

      Information about each antibiotic prescription, its indication and the characteristics of the
      patients will be collected by the sentinel physicians. The standardized reporting of
      antibiotic prescription by sentinel physicians has been carried out in Switzerland since
      2006.

      Our hypothesis is that the intervention will affect the antibiotic prescription pattern and
      that the investigators will observe an optimization of antibiotic prescription and a decrease
      in the number of antibiotic prescriptions.

      Objective

      Primary goals:

        -  Increase of the percentage of penicillin prescriptions for upper and lower respiratory
           tract infections

        -  Increase of the percentage of TMP/SMX prescriptions for lower urinary tract infections
           in adults

      Secondary goal:

        -  Decrease of the percentage of quinolone prescriptions for COPD exacerbations in adults

        -  Decrease of the number of antibiotic prescriptions for sinusitis and other upper
           respiratory tract infections

      Methods

      Prospective cluster-randomised intervention study. The intervention is the mailing of
      treatment guidelines for upper and lower respiratory tract infections and lower urinary tract
      infections as well as regular feed-backs on the antibiotic prescription patterns of the
      sentinel physicians during the past months.
    
  