
    
      Corticosteroids are the first-line therapy for managing acute asthma exacerbations. Studies
      have shown that systemic steroids effect decrease relapse and hospital admission. Due to its
      short half-life, Prednisone is usually given daily or twice daily for 3-5 days. It has been
      associated with poor compliance due it the prolonged course. Dexamethasone half-life is 36 -
      72 hours.

      Several studies have shown no difference in outcomes between 3-5 days of prednisone and
      different forms of dexamethasone, including single intramuscular dose or single oral dose or
      two oral doses 1 day apart. However, those studies were done in the emergency department
      (ED). Lack of response to initial asthma treatment in ED results in admission to the
      hospital, implying more severe exacerbation than those able to be discharged. Some clinician
      shift to oral prednisone once admitted to the floor for patients who have received
      Dexamethasone or not. Others have begin to complete the Dexamethasone course with one more
      dose of Dexamethasone 24 hour after the first dose. Dexamethasone has the advantage of
      compliance and tolerability, however, no studies investigated its efficacy in hospitalized
      patients. Such knowledge will improve patient's compliance and outcomes.

        -  Sample size calculation: Primary outcome of return to normal activities within 3 days of
           discharge. Based on previous studies, it is estimated that 70% of the control group will
           achieve this goal. Based on a minimum absolute difference of 15%, and a power of 0.80,
           the sample size calculated to be 117 in each arm. Assuming 20% lost to follow up, it is
           intended to recruit 150 in each arm (total 300 subjects).

        -  Statistical Analysis: Demographics will be analyzed to ensure the experimental and
           control groups are equivalent at baseline. All proportions will be tested with
           Chi-square or Fisher exact test and two-sample T-test will be used for continuous
           variables. α = 0.05 will be used for all hypothesis tests. Interim analysis will be
           performed monthly and the study will be halted if any safety concerns arise. The Center
           for Health Equity and Quality Research (CHEQR) will help with statistical analysis

        -  Data Safety and Monitoring Plan: The study PI and co-investigator will meet and review
           the collected data on a monthly basis and identify any interim results that may require
           a change of study protocol. Information that may affect subjects' safety will be
           communicated to appropriate parties in a timely fashion.
    
  