
    
      Contingency management as a treatment for substance use disorders involves the use of
      tangible rewards for confirmed abstinence. There is preliminary evidence that contingency
      management shows promise as a smoking cessation intervention. An innovative low-cost form of
      contingency management has been developed in which participants receive the chance to draw
      vouchers from a fish bowl depending on whether or not their abstinence from tobacco is
      confirmed by expired-air carbon monoxide. The vouchers can be redeemed for prizes of varying
      value. This form of contingency management has been shown to be effective in the treatment of
      a variety of substance use disorders, but has not been investigated in a clinical trial
      focusing on smoking cessation. Thus, the primary purpose of the proposed study was to
      investigate the effects of a low-cost prize-based form of contingency management in the
      treatment of nicotine dependence. To accomplish this objective, we enrolled 103 current
      smokers into the study. The participants in Study Arm 1 received the contingency management
      intervention for 8 weeks, and the participants in Study Arm 2 had their smoking status
      assessed but did not receive the contingency management intervention. Both interventions
      received brief counseling and nicotine replacement therapy. The counseling was conducted in
      two 60-minute individual sessions scheduled one week apart with two follow-up phone calls at
      weeks 3, 4, and 6.

      The primary outcome for this study was biochemically-validated smoking status at 3 months
      (end of treatment), and at 6- and 12-month follow-up. Both continuous and point-prevalent
      abstinence rates were determined. Saliva cotinine levels were measured in all participants
      reporting abstinence at each assessment. This study had 80% power to detect a 10% absolute
      difference in smoking cessation rates between the two treatment conditions (i.e., a 28% quit
      rate in Study Arm 1 versus a 18% quit rate in Study Arm 2) with alpha set at 0.05. These
      estimates included an anticipated 15% loss to follow-up over the 12-month study period.
    
  