
    
      The objective of this study is to use an experimental medicine approach to evaluate the basic
      psychological, psychophysiological, and neural mechanisms underlying a novel cognitive
      emotion regulation intervention aimed at improving psychological outcomes (e.g., reducing
      depressive symptoms and grief rumination) in recently bereaved spouses. Cognitive reappraisal
      (i.e. the ability to modify the trajectory of an emotional response by thinking about and
      appraising emotional information in an alternative, more adaptive way) represents a highly
      promising target for psychological intervention in bereavement. Reappraisal can be
      operationalized via two primary tactics: psychological distancing (i.e. appraising an
      emotional stimulus as an objective, impartial observer) and reinterpretation (i.e. imagining
      a better outcome than what initially seemed apparent). The current study builds upon
      promising preliminary work to investigate the effectiveness and underlying neurobiological
      mechanisms of a novel, five-session cognitive reappraisal intervention in bereaved spouses.

      Recently bereaved participants (i.e. approximately 6 months post-spousal loss) will be
      randomly assigned to receive training in either distancing or reinterpretation, with five
      sessions occurring every 1-3 days, with longitudinal collection of affective,
      psychophysiological, and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Follow-up
      questionnaire assessments will occur at one- and two-months post-intervention. The study aims
      to mechanistically relate changes in psychological, psychophysiological, and neural function
      during a novel emotion regulation intervention never before implemented in this stressed,
      high risk group. This research represents a Phase I, Stage I clinical trial. The primary
      endpoints are the assessments of the psychological, psychophysiological, and neural
      mechanisms mediating behavior change as a function of the cognitive emotion regulation
      intervention. The secondary endpoint is testing the efficacy of the intervention via
      assessment of psychological outcomes (i.e., the behavior change, as represented in changes in
      depressive symptoms, stress, and grief rumination).
    
  