
    
      The primary aims of this study are to: 1) Examine the effects of two types of parent
      reminders (mailed, text) and multicomponent clinic system strategies on HPV vaccine
      completion compared to usual care, 2) Examine the comparative effectiveness of the reminders
      versus the clinic system strategies and 3) Examine whether combining parent reminders with
      the clinic system strategies produces larger effects compared to either type of intervention
      implemented alone.

      Additional aims include:

        -  Explore the relationship between child age (12-14 years versus 15-17 years) and
           intervention effectiveness, due to the difference in dosing schedules for the two age
           groups.

        -  Examine parent (e.g., language preference) and provider (e.g., specialty)
           characteristics that may act as moderators of intervention effectiveness.

        -  Assess parent perspectives and experiences related to the different interventions.

        -  Examine the implementation process (including adaptations) for each of the
           interventions.

        -  Disseminate study findings widely to a local and national audience of relevant
           stakeholders.

      The multicomponent clinic system strategies include workflow modifications to minimize missed
      opportunities for vaccination, provider- and clinic-level audit and feedback, establishment
      of clinic-level policies and protocols, and will also include provider and staff training
      regarding workflow modifications and patient communication strategies.

      The study will be implemented across five study periods of 12 months each. The seven NEVHC
      clinics will be randomized into three groups (A, B, C). Following a 12-month start-up and
      observation period (Period 1), as part of a stepped wedge design, Group A will implement the
      parent reminders beginning in Period 2, Group B will implement the clinic-based intervention
      beginning in Period 3, and Group C will implement the combined condition beginning in period
      4. In Period 5, Group A and Group B will crossover to the combined condition.
    
  