
    
      During times of persistent high levels of stress, many individuals experience depletion in
      psychological resources, suffering intense distress that can make daily occupational and
      interpersonal functioning difficult. In order to assist during this exceptionally challenging
      crisis, this research team has developed a brief daily intervention based on decades of
      stress and trauma research that may help to support psychological health and coping resources
      in individuals on the frontlines: medical personnel and first-responders. These are
      individuals who are most essential to society in this difficult time. Although hospitals,
      fire, and police departments have existing support resources in place, they are either based
      on traditional models of treatment or consist of online peer-support or wellness
      applications. All facets of existing support/interventions have considerable utility, but it
      is not clear that these resources are designed to address the frequent and ongoing coping
      demands of this crisis across a broad swath of individuals. In particular, traditional
      psychotherapy models are unlikely to be successful due to very real time constraints of this
      population at this time. Moreover, several decades of research would argue that traditional
      psychotherapy is unlikely to be needed by most individuals, given prototypical patterns of
      adjustment across a range of aversive events, including prior pandemics (SARS: Bonanno, et al
      2008). However, even resilient individuals will struggle with distress and some symptoms.
      Prior research has suggested that specific emotion processing patterns can support resilient
      outcomes over the long-term and thus frontline workers may benefit from an intervention that
      leverages this existing knowledge to facilitate adaptive emotion regulatory processing and
      elevate well-being during this crisis.

      The proposed project aims to investigate a novel intervention: A Daily Coping Toolkit,
      administered via online application, that consists of 3 activities targeting adaptive
      emotional attention and expression, administered one time each day, only 4-10 minutes in
      duration daily. The Toolkit is both practically feasible given the demands and current burden
      on the target population as well as highly consistent with existing evidence. Moreover, the
      Toolkit is not likely to conflict with other online tools or with traditional psychotherapy
      and hence, can be practically applied across a broad swath of individuals in need. The
      primary project aim is to test the Daily Coping Toolkit on a broader population of medical
      personnel and first responders to determine efficacy over time, to test relative dosing, and
      to explicate the underlying therapeutic processes. The potential impact of this research will
      be evidence to support the further use of this novel tool to assist essential front-line
      personnel during this ongoing crisis. This may assist with mitigating the psychological toll
      of this crisis and also support the occupational functioning of medical personnel and first
      responders, thus, contributing indirectly to improved patient outcomes. Finally, knowledge
      gained from this research will support the further development of this tool to support
      individuals facing future challenging events and circumstances.

      Participants: n=1000 medical personnel and first responders to test the efficacy of the Daily
      Coping Toolkit.

      Procedure: Interested individuals will go to www.tinyurl.com/dailycopingtoolkit for
      additional information, including the informed consent. Once consent is provided, individuals
      complete a brief assessment of current symptoms, well-being and psychiatric/treatment history
      and then receive instructions to download the research application ExpiWell
      (www.expiwell.com) a secure platform that operates on ios/Android devices upon which we
      administer the Toolkit. Once downloaded, participants are randomized to a high versus low
      treatment condition and will receive daily prompts to complete the intervention. After 7
      days, they complete a brief assessment of symptoms, well-being, and acceptability of the
      intervention and consent again for continuation in the research. Individuals can continue to
      use the application without consenting further if they choose and their data will not be
      accessible to researchers. For those that do consent, follow-up assessments occur at 2,6, and
      9 months (symptoms and well-being).

      Daily Coping Toolkit Intervention: Participants are prompted one time daily (with 1-2
      reminders) to complete the intervention which consists of the following three parts.
      Randomization to high versus low condition is maintained for the first 7 days only in order
      to test for relative dose effects (see #3 below).

        1. Emotion Labelling Activity: Participants rate 10 discrete negative and positive
           emotional words on a likert scale (0-4). Precise labelling of emotional experience can
           serve as a form of implicit emotion regulation and has been associated with healthy
           psychophysiological and behavioral adaptation in a range of community and clinical
           samples

        2. Expressive Writing and Self Distancing Activity: Participants respond to an open-ended
           prompt to write about their day in an open text box in response to the prompt: "What was
           today like...?" After this is completed, they are prompted that if the experience was
           very challenging, to revisit that experience in their mind by taking a "fly on the wall"
           perspective (Kross & Ayduk, 2016; see figure for instructions). Persistent evidence has
           indicated that expressive writing is an effective coping tool. In addition, research has
           identified the ways in which specific word use can facilitate healthy emotional
           processing during stress. There is also significant research demonstrating that shifting
           perspective about negative emotional experiences can facilitate a healthier distance
           from it.

        3. Positive Emotion Generation Activity (1 v. 2 prompts) Participants are prompted to take
           a deep breath and then respond to 1 (or 2) of 8 possible prompts in which they can
           generate positive emotions. In response to each, they are asked to describe their
           thoughts or memories in open-ended text box. Note: For the first 7 days, participants
           are randomized to either respond to one (low dose) or two (high dose) prompts so as to
           test the relative efficacy of the "dose". After 8 days, all participants default to the
           higher dose of 2 prompts. Prompts are designed to elicit gratitude, positive social
           experiences, amusing memories, kind acts they committed, satisfaction/pride with
           accomplishments, positive future focus, and love for close others. Prior research has
           demonstrated that positive emotions generated during highly stressful events predict
           resilience and improved emotion regulation and coping. Moreover, positive emotion
           generation has been shown broadly to predict increased psychological wellbeing.
    
  