
    
      In many developing countries, including Rwanda, the lack of developed and validated
      questionnaires is among major challenges for dietary assessment in nutritional surveys.
      Questionnaires are mostly borrowed from other communities. This can increase the error range
      due to low adaptation to local context, especially when they are not validated and may not
      have similar objectives. One Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) does not capture dietary
      history in two different countries or regions, unless their diets are similar. Besides, the
      diet changes with time, where new foods are introduced in diet and others may disappear. In
      Rwanda, one FFQ has been developed to cover only the eastern part of the country, but none
      for the entire country (Cade et al., 2001; FAO, 2018). It is then very important to develop
      and validate an update and general FFQ that can be used across the country to measure the
      dietary intake to have a better interpretation of the study findings from the Rwandan
      context.

      The overall objective is to develop and validate a semi-quantitative FFQ that can be used to
      assess the food and nutrient intake in urban and rural communities of Rwanda.

      Specific objectives include:

        1. To collect data on diet intake of selected participants by using a 24-H recall
           questionnaire that includes pictures on the approximate quantities consumed in each
           occasion.

        2. To develop a list of food items from commonly consumed food by study participants using
           the compiled 24-h recall questionnaire to use for an FFQ development. Additionally, an
           open question format to collect information on foods consumed during social gathering
           and festivals will be used to include unreported foods. FFQ shall include additionally
           the food portion size, and the frequency of intake over a reference period of one year.

        3. To assess the accuracy of the developed FFQ in estimating energy and nutrient intake
           using the 24-H dietary recall as a benchmark of accuracy.
    
  