
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of different preventive strategies on
      the occurrence of CME after cataract surgery in non-diabetic and diabetic patients. The
      design of the study is a multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial. The study
      population will consist of 926 non-diabetic patients and 209 patients with diabetes mellitus
      (DM) who require cataract surgery in at least one eye. All patients will receive a
      phacoemulsification for cataract and placement of a posterior chamber intraocular lens (IOL).

      In the non-diabetic population, the patients will receive either bromfenac 0.09% eye drops
      twice daily starting two days before surgery and continuing 2 weeks postoperative,
      dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops four times daily starting two days before surgery and continuing
      four times daily during the first postoperative week and one drop less per day every
      following week or a combination of both drugs.

      In the diabetic population patients will receive either:

        -  Topical bromfenac 0.09% and dexamethasone 0.1% in the aforementioned dose;

        -  Topical bromfenac 0.09% and dexamethasone 0.1% in the aforementioned dose and a
           subconjunctival injection of 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide;

        -  Topical bromfenac 0.09% and dexamethasone 0.1% in the aforementioned dose and an
           intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab;

        -  Topical bromfenac 0.09% and dexamethasone 0.1% in the aforementioned dose, a
           subconjunctival injection of 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide and an intravitreal injection
           of 1.25 mg bevacizumab.

      The primary endpoint is the change in central subfield mean macular thickness in the 1 mm
      area (central subfield macular thickness, CSMT) as compared to baseline within the first 6
      weeks postoperative.

      The secondary endpoint is the occurrence of postoperative clinically significant macular
      edema (CSME) within 12 weeks postoperatively. Other study endpoints are mean CDVA in logMAR
      at 6 weeks and 12 weeks postoperatively; OCT measured average retinal thickness in the
      central inner circle (3mm), the outer circle (6mm), and the macular volume at 6 weeks and 12
      weeks postoperatively; intraocular pressure at 6 weeks and 12 weeks postoperatively.

      In case of clinically significant macular edema, treatment will be initiated and its effect
      will be part of the evaluation at 12 weeks. Medical data of all patients who develop macular
      edema during this study will be checked at least 6 months after surgery.
    
  