
    
      BACKGROUND Heart failure (HF) is a global pandemic affecting at least million people
      worldwide. Despite the significant advances in therapies and prevention, mortality and
      morbidity are still high and quality of life poor.

      Cardiomyopathy refers to diseases affecting the myocardium which can lead to heart failure.

      Ischaemic heart disease (IHD) is the leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
      in the United Kingdom (UK) and an important cause of reversible cardiomyopathy.

      Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TTS) is a form of stress cardiomyopathy that is characterised by
      acute, transient left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. This typically affects the apex extending
      beyond a single epicardial vessel with subsequent angiography revealing non obstructive
      coronaries. It accounts for up to 2% of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) admissions and despite
      being first described 20 years ago its pathophysiology is poorly understood. Typically
      takotsubo resolves over time and is considered to have a benign prognosis however acutely it
      can cause serious complications such as severe heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac
      arrest.

      Myocarditis is an inflammatory cardiomyopathy with varying aetiology which comprises a wide
      clinical spectrum from sub-clinical disease to severe heart failure. Currently myocardial
      biopsy is considered the gold standard in diagnosis, although it is prone to sample error and
      clinically indicated in only a few scenarios. Although in some cases cardiac MRI can reveal a
      'typical' pattern of myocarditis based on T2 oedema imaging, the sensitivity and specificity
      is unclear and not yet established giving a limited diagnostic yield. Myocarditis may resolve
      spontaneously, recur or become chronic. In a third of biopsy-proven cases, it can lead to
      heart failure, cardiac transplantation or death. As a result, it has significant contribution
      to the global burden of cardiovascular disease.

      Better understanding of underlying mechanisms and assessment of reversible myocardial injury
      is vital in the diagnosis, risk stratification, treatment, and intervention with potential to
      change clinical practice.

      Delayed-enhancement MRI with Gadolinium Cardiac imaging using delayed-enhancement magnetic
      resonance imaging with gadolinium (DEMRI) is the gold-standard method for non-invasive
      characterisation of myocardial scar and function, and has become an invaluable tool in the
      field.

      Gadolinium (Gd) is an excellent blood-pool contrast agent. Despite some active uptake in
      hepatocytes, Gd acts as a passive marker of the extracellular space. Chelated to
      diethylenetriamine-pentacetic-acid (DTPA), Gd diffuses rapidly into the extra cellular space
      but its molecular weight prevents it penetrating intact cell membranes. Many pathological
      myocardial states have a greater extra cellular volume (ECV) and as a consequence, a greater
      osmotic gradient relative to healthy tissue. These diseased tissues also result in the
      delayed wash out of Gd-DTPA resulting in an increased signal seen in pathological areas on
      DEMRI. However, the non-specific distribution of Gd within the extracellular space means
      direct assessment of viability is not possible with DEMRI.

      Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) Manganese (Mn) was the first clinical MRI contrast agent.
      Cardiac, hepatic and renal uptake of Mn causes marked shortening of MRI T1 relaxation times
      providing excellent tissue contrast imaging. Mn-based contrast media offer potential for a
      wide range of MRI platforms having been applied to the assessment of neuronal activity and
      function, detection and tracking of lymphocytes16 and pancreatic beta-cell activation as well
      as evaluation of myocardial viability in the setting of ischaemia.

      The mechanisms by which Mn provides contrast imaging in the heart depend on calcium (Ca)
      handling in myocardial cells. During myocardial contraction, Ca2+ ions are taken up into
      myocytes predominantly through voltage-gated L-type Ca2+ channels where they then trigger
      further Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (excitation-contraction coupling). In
      diastole, Ca2+ is actively transported into sarcoplasmic reticulum by Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA2a),
      in addition to passage into the extracellular space via the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger and uptake
      into mitochondria. Alterations in this Ca2+ handling, by protein dysfunction and defective
      regulatory mechanisms, impair the ability of the myocyte both to increase and decrease
      intracellular Ca2+ concentrations, impacting on systole and diastole respectively.

      Calcium plays a central role in excitation-contraction coupling and defective Ca2+cycling is
      key in the pathophysiological and adaptive mechanisms of defective contractile function and
      impaired relaxation in heart failure. Experimental reports have demonstrated reduced
      sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+storage and release, with decreased SERCA2a activity and Na+- Ca2+
      exchange up regulation. The altered expression and activity of voltage-gated L-type Ca2+
      channels both in heart failure and hypertrophy observed in several studies is not yet fully
      understood, although clearly highlights the centrality of calcium handling to this issue.

      Mn acts as a Ca2+ analogue allowing its uptake by voltage-gated Ca2+ channels therefore cells
      with active calcium handling avidly take up Mn ions, in contrast to infarcted tissue which
      lack the necessary viable mechanisms. The result is a marked shortening of the T1 relaxation
      times in tissue with functioning calcium handling mechanisms. This has particular relevance
      to myocardial tissue and mitochondria since it has the potential to identify viable
      myocardium and provide a measure of myocardial function. In contrast to DEMRI with Gd, which
      effectively functions as a marker for pathological myocardium, MEMRI highlights areas of
      viable myocardium, marking non-viable myocardium by its absence of uptake. With its
      paramagnetic properties also reducing the T1 relaxation times of water, Mn provides positive
      image contrast in the tissues where it accumulates giving excellent anatomical delineation.

      T1 Mapping The majority of myocardial pathologies prolong T1 relaxation (infarction,
      myositis, hypertrophy, ischaemia, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis), although lipid deposition
      (arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia), iron deposition (haemachromatosis) and
      lysosomal storage disorders (Fabry disease) shorten it. On account of its potent paramagnetic
      properties, Gd shortens T1 in both normal and abnormal myocardium. A T1 map is generated by
      combining multiple images obtained during diastole, but with different inversion times, to
      assess T1 relaxation time for each voxel within the image. Each voxel intensity value
      represents the T1 relaxation time for the voxel and is labelled with colour for ease of
      visual differentiation. Different imaging protocols and techniques have been developed to
      combine an even sampling of the T1 recovery curve whilst minimising artefact, maximising
      precision and avoiding long breath holds. The principal potential advantages of T1 mapping
      compared to late gadolinium enhancement relates to its ability to detect diffuse more subtle
      forms of myocardial disease and to provide quantification rather than a binary "black versus
      white" categorisation. Combined with manganese enhancement, and time-optimised T1 mapping
      protocols, this should allow specific tissue characterisation rather than the more
      generalised extracellular and intravascular assessment provided by late-gadolinium
      enhancement.

      Whilst T1 mapping eliminates errors introduced by windowing and variable signal enhancement,
      post contrast T1 quantification can be affected by variable contrast kinetics and is heavily
      reliant on precise timing of acquisition. The derivation of the partition coefficient and use
      of plasma volume to calculate extracellular volume fraction (ECV) have been developed to
      correct for these factors. Previous studies have demonstrated the value of ECV in the
      assessment of myocardial fibrosis in aortic stenosis, shown excellent reproducibility at
      3-Tesla (3T) , and have correlated these values with other important biomarkers.

      Mangafodipir In its early development, Mn toxicity occurred in animal studies with
      administration of magnesium chloride (MnCl2) because it competed too strongly with Ca2+ entry
      into the myocardium. It caused decreased myocardial function, hypotension and cardiac
      arrest.1 Two approaches were developed to circumvent these risks whilst maintaining the
      desired magnetic and kinetic properties. These are (i) chelation to bind the Mn2+ ions
      preventing competition with Ca2+, and (ii) co-administration of Ca2+ ions, effectively
      competing with Mn and reducing its cardio-toxic potential.12 Mangafodipir utilises the first
      of these two approaches, in a similar way to which Gd contrast agents mitigate against
      toxicity.

      The principal limitation of Gd-based DEMRI imaging lies in quantifying the heterogeneous
      peri-infarct zone, where it results in overestimation of the non-viable infarct region.33 To
      date, there is no established imaging strategy to identify the viable and potentially,
      salvageable cardiomyocytes within this key area of myocardium. We hypothesize that
      Mn-enhanced MRI will provide a method of cellular imaging through specific, non-perfusion
      dependent distribution due to active uptake by viable myocardial cells. The potential
      clinical application of this novel contrast agent will be to assess manganese uptake and
      therefore calcium handling in the myocardium of patients with reversible causes of myocardial
      injury such as reversible ischaemia, myocarditis and takotsubo cardiomyopathy. This will
      guide therapy and enable prognostication in these patient groups with high unmet clinical
      need.

      Clinical Application to Future Therapies In addition to assessing myocardial viability in
      ischaemic heart disease and detecting alterations in calcium handling mechanisms in
      cardiomyopathy, there are other potential applications of MEMRI in emerging fields of
      cardiovascular research. The rapidly growing field of regenerative medicine has made
      significant progress in stem cell and other biological therapies in several cardiac
      pathologies; the prospect of developing therapies with myocardial growth potential is
      attractive in light of long-term morbidity associated with ischaemic heart disease.
      Furthermore, other novel therapies to reduce the impact of the reperfusion injury are still
      sought after. As a biologically active contrast agent, Mn contrast media have direct
      application to monitoring regenerative potential of new therapies. Dual MRI has been used to
      assess myocardial viability following coronary artery ligation and reperfusion injury with
      subsequent intramyocardial stem cell therapy in animal models. MEMRI was used to assess
      viability and DEMRI to quantify myocardial scar.

      Alongside regenerative therapies are novel agents designed to augment myocardial function in
      the failing heart. Mecarbam for example, a cardiac myosin activator, is designed to prolong
      systolic ejection time with potential to improve myocardial function in the failing heart.36
      Accurate and repeatable methods of evaluating the impact of these novel therapies on the
      myocardium is fundamental to their development.

      RATIONALE for STUDY Pre-clinical and clinical data Mangafodipir has been used in animal
      models where it was compared to a non-chelated Mn-based contrast medium, EVP1001-1. Whilst
      the latter agent uses co-administration with calcium to counteract toxicity, Mangafodipir
      (Teslascan) employs chelation with dipyridoxyl diphosphate (DPDP) to counteract potential
      toxic effects.

      The study successfully assessed T1 shortening in the healthy rat myocardium using both Mn
      contrast agents and demonstrated reduced T1 shortening (Mn uptake) with the simultaneous
      administration of diltiazem by approximately one third.

      Spath et al have shown that manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance (MEMRI) is a better measure
      of myocardial infarction size than late gadolinium enhancement. Data indicate two important
      findings: (i) over-estimation of the scar by DEMRI (Gd) and (ii) quantitative differences in
      the scar volume between MEMRI and DEMRI. Moreover, they have shown that MEMRI is superior in
      assessment of viability as it gives a direct quantification of viable myocardium.

      Furthermore, MEMRI with T1 mapping has shown altered manganese uptake and reduced rate of
      extra-cellular re-distribution in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. In addition to better
      quantification of myocardial infarct size and assessing viability, we hypothesise that MEMRI
      will also allow the study of myocardial recovery in reversible cardiomyopathy such as
      reversible ischaemia, myocarditis and takotsubo cardiomyopathy.

      Safety data and clinical use Naturally occurring deficiency is rarely reported but toxic
      effects of Mn have historically been recognised with Mn accumulating in the striatum and
      globus pallidus, the predominant manifestations being headaches and emotional lability, with
      parkinsonian extrapyramidal symptoms and gait-disturbance (manganism) developing with
      increasing severity. These concerns have been overcome as described above with chelation and
      calcium-competition.

      The manganese agent used in this study, Mangafodipir (now a generic product), has been widely
      used in humans for the investigation of hepatic and pancreatic lesions. The agent has now
      been patented for application to cardiovascular disease and shows great promise.

      Extensive animal studies and use in humans have enabled Phase I, II and III trials of
      Mangafodipir. In Phase III clinical trials, 624 patients were evaluable for adverse events.
      Infusion associated discomfort was reported in 4% of patients (n=24) a feeling of warmth of
      mild (n=22) to moderate (n=2) intensity. Six serious adverse events occurred. Of these, two
      were considered possibly/likely to be drug related and occurred in one patient. These were
      reported as a rash of the left arm in the presence of pre-existing lymphedema followed by a
      septicaemia after a superficial cut of the left hand. Vital signs were monitored in 321
      patients and clinically important changes in blood pressure were recorded in 2 of these, one
      with an increased systolic blood pressure of 70 mmHg the other with increased
      systolic/diastolic pressures of 50/40 mmHg respectively. Monitoring of blood chemistry
      indicated increases in bilirubin levels in one patient and high total serum iron in 5
      patients.

      Special populations: No specific interaction, renal impairment or high risk patient studies
      were submitted. Subjects less than 18 years old were excluded in the trials. In the phase III
      studies, 216 of the 624 patients were over 65. The rate of adverse events was lower in this
      sub-group (4% vs. 9.3%). Bilirubin was measured in 257 patients and was abnormal in 30 of
      them although severe obstructive hepatobiliary disease was an exclusion criterion. 138
      patients were recorded as having cirrhosis. No increased adverse event rate was found in
      either sub-group. 86 out of the 624 patients had unspecified cardiovascular disease. No
      difference in adverse event rate was observed with this sub-group.

      Most common adverse reactions reported were transient and of mild intensity, with headache,
      nausea and flushing being most commonly reported (1-10%). Uncommonly reported adverse
      reactions were skin reactions, rhinitis, pharyngitis, abdominal discomfort, palpitation,
      gastrointestinal disturbance, dizziness, paraesthesia, altered taste sensation, fever and
      discomfort at injection site (0.1-1%). Other adverse reactions were very uncommon or rare.
      The frequency of reactions was found to be increased with faster infusion rates
      (4-6mls/minute).

      More recently, clinical studies have focused on the application of Mangafodipir to human
      cardiovascular imaging and disease,reinforcing this large body of safety data as applied to a
      cardiovascular population as well as demonstrating the potential of the agent to characterise
      myocardial function.

      Control Data This study is designed to explore the application of this novel cardiac MRI
      technique in reversible cardiomyopathy. Participants from the patient cohort will be compared
      to a healthy volunteer group.
    
  