
    
      Obesity is a worldwide health and sociopolitical issue. Excessive body-weight currently
      affects over 50% of the Brazilian population and around 13% of all world population. It has
      been well established that obesity is an independent risk factor. Obese individuals are at
      increased risk of diseases and earlier death compared to those with normal weight and waist
      circumferences. The increased disease susceptibility of this subset of patients includes
      hypertension, stroke, hyperlipidemia, sleep apnea, Type 2 diabetes, neoplasms, GERD, and
      musculoskeletal disorders.

      Obese patients and their physicians have increasingly turned to surgery to solve the excess
      weight issue and the frequent co-morbid conditions that impact their health and quality of
      life. Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RYGB) and Laparoscopic Gastric Banding (LGB) comprise around
      70% of all weight loss procedures performed every year. They induce significant and perennial
      weight loss and reduce or eliminate associated co-morbid diseases, including Type 2 diabetes.
      Despite improvements in postoperative morbidity and mortality rates over the years, (in part
      due to the use of a laparoscopic approach), these procedures still carry significant risk.
      Recent studies have shown mortality rates with RYGB as high as 1.9%, and complications
      associated with LGB as high as 13%. Nonetheless, a secondary bariatric procedure due to
      weight regain carries significant complication rates and worse outcomes, compared to the
      primary procedure. Consequently, less invasive techniques are needed to reduce such risks.

      Gastric restriction is an important principle of both RYGB and LGB. The OverStitchTM
      Endoscopic Suturing System (Apollo Endosurgery, Inc. Austin, Texas) is an approved device
      designed to endoscopic placement of suture(s) and approximation of soft tissue. This system
      offers the assistant doctor the ability to restrict gastric pouch size by approximating
      tissue endoluminally through an incisionless (per-oral) approach. The use of this system has
      the potential to reduce the complications associated with the current surgical approach but
      still reaching the desired gastric restriction. The OverStitch has safely been used
      clinically for a great number of procedures that demanded an incisionless or minimally
      invasive approach, including endoluminal revisions for post-bypass gastric stoma and/or pouch
      dilatation, post-bypass fistulae repair, and oversewing of marginal ulcers.

      Besides this suturing device, other endoscopic methods have already been used to reduce
      dilated stoma. Among them, ablation with argon plasma coagulation (APC) is one of the most
      important since this device is worldly available and presents an acceptable cost. Recent
      studies associate APC prior to endoscopic suture and initial evidence supports superiority of
      this association.

      However, literature is still lacking of studies to support the use of APC associated with
      endoscopic suturing instead of APC alone. Therefore, the main focus of this study is to
      directly compare short and long-term effectiveness and safety of APC versus APC plus
      Endoscopic Full-thickness suture with OverStitch device in patients suffering from weight
      regain following RYGB.

      Moreover, gut hormones regulation regarding bariatric and revisional procedures have been
      studied recently and evidence suggests that hormonal changes may be an important factor in
      weight loss. Three of the most important gut hormones regarding weight balance are ghrelin,
      GLP1 and peptide YY. Ghrelin is known as hunger hormone. It is produced by cells in gastric
      fundus. Glucagon-like Peptide 1 (GLP1) and Peptide YY (PYY) are both hormones that regulate
      satiety and are produced by L cells along distal intestine. Evidence in bariatric show that
      after long-term ghrelin levels diminish while GLP and PYY reach higher post-prandial peak.
      Regarding revisional endoscopic therapy, gut hormone changes have never been studied. That is
      also focus of this study as secondary outcome.
    
  