
    
      Patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) who failed to achieve at least a
      minimal response (MR) after 2 cycles or a partial response (PR), after 4 cycles of a
      bortezomib-containing therapy, or progress on therapy during first 4 cycles (response defined
      by international Myeloma Working Group [IMWG] criteria), will be treated with a quadruple
      regimen comprised of: Daratumumab 16 mg/Kg weekly during cycles 1-2, q14 days during cycles
      3-6, thereafter monthly (1st dose cycle 1 may be split over 2 days); Once-weekly intravenous
      (IV) administration of Carfilzomib on days 1, 8, 15, of cycle numbers 1-9 and Days 1 and 15
      only of cycle numbers 10-18, at a dose of 20 mg/m2 on day 1 of cycle 1; at dose of 56 mg/m2
      on all subsequent once weekly dosing days, alongside concomitant treatment with twice-weekly
      IV or oral dexamethasone 20mg administered on Days 1-2, 8-9, 15-16, and 22-23 of a 28-day
      cycle, for cycles 1-2 followed by weekly 20 mg dexamethasone on subsequent cycles; and oral
      Lenalidomide 25 mg, administered on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle. On treatment days that
      require both Carfilzomib and Daratumumab infusions, Carfilzomib will be administrated prior
      to Daratumumab administration. All patients will undergo frailty assessment based on IMWG
      recommendations, and will be classified as fit, intermediate-fit and frail. Frail patients
      will receive Lenalidomide dose adjustment to 15 mg (throughout the study, from cycle 1 and
      on), and dexamethasone at 10 mg x 2/week cycles 1-2 followed by 10 mg/week for subsequent
      cycles. The quadruple regimen will be administered for 18 cycles, followed by long-term
      follow-up in which patients will receive standard of care treatment with
      Lenalidomide/dexamethasone (Rd) treatment, unless disease progression, the physician decides
      otherwise, the patient suffers from unacceptable toxicity, withdraws consent, or dies
      (whichever occurs first). All patients will be required to receive either thromboprophylaxis
      or anticoagulation therapy in parallel. Patients will receive prophylaxis to herpes zoster
      and pneumocystis infection according to institutional guidelines, as well as proton pump
      inhibitors on dexamethasone treatment days only, according to institutional guidelines.

      Patients will be assessed for response, to be determined by multiple myeloma (MM) biomarker
      profiling, on day 1 of cycle 2 and then every 56 ±4 days thereafter, irrespective of
      treatment delays or the timing of treatment cycles. Disease status will be followed until
      confirmed progressive disease (PD).

      Long-term follow-up for disease status (only in cases where patients discontinued treatment
      prior to PD or patients completing all 18 cycles without signs of PD) and for survival (after
      reaching PD) will continue after treatment discontinuation until the patient has withdrawn
      consent for further participation, is lost to follow-up, has died, or the sponsor makes a
      decision to terminate the study. For patients who discontinued treatment before completing 18
      cycles , without PD occurred, disease response assessments shall be performed every 56 days
      (±4 days), according to the original scheduled days of assessment, until disease progression.
      Patients completing all 18 cycles without signs of PD will be followed-up for disease
      response every 84±7 days. Follow-up for survival will be performed approximately every 3
      months, or as needed, for all surviving patients until study closure. For any patient who is
      lost to follow-up, the study site will attempt to ascertain survival information via public
      database search.

      The control group in this study (Historical Control) will consist of 144 consecutive patients
      from a subset of participating centers and will include transplant ineligible NDMM diagnosed
      between 2011 to 2017 with failure to respond to a bortezomib based induction (as defined in
      the prospective trial). Control group patients must meet the protocol inclusion and exclusion
      criteria.
    
  