
    
      Phase I - Control group.

        1. The standard of care will be provided to the control group pre- and post-transplant.
           This does not involve any direct pre-transplant assessment of medication adherence or
           risk factors for non-adherence.

        2. Tacrolimus capsules (standard of care immunosupression medication) will be dispensed in
           Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS) caps for 3 months post-transplant for the
           purpose of measuring adherence after transplantation.

        3. Patients will be asked to complete Basel Assessment of Adherence to Immunosuppressive
           Medication instrument (BAASIS) self-report questionnaire and Long-term Medication
           Behaviour Self-efficacy self-report Scale at 3 months after transplantation.

      Phase II - Interventional Group.

      I. Pre-transplant phase:

        1. Measurement of Adherence to Medications Patients will be given lactose containing white-
           and yellow-colored gelatin capsules stored in (MEMS®) bottles for a 1-month adherence
           trial. Yellow-colored gelatin capsules represent tacrolimus 0.5mg capsules while
           white-colored gelatin capsules represent tacrolimus 1mg capsules. MEMS® is designed to
           record the date/time of opening and closure of the drug vial. Patients will be asked to
           take a certain dose and expected to remove the correct number of white and yellow
           capsules from respective vial at the correct time each day. Phone calls will be made to
           patients to change the 'dose' at various times throughout the month to mimic the
           frequent need to make tacrolimus dosing changes early post-transplant. For patients who
           are lactose intolerance, they will be instructed to remove the correct number of
           capsules from the vials but there is no need to take the capsules. Pill count and MEMS
           record will be reviewed at the end of the 1-month trial period to assess adherence.

        2. Health literacy: Assessments to completed by the participant:

             1. Short Literacy Survey (SLS), a self-report 3 question survey, has been validated in
                kidney transplant recipients and shown to correlate well with the Rapid Estimate of
                Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM) and the shortened Test of Functional Health
                Literacy in Adults (S-TOFHLA). The three questions are: 1) "How often do you have
                someone help you read hospital materials?"; 2) "How confident are you filling out
                medical forms by yourself?"; and 3) "How often do you have problems learning about
                your medical condition because of difficulty understanding written information?"

             2. Newest Vital Signs - transplant version (NVS-T) The original NVS consists of a
                prescription label with 6 questions that measures health literacy and numeracy
                skills but is not specific to any particular area of medicine. The modified
                transplant version consists of 2 prescription labels and has been validated. The
                first label is for an antibiotic, amoxicillin, and the second label is for a cream,
                fluocinolone acetonide. There are 3 questions for each label, and the number of
                correct answers correlates with a health literacy category.

        3. Cognition will be assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), a 30-question
           screening instrument for mild cognitive dysfunction. It assesses different cognitive
           domains: attention and concentration, executive functions, memory, language,
           visuoconstructional skills, conceptual thinking, calculations, and orientation.

        4. Self-efficacy will be assessed using the Long-term Medication Behaviour Self-efficacy
           Scale, a 27-item questionnaire about skills related to medication use. It assesses the
           following themes regarding patient's self-efficacy: personal attributions (7 items),
           environmental factors (13 items), task-related and behavioral factors (7 items).

        5. Customized post-transplant care plan prior to transplantation The post-transplant team
           will devise a tailored care plan based on assessment findings and discussed with the
           patient and/or caregivers prior to transplant. The post-transplant care plans will be
           common to both transplant programs.

      II. Post-transplant phase:

        1. The post-transplant team will implement the tailored care plan as discussed with patient
           and/or caregiver(s).

        2. Tacrolimus capsules will be dispensed in MEMS caps for 3 months post-transplant for the
           purpose of measuring adherence after transplantation.

        3. Patients will be asked to complete BAASIS questionnaire and Long-term Medication
           Behaviour Self-efficacy Scale at 3 months.

      Current standard of care does not include any element of pharmacy evaluation of a person's
      ability to follow medication regimens.

      At the conclusion of the use of MEMS caps subjects in either group will return the MEMS caps
      to the pharmacists at a regularly scheduled follow-up appointment.This will not require an
      additional trip to the hospital.
    
  