
    
      Background: Sick infants nursed in Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU) are exposed to large
      numbers of repeated painful procedures during their hospitalization [1-6]. Effectively
      reducing pain during these frequently performed and repeated painful procedures minimizes
      short term behavioural and physiological responses to pain, and has the potential to reduce
      long term adverse effects, including altered responses to subsequent pain [7] and increased
      risk of adverse neurodevelopmental, behavioural, and cognitive outcomes [8] The effectiveness
      of sucrose and other sweet solutions in the reduction of pain during painful procedures in
      infants has been well established. Despite the large numbers of randomized controlled trials
      (RCTs) of sweet solutions for procedural pain reduction in infants, there remain significant
      knowledge and research gaps. One of the key unanswered questions is whether sweet solutions
      reduce pain when given with concomitant opioid analgesics [9].

      Rationale: Sick infants in hospital need to have blood tests as part of their medical care.
      Oral sucrose and glucose has shown to effectively reduce behavioural responses to pain and
      pain scores during commonly performed painful procedures in preterm and term newborn infants
      and infants up to 12 months of age. However, the investigators do not know if this also works
      for infants already receiving a continuous infusion of opioid analgesics. The aim is to
      establish preliminary evidence of the effectiveness of oral sucrose in reducing pain during
      heel lancing or NG/OG tube insertion when concomitant opioid analgesics are being
      administered, and to use the pilot data to inform a full scale RCT.

      Hypothesis: Infants who are receiving opioid analgesics will have lower pain scores during
      their blood tests (heel lance) or NG/OG tube insertion, when sucrose is given, compared to
      when water is given.

      Primary Objective: To obtain preliminary data about the effectiveness of sucrose and
      concomitant opioid analgesics compared to opioid analgesics alone during the painful
      procedure of heel lancing or NG/OG tube insertion to inform a full scale RCT.

      Secondary Objectives: To determine the acceptability of the interventions to infants' parents
      and to use these results to help us calculate sample size for a subsequent full trial.

      Methods: A single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled pilot trial will be
      conducted in an urban tertiary care pediatric university-affiliated hospital NICU. The study
      population is all infants who are inpatients in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) who
      are receiving a continuous infusion of opioid analgesics and who require a heel lance for the
      purpose of medically-required capillary blood sampling or a NG/OG tube insertion. Study
      participants will be randomly allocated to receive 24% sucrose solution or a placebo solution
      (water). The maximum amount of the study solution will be administered according to the
      infant's gestational age and according to the hospital's Sucrose policy:

      <28 weeks gestation = maximum dose of 0.1 mL; 28-31 weeks gestation = maximum dose of 0.3 mL;
      32-35 weeks gestation = maximum dose of 0.5 mL; >36 weeks gestation = maximum dose between
      0.5-1.0 mL.

      The primary outcome measure is the difference in pain levels during the heel lance procedure
      or NG/OG tube insertion in the study population as assessed by the Premature Infant Pain
      Profile (PIPP).

      Secondary outcomes will include; i) total crying time; ii) skin conductance activity, a
      valid, non-invasive, physiological measure of pain and stress in infants.

      Statistical analysis: PIPP scores, crying time, and skin conductance activity will be
      summarized using mean and standard deviation if normally distributed, and median and
      interquartile range (IQR) if non-normally distributed. An intention to treat analysis will be
      performed.
    
  