
    
      Approximately 300 breast cancer survivors living in Northern Alberta will be randomized to
      one of four groups: (1) an exercise recommendation only group (viewed as the current standard
      of care), (2) an exercise recommendation plus pedometer group, (3) an exercise recommendation
      plus printed materials group, and (4) an exercise recommendation plus pedometer and printed
      materials group. Our primary hypothesis is that participants in the three intervention groups
      will report a greater positive change in physical activity than participants in the exercise
      recommendation only group. Furthermore, we expect that participants receiving the combined
      pedometer and printed materials intervention will report the greatest change in physical
      activity. Our secondary hypotheses are that these interventions will also result in improved
      QoL and more positive social cognitive beliefs about exercise in breast cancer survivors. Our
      sample size was determined by a power calculation. Based on the literature, we believe that
      an increase of 2,000 steps per day is a meaningful change that will result in health benefits
      for breast cancer survivors. We estimate a standard deviation of about 4,000 steps per day.
      Therefore, to detect a medium standardized effect (d = .50) with a power of .80 and a
      two-tailed alpha <.05, we need 63 participants per group. To account for a possible 15% loss
      to follow up, we will randomize 75 participants to each group. Our printed materials will be
      developed based on the tenets of the theory of planned behavior and will include activities
      designed to enhance instrumental and affective attitudes, injunctive and descriptive norms,
      and self-efficacy and perceptions of control. These materials will be developed based on our
      previous research identifying the key beliefs that should be targeted in a theory of planned
      behavior-based intervention.

      Our procedure will be to identify and screen potential participants for eligibility through
      the Alberta Cancer Registry. After obtaining written informed consent from the individual's
      treating oncologist, all eligible participants will be sent a letter of invitation to
      participate in the study. Interested participants will complete a baseline questionnaire that
      will include measures of physical activity (the Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire),
      QoL (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast and Anemia), and social cognitive
      variables from the theory of planned behavior (based on the guidelines from Ajzen and our
      previous research). Participants will also wear a pedometer for a 7-day monitoring period to
      obtain baseline steps. Participants will then be randomized to one of four groups. Depending
      on randomization, the participants will then receive the appropriate materials. All groups
      will be recommended to accumulate at least 30 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity
      at least five days per week which would result in about 15,000 steps per week (or 2,000 steps
      per day). At the end of the 12-week intervention period, all participants will complete the
      same post intervention questionnaire and undergo another 7-day monitoring period to obtain
      step values. Participants will be contacted at 6 months for follow-up and complete the same
      questionnaire for a final time.
    
  