
    
      Design:

      This two center study employs a double blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study in
      patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and healthy volunteers with comparable age, gender and
      BMI distribution. Subjects (40 patients and 40 healthy volunteers, referred to as subjects in
      remaining part of the document) will be randomized to 100 mg LAF 237 QD or placebo for two
      10-day treatment periods in a cross-over design. Thirty two (32) efficacy evaluable patients
      are required to complete the study.

      Each subjects will participate in an approximate 14-day screening period, a 2-week wash-out
      period from metformin, a 1-day baseline period and a 10-day treatment period followed by a
      2-4 week wash-out period and a second treatment period. An end of study evaluation will be
      conducted following the completion of the second treatment period or in the event of early
      withdrawal or termination of the patient.

      At screening, subjects meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will begin a weight maintenance
      diet containing 50% carbohydrates, 30% protein and 20% fat. Patients will receive guidance on
      dietary maintenance at screening and will stay on this diet from screening to the end of
      study evaluation. Following the screening visit, enrolled patients will start a 2 week drug
      wash-out period where oral hypoglycemic medication will be discontinued.

      During the drug wash-out period, all patients will monitor their glucose levels two times a
      day (prior to breakfast and dinner) using a glucometer. Additionally, at one week intervals,
      patients will perform a seven point blood glucose test, where glucose measurements will be
      made prior to and two hours after each meal, and prior to bed. Weekly telephone calls will be
      made to each patient, where the results of these glucose tests will be recorded. Patients
      will be discontinued from the study during the wash-out period if fasting glucose levels
      exceed 200 mg/dl on any two consecutive measurements.
    
  