
    
      PROCEDURES

      Recruitment Participants are recruited from the general population of individuals
      self-identifying as having symptoms of depression and/or anxiety in each study site (Ottawa,
      Denver, Victoria). Study advertisements are posted and circulated through post-secondary
      institutions, online, and within psychotherapy treatment centres. Participants experiencing
      depression and/or anxiety are invited to contact the research coordinator of the project via
      the email listed on recruitment material. All interested participants receive a telephone
      screen by research research assistants to assess potential eligibility. Participants who are
      deemed potentially eligible are informed that they will be contacted by an assessor to be
      invited for an initial study assessment session to determine final eligibility.

      Baseline assessment Assessors are individuals with clinical experience in psychotherapy or
      counselling at each of the study sites. Informed consent is reviewed and participants have
      the opportunity to have all their questions and concerns addressed. Assessors administer the
      diagnostic criteria modules of the ADIS-5 during this session. Assessments take place either
      within the private practice locations at each study site or the university offices of the
      investigators in a research session lasting approximately 1-2 hours. During the pandemic
      while it is not safe to meet in person, secure encrypted video call platforms are used to
      hold these sessions. Responses are evaluated by the assessors' supervisors, at which point
      final eligibility is determined. The assessments and therapy take place either within the
      private practice locations at each study site as specified or the university offices of the
      co-investigators, or online using a secure encrypted video call platform when it is unsafe to
      meet for in-person sessions due to the pandemic. After completion of the baseline assessment
      session, eligible participants are given access to an online questionnaire to complete at
      their own convenience. After completion of the questionnaire, participants are randomly
      assigned to study condition.

      Random assignment Once participants have been deemed eligible to take part, and have
      completed the baseline questionnaire, they are randomly assigned to the EFIT (treatment)
      condition or the waitlist plus online CBT (control group) condition by the research
      co-ordinator. A list of numbers (i.e., 1-40 for Ottawa, 1-28 for Victoria, and 1-20 for
      Denver) are generated for each city, reflecting the total number of EFIT and control clients
      for that city. Within those groups, a separate randomized list (i.e., 20 total numerical
      values for Ottawa, 14 for Victoria, and 10 for Denver) is generated using Research
      Randomizer, an online tool for random assignment that has been used in previous RCT studies.
      As participants are deemed eligible, they are added onto the list and their number will
      determine whether they will take part in either the EFIT intervention or the control group.

      Interventions:

      EFIT Treatment Group Twenty-two experienced EFT therapists trained in the EFIT model will
      provide 15 sessions of EFIT treatment to approximately 2 clients each. Therapy will be
      carried out in private practices or the university offices of researchers located in each of
      the study sites, or online using a secure encrypted video call platform when not possible to
      meet in person due to the pandemic. Each site is associated with an EFT centre: Ottawa
      Institute of Couple and Family Therapy in Ottawa, Centre for EFT Vancouver Island in
      Victoria, and Colorado Centre for EFT in Denver. Study therapists will receive an average of
      1 hour of supervision per week in groups of 3-4 therapists. Each therapy session will be
      video recorded and treatment fidelity will be confirmed through the coding of video tapes.
      After each therapy session, therapists will ask participants to complete a brief online
      questionnaire that takes approximately 10 minutes to complete. The link to the online
      questionnaire will be sent to each therapist by the research co-ordinator.

      Wait-List plus online CBT Control Group Participants randomly assigned to the wait-list
      control group will wait 15 weeks, following which time they will be given an online
      transdiagnostic cognitive-behavioural treatment (MoodGym) for depression and anxiety that has
      been empirically validated after they have completed the 15-week wait period. They will be
      given access to complete 15 weeks of the online intervention. These participants will also be
      requested to complete a brief online questionnaire on a weekly basis - this questionnaire is
      identical to the questionnaire given to EFIT participants after each therapy session with the
      exception that it does not include the Working Alliance Inventory (WAI) or the Post-session
      Resolution Questionnaire (PSRQ) as these questionnaires are only relevant to therapy
      sessions.
    
  