
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility and safety of oblimersen administered in combination with
           rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, in terms of
           short-term and long-term toxicity, in patients with previously untreated stage III or IV
           or extensive or bulky stage II diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oblimersen administered with this regimen in
           these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the remission rate and failure-free, progression-free, and overall survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, non-blinded, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      oblimersen.

      Patients receive CHOP-R* therapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 15-45 minutes,
      doxorubicin IV over 5-10 minutes, vincristine IV, and rituximab IV over 30-90 minutes on day
      1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Patients also receive oblimersen IV continuously on days
      -4 to 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6-8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who discontinue treatment due to unacceptable
      toxicity to oblimersen may continue to receive standard therapy comprising CHOP-R.

      NOTE: *Patients treated at the British Columbia Cancer Agency receive cyclophosphamide,
      doxorubicin, vincristine, and rituximab on days 1 and 2 and prednisone as above.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, at least 10
      patients are treated at that dose level.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-28 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-10
      months.
    
  