
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of donor mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) infusion in patients with
           acute or extensive chronic graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) after undergoing HLA-identical
           sibling donor stem cell transplant.

      Secondary

        -  Describe the rates of complete and partial resolution of GVHD when MSCs are used in
           addition to the standard GVHD therapy.

        -  Determine inflammatory cytokine levels, lymphocyte subsets, and donor-reactive
           lymphocyte numbers in blood of patients with acute GVHD prior to therapy and at 7 and 14
           days post-MSC therapy.

        -  Determine if donor MSCs engraft in tissues inflamed by GVHD in patients who have
           undergone gender-mismatched transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of donor mesenchymal stem cells (MSC).

      Within 72 hours after the initiation of medical therapy (e.g., corticosteroids, cyclosporine)
      for graft-vs-host disease, patients undergo donor MSC infusion over 10-15 minutes.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of donor MSCs until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Blood samples are obtained periodically and examined by immunoenzyme techniques for mixed
      lymphocyte reaction (as a surrogate marker for alloreactivity) and cytokine levels (TH1
      [i.e., interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon-gamma], TH2 [i.e., IL-10 and IL-4], and inflammatory
      cytokines [i.e., tumor necrosis factor-alpha and IL-1]). Tissue specimens are examined by
      CD45 immunohistochemistry and fluorescent in situ hybridization to detect hematopoietic and
      nonhematopoietic cells.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  