
    
      Sexual arousal difficulties are common among women, affecting approximately 22% of women
      between the ages of 18 and 59 (Laumann, Paik & Rosen, 1999). Although there are
      evidence-based psychological treatments available for women with orgasmic and pain disorders,
      there are currently no empirically-supported treatments for women with acquired Sexual
      Arousal Disorder (FSAD). Moreover, there have been numerous attempts to find evidence for a
      pharmacological agent effective at treating women's sexual arousal complaints; however, to
      date these studies have been inconclusive. Given the significant role that sexual health
      plays in quality of life, the fact that effective psychological treatments for women's sexual
      dysfunction are not widely available, and the fact that wait-lists to see health care
      professionals with expertise in the area of sexual dysfunction are often unwieldy, there is a
      need to establish brief, evidence-based approaches to treat women's acquired FSAD.
      Psychological therapy in a group format is a standard practice at the BC Centre for Sexual
      Medicine. However, in this study we would like to collect information from participants that
      would help us in determining the specific efficacy of the PED as well as identifying
      demographic or participant variables that might predict a positive response to the PED.
      Because we are using this information to determine the treatment's efficacy and because we
      will use this information as the basis for a publication, we deem this to be a research trial
      in which ethics review is necessary.

      OBJECTIVES: We have recently developed and tested a new psychoeducational treatment (PED) for
      the treatment of FSAD due to early-stage gynecologic cancer treatment. Our data show this PED
      to significantly improve self-reported sexual desire, arousal, mood, relationship distress,
      and quality of life. We are currently testing the efficacy of this PED in a larger sample of
      cancer survivors with FSAD. The goal for this study is to test our PED in a group format for
      women who are currently seeking treatment at the BC Centre for Sexual Medicine for FSAD. By
      testing the efficacy of the PED administered in a group format, we hope to establish some
      preliminary data supporting the use of brief psychoeducational interventions for women. These
      pilot data will be used in a future larger-scale trial that involves randomization to group
      PED or a control condition in order to more definitively establish the PED efficacy.
    
  