
    
      The use of intrathecal drug delivery systems for the management of chronic non-cancer pain
      has been in practice for over 30 years. A recently published study from the University of
      Texas Medical Branch performed a retrospective review on the morphine microdose method in
      community-based clinics. The goal of the study was to examine the morphine microdose method
      in an outpatient setting and assess success of therapy, pain scores and dose escalation.
      Patients were successfully weaned off their systemic opioids, maintained in an opioid-free
      period for 4-6 weeks, and then underwent a microdose trial and implantation. The majority of
      patients were successfully managed on morphine monotherapy, with a significant reduction in
      pain scores, and dose escalations comparable to prior studies. No prospective studies have
      examined the microdose method in correlation with changes in pain sensitivity.

      Several studies have looked at the use of various pain testing models to investigate the
      effects of chronic opioid therapy and changes in pain perception. A systematic review of the
      literature identified clinical studies incorporating measures of hyperalgesia in patients on
      chronic opioid therapy. This review was aimed at finding the optimal testing modality to
      evaluate pain threshold and tolerance to external stimuli, including mechanical (pressure,
      touch, injection), thermal (cold/heat), and electrical. Although the results did not reveal
      any one method with sufficient power, several prospective studies evaluating hyperalgesia
      with heat pain ratings have shown some promising results; two studies revealing significant
      changes in heat responses for opioid treatment groups, and one study demonstrating lower heat
      pain perception values following an opioid taper. The latter study of research pertaining to
      pain sensitivity changes following an opioid taper is lacking, and only recently was a study
      performed investigating changes in pressure threshold following transition from full mu
      agonist to buprenorphine. Little is known at this juncture how pain thresholds change due to
      opioid dose changes and/or route of delivery changes such as oral to intrathecal routes.
    
  