
    
      Epiretinal fibrosis is a disease of the macula, which affects the central retina, and there
      by the central vision. Epiretinal fibrosis is due to a growth of connective tissue on retinas
      surface.

      From population studies shows that 15% of patients with epiretinal fibrosis will develop
      moderate to severe loss of visual acuity. Earlier studies have shown that surgery to remove
      the epiretinal membrane most often leads to improvements in visual acuity if not a
      normalization of this. The reason why not everyone has normalization of their visual acuity
      could be growth of connective in the deeper layers of the retina. This intraretinal fibrosis
      develops over time and is presumed to worsen with the duration of the condition.

      In a patient with symptomatic epiretinal fibrosis and visual acuity over 0,4, the current
      clinical practice is to utilize the wait and see approach, where you hold of treatment until
      you have made sure that the patients visual acuity is declining. With the wait and see
      approach you avoid doing surgery on eyes that would have remained stable in their visual
      acuity. On the other hand will the same approach always ensure that we do surgery on eye that
      have deteriorated visual acuity, usually to a point of 0,1-0,3 and longer duration of
      disease.

      Hence the results of delayed surgery are presumably worse than what could have been achieved
      by operating at an earlier point.

      This project aims to investigate if you can give the patients a more favorable long term
      result by doing surgery earlier compared to the traditional wait and see approach.

      This study is a prospective randomized clinical trial. We aim to include 60 patients, where
      20 will be randomized to early surgery (intervention) and 40 to a close follow-up
      program(control). If the patients in the control group loss more than 10 Early Treatment
      Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters during the follow-up of of they request surgery
      for their epiretinal fibrosis they will be offered the same operation as the intervention
      group.

      The Intervention group is to have clear lens extraction if they are not already operated for
      cataract. This is within 4 weeks of inclusion, and another 4 weeks after this they will have
      their epiretinal fibrosis removed by pars plana vitrectomy.

      There are clinical controls after 3,6,9 and 12 months after inclusion/surgery for both
      groups.
    
  