
    
      Background: Hope is important for family/friends of persons with dementia residing in Long
      Term Care Facilities (LTC). Our research team has developed a program (Living with Hope) to
      increase hope and quality of life of family caregivers. The Living with Hope Program (LWHP)
      involves a) viewing the Living with Hope film which features caregivers of persons with
      dementia describing their hope and b) a hope activity entitled "Stories of the Present". The
      hope activity consists of participants writing at the end of the day about their thoughts,
      challenges and what gave them hope over a 4- week time period. For family caregivers of
      persons with advanced cancer, this LWHP has been found to increase their hope and feelings of
      self-efficacy (confidence in their ability to deal with difficult situations). Based on a
      qualitative study of hope of family caregivers of persons with dementia residing in LTC, the
      LWHP has been adapted to that population. A new Living with Hope film entitled "Connecting
      with Hope" has been produced and will be used in this pilot study.

      Aims: The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the
      LWHP and collect preliminary data on the effectiveness of the Living with Hope Program for
      family members of persons with dementia residing in LTC.

      Sample: Shannon Stachnik (Social Worker St. Joseph's Auxiliary Hospital), Arlene Huhn
      (Alzheimer's Society of Alberta - Edmonton) and Anna Mann (Alberta Caregivers Association)
      will identify potential participants based on the inclusion criteria. They will make contact
      and ask if the potential participants are willing to talk with a research nurse about the
      study. If they agree the research nurse will contact potential participants. Inclusion
      criterion for participants are: a) 18 years of age and older, b) English speaking, and c)
      have a family member or friend with dementia who resides in LTC.

      The research nurse will contact potential participants and ask them when it will be a
      convenient time to meet with and obtain written informed consent.

      Design: Using a mixed-methods randomized control trial (Quantitative +qualitative) design, 30
      participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: 1) treatment (Watching a film
      on hope and Stories of the Present for one month), 2) low dose group (Stories of the Present
      only) or 3) usual care group. In all groups, demographic information, and baseline, day 7 ,14
      and one month, measures of hope (Herth Hope Index), quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF), general
      self-efficacy (General Self-Efficacy Scale) and guilt (Caregiver Guilt Questionnaire) will be
      collected by a trained research nurse. Participants in group 1 and 2 (treatment group) will
      be asked to describe what they were thinking about when doing the hope activities on day 7,
      14 and one month using qualitative interviews. At one month all participants will be
      interviewed using open ended audiotaped questions to help evaluate the study procedures
    
  