
    
      Neuropathic pain is a kind of pain that is caused by a disruption of the nervous system.
      Neuropathic pain is common among people with spinal cord injury (SCI), is often severe, and
      can interfere significantly with daily life. Current treatments do not eliminate neuropathic
      pain for most individuals. Therefore, it is important to identify other strategies that
      enable people with SCI to exert more control over their pain.

      The purpose of this research study is to examine patterns of brain activity in people with
      SCI while they perform different thinking tasks. This study will help researchers understand
      how patterns of brain activity change during these tasks and how these tasks affect pain
      severity and unpleasantness. The information we learn in this study will help us create new
      treatment options to help people with SCI to manage their chronic neuropathic pain.

      The study will take place over 2 days, separated by 1-3 weeks or so, depending on scheduling
      of study activities. The study should take approximately 1 hour on the first day (for a
      telephone interview), and up to 7.5 hours on the second day (for a visit to Kessler for
      functional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRI).

      In this study, participants will be asked to respond to a series of questions relating to
      their physical health, mental health, and pain history. The researchers may also review their
      medical records if needed to determine if it is safe for them to have an MRI. Those who
      qualify will visit Kessler and will be introduced to different thinking strategies that can
      be used to try to change the activity in the brain in areas that relate to the experience of
      pain. Participants will undergo 3 separate fMRI sessions. During the first session, the
      researchers will locate a pain-related region of the brain from which to gather information
      about brain activity. In the second and third sessions, the researchers will use fMRI to
      measure the activity in a pain-related region of the brain while the participant tries out
      different thinking strategies. While participants practice use of these strategies, they will
      be shown information about brain activity and will be asked to use this information as they
      try to become better at using the strategies. The researchers will also ask participants
      whether the experience of their pain (severity and unpleasantness) changed while they
      practiced these strategies.
    
  