
    
      General anesthesia is a state of drug-induced unconsciousness, during which patients should
      neither perceive nor recall noxious stimuli. Many patients facing surgery dread the prospect
      of being awake, in pain and unable to move owing to inadequate general anesthesia. A large
      multi-center study in the USA showed that, despite modern anesthesia techniques, the overall
      incidence of awareness or conscious recall remains about 0.1-0.2%. For high-risk (for
      awareness) surgery, such as cardiac surgery, trauma surgery and obstetric surgery, the
      incidence of conscious recall approaches 1%. This can lead to extreme anxiety and even
      posttraumatic stress disorder. Several monitors, including the Bispectral Index (BIS), which
      is based on processed electroencephalographic information, have been developed in an attempt
      to monitor depth of anesthesia. A recent landmark study suggested that harnessing the
      information provided by the BIS monitor decreases the incidence of explicit recall during
      high-risk surgical procedures from almost 1% to 0.1%. The possible impact of this study is
      enormous. The American Society of Anesthesiologists and the American Association of Nurse
      Anesthetists do not currently consider neurological monitors an essential part of routine
      anesthesia care. Increasingly, members of the anesthetic community are suggesting that for
      every patient undergoing general anesthesia, especially for procedures where the risk of
      awareness is considered higher, a neurological monitor, such as the BIS monitor, should be
      routinely applied.

      Explicit recall under general anesthesia is a major concern among members of the public and
      has even been featured on the popular Oprah Winfrey Show. Several patients presenting for
      surgery at Barnes Jewish Hospital have questioned whether the anesthesia provider would be
      using a BIS monitor to "prevent awareness". Excluding the cost of the BIS monitor itself, the
      cost to use BIS is $17.50 for the disposable strip. If this monitor was to be used for every
      anesthetic administered at Barnes Jewish Hospital, this might translate to an annual cost of
      about $500,000. Explicit recall, especially when patients have been aware and unable to move,
      is a serious complication that frequently precipitates posttraumatic stress disorder. If
      indeed the BIS monitor does decrease the incidence of explicit recall, this could translate
      into a cost effective and more importantly clinically imperative intervention. Currently BIS
      monitors, or similar alternatives, are not used routinely to monitor depth of general
      anesthesia at Barnes Jewish Hospital.

      However, there are several concerns regarding the studies that have been conducted using the
      BIS monitor. There have been no parameters guiding administration of anesthesia in the
      control groups. BIS data have not been collected for patients in control groups, which
      prevents retrospective analysis and assessment of the true sensitivity, specificity, positive
      and negative predictive values of the BIS recordings. Most of the studies have been funded by
      the manufacturer of the device, which introduces a potential conflict of interest and
      investigator bias. In view of the current pressure to adopt BIS monitoring or an equivalent
      into the standard of anesthesia care, it is essential to conduct a study to address some of
      the concerns. The hypothesis of this proposed study is that an anesthetic algorithm can be
      designed for high-risk surgical patients such that the incidence of awareness will be
      equivalent to or lower than that in a group where anesthesia depth is guided by the BIS
      monitor.
    
  