
    
      Telomere disease is caused by accelerated telomere attrition and results in multi-organ
      dysfunction. Telomeres are nucleotide repeats of non-coding DNA at the end of the chromosomes
      which function as protective caps to prevent erosion of genomic DNA during cell division and
      to protect chromosomes from recognition as single stranded DNA. Telomeric DNA is elongated by
      the telomerase complex, which is comprised of a reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit
      (encoded by TERT), an RNA template (encoded by TERC) and associated proteins. Telomerase
      activity is crucial in maintaining telomere length in cells with a high proliferative
      capacity, such as hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and lymphocytes. Presentation of
      telomeropathies can vary from severe aplastic anemia (SAA) and dyskeratosis congenital (DKC)
      early in childhood, to pulmonary or hepatic fibrosis later in life. There is no standard of
      care for the treatment of telomere disease.

      Considerable evidence suggests that sex hormones regulate telomerase. Calado et al.
      demonstrated that human lymphocytes and CD34+ hematopoietic cells up regulate both TERT gene
      expression and telomerase enzymatic activity in response to androgens in vitro. A recent
      observational cohort study demonstrated hematologic response in 14 of 16 pediatric patients
      with DKC treated with androgens. In a prospective trial from our Branch, Townsley et al
      demonstrated that patients with telomere diseases who were treated with the synthetic sex
      hormone danazol showed telomere elongation, and hematologic response were seen in 79% of
      patients after only three months of treatment. This study used the highest dose of danazol,
      800 mg daily, and known adverse effects, such as elevated liver enzyme levels and muscle
      cramps, occurred in 41% and 33% of patients, respectively. Overall the treatment was well
      tolerated, but some patients did require dose reduction. After 27 patients were enrolled, the
      study was halted early, because telomere attrition was reduced in all 12 patients who could
      be evaluated for the primary endpoint. Because of the limited power, we were unable to draw
      definitive conclusions regarding further clinical effect of danazol but stabilization or
      improvement was observed in a few cases in other organ function, measured by DLCO for
      pulmonary fibrosis and Fibroscan for cirrhosis.

      We now propose a phase II study designed to determine the efficacy of low dose danazol in
      decreasing the rate of telomere attrition in subjects with a short age-adjusted telomere
      length. The secondary aim is to determine the clinical effect of this therapy in conditions
      that are related to short telomeres, to include cytopenia(s), pulmonary fibrosis, and/or
      hepatic fibrosis.
    
  