
    
      Tacrolimus is the cornerstone of immunosuppression in renal transplantation, but its
      nephrotoxicity, in particular, makes it a drug with a narrow therapeutic range, requiring
      regular pharmacokinetic monitoring. Several studies have demonstrated a relationship between
      concentration (residual tacrolimus) and dose (prescribed daily tacrolimus) ratio, or C/D
      ratio, and graft survival. "Fast metabolizers" have been identified by a C/D ratio of less
      than 1.05 and have poorer graft survival than other renal transplant recipients. The
      determinants of the C/D ratio (the clinical or biological factors influencing the C/D ratio)
      are not known.

      The purpose of the TIPS study is to prospectively identify tacrolimus metabolism patterns,
      based on the C/D ratio, and to identify the determinants of the C/D ratio.

      The investigators assumed that different metabolism profiles are associated with different
      degradation profiles of tacrolimus. These degradation profiles can be identified by analysis
      of known plasma metabolites of tacrolimus (M-I and M-III) and by pharmacogenetic analysis of
      genes involved in the metabolism of tacrolimus. Also, since the pharmacokinetic profile can
      be associated with the therapeutic strategy (prolonged-release vs. immediate-release
      tacrolimus form), it will be investigated in the study in parallel. The hypothesis of this
      work is that the pharmacokinetic parameters of tacrolimus and its metabolites are associated
      with renal transplant survival and simultaneously with the therapeutic strategy of the drug.
      The investigators hope that this will explain the relationship between the C/D ratio of
      tacrolimus and graft survival, in order to tailor tacrolimus treatment to individual patients
      (adaptation of the therapeutic strategy, choice of optimal dose).

      For this prospective tri-centric randomized prospective study, new renal transplant patients
      who are scheduled to receive immunosuppression including tacrolimus will be included and
      randomized between two therapeutic strategies (prolonged-release vs. immediate-release
      tacrolimus form) within 7 days after transplantation. Patients will be followed for 4 years.
      Regular consultations will be provided (W6, M3, M6, M12, M24, M36 and M48) including usual
      biological analyses for renal transplant follow-up, full prescriptions and adherence
      questionnaire (BAASIS) but also a systematic biopsy of the renal transplant (M3 and M12) and
      an abbreviated pharmacokinetic study of tacrolimus exposure (M3).
    
  