
    
      There is increasing evidence to demonstrate that excessive and unhealthy patterns of
      sedentary behaviour can increase the risk of a range of health problems,independent to levels
      of physical activity. Increasingly, people are employed in low activity occupations with
      office workers being identified as one of the most sedentary roles. Small scale studies using
      prompts to remind office workers to stand have shown promising results, as well as
      representing a low-cost solution for employers. This study builds upon a recent pilot study
      investigating the impact of prompts delivered via Microsoft Outlook, on the sedentary
      behaviour of office workers.

      Developed in accordance with the Medical Research Council framework for designing
      multi-component interventions this study utilises Social Cognitive Theory (SCT) as a
      theoretical basis. SCT describes the complex interaction between individuals and their
      environment. The influence of the office environment on sedentary behaviour is clearly
      illustrated by differences in people's sitting patterns inside and outside of working hours .
      Behavioural change techniques linked to the constructs of SCT have also been shown to have a
      positive impact on sedentary behaviour, namely education, goal setting and feedback.
      Participants in this study will therefore receive education on the benefits of breaking their
      sitting, tips on how to achieve this, and feedback on their baseline sitting behaviour. This
      study will test the impact of these techniques on sitting time and patterns, and also track
      their influence on the different constructs of SCT and individuals' readiness to change by
      measuring these at time points throughout the intervention. To address the fact that sitting
      at work may not be a conscious decision, but performed out of habit, half of participants
      will also receive prompts reminding them to stand. The same prompts will be used as in the
      pilot study, but the addition of an extra activity monitoring period will enable us to
      ascertain whether the impact of prompts diminishes during the intervention period.

      This study will aim to recruit 60 desk-based office employees via email invitation.
      Volunteers will be screened using inclusion/exclusion criteria and asked to provide signed
      consent. Sitting will be de-emphasised in the participant information sheet, and other
      documentation used at recruitment, in order to minimise any impact on baseline activity
      measurements. Cluster randomisation will be used to split participants into two equal groups
      (Group 1 n=30, group 2 n=30) based on their physical location within the office(s) in order
      to minimise contamination between groups. Randomisation software will be used to allocate
      groups on www.randomisation.com. Baseline measurement for all participants will consist of
      completion of questionnaires and activity monitoring as follows:

        1. Questionnaires:

             -  Q1: Demographic data - to obtain basic information on participants

             -  Q2: Stage of change questionnaire - measuring readiness to change

             -  Q3: Social cognitive theory questionnaire - measuring key constructs of SCT

        2. Activity monitoring:

             -  Participants will be asked to wear a water-proofed activPAL activity monitor* on
                the front of their thigh for a period of 7 consecutive days (24 hours a day)

             -  A brief diary will be completed for the same 7 days

                  -  The activPAL activity monitor has been validated for measuring and
                     categorising sitting/lying, standing and walking using an acceleration signal
                     from the thigh .

      Following the collection of baseline data, all participants will attend a 1 hour education
      session during which they will receive a presentation outlining: the health problems
      associated with prolonged sedentary behaviour; how much sitting is recommended; feedback on
      their own baseline sitting behaviour; and tips on how to reduce and break up sedentary
      behaviour. They will be given a summary of their baseline activity data . Group 1 will then
      return to work as normal. Group 2 will receive an excel file to upload to Microsoft Outlook
      which will deliver prompts to break sitting at random times, once within an hour. The prompts
      will run for a period of 10 weeks and their content will be the same brief, positively framed
      messages that were evaluated favourably by participants in the pilot project. Measurements
      for all participants will be repeated as follows: Questionnaires Q2 and Q3 will be repeated
      after the education session and at 12 week follow-up; 1 week of activity monitoring will be
      repeated between weeks 2-4 of the intervention period, 8-10 of the intervention period, and
      at 12 week follow up.

      Following final measurements, participants will be invited to one of a series of
      semi-structured focus groups to explore the feasibility, acceptability, meaningfulness and
      effectiveness of the intervention. Focus groups will be recorded using a digital voice
      recorder and transcribed.

      Data will be treated as confidential, it will be anonymised, and stored securely in line with
      GCU's data protection policies. Electronic copies of the activity data will be kept for 10
      years, alongside electronic and paper copies of the questionnaires and diaries and audio and
      transcribed accounts of the focus groups. Physical activity data and basic demographic data
      will also be kept on a password protected database on a secure server. The data held on the
      database will not be identifiable. The information collected may be used for further analysis
      by staff and students in the School of Health and Life Sciences at Glasgow Caledonian
      University at a later date. Access to data will be restricted and controlled by Dr Ben
      Stansfield, PGRT in the School of Health and Life Sciences, GCU. Individuals will not be
      identifiable from any reports published and the employer, JJML, will receive a report
      containing only amalgamated data.

      : Each participant will receive a brief summary of their baseline activity data at the
      education session. In addition, at the end of the study they will be provided with an
      activity report, summarising their individual activity data for all 4 measurement periods. A
      report of amalgamated data, including the results of the focus groups, will be produced for
      JJML and this will also be made available to study participants. Furthermore, the results
      will be written up as a PhD thesis, published in appropriate academic journals and discussed
      in conference presentations.
    
  