
    
      The SEEQUOIA-AHF trial is aimed at ascertaining if the early, oral administration of a
      combination of four diuretics with different sites of action along sequential nephron
      segments (i.e., sequential nephron blockade: proximal tubule, loop of Henle, distal tubule,
      cortical collecting duct) may achieve greater decrease in body weight and lower increase in
      serum creatinine values as compared with standard of care, i.e. a conventional diuretic
      therapy regimen based on high-dose oral furosemide. To assess the efficacy and safety of an
      early sequential nephron blockade, the study intervention will be initiated 24-72 hours after
      an algorithm-based treatment with high-dose intravenous furosemide started at the time of
      hospital admission to achieve patient stabilization.

      After 24-72 hours of algorithm-based treatment with high-dose intravenous furosemide,
      eligible patients will be randomized to either control (furosemide-only) or intervention
      (early sequential nephron blockade) arm.

      All patients will be put on a low sodium diet (< 70 mEq/24 hours), and will be allowed a
      fluid intake of < 1 L/day.

      Following randomization patients will be started on oral diuretic therapy according to two
      different approaches, namely:

        1. High-dose oral furosemide-only arm A furosemide oral dose equivalent to twice the
           intravenous dose of the last 24 hours will be given in two daily divided doses.

           Unless serum potassium value is higher than 5.0 mEq/L, oral spironolactone or potassium
           canrenoate will be added; dose will be established based on serum creatinine value Oral
           or intravenous potassium supplementation (potassium chloride at least 24 mEq/day) will
           be started if serum potassium value is lower than 4.0 mEq/L

        2. Early sequential oral diuretic nephron blockade

             1. Furosemide A furosemide oral dose equivalent to the previous 24-hour intravenous
                dose will be given in two divided doses

             2. Metolazone. Dose will be established based on serum creatinine value

             3. Acetazolamide. Dose will be established based on serum creatinine value

             4. Spironolactone or Potassium Canrenoate. Unless serum potassium value is higher than
                5.0 mEq/L, oral spironolactone or potassium canrenoate will be added; dose will be
                established based on serum creatinine value.

      In both arms, if within the first 48 hours since randomization urine output is lower than 1.5
      L/day and/or body weight decrease is less than 0.5 Kg/day, the oral dose of furosemide will
      be doubled, or the patient will be switched to intravenous administration at the discretion
      of the attending physician. If urinary output exceeds 50 ml/Kg/day current furosemide dose
      will be halved. Diuretics can be decreased or temporarily discontinued if there is a decrease
      in systolic blood pressure (> 25% of basal value) or worsening kidney function (WKF, defined
      as an increase in serum creatinine value ≥ 0.3 mg/dL or 25% from baseline value within 24-48
      hours) that is felt as being be due to a transient episode of intravascular volume depletion.
      After the patient has stabilized, if congestion persists, diuretics will be reinitiated or
      their doses will be increased until the patient's fluid balance has been optimized.
      Investigators may opt-out of the treatment algorithm if they feel that it is in the interest
      of patient care.

      The primary endpoint will be the bivariate change in body weight and serum creatinine value
      at 96 hours since patient randomization.

      According to the data from the study of Grodin et al (J Card Fail 2016; 22:26-32), comparing
      subjects randomized to stepped-care diuretic treatment in the Cardiorenal Rescue Study in
      Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (CARRESS-HF) trial with those developing the cardiorenal
      syndrome during standard treatment with intravenous furosemide in the Diuretic Optimization
      Strategies Evaluation Acute Heart Failure (DOSE-AHF) trial and the Renal Optimization
      Strategies Evaluation in Acute Heart Failure (ROSE-AHF) trial, the mean difference in body
      weight obtained with the stepped-care oral approach versus the intravenous approach was -1.2
      Kg, with a standard deviation (SD) ranging between 1.5 and 2.4 Kg; the mean difference in
      serum creatinine was -0.1 mg/dL, with a SD of 0.3 mg/dL. Thus, the investigators estimated
      that the enrollment of 206 patients would yield a 90% power to detect a 0.5 effect size for
      either component of the bivariate primary endpoint (1.2/2.4 Kg and 0.15/0.30 mg,
      respectively) with a two-sided 0.05 alpha level.
    
  