
    
      The main hypothesis of this study is that the suprascapular block combined with a
      costoclavicular block is not inferior to the interscalene brachial plexus block in terms of
      postoperative analgesia. Inverstigators postulate that postoperative pain score will not
      differ significantly in patients who receive either block.

      secondary objectives will consist in looking at the differences in intraoperative anesthetic
      consumption, postoperative opioid consumption, arm motor block, diaphragmatic paresis,
      patient satisfaction and time for readiness to discharge from PACU. investigators hypothesize
      that these outcomes will be similar in both groups, with the exception of a potential
      reduction in arm motor block and diaphragmatic paresis in the combined suprascapular and
      costoclavicular block group.

      After having obtained institutional ethics board approval of the study, patients older than
      18 years old, scheduled for a first elective shoulder arthroscopy under general anesthesia
      will be screened in the pre-anesthesia clinic. patients will be approached and the whole
      study procedures will be explained extensively. Interested patients will be invited to sign
      the consent form .Patients will have the right to opt out at any time. The investigators will
      meet the patients again on the morning of the surgery to address any concerns. After consent,
      a study number will be allocated to the patient in ascending order.

      Two groups will be evaluated:

        -  Group A: single shot US-guided suprascapular nerve block with 5 mL bupivacaine 0.5%,
           then single shot US-guided costoclavicular block with 10 ml bupivacaine 0.5%.

        -  Group B: single shot US-guided interscalene brachial plexus block with 15 mL bupivacaine
           0.5%.

      Tests will be done to evaluate the nerve block-induced loss of sensation to ice prior to
      entering the operating room (OR). Diaphragmatic excursion will be evaluated using an
      abdominal curvilinear ultrasound probe, and will be classified as being normal, paradoxical
      or immobile. Normal motion is caudad movement during inspiration. Paradoxical motion is
      cephalad movement during inspiration.

      Once in the operating room, all routine monitors are connected.. Both study monitors are
      switched on and will record their respective indices continuously for the duration of the
      anesthesia. General anesthesia will be induced with propofol (1-2 mg/kg IV), fentanil (1
      µg/kg IV bolus) and cis-atracium (0.1-0.2 mg/kg IV; ). A bolus of dexamethasone 4mg IV will
      be administered after induction of general anesthesia.

      Patients will also have received oral acetaminophen 1g preoperatively. Intubation with an
      endotracheal tube is performed once the patient is adequately paralyzed . All drugs are given
      according to the adjusted body weight of the patient. This is calculated with Robinson's
      formula: where TBW is total body weight and IBW is ideal body weight (21-22). Immediately
      after intubation, anesthesia is maintained with isoflurane . At the end of anesthesia, when
      the surgeon starts closing the wounds, an IV bolus of hydromorphone 0.7 mcg/kg of adjusted
      body weight is administered. Emergence and extubation are done in the OR. All times (start
      skin closure, start dressing, stop isoflurane) will be precisely reported in the CRF.
    
  