
    
      Atherosclerotic arterial disease is the main cause of premature death worldwide and is
      anticipated to remain the single leading cause of morbidity and mortality the following two
      decades. Coronary heart disease (CHD) and peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are important
      clinical manifestation of atherosclerosis which have common underlying arterial pathology,
      risk factors, and preventive treatments, but they are not often studied concurrently. In the
      view of secondary prevention we need to know more about the prevalence of cardiovascular
      disease and prognosis in patients at documented high risk, i.e. patients with manifested CHD.
      Previous studies on patients with CHD and concomitant PAD have focused mainly on either lower
      extremity PAD or carotid artery disease. In this project we expand the concept of PAD in
      patients with CHD to include lower extremity arterial disease, carotid artery disease, renal
      artery disease, and abdominal aortic aneurysmal disease.

      Diabetes mellitus is a well recognised risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality. However, even prediabetic conditions carry an increased risk. One possible
      explanation for this increased risk may be the presence of a greater number of
      atherosclerotic lesions in patients with glucometabolic disorders than in patients without
      such disorders. We aim to evaluate the association of PAD with glucometabolic status in
      patients with manifest CHD.

      A growing body of research has demonstrated the role of psychosocial and behavioural risk
      factors in the pathogenesis and prognosis of cardiovascular disorders. Recently, the type D
      ("distressed") personality construct has been proposed as a strong risk factor for
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Type D personality is characterized by high levels of
      two personality traits: negative affectivity (e.g. worry, irritability, and gloom) and social
      inhibition (e.g. lack of self-assurance and reticence). The data on type D personality as a
      risk factor for cardiovascular disease has been limited to few research groups and there is a
      need to replicate those data in other populations.
    
  