
    
      Background & Objectives: The proposed study will be nested within an ongoing
      cluster-randomized HIV self-testing trial (Tushirikiane) in Kampala, Uganda. Using a
      pre-test/post-test design, the proposed study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a
      RANAS-informed mHealth intervention on increasing self-efficacy of COVID-19 prevention
      practices with displaced/refugee youth aged 16-24 in Kampala, Uganda. This research will be
      conducted in 5 informal settlements ('slums') grouped into 3 clusters based on proximity (1:
      Kabalanga and Kasanga, 2: Katwe and Nsambya, 3: Rubaga) where most displaced/refugee persons
      in Kampala live.

      Kukaa Salama Intervention: Participants will be invited to take part in a 6-week COVID-19
      prevention program; this will involve receiving 1 SMS/week on COVID-19 prevention messaging,
      delivered using the WelTel secure platform. All SMS will be delivered in participants'
      language of choice including English, French, Swahili, Luganda, or Kinyarwanda. Participants
      will also be invited to take part in a weekly group discussion (15 persons/group) using a
      secure group conversation integration with WelTel. Each week the group discussions will
      discuss barriers and facilitators and brainstorm solutions to advance COVID-19 prevention.
      Participants can also ask the research assistant questions by SMS about COVID-19 during
      Monday-Friday business hours 9 am-5 pm and can also receive psychosocial support from a
      counselor from Interaid collaborating with the team and YARID. Regardless of participation in
      the survey or interview, all participants of the parent trial (Tushirikiane) will also be
      offered a parcel that contains a face mask, a bar of soap, and a small parcel of food from
      the partner agency YARID.

      Participant Recruitment and Retention: Tushirikiane participants will be invited to take part
      in the COVID-19 supplement of voluntary questions related to COVID-19 (i.e., about knowledge
      and prevention) and subsequent Kukaa Salama intervention. The participants will be informed
      the COVID-19 survey and Kukaa Salama intervention is voluntary and will not affect their
      participation in the larger Tushirikiane study. Community collaborators will facilitate
      recruitment and retention; peer navigators will use multiple study reminder strategies (e.g.
      social media, texts) to maintain engagement, and we will utilize existing outreach and
      services by MARPI, YARID, and community partners.

      Research Team Training: This research involves collaborations with the Ministry of Health's
      Most At Risk Population Initiative (MARPI) clinics and YARID's urban refugee youth
      empowerment centres in Kampala.

      mHealth Training: This research involves a collaboration with WelTel's non-profit agency for
      the supportive SMS intervention. WelTel will develop an integration to include discussion
      groups in the SMS communication platform: SMS surveys, COVID-19 updates, and discussion
      content will be delivered via WelTel's secure platform. WelTel will support consolidated
      communication capture and streamlined data visualization to support ongoing analysis. Weekly
      COVID-19 informational SMS will inform the moderated discussion focus. Multiple 'chat'
      methods are planned, including: 'scenarios' mimicking real-life situations; a 'question box';
      sharing COVID-19 mitigation photos; short movies/GIFs (6-8 seconds); 'memes'; songs; and
      motivational drivers. The peer navigators and research coordinator will review group
      discussions weekly to publish top responses to incentivize engagement. WelTel staff has
      already conducted training with the research team and peer navigators as part of the larger
      trial.

      COVID-19 Prevention Practices: Participants will be surveyed at 3 time points (time 1:
      baseline; time 2: 8 weeks; time 3: 16 weeks). At baseline (time 1), participants will
      complete a RANAS-informed questionnaire adapted to COVID-19 (i.e., about knowledge and
      prevention practices). These COVID-19 related questions will be delivered by a research
      assistant who will enter the survey responses directly into a tablet (survey will be on the
      Survey CTO secure platform that runs online and offline). Following the 6-week Kukaa Salama
      intervention, participants will be asked to complete the same survey (time 2) and again at a
      4-month follow up (time 3) to examine changes in COVID-19 knowledge, prevention, and impacts
      after the intervention and over time.
    
  