
    
      The purpose of this trial is to determine the feasibility of an aerobic and strengthening
      exercise intervention trial among children during maintenance therapy for childhood ALL by
      evaluating participant accrual, participant compliance, and burden to the institutional
      staff.

      We anticipate that key barriers exist which threaten the successful completion of an
      interventional trial of exercise within the ALL patient population. Approximately 2,500 to
      3,500 children are diagnosed each year with ALL and similar numbers will enter the
      maintenance phase of therapy during a given year. About 22% of those diagnosed are between 5
      and 8 years old. Thus accrual is limited by the small patient population but fortunately most
      patients with ALL receive their care at dedicated pediatric oncology institutions. Lack of
      interest or lack of understanding of the underlying problem of obesity and weakness among
      survivors in the ALL population may be additional barriers to accrual. In addition, families
      may be overwhelmed by the primary diagnosis of leukemia and feel that they are unable to take
      on additional challenges.

      Compliance to a rigorous exercise regimen must be ascertained if demonstrable improvement in
      motor performance, body composition and cardiovascular disease risk profile are to occur. Key
      to this study is not only short-term compliance but designing an intervention that will
      promote and improve long-term rates of exercise. Barriers to compliance include length of
      time to complete the intervention, number of days the intervention must be administered,
      perceived benefit by the participant, difficulty of the intervention, inadequate
      demonstration of the intervention, poor understanding by the participant/parent of the
      importance of obesity and weakness among survivors of childhood ALL, and health issues in
      regard to the primary diagnosis of ALL.

      We will open a feasibility study at 3 institutions dedicated to treatment of childhood
      cancer: St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Oregon Health & Science University and
      Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center .The accrual goal of this study will be a total of 20
      patients. The hypothesized outcome for this aim of the feasibility study will be an accrual
      rate of 50% of eligible patients at a given institution.

      Motor Function The Bruinicks-Osteretsky Test of Motor Proficiency Version 2 (BOT-2) will be
      used to measure participants' motor function. Maximum isometric knee extension strength will
      be measured with a hand held myometer and hand grip strength will be measured with a hand
      held dynamometer. Additionally, flexibility will be measured with the sit and reach test.
      Ankle dorsiflexion active and passive range of motion will be measures with a goniometer.
      Aerobic capacity will be measured with the modified Cooper 6 minute walk test. Body
      composition and vital signs will also be collected.

      Intervention Participants will receive counseling and written material regarding the benefits
      of exercise and an individualized exercise instruction session based on the results of their
      baseline testing and their individual preferences. Each program will include ability specific
      stretching/flexibility, progressive resistive strengthening, and aerobic exercise. Necessary
      equipment for the strengthening (weights, stretch cords, elastic bands) and aerobic
      components will also be provided. A videotape demonstrating each exercise in the intervention
      will be given to the participant and their parent."

      Detailed written instructions, along with a book to log exercise, will also be provided.
      Stickers and small toys will be provided for the parents to give to their children for
      completing their exercises. Participants will receive a weekly phone call from an exercise
      coach, to answer questions and to progress the intervention. Participants will also receive
      counseling and review/progression of the exercise intervention at each usual clinic visit
      (approximately monthly). During the pilot study, participants will continue to receive the
      intervention for six months, with weekly phone calls tapering to every other week after three
      months. The exercise coach will be available to the participant/parent as needed via phone
      and/or email throughout the intervention period.
    
  