
    
      Fifty patients with early stage MSA will be recruited and randomised to receive Exenatide
      injections, or to act as controls in this open label trial.

      Once a potential participant has been identified they will receive a patient information
      leaflet, and will be given a minimum of 24 hours to read this before being recruited on to
      the trial. Patients will need to be eligible for the trial by meeting the inclusion criteria.

      During pre-treatment there will be a screening visit and a baseline visit. Pre-treatment
      assessments will include: demographics, medical history, family history, any previous genetic
      tests recorded, previous drug compliance issues recorded, physical examination, neurological
      examination, 12-lead ECG, routine bloods (FBC, U&E, LFT, glucose, amylase, HbA1c, PT and
      APTT), height, weight, vital signs, serum or urine pregnancy tests (for women of childbearing
      potential), MoCA, BDI-II and Concomitant medications. Patients will then wear a sensor
      attached to their lower back for a week. They will then return for their baseline visit. At
      the baseline visit assessments will include: physical exam, neurological exam, lumbar
      puncture for CSF collection, serum collection, fasting blood tests, vital signs, UMSARS,
      COMPASS Select, COMPASS Change scale, timed motor tests, The Unified Dystonia Rating Scale,
      MoCA, BDI-II, Concomitant medication review and adverse event review. Participants will then
      be randomised to both control arm or trial drug arm and receive the according treatment. The
      baseline visit will also include a training session for self-administration of IMP.

      Patients randomised to receive the trial drug will receive 2mg Exenatide once a week for 48
      weeks via subcutaneous injection. Follow up visits will be every 12 weeks and patients will
      be given a sufficient supply to last them till their next follow up appointment (can be
      stored in fridge at home). They will also be given a dosing diary to record the time and day
      of injection administration.

      Patients will continue to attend their normal neurology appointments as well as trial
      specific appointments. Patients will have a telephone call with the research nurse at week 4.
      Thereafter detailed assessments including Physical and Neurological exam, ECG's, Movement
      tests Including the Uniﬁed Multiple System Atrophy Rating Scale (videotaped), concomitant
      medications review, adverse event review, and blood sampling at baseline and every 12 weeks
      for a total of 48 weeks. Each patient will also have a Lumbar Puncture at baseline and at
      their final visit.

      The primary endpoint will be the difference in total Uniﬁed Multiple System Atrophy Rating
      Scale (UMSARS) score (Parts I and II) at 48 weeks comparing Exenatide to best medically
      treated patients. Secondary measures will include adverse event reports, self-completed
      questionnaires, and blood test results. Aside from these assessments, all patients will
      continue any regular MSA medications throughout the trial with adjustments made only
      according to clinical need.
    
  