
    
      Lung disease (LD) due to nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) becomes an important clinical
      concern, because the incidence and prevalence of NTM-LD have increased over the last decade.
      Among the NTM-LD in Taiwan, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) and M. abscessus (MAB) are the
      most frequent pathogenic species. Because MAC and MAB exist in the environment ubiquitously,
      clinical relevance of MAC isolated in sputum is only around 35~42%, and that of MAB is around
      33%. According to the guideline of the American Thoracic Society, the diagnosis of MAC-LD and
      MAB-LD is based on clinical, radiographic, and mycobacteriologic criteria. For microbiology
      criteria, two or more sets of positive sputum mycobacterial culture for the same NTM species
      within one year is required. Actually, mycobacteria culture is neither timely nor efficient,
      which needs weeks to wait the results, especially for the slowly growing NTM. Moreover, the
      nucleic acid amplification method cannot discriminate true NTM infection and solely
      colonization because airway NTM colonization is not uncommon. Therefore, diagnosis of true
      NTM-LD is a big challenge in clinical practice. However, to early diagnose and then start
      treatment of NTM-LD is important because NTM-LD may be rapid lethal in critical status or in
      patients without early proper treatment. Hence, more rapid and accurate diagnostic test
      should be developed.

      The body inflammatory markers are probably indicators for differentiating true NTM-LD from
      pulmonary colonization and interferon-gamma (IFN-g) play a critical role in protective
      immunity to mycobacterial infections. However, serum IFN-g poorly correlated with diagnosis
      of NTM-LD and possibly due to the hosts with attenuated cellular immunity and the presence of
      IFN-gamma inhibitor. By contrast, macrophages are the first-line defense while mycobacterial
      bacilli enter through airway and may play an important role while MAC/MAB infection.
      Macrophages can be polarized to inflammatory type and promotes type 1 immunity. In addition,
      inflammatory macrophages can react through inflammasome to defense intracellular
      mycobacteria. However, the inflammasome responses in inflammatory macrophages are rarely
      investigated in MAC-LD and MAB-LD, either for the defense mechanism or its diagnostic aid for
      disease form colonization. The investigators therefore conduct an in-vitro inflammatory
      macrophage stimulation using MAC or MAB bacilli to observe the difference of inflammasome
      response between MAC/MAB patients, colonizers, and controls.
    
  