
    
      Polyphenols (plant chemicals, some produce purple and red color in fruits) found in
      strawberries have been associated with reducing the risk of gum disease. However, much of
      these chemicals are susceptible to degradation during food processing and digestion.
      Minimally degraded in the mouth, polyphenols when consumed as fresh fruits are retained only
      for brief periods. Therefore, exposure of fresh fruit polyphenols to oral tissues may not be
      adequate for a biologic effect to occur. At OSU, food scientists have developed a 6 gram
      strawberry gummy containing 3 grams of freeze-dried strawberries designed to dissolve
      relatively slow in the mouth.

      The investigators will investigate the effects of strawberry gummy consumption on oral health
      in 36 habitually smoking and non-smoking healthy adults (men and women). At the enrollment
      visit (Day-14), subjects will visit the OSU Clinical Research Center (CRC) for an oral
      brushing; submit a 24-hour urine collection, and a saliva sample. Subjects will then start an
      anthocyanin-free (avoid purple and red fruits and vegetables) diet which they will maintain
      for 6 weeks of this study. After 2 weeks, subjects will have their first "washout" visit at
      the CRC. This visit will be one of two "washout visits" where subjects will again submit
      samples (fasting blood, urine, saliva, and oral brushing). At this visit, smokers will be
      block randomized (random assignment using computer software) into one of two groups
      (strawberry or placebo gummies) with a matching non-smoker having the same gender and age
      group. A salivary pharmacokinetic (sPK) study will follow and involves collection of saliva
      at these time points: 5 minutes before gummy placed in the mouth, and at 5,10,15,20,25, and
      30 minutes after gummies have been in the mouth. Subjects will be instructed to consume 2
      pieces of strawberry, or placebo gummy 4 times a day for 7 days. After 7 days subjects return
      to the CRC for a "treatment visit" to submit fasting blood, urine, saliva and oral brushing
      samples. Subjects will repeat the two-week anthocyanin-free diet and return to the CRC for
      another "washout visit" before crossing over to the other study gummy. After 7 days of gummy
      consumption, subjects will return for their second treatment visit and submit fasting blood,
      oral brushing, saliva, and 24 hour urine collection.
    
  