
    
      The investigators propose to conduct a placebo controlled, double blind, parallel group
      randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of Lovaza (formerly known as Omacor) in reducing
      triglyceride levels in youth ages 10-19 years old whose baseline triglycerides range from150
      mg/dl to 1000 mg/dl. Seventy subjects will be recruited at baseline and randomized to the
      treatment condition, Lovaza 4 grams/day for 6 months or the control condition, a corn oil
      placebo, 4 tablets a day for 6 months. Participants in both the treatment and control groups
      will receive the standard of care, which is dietary advice to follow a low, refined
      carbohydrate and low saturated fat diet that emphasizes increasing intake of fruits and
      vegetables and eating 2 servings per week of fishes rich in omega-3 fatty acids, consistent
      with the American Heart Association recommendations (Kris-Etherton, 2003). Subjects will be
      randomized to the treatment or control condition after a 4 week run-in period of dietary
      education and advice. The primary outcome will be change in fasting triglycerides from
      baseline to 3 months.

      2.0 SPECIFIC AIMS

      2.1 Primary Aim/Outcome

        -  To determine the efficacy of LOVAZA in reducing plasma triglyceride levels among
           adolescents, ages 12-19 years with mild to moderate hypertriglyceridemia. We hypothesize
           that patients who receive LOVAZA will have significantly greater reductions in plasma
           triglyceride levels when compared to patients on placebo at 3 months.

      2.2 Secondary Aims/Outcome

        -  To determine whether the efficacy of LOVAZA varies with duration of treatment, 3 months
           versus 6 months.

        -  To determine the effects of LOVAZA on plasma HDL and LDL cholesterol at 3 months and 6
           months.

        -  To determine the effects of LOVAZA on systolic and diastolic blood pressure at 3 months
           and 6 months.

      2.3 Exploratory Aims

        -  To describe the effects of LOVAZA on vascular reactivity/endothelial function as
           measured by pulse amplitude at 3 months and 6 months.

        -  To describe the effects of LOVAZA on levels of biomarkers of inflammation as measured by
           C-Reactive Protein at 3 months and 6 months.
    
  