
    
      The principle objectives of managing OA are to control pain adequately, improve function and
      reduce disability. There is strong evidence that exercise therapy has a short term benefit
      for OA. However, these beneficial effects decrease over time and finally disappear. This
      decline is thought to be related to the difficulties people have in maintaining adherence to
      prescribed exercises. Therefore, to enhance long term benefit, adherence to exercise therapy
      is of utmost importance. Recently, the focus of attention within physiotherapy has shifted
      towards behaviorally oriented treatment, like Behavioral Graded Activity (BGA), which focuses
      less on pain and includes psychological and social factors in the treatment-process. Such
      intervention seems appropriate to increase the level of activities of patients with OA in a
      time-contingent way and to increase patients' adherence to these activities.

      However, at the start of the present study the scientific evidence for the effectiveness of
      BGA in patients with a progressive and specific chronic disease, like OA of the hip and knee,
      was not available. Therefore, we performed a randomized controlled trial to study the
      effectiveness of BGA in patients with OA of the hip or knee. It was hypothesised that in the
      long term BGA results in less pain, less limitations in activities, and better patient global
      assessment (i.e. the effect of treatment perceived by patients themselves), compared to usual
      care of physiotherapists (UC). UC was operationalized as physiotherapeutic care according to
      the Dutch physiotherapy guideline for patients with hip and/or knee OA. It was also
      investigated whether specific subgroups of patients benefited more from BGA and which factors
      influenced the success of BGA-treatment. Also, it will be investigated whether differences
      exist in exercise adherence and whether there is a relationship between exercise adherence
      and long-term effectiveness.
    
  