
    
      It is a prospective, randomized, open label trial with the following study hypotheses (Ha):

        1. InnoSEAL+TRB is non-inferior to TRB alone in terms of the composite adverse access site
           outcomes including RAO and hematoma.

        2. InnoSEAL+TRBis non-inferior to TRB alone when comparing ease of use scores rated by the
           cath lab technicians.

        3. InnoSEAL+TRB is superior to TRB alone for outcomes of reduction in total hemostasis
           time, total observation time for the radial site and time to hospital discharge for
           daycare patients sub group.

        4. InnoSEAL+TRBis superior to TRB alone in terms of minimized patient discomfort.

      Sample size:

      Keeping a combined complication rate of 17.7% (RAO:7.7%, Hematoma: 10%), difference in favor
      of the experimental treatment of 4.89%, power of 80%, one sided alpha of 2.5%, 10% attrition
      rate, a sample of at least 357 patients in each group and a total of 714 patients will be
      required.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will be performed using variable sized blocks through computer software by an
      unrelated staff from the research department who is not a part of this study and will be kept
      in safe in the research department. Allocation of intervention will be informed to the
      research staff for each individual patient through telephone call, only after the informed
      consent has been taken by the data collector.

      Intervention arm:

      In InnoSEAL+TRB arm, InnoSEAL patch will be applied at the puncture site and will be covered
      by a transparent dressing. TRB will be applied over the patch and 12 cc air will be injected
      to inflate the band. Air is removed from TRB during 60 minutes, removing 2cc air at 20
      minutes, 4cc at 40 minutes and 6cc at 60 minutes from the time of sheath removal.

      Control arm:

      TR band is applied centered over the puncture site and the bladder is inflated with 15cc air.
      Air is removed gradually leaving at least 10 cc air provided there is no oozing. Start
      removing air at 90 min (from the time of hemostasis protocol):

      4cc-at 20 min, 6cc-at 40 min. 6cc-at each 20 min till reach 0cc. If re-bleeding at any time,
      reintroduce 2cc air.

      In both the arms TRB will be left with 0cc air for 30 min. Reverse Barbeau's test will be
      applied in both the arms to determine RAO. If occlusion was found, radial artery ultrasound
      will be conducted. Both TRB and InnoSEAL patch will be removed before discharge of the
      patient.

      Data quality measures:

      Data will be collected by the trained nursing staff hired specifically for the study and who
      will receive one day training on study protocols. Study coordinator will daily check all the
      forms for completeness and accuracy and 10% of the completed forms will be randomly checked
      by one of the study investigators. Institutional IRB will also do an audit of the study
      procedures.

      Data entry and analysis:

      Data will be entered in Access data base and will be analyzed through SPSS v.25. Means and
      standard deviation will be reported for continuous data based on normality assumption along
      with histograms and compared using Student t-test. And frequencies with percentages will be
      reported for the categorical variables. The differences between categorical variables were
      examined by the Chi square test considering p-value< .05 statistically significant. Chi
      square test will be utilized to assess primary composite outcome and its components.
      Independent sample t-test will be used for comparison of time intervals. Kruskall Wallis test
      will be utilized for significance testing between ordinal secondary outcomes of ease of use
      and patient discomfort.
    
  