
    
      Antibiotic consumption and antimicrobial resistance remain notoriously high in France,
      particularly among children below three years of age. In France, the pneumococcal conjugate
      vaccine was officially recommended for all children under two in 2003, and consequently
      changes occurred in Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype distribution. Bacterial carriage among
      children attending day-care centres may result from vaccine- and antibiotic-driven selective
      pressure with possible repercussions on the community.

      To identify prevalence (rates) and trends in antibiotic resistance patterns in Streptococcus
      pneumoniae (SP) among children attending day-care centres, as well as antibiotic
      prescriptions and vaccine rates, nasopharyngeal (NP) carriage was monitored, by conducting
      five cross-sectional surveys from January to March 1999, 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2008 among
      these children in the area of the Alpes Maritimes, in South-Eastern France.

      Interventions promoting prudent antibiotic use (PAU) took place in 2000 and since 2003, with
      temporary effectiveness but national prescription rates are reported to be currently
      increasing again. A new pneumococcal conjugate vaccine covering more serotypes (13-valent)
      now replaces the previous one. In this situation, a new cross-sectional survey in day-care
      centres with the same design may answer the following questions.

        -  Increasing antibiotic susceptibility was observed during past successive surveys. Has
           this trend been sustained to this day?

        -  Are antibiotics prescription rates among children attending day-care centres still
           decreasing, have they stabilized, or are they on the rise again reflecting recently
           reported national trends?

        -  Regarding choice of antimicrobial treatment, are 3rd generation cephalosporin
           increasingly prescribed rather than aminopenicillins?

        -  Is implementation of the new wider spectrum pneumococcal conjugate vaccine exerting
           changes on serotype distribution and thus on the nasopharyngeal ecosystem of these
           children? These parameters will be useful to renew, or even reinforce, and adapt
           professional guidelines and community-oriented messages concerning prudent antibiotic
           use.

      Sub-study: Antibiotic-resistant enterobacteriaceae, initially observed in the hospital
      setting, are currently spreading within the community, especially extended-spectrum
      beta-lactamase-producing enterobacteriaceae, threatening antibiotic effectiveness in case of
      infection. Such infections with Enterobacteriaceae, in particular urinary tract infections,
      can occur among children. Prevalence rates of such carriage among children attending day-care
      centres is unknown, although they are highly exposed to antibiotics in relation with frequent
      respiratory tract infections, in particular to 3rd generation cephalosporins. To assess this
      prevalence rate, faecal samples from children attending day-care centres will be collected
      during the cross-sectional nasopharyngeal survey quoted above.
    
  