
    
      Potential participants (patients with colorectal cancer offered an operation) will be
      highlighted from the Derbyshire NHS trusts colorectal multidisciplinary team meeting. All
      patients who fulfil entry requirements will be seen by the research fellow after their
      outpatient meeting with their particular surgeon (if they agree). Information packs
      containing details of the study (information sheet and consent form) will be given and any
      questions answered. Patients will be allowed to take the packs away with them and decide
      whether they would be keen to participate. Interested patients will be consented by the
      research fellow during their subsequent pre-operative clinic appointment.

      The study will take place intra-operatively. Monitoring will be instituted as determined
      necessary by the attending anaesthetists, but as a minimum will consist of pulse oximetry,
      ECG and non-invasive blood pressure recording. Intravenous cannulae will be sited and general
      anaesthesia induced by the anaesthetist responsible for the patient, as would be normal for
      this type of surgery. Once the patient has been transferred to the operating theatre, the
      research fellow will insert an ODM probe via either the nasal or oral route and the CO and SV
      will be measured; this constitutes normal care. A sterile Phillips iU22 USS probe will be
      placed on the patient's abdomen and the research fellow will administer SonoVue contrast
      agent intravenously via the cannula already sited to facilitate anaesthesia, up to a maximum
      dose of 2.4ml. Visceral MVBF will be measured using this CEUS technique. Capillary blood
      samples will be taken from earlobe for measurement of blood lactate levels by the research
      fellow. At this stage, as would typically occur during an operation of this nature, the
      research fellow will administer intravenous colloid suspension in boluses of 3ml/kg, up to a
      maximum of 15ml/kg, until the CO has been maximised, as judged by the ODM. At this stage, the
      research fellow will perform a further CEUS of the abdominal viscera by administering Sonovue
      contrast agent (2nd dose of up to 2.4ml) and measuring MVBF with the Phillips iU22. Repeat
      samples of capillary blood will be drawn to measure the lactate level by the research fellow.
      At the end of the operation, a 3rd CEUS of the abdominal viscera, along with further SV & CO
      readings, will be made.
    
  