
    
      Primary osteoarthritis is a debilitating disease characterized by extensive damage to the
      joints and excruciating pain leading to loss of activity and depression. Despite advances in
      diagnosis and relatively efficient control of nociception, to date, the quest for the
      development of a disease modifying osteoarthritis drug has proven unsuccessful. The potential
      of mesenchymal stem cells to inhibit inflammation while promoting healing makes them amenable
      for the treatment of various ailments ranging from cancer to genetic diseases. In orthopedic
      practice, autologous stem cell injections are performed to alleviate the pain associated with
      osteoarthritis. A serious gap in knowledge remains whether the currently used cellular
      treatments are beneficial in the long term and if one cell therapy outperforms another.

      The most popular form of Autologous Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSC's) therapy has been through
      the use of Autologous Bone Marrow Concentrate (BMAC). The rationale is that when a sample of
      Bone Marrow Aspirate (BMA) is collected and the components that are not beneficial to the
      joint are filtered out (i.e. red blood cells, neutrophils, etc.) the remaining concentrate
      (MSC's, platelets, interleukins, etc) can have a "healing" effect on the environment in which
      it is injected. However it is still unknown as to how effective BMAC is for treating
      orthopedic conditions compared to other MSC procedures and the most important components of
      the BMAC mixture that could aid patients suffering from osteoarthritis.

      Adipose tissue has been found to have a large amount of mesenchymal stem cells versus that in
      bone marrow. These cells are currently being used in a variety of clinical research studies
      within the regenerative medicine field. Through a tissue process which includes washing and
      centrifuging, the cellular components can be extracted as a cell pellet, which is also known
      as Stromal Vascular Fraction (SVF). Adipose derived SVF is obtained via liposuction, or the
      removal of adipose tissue via a suction method.

      Although the use of various stem cell preparations for knee osteoarthritis has become
      increasingly prevalent, well-designed studies with conclusive proof of comparative
      effectiveness and identification of the optimal cell source and "dose" have not been
      performed. This study is the first randomized study comparing three types of cellular
      treatments to corticosteroids. The main objective of the study is to identify a superior
      source of stem cells for the treatment of osteoarthritis and validate its advantages over
      corticosteroid injections as the traditional gold standard treatment.
    
  