
    
      Research in developing patient NPO guidelines was developed years ago. On a physiological
      basis, patients with a longer fasting time may have less residual gastric content and lower
      risk of pulmonary aspiration. The recent Practice Guidelines for Preoperative Fasting and the
      Use of Pharmacologic Agents to Reduce the Risk of Pulmonary Aspiration of The American
      Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) was published in March 2017. Current practice consists of
      2-hour fasting period for clear oral fluid (including water, pulp-free juice and tea or
      coffee without milk), 4- hour fasting period for breast milk and 6-hour fasting period for
      non-human milk and solid food. However, there are only few supportive (category A) and
      suggestive (category B) scientific evidences.

      Since Maltby et al showed results of patient's safety in elective surgical patients who had
      clear oral fluid intake 2 hours before surgery in 1986, the published clinical evidence is
      still insufficient to address the relationship between pulmonary aspiration and fasting time
      . For breast milk, infant formula and solid food, the latest Practice Guidelines for
      Preoperative Fasting and the Use of Pharmacologic Agents to Reduce the Risk of Pulmonary
      Aspiration in 2011 also follow previous suggestion of fasting time because of inadequate
      updated supportive clinical trials.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the current clinical practice guidelines for
      preoperative fasting to enhance the quality of pediatric anesthesia care and promote patient
      safety. Andersson et al. reviewed 10,015 pediatric anesthesia charts retrospectively and
      found an incidence of 3 cases of pulmonary aspiration in 10,000 pediatric anesthesia patients
      who were allowed to drink clear liquid fluids until called to operative rooms . This approach
      promotes patient safety by minimizing a patient's dehydration status and reduced
      intraoperative hypotensive events. Furthermore, shortened fasting times also decreases
      patient irritability and improves parental satisfaction in preoperative experiences.

      The investigators plan to enroll adults ages 18-60 years old, who are scheduled for
      esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) at Siriraj hospital. This observational study will be
      conducted in 2 stages; (1) preoperative period (2) intraoperative period. Patients'
      demographic information will be collected along with NPO history including times, volume and
      type of fluid/ food intake in the preoperative period. Intragastric volume and pH from each
      patient's stomach at the beginning of EGD procedure will be measured in the intraoperative
      period.

      The investigators believe that the information from this study will help us understand the
      effects of NPO time and the actual intragastric volume which may help establish a
      comprehensive NPO guideline.
    
  