
    
      The goal of this project is to focus both field and laboratory research on specific
      epidemiological, genetic and immunological features that underline the greatest
      susceptibility to S. haematobium infection and disease. This information, combined with
      epidemiological modeling of control strategies, will allow accelerated synthesis of the next
      generation of control programs. The studies in this initial Protocol A involve a large-scale
      survey of study villages to determine current population demography, general health,
      infection with S. haematobium, and, specifically, prevalence of parasite-related morbidity.
      Once evaluated, participants in Protocol A may be subsequently enrolled in Project Protocols
      B through F if they meet inclusion criteria. The size of the observational Protocol A study
      cohort (~4,400) is, in part, based on one of its secondary aims: i.e., the need to identify
      sufficient numbers of morbidity-concordant sibling pairs for genetic studies performed under
      Protocol D, and sufficient mother-infant pairs for Protocol F. Beyond initial screening, no
      further investigation occurs in Protocol A per se. Standard doses of praziquantel therapy
      will be given to treat S. haematobium infection diagnosed under Protocol A. Longitudinal
      follow-up of a subset of these treated individuals will be performed in Protocols B, C and E
      of the project. The study will enroll approximately 1100 adults and 1100 children from each
      of 2 types of rural S. haematobium-endemic village: a) those that have had prior
      participation in schistosomiasis control programs (1984-1993) and b) those that have not. The
      Msambweni area of Kwale District in southern Coast Province, Kenya will serve as the
      'previously-treated' area. This area has participated in a long-term study of S. haematobium
      treatment since 1983. Three additional area villages (population ~4,000) that have not
      previously participated in treatment programs will be included as control
      'previously-untreated' areas for comparison purposes to confirm the natural history of
      untreated infection. Like Msambweni area villages, the comparison villages (Mbuani, Mabakoni,
      and Gonjora) will be located in southern Kwale District, Coast Province, Kenya. In order to
      mirror the pre-control experience of the Msambweni villages, comparison villages will be
      selected primarily for their high S. haematobium prevalence (>40%) as determined in prior
      Ministry of Health sample surveys in schools. Secondary selection criteria will be village
      size (1200 to 2000 per village) and a rural, mostly agrarian environment. Residents will
      update their demography and kinship data, then receive physical examinations, urinalysis,
      ultrasound and parasitological examinations to determine infection and morbidity status.
      Because of its size, the population will be surveyed on a systematic, village-by village
      basis over the first 2 years of the project. These surveys will provide an effective
      cross-sectional evaluation of current levels of disease in treated and untreated communities
      at-large. Subjects with suspicion for severe renal dysfunction or bladder cancer (a known
      late complication of S. haematobium) will be referred to Msambweni or Mombasa Hospitals for
      further care. The primary study objective is to compare rates of moderate-to-severe urinary
      tract morbidity associated with S. haematobium infection for older children and adults
      residing in previously-treated and previously-untreated villages in the endemic southern
      Kwale District, Coast Province, Kenya. Secondary objectives are to: (1) compare rates of
      heavy S. haematobium infection for individuals residing in these previously-treated and
      -untreated villages; and (2) identify eligible subjects for participation in more detailed
      study of late S. haematobium-related disease, hereditary predisposition to morbidity,
      association of cytokine response to morbidity, and effects of in utero sensitization to S.
      haematobium on disease in later life (Protocols B-F of the project).
    
  