
    
      The study includes two unblinded trials to evaluate the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of
      HIVST strategies among adults in Malawi.

      Aim 1 will test the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of facility-based HIVST in OPD sites
      in Malawi. It will be an unblinded cluster-randomized trial and include three arms: 1)
      standard of care for provider-initiated testing and counseling (PITC); (2) optimized standard
      of care for PITC; and (3) facility-based HIVST while clients wait for routine OPD services.
      The standard of care arm will receive no intervention. The optimized standard of care arm
      will receive training and support for implementing the Malawi guidelines for PITC and morning
      testing. OPD clients in the facility HIVST arm will receive a HIVST demonstration and
      distribution, followed by uses of HIVST and private spaces for kit interpretation before
      receiving routine OPD services. Participants may present their self-test results to their
      provider, who will refer them for confirmatory HIV testing and routine ART initiation (if
      positive). That same day, participants from all arms will complete a brief survey upon
      exiting the clinic. Survey and medical record data will be compared across arms to determine
      whether facility HIVST is superior in regard to number of individuals tested for HIV,
      cost-effectiveness, number of HIV-positive individuals identified, and linkage rates for
      those who identify as HIV-positive.

      Aim 2 will test the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of index HIVST for the sexual partners
      of HIV-positive clients. It will be an unblinded individually-randomized trial and include
      two arms: 1) standard of care partner referral slips for testing; and 2) HIVST. The standard
      of care arm will receive no intervention for partner notification and referral. HIV-positive
      clients in the HIVST arm will receive a HIVST demonstration and distribution, with
      instructions to give the HIVST kit to their sexual partner. Participants will be given one
      HIVST for each of their sexual partners who has an unknown HIV status or who tested
      HIV-negative more than six months prior (up to 3 HIVST kits distributed). Participants (index
      clients) will be given instructions on how their partner can complete the self-test and how
      to refer their partner(s) to care if they receive a positive result from the self-test. All
      participants (standard of care and HIVST arms) will complete a brief survey at the beginning
      of the intervention and a 4-week follow-up survey to assess primary and secondary outcomes.
      Medical chart reviews will be conducted for all partners reported to test HIV-positive in
      order to assess ART initiation rates. Survey and medical record data will be compared across
      arms to determine whether index HIVST is superior in regard to number of partners tested for
      HIV, cost-effectiveness, number of HIV-positive individuals identified, and linkage rates for
      those who identify as HIV-positive.
    
  