
    
      Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a chronic developmental disorder
      characterized by symptoms of inattention, impulsivity and hyperactivity that do not
      correspond to the child's developmental level (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). For a
      diagnosis to be confirmed, symptoms must be present before age 12 and must be observed in at
      least to two domains of functioning, such as school, work, social interactions and family
      life (American Psychiatric Association, 2013).

      ADHD is one of the most common neurobehavioral disorder with a prevalence estimated at about
      5-7% for school-age children (Psychiatric Association, 2013).

      ADHD alters family, social and academic functioning as well as one's professional life.

      Results from studies indicated that working memory and inhibition are often altered in ADHD
      in childhood and persist into adulthood.

      Pharmacological treatments of ADHD mostly include psychostimulants (Amphetamine and
      Methylphenidate) and non-stimulants (Atomoxetine, Clonidine, Guanfacine). Stimulants and
      no-stimulants are effective in managing ADHD symptoms.

      However, these treatments present some limitation. For instance, comorbid disorders reduce
      stimulants efficacy in ADHD. Further, long-term effects over the year of stimulant are not
      yet known. Stimulants may cause side effects on sleep, hunger and growth. That is why some
      parents are reluctant to let their children take stimulants.

      Currently, clinical guidelines recommend non-pharmacological interventions in conjunction
      with medication for the treatment of ADHD.

      The above-mentioned limitations to the use of medication stress the importance of developing
      non-pharmacological approaches. Cognitive training is one type of non-pharmacological
      intervention used in ADHD.

      This intervention consists in improving cognitive deficits through specific exercises during
      intensive training session. A growing number of studies examined the impact of cognitive
      training in ADHD.

      Cognitive training is based on principles of brain plasticity with the aim to train cognitive
      function and to improve cognitive deficits in ADHD. According to these authors, during
      training changes occur in neural connection associated to ADHD. This modification allows far
      transfers to cognitive function not targeted by the program, to ADHD symptoms and academic
      performances.

      Results from a meta-analysis indicated that 68% of 25 studies examining ADHD and cognitive
      training focus on working memory. These authors specify that Cogmed Working Memory Training
      is currently the most used and studied program. Indeed, this program is available in 25
      countries and used by 150 clinical practitioners (http://www.cogmed.com).

      Currently, one meta-analysis including seven studies examines Cogmed Working Memory Training
      program effects in ADHD. Results indicated that the impact of Cogmed on cognitive
      functioning, ADHD symptoms and academic performance remains controversial.

      Cogmed is an unifactorial program targeting working memory. In addition to this type of
      intervention multi-factorial program targeting different cognitive function as Presco also
      exist but has been less studied.

      Objectives To address these challenges, this study will follow a randomized and controlled
      design.

      The main objective of this study is to examine the impact of cognitive training in comparison
      with a control group among children with ADHD on:

        1. ADHD symptoms,

        2. cognitive functioning,

        3. attentional capacities

        4. academic achievement.

      The second objective is to compare two types of cognitive training a unifactorial program
      Cogmed targeting working memory and a multifactorial Presco focusing on different cognitive
      functions affected by ADHD.

      Long-term effects are examined six months after training. Procedure Participants (n=90) will
      be randomly assigned to three groups.

        1. Cogmed速 : working memory training (unifactorial)

        2. Presco速 : different cognitive function are trained (multifactorial)

        3. Control ( waiting list) Participants will be evaluated three time (time 1) just before
           the intervention, (time 2) six weeks after the first evaluation, immediately after the
           intervention and (time 3) six months after the intervention.

      For Cogmed and Presco participants will train the same time. Before beginning the program an
      appointment of one hour will be organized to present the program.

      Participants will train at home during 25 sessions (about 30-45 minutes each) over a maximum
      of 5-6 weeks.

      A coach will call the participant one a week to verify program adherence. The coach will
      verify participant results on internet before calling.

      Cogmed working memory training CogMed速 (RoboMemo,Cognitive Medical Systems AB, Stockholm)
      version for children will be used in this program. Twelve exercises target verbal and
      visio-spatial working memory. Difficulty is adjusted depending on participant performance's
      The program PRESCO速 (Program in Cognitive Stimulation and rehabilitation ) comprises 40
      exercises targeting: verbal and visio spatial working memory, attention capacities,
      reasoning, executive functioning , language and mental imagery. Only exercises targeting
      verbal, visual spatial working memory, and attentional capacities altered in ADHD are used in
      this present study. Difficulty is adjusted depending on the participant performances.
    
  