
    
      Despite evidence from randomized clinical trials that medication reduces vision loss from
      glaucoma, it remains the second leading cause of blindness in the United States. A critical
      barrier to preventing vision loss is that about one-half of glaucoma patients are essentially
      "untreated" because they do not adhere to their medications. Ineffective self-management
      behaviors and poor clinical outcomes disproportionately affect the most vulnerable members of
      US society. The increased burden of glaucoma due to an aging US population, together with a
      projected shortage of ophthalmologists, will make team-based care essential. There is a
      critical need to develop and test team-based, personalized behavior change interventions for
      glaucoma patients to improve medication adherence and the outcomes of care.

      Poor adherence to effective medications is a critical barrier to better outcomes in glaucoma
      patients. The World Health Organization stated that "increasing the effectiveness of
      adherence interventions may have a far greater impact on the health of the population than
      any improvement in specific medical treatments." Once diagnosed with glaucoma, at least half
      of patients do not adhere to their glaucoma medication regimen, return for follow-up, or
      persist with their medications over the longer term. Patients who are not adherent have more
      severe visual field loss, which leads to steep declines in health-related quality of life and
      increased risk of falls and motor vehicle accidents.

      Adherence to glaucoma medications is rarely addressed during the clinical encounter because
      education and counseling programs are not part of standard glaucoma care. Focus groups have
      demonstrated that patients often have a poor understanding of glaucoma and its treatment. In
      addition to knowledge gaps, patients have numerous concrete and psychological barriers to
      managing their glaucoma. In addition, eye drop instillation is rarely taught, and many
      patients cannot properly instill their medications.

      Uniform, scripted approaches to improve adherence do not work. However, complex,
      individualized counseling interventions, especially those based in motivational interviewing
      (MI), have improved adherence and health outcomes in many chronic diseases. MI is a style of
      counseling that engages patients by discussing priorities and obstacles to facilitate
      intrinsic motivation to change health behavior. Few complex interventions based on these
      successful principles have been rigorously tested and none implemented into glaucoma care.
      The eyeGuide is a web-based personally tailored behavior change program based on MI
      principles, a systematic review of the glaucoma adherence literature, and data from focus
      groups, surveys and iterative beta-testing with glaucoma patients. It provides individually
      tailored disease information and support to facilitate MI-based conversations between
      patients and paraprofessional staff to improve medication adherence. Such technology-based
      electronic health (eHealth) innovations have great potential to extend the reach of
      physicians by enabling team-based care.

      In this pilot study, the study will test the impact of two personalized eHealth technologies
      on medication adherence among non-adherent glaucoma patients in a pre-post design: 1) real
      time automated adherence reminders; and 2) the eyeGuide counseling program. The study will
      explore the effects of these interventions on secondary outcomes including psychosocial
      mediators of adherence (e.g. motivation, self-efficacy, satisfaction), intraocular pressure
      (IOP), and IOP fluctuation.
    
  