
    
      Objectives:

      To study the incidence etiological spectrum of febrile illness occurring during a travel to
      the tropics, as well as clinical course, care, treatment and outcome of these febrile illness
      episodes.

      Design: Prospective cohort study of febrile illness in international travelers Population:
      Travelers who are going to destinations in the tropics (South-East Asia (SEA), Sub-Saharan
      Africa (SSA) and South America (SCA)) for 3 weeks or longer will be invited to participate
      and, after obtaining informed consent, recruited in the study protocol(s) at the time of
      planning departure (directly at the ITM or through travel/ humanitarian relief
      organizations).

      Methods:

      Participants will be offered pre-, per- and post-travel consultation as explained below
      (Inclusion through ITM)

      1. Pre-travel consultation at a certified travel clinic will systematically be recommended;
      this consultation will include:

        1. routine travel advice directed at travel destination, (including vaccinations and
           prescription for anti-malarial chemoprophylaxis according to current recommendations,
           details of which are published at www.reisgeneeskunde.be and

        2. the following research-related activities.

             -  Briefing sessions on the topic "Fever in The Tropics" by an ITM physician (during
                this session the differences between fever at home and in the tropics will be
                addressed and the importance of consulting a local doctor will be stressed).

             -  Collection and recording of demographic, clinical and travel data.

             -  Sampling of a baseline serum sample (for paired pre- and post-travel diagnostic
                analysis).

             -  Training of travelers, peers and travel guides to blot capillary blood on a filter
                paper (training is a prerequisite for study participation).

             -  Provision of study materials (study diary/apps, malaria kits, thermometer, …) and
                written instructions for use during travel if fever occurs (see below)

                2. During travel

             -  In case of any illness (associated with fever or not), the traveler will record
                symptoms in the study diary.

             -  If fever is documented (axillary temperature ≥ 37.8°C - or in case a thermometer is
                not immediately available, fever sensation in association with sweats or chills)-
                blood from a finger prick will be collected for blotting onto filter paper (BFP) by
                trained travelers or peers.

             -  All febrile travelers are advised to seek medical attendance as they would do when
                not participating in the study.

             -  The final decision to use standby emergency treatment malaria treatment (SBET) is
                made by the study participant, in accordance with precise and written instructions.

             -  The study team (Tropical medicine experts at ITM) will be available for
                teleconsultation by Email or Telephone, and will provide medical advice within 12
                hours. Note: contacting the ITM study team is an option, but should not cause delay
                in treating suspected malaria.

             -  Study participants will collect all relevant data related to the (outcome of the)
                illness episode (duration of symptoms, consultation of a health practitioner,
                admission/duration of stay in a hospital, treatment received and timing,
                repatriation)

                3. Post-travel consultation will be scheduled for all study participants who
                experience(d) any illness (febrile or not) within a week after travel- sooner if
                the medical condition requires so- and for those who have no complaints but do seek
                post-travel health evaluation.

             -  A structured clinical evaluation will be performed by an expert in travel medicine
                and will be recorded in the database. Laboratory evaluation will include
                hematological, biochemical and microbiological/parasitological analysis

             -  Used BFPs (i.e. in case of febrile illness during travel) will be collected for
                confirmation of the test result by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). A diagnostic
                protocol/ algorithm will be developed for use the BFPs as a source for post-travel
                diagnosis of arboviral/ rickettsial infection by PCR.

                  -  Data analysis : All data (demographic, geographic, clinical, laboratory and
                     final diagnosis) will be recorded in an encoded database. Descriptive and
                     inferential statistics as appropriate, STATA 14.

                  -  Sample size: n= 350 fever cases; at an incidence of fever of 8% a cohort of
                     4400 (healthy) travelers will be recruited over 30 months (Feb 2016 - Aug
                     2018).

                  -  Endpoints:

             -  Incidence rates for malaria and arboviral/ rickettsial infections (by paired
                serology and post-travel PCR on BFP) per travel destination.

             -  Clinical course and outcomes of (self-)management of febrile illness during travel.
                (Clinical spectrum of disease, incidence rates of febrile illnesses; duration of
                fever and other symptoms, management (self-treatment, consultation, admission),
                type of treatment (symptomatic/empiric/targeted if RDT malaria positive), final
                outcome (change of travel plans, repatriation, hospitalization as a result of
                illness during travel).

      Expected results and relevance: The study will yield valuable and prospective data of
      incidence rate, the clinical and etiological spectrum, clinical course and outcome of febrile
      illness during (and post-)travel in a prospective cohorts of travelers. This knowledge may
      lead to better pre-travel advice.
    
  