
    
      Recurrent and/or metastatic SCCHN patients are, by definition patients with recurrent disease
      and/or with newly diagnosed distant metastases, although this group of patients has a very
      heterogeneous disease characteristic, they share a dismal prognosis that has changed little
      in the past 30 years. The median survival time remains around 6-8 months with a poor quality
      of life. Patients with resectable locoregionally recurrent SCCHN may benefit from surgery.
      Patients with recurrent SCCHN who are not suitable for curative salvage surgery or
      re-irradiation, and patients who have distant metastases, usually receive CT (Cohen EE et
      al.) A number of compounds demonstrate single-agent activity in recurrent and/or metastatic
      disease including cisplatin, carboplatin, methotrexate, 5-FU, bleomycin and the taxanes (
      Scantz SP et al). Cisplatin is one of the most active agents identified for head and neck
      cancer, with carboplatin providing an alternative for patients unable to tolerate cisplatin.
      While carboplatin is associated with lower response rates than cisplatin, there appears to be
      no difference between the agents in terms of survival

      Cetuximab is a targeted therapeutic agent, a chimeric IgG1 monoclonal antibody that
      specifically binds to the EGFR with high affinity, internalising the receptor and preventing
      the ligands EGF and TGF-alfa from interacting with the receptors and thus effectively
      blocking ligand-induced EGFR phosphorylation. In addition, cetuximab has been found to
      potentiate the effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy in experimental systems. The dose of
      cetuximab has been found to be generally safe and effective in several studies in major tumor
      types expressing the EGFR. These included colorectal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the
      head and neck and non-small cell lung cancer, with cetuximab given either in combination
      studies with chemotherapy and radiotherapy or as monotherapy. The main side effects of
      cetuximab monotherapy are hypersensitivity- and acne-like skin reactions.
    
  