
    
      Hyperglycemia induced by traumatic brain injury is directly correlated with patient
      prognosis. Previous studies showed that if blood glucose could be controlled < 6.11 mmol/L,
      prognosis would be good and mortality would be decreased by approximately 50%. Moreover, the
      incidence of ICU-related complications, especially infection, was obviously reduced. A study
      concerning severe traumatic brain injury analyzed the recovery of patients at 18 days, 3
      months and 1 year after trauma, and demonstrated that the prognosis of patients with blood
      glucose levels < 11.1 mmol/L within 24 hours of hospital admission was apparently better than
      those whose blood glucose levels were > 11.1 mmol/L. Hyperglycemia occurred after traumatic
      brain injury and was treated with intensive insulin therapy. Thus, blood glucose levels were
      controlled between 4.4 and 6.1 mmol/L, which noticeably shortened insulin use and decreased
      the incidence of multiple organ dysfunction and mortality of patients with traumatic brain
      injury.

      It is well known that hyperglycemia will appear after traumatic brain injury. However, there
      are few clinical studies addressing continuous dynamic monitoring of blood glucose of
      traumatic brain injury patients and the relationship between changes in blood glucose and the
      degree of traumatic brain injury. Insulin therapy for reducing injury to secondary nerve
      cells after traumatic brain injury and for improving functional prognosis has also not been
      explored.

      When blood glucose level is > 7.0 mmol/L as measured twice by rapid examination within 2
      hours of hospital admission, patients with hyperglycemia after severe closed traumatic brain
      injury will be randomly divided into the intensive therapy group and nonintensive therapy
      group according to the random number table.

      Patients in both groups will be treated using the protocol as follows.

        1. Craniotomy for traumatic brain injury to mainly decompress and remove hematoma. Standard
           trauma craniotomy and incision of trachea will be performed.

        2. During the operation, all patients will undergo ventricular puncture. Cerebrospinal
           fluid will be obtained for biochemical analysis and cell culture.

        3. All patients will be closely monitored in the ICU of the Department of Neurosurgery.

        4. Therapeutic protocols for severe traumatic brain injury will be used.

        5. Glucocorticoid can cause disorders of glucose metabolism, so glucocorticoids can not be
           regularly applied in these two groups.

        6. When glucose was injected into the vein, insulin was added at the proportion of 5:1 to
           eliminate glucose effects on blood glucose.

      Blood glucose measurement: Capillary blood will be obtained from the tip of the ring finger
      to measure blood glucose. For a period, the blood should be collected from the same finger to
      make sure an accurate measurement occurs. When blood glucose of a patient undergoing
      transfusion was measured, blood should be collected from the tip of the finger of the limb
      without transfusion to ensure the accuracy of measurement.

      Monitoring of target blood glucose: insulin dose will be selected in accordance with the Yale
      Insulin Infusion Protocol.

        1. Insulin will be infused into the vein using a micropump at 0.1 μ/kg•h;

        2. When blood glucose levels are > 20.0 mmol/L, insulin will be infused at 10.0 μ/h;

        3. When blood glucose levels are between 17.1 and 20.0 mmol/L, insulin will be infused at
           8.0 μ/h;

        4. When blood glucose levels are between 14.1 and 17.0 mmol/L, insulin will be infused at
           6.0 μ/h;

        5. When blood glucose levels are between 11.5 and 14.0 mmol/L, insulin will be infused at
           4.0 μ/h;

        6. Within 12 and 24 hours, blood glucose levels will be maintained within the range of
           target blood glucose. During this period, blood glucose levels will be monitored once
           every 2 hours, and insulin dose will be adjusted in time.

        7. If blood glucose levels are higher than the target value, insulin dose could be
           gradually increased by 1-2 μ/h;

        8. When blood glucose levels reach the target value, insulin dose could be gradually
           diminished until terminated.
    
  