
    
      Incarcerated Americans on any given day represent one in 40 (2.5%) Persons Living with HIV
      (PLWH) in this country, but those ever incarcerated over the course of a year represent 17%
      of the US epidemic. PLWH are a diverse group in terms of awareness and management of their
      disease. A portion may be aware of their HIV status and on treatment. This subgroup is at
      risk of disruption in care if incarcerated. Others may be aware of their status, but
      untreated, while still others may be unaware of their HIV status. The latter group is of
      particular importance in terms of the HIV epidemic in criminal justice settings, as a recent
      meta-analysis indicated that up to 15% of individuals entering jail have undiagnosed
      infections.

      Good management of PLWH during a period of incarceration is critical. Ensuring that care
      relationships are maintained or newly established will improve health outcomes among PLWH and
      reduce the risk of transmission once they are discharged. As the median length of stay in
      jail is short (median < 7 days), rapid HIV testing is critical. Maximizing the yield and
      speed of HIV testing in a jail environment has the potential to promote rapid entry into
      care, or rapid re-engagement if persons have fallen out of care. For those testing negative,
      it can hasten the referral to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) services.

      How correctional facilities offer HIV testing and begin treatment affects long-term outcomes.
      Because of the rapid churn of jail, point-of-care (POC) rapid testing may lead to a higher
      percentage of patients receiving test results before leaving jail, compared to conventional
      assays. Fourth generation laboratory-based antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) testing can diagnosis
      more persons with acute HIV infection, who may be in the window period before the POC test
      turns positive, but has a several hour test turn-around time, and those tested may leave jail
      before receiving their result. Using both tests for every entrant would permit the jail to
      experience the benefit of both methods but at greater expense. Collaborating with Washington,
      DC's city jail, known as DC Department of Corrections (DC DOC), and Unity Healthcare, the
      network of Federally Qualified Health Centers in Washington DC, which also provides care
      within the DC DOC, this study has a unique opportunity to measure rapidity of testing,
      linkage to and commencement of care, and achievement of viral suppression, along with costs
      of HIV identification.

      This study uses a unique, time-sensitive opportunity to compare three separate strategies of
      universal HIV screening and treating. The strategies of POC testing, 4th generation
      laboratory-based Ag/Ab testing, and a combination of the two tests will be compared in the DC
      jail. A rigorous assessment of the three strategies in terms of their feasibility, process
      measures, and cost-effectiveness on an institutional level will help to guide implementation
      decisions in jails across the US.

      One sub-study will assess the number of persons testing negative who are referred to
      prevention programs after leaving the jail. A second sub-study will examine antiviral use
      after jail release, among PLWH.
    
  