
    
      Exergaming - exercise with the use of an interactive computer-generated environment - is
      increasingly used in physical rehabilitation. Benefits have been reported in a range of
      clinical populations (people with neurological problems children with cerebral palsy and
      learning difficulties, Parkinson' disease, multiple sclerosis and older people. Balance
      training is an important focus of such rehabilitation. Previous literature regarding the
      effects of exergaming as a method of balance-training has mainly been conducted using the
      Nintendo Wii™ and the Wii™ fit where people must stand on a balance board to play the games.
      Although literature has shown that traditional balance training alone is effective in
      improving balance in a range of populations, studies comparing exergaming with "traditional"
      balance exercises (SEBT, trampolines and wobble boards) have shown mixed results from both
      exergaming and traditional balance training groups improving in postural control outcomes to
      greater improvement in the exergaming group over traditional balance exercise. A potential
      reason for the differentiation if results could be due to different movements required in the
      "traditional" balance exercises rather than there being something inherently different about
      exercising in a virtual environment. There is also a dearth of randomized controlled trials
      (RCT) in this area so the evidence base is limited. Furthermore, few have studied the
      important psychological aspect of exergaming, in particular acceptance and flow experience.
      The aim of this study was to assess the effects of exergaming using the XBOX Kinect™ system,
      versus, traditional gym-based exercise, with no virtual stimuli (TGB) on: (1) postural
      control, (2) technology acceptance (3) flow experience and (4) exercise intensity in young
      healthy adults. Matching of intensity of exercise, in the two groups, was assessed
      objectively, by Heart Rate and subjectively by Borg RPE during all exercise sessions. To our
      knowledge this is the first paper to compare the effects of exergaming against matched
      traditional exercises where the movement patterns, intensity and physiological demand was
      matched and assessed across groups.
    
  