
    
      A telomere is a region of repetitive DNA at the end of chromosomes, which protects the end of
      the chromosome from destruction. Telomeres can be viewed as the tips on the ends of shoelaces
      that keep them from unraveling. Telomeres compensate for incomplete semi-conservative DNA
      replication at chromosomal ends. In absence of a reparative process, DNA sequences would be
      lost in every replicative phase until they reached a critical level, at which point cell
      division would stop.

      Loss of telomeres leads to chromosome end-to-end fusion, chromosome re-arrangements, and
      genome instability.

      Telomerase is a "ribonucleoprotein complex" composed of a protein component and an RNA primer
      sequence which acts to protect the terminal ends of chromosomes. Telomerase is the natural
      enzyme which promotes telomere repair. It is however not active in most cells. It certainly
      is active though in stem cells, germ cells, hair follicles and in 90 percent of cancer cells.
      Telomerase functions by adding bases to the ends of the telomeres. As a result of this
      telomerase activity, these cells seem to possess a kind of immortality.

      Progressive shortening or attrition of telomere length with consequent genomic instability
      leading to cancer has been described in various hematological malignancies including acute
      and chronic myeloid leukemia.

      Reduced telomere length has been documented in patients with the progressive BM failure
      syndrome called Dyskeratosis Congenita. Abnormalities in these patients include skin
      pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia. Mutations in the telomere maintenance mechanism
      have been implicated in the pathogenesis of this heterogeneous condition.

      Myelodysplastic syndrome is an acquired clonal stem cell disorder characterized by
      in-effective hematopoiesis, increased intra-medullary apoptosis and peripheral cytopenia. A
      number of such patients will eventually develop worsening cytopenia evolving into acute
      myeloid leukemia. A number of studies have investigated telomerase activity and telomere
      length in patients with MDS and AML. Telomere shortening was significantly more pronounced in
      patients with cytogenetic alterations as compared to patients with normal karyotypes.

      Genomic instability develops with progressive telomere shortening. The Telomere attrition
      related genome instability is a stress that leads to up-regulation of specified DNA damage
      foci. These telomere-associated DNA damage points are often called as Telomere
      Dysfunction-Induced Focus (TIF).
    
  