
    
      Robotic assisted laparoscopic surgery is the fastest growing new modality in gynecologic
      surgery. Surgeons are adapting it to perform both benign and oncologic gynecologic
      procedures. Therefore, the fastest growing robotic procedure in the united states is
      hysterectomy.

      The literature in laparoscopic hysterectomy, both robotic and non-robotic, reports a
      complication of vaginal closure disruption after hysterectomy higher than with abdominal
      surgery. Reasons hypothesized for this phenomenon include colpotomy (vaginal incision)
      technique, vaginal closure technique, and types of suture. At present, no further follow up
      studies have been done to test some of these hypothesis. In light of the rapid adoption of
      this approach to hysterectomy, more data on this issue will help the physician in counseling
      patients regarding complications, as well as helping surgeons choose materials and techniques
      in their hysterectomies which will diminish the chance for this unfortunate complication,
      which causes pain, hospitalization and excess morbidity after the original surgery.

      Additionally, a parallel development of newer suturing materials, the so-called "barbed"
      self-anchoring sutures, typically fabricated from monofilament materials, have been reported
      used in laparoscopic hysterectomies in case series. The relative contribution of theses newer
      materials to the rates of cuff disruption is unknown.

      The protocol proposes testing the null hypothesis that different suture materials and methods
      of closure do not cause a significant difference in the rates of vaginal cuff disruption
      after robotic assisted laparoscopic total hysterectomy.

      Study design is a prospective randomized controlled trial. Patients will be blindly
      randomized to one of the 3 closure techniques using 3 different materials. Technique and
      material by necessity can not be blinded to the surgeon. Otherwise, standard surgical
      technique will be used. Followup in 2 and 6 weeks for clinical assessment will be performed.
      To asses the long term of cuff disruption, a 12 month interview will be also conducted. Data
      points will include operative time for closure, postoperative pain at 2 and 6 weeks,
      postoperative pain with urination/voiding at 2 and 6 weeks, spotting, bleeding and /or frank
      vaginal disruption documented at 2 and 6 weeks, and pain and presence of dyspareunia at 12
      months will be assessed.

      Cost associated with cuff closure will be calculated by addition of OR time and material
      cost.
    
  