
    
      This study aims to bolster the effectiveness of the Washington D.C. Quitline (DCQL) program
      with the addition of a web-based mobile EX (mEX) cessation support system. This mEX system is
      designed to fill the gaps between quitline calls with ready access to a menu of
      evidenced-based treatment components, while also providing DCQL counselors with detailed
      information about their clients' ongoing progress with cessation - two developments that
      constitute a major advance over standard quitline programming. With the addition of mEX, DCQL
      counselors will be able to tailor their advice from the outset of each call and even identify
      counterproductive patterns that would have otherwise gone unnoticed. This innovative
      extension of our previous work leverages our expertise with ecological assessment methodology
      and behavioral informatics for the purpose of dynamic relapse prevention support within the
      context of an underserved community QL.

      The project is an additive two-group randomized controlled trial to test whether the addition
      of mEX improves abstinence rates at 1-, 3-, 6-, and 9-months relative to standard care
      provided by DCQL. Participants will be 700 smokers who contact the DCQL and are randomized to
      receive either standard DCQL programming (N=300) or DCQL plus MQE (N=400). Participants
      assigned to standard DCQL programming will receive 6 proactive QL counseling sessions and
      free nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). Participants assigned to DCQL plus MQE will also
      receive mobile access to the MQE system via a web-enabled cellular telephone provided by the
      study. Relative to usual care, we expect that MQE will improve outcomes by improving
      delivery, utilization and thereby effectiveness of DCQL resources.

      Specific Aim 1. Examine abstinence rates in DCQL participants receiving usual-care relative
      to those also receiving mobile quitline enhancement. Relative to usual-care controls, mobile
      quitline enhancement is expected to improve 7-day point prevalence abstinence rates at 1-,
      3-, 6-, and 9-months.

      Specific Aim 2. Examine treatment utilization in DCQL participants receiving usual-care
      relative to those also receiving mobile quitline enhancement. Relative to usual-care
      controls, mobile quitline enhancement is expected to improve utilization of available DCQL
      programming resources.

      Specific Aim 3. Examine whether utilization of DCQL or mobile support services moderates
      their impact on outcomes. Treatment effects are expected to vary with the degree that they
      are utilized, such that greater utilization will predict improved abstinence rates at all
      time points.
    
  