
    
      Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of the lower extremities is routinely treated with
      anticoagulants, which is very effective in preventing pulmonary embolism, but does not
      reliably restore venous function in the leg affected by DVT,often leaving permanent vein
      damage that leads to chronic disability known as post thrombotic syndromes. There is evidence
      that this may be prevented, and therefore long-term sequelae avoided, if the thrombi are
      dissolved quickly with thrombolytic agents. In a previous protocol we developed a method
      using intra-clot injections of alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, rtPA) for
      the treatment of lower extremity DVT. Although the treatment was very successful with few
      complications, pharmacokinetic data obtained suggest that the regimen can be made safer and
      perhaps even more effective by using a substantially lower dose of alteplase. The current
      protocol is a pilot study to test this hypothesis by treating 25 patients with first-time DVT
      symptomatic for less than or equal to 14 days, accepted from referring physicians both within
      and outside the National Institutes of Health (NIH). They will be treated with less than or
      equal to 10 mg alteplase per day for up to four days. Depending on location and extent of the
      blood clot, catheters are introduced into jugular, femoral, popliteal, and/or posterior
      tibial vein at the ankle so as to inject alteplase (diluted with normal saline to 0.1mg/ml,
      throughout the entire length of the clot) once a day with each total daily dose limited to
      10mg alteplase per day.The protocol is designed so that if the low-dose regimen is
      unsuccessful, the patient will subsequently receive the higher-dose regimen that has
      previously been shown to be effective. During thrombolytic therapy, catheters left in the
      vein to maintain venous access are also used to infuse unfractionated heparin to provide
      regional and therapeutic systemic anticoagulation. After completing thrombolytic therapy, the
      patients will be anticoagulated for approximately 6 months after treatment by conversion from
      intravenous infusions of unfractionated heparin during thrombolytic therapy to low molecular
      weight heparin (enoxaparin) and subsequent conversion to oral warfarin anticoagulation for 6
      months.

      Efficacy of treatments will be evaluated at 3 time points (pre- and 1 day post-thrombolytic
      therapy for initial outcome; at about 6 weeks for short term outcome; and at about 6 months
      for durability of outcome) by clinical examination (department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
      and medical imaging through venography and duplex ultrasound sans in department of Radiology.
      The protocol is also monitored for safety. Safety monitoring is focused on bleeding
      complications which is the primary risk of all forms of thrombolytic and anticoagulation
      regimens. As an adverse event, bleeding complications can be classified as either expected
      (for example, at vascular puncture or access sites as where treatment catheters have been
      inserted); or unexpected as at remote sites where no instrumentation has been conducted (for
      example, Intracranial or retroperitoneal bleeding).The latter form of bleeding has been
      reported and attributed to use of thrombolytic and anticoagulant therapies and is usually
      much more serious than the former. A second classification is for severity of adverse events.
      For this protocol a serious adverse event is an event that is life or quality of life
      threatening, requires additional hospitalization, or surgical intervention, or in the case of
      thrombolytic therapy requires blood transfusions. A minor adverse event is one that does not
      have any of above features and will resolve without sequelae with conservative management and
      without need for invasive interventions.

      A secondary objective (added to this protocol through an amendment) is to study the rate of
      recurrent DVT during the 5 year period after treatment. Historical studies show a recurrent
      venothromboembolism rate of 30% in patients treated with anticoagulation alone. Thrombolytic
      therapy should improve preservation of venous function which may reduce recurrence rate of
      venothromboembolism and although the protocol cannot accrue any new patients, the protocol
      remains active to allow data compilation testing this hypothesis in patients already treated
      which will be completed by 2014, the expected date of protocol termination.
    
  