
    
      Osteosarcoma is the most common primary malignant bone tumor in childhood and adolescence,
      the prognosis for the disease is poor. What's more, chemotherapy resistance and serious
      myelosuppression occur frequently in clinical further hindered canonical adjuvant
      chemotherapy. In our previous researches, we observed that GSK-3B positively regulates the
      NF-kB pathway to promote proliferation and tumorigenicity in osteosarcoma cell. Targeted
      inhibition of GSK3beta showed an obvious antitumor effect. It is a promising therapeutic
      target in osteosarcoma, especially if GSK-3b inhibition is combined with chemotherapeutic
      drugs. Lithium carbonate, commonly use in clinical application because of its fine quality
      and cheap price, was proven to be effected as a kind of GSK3beta inhibitor and stimulating
      factor of peripheral blood leukocyte. Therefore, lithium carbonate theoretically possesses
      effects of both anti-tumor as well as improvement of myelosuppression. We look forward to the
      results of clinical trials to test the effect of combinations of chemical drugs with lithium
      carbonate on myelosuppression, disease-free survival rate and lung metastasis rate in
      patients with osteosarcoma who treated with conventional chemotherapeutic regimens and wide
      resection. This study is a multi-centre, double-blind, randomized clinical trial phase 4. The
      inclusion criterion is patients with primary osteosarcoma in femur, tibia and humerus（IIB）.
      With the help of statistic method, 400 patients were randomly divided into two groups
      according to sequence of entering the group: lithium carbonate group and control group (1:1).
      Patients were suggesting continuing this trial until the end of the chemotherapy regimen or
      being confirmed as disease progression by RECIST guiding principles. According to their
      histological types, patients are analyzed using subgroup analysis. Disease evaluation will be
      conducted every 8 weeks. A follow-up to count the overall survival rate after grouping was
      performed within at least 24 months or at most 120 months. Our study may represent a novel
      and feasible approach by combination of conventional chemotherapy drugs and targeted drugs.
      More importantly, it may hopefully be a promising strategy to improve overall survival of
      osteosarcoma.
    
  