
    
      Part 1. Epidemiologic study. To investigate incidence and outcome of congenital infection in
      immune mothers, clinical records of pregnant women are reviewed for HCMV serostatus at ≤ 13
      weeks' gestation. Women with HCMV serology compatible with a remote infection are asked to
      participate in the study. Consenting women are given a pre-stamped, pre-addressed envelope
      containing a swab to collect newborn's saliva. Envelopes are sent by courier to a centralized
      diagnostic facility for HCMV testing.

      Women can also be enrolled at delivery, provided that the woman has records of presence of
      virus-specific IgG and absence of IgM early during gestation(or in a previous pregnancy) or,
      in case of unknown serostatus, a sample of serum/plasma stored at ≤ 13 weeks' gestation is
      available for retrospective antibody testing (retrospective part of the epidemiology study).

      Part 1. Nested study. A subset of IgG pos IgM neg women selected among those enrolled at ≤13
      weeks' gestation in the epidemiology study are included in a nested study. These women are
      monitored at enrolment, 20, 30 weeks of gestation and at delivery by prospective
      determination of HCMV DNA excretion in different bodily fluids. In DNA-positive specimens
      selected HCMV genes will be sequenced.

      Part 2. Prevention study. To assess the effectiveness of hygiene measures for prevention of
      congenital infection HCMV seropositive pregnant women are enrolled at ≤ 13 weeks' gestation.
      Part 2 starts when enrolment of Part 1 is completed. In practice, part 2 is a continuation of
      part 1 with the only addition of delivering hygiene information at enrolment.

      Part 2 will not be performed in case congenital infection rate in Part 1 is <0.4% and clear
      maternal risk factor for intrauterine transmission cannot be identified at interim analysis
      (i.e. after examination of 5000 newborns).

      In case HCMV DNA is detected in newborn's saliva, a urine sample is obtained for confirmation
      of congenital infection. Infants with documented congenital infection are clinically assessed
      at the time of diagnosis (for Part 1 and 2) and at one year of age (Part 1 only).
    
  