
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the reduction in phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR),
           AKT, and ERK by proteomics in tumor and normal skin of patients with ovarian epithelial
           cancer or cervical cancer receiving gefitinib. (Open to accrual for cervical cancer
           patients only as of 4/5/2005)

        -  Determine the clinical activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Correlate the biologic modulation of EGFR, ERK, and AKT by this drug with outcome and
           toxic effects in these patients.

        -  Correlate EGFR modulation in skin with outcome and toxic effects in patients treated
           with this drug.

        -  Correlate expression of EGFR and phosphorylated-EGFR in tissue biopsies from these
           patients with biochemical modulation and outcome.

        -  Determine the application of surface-enhanced laser desorption and ionization with
           time-of-flight detection (SELDI-TOF) and artificial intelligence bioinformatics to
           serially obtained serum samples for predicting response and toxic effects in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to disease (cervical cancer vs ovarian epithelial,
      fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer). (Open to accrual for cervical cancer patients
      only as of 4/5/2005)

      Patients receive oral gefitinib daily. Treatment continues every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Biopsies of a sentinel lesion (with CT guidance or laparoscopy) are obtained at baseline and
      at 4 weeks. Skin biopsies of unaffected areas are also obtained at these time points. Tissue
      is examined using immunohistochemical methods. Proteomic profiling using surface-enhanced
      laser desorption/ionization with time-of-flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry is conducted on
      serum at baseline and then every 4 weeks.

      Patients are followed monthly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-40 patients (15-20 per stratum) will be accrued for this
      study within 10-12 months. (Open to accrual for cervical cancer patients only as of 4/5/2005)
    
  