
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer death (approximately 9% of
      cancer deaths). In Belgium, a country with a population of 11,2 million people, every year
      8600 patients get diagnosed with CRC. The cumulative risk is 5,1% for males and 3,5 % for
      females. Five-year survival of these patients is around 60%. Most colorectal cancers arise
      from polyps that progress from dysplasia to cancer. This adenoma - carcinoma sequence
      approximately takes several years. The slow transition from polyps to cancer allows
      opportunities to prevent CRC by removing polyps and early cancer. Although colonoscopic
      screening for CRC is currently the most reliable screening tool, the invasive nature and the
      incurred cost have hampered the wide application of this procedure. On the other hand, the
      fecal occult blood test (FOBT) and the most recently used fecal immunohistochemical test
      (FIT) are non-invasive screening tests that can be used prior to colonoscopy. However, they
      both lack the sensitivity or specificity required for an effective screening. Thus, there is
      a pressing need to identify specific non-invasive biomarkers for CRC early diagnosis.

      Peripheral blood is an easily accessible tissue and therefore suitable for screening of
      disease biomarkers. Among the cells circulating in peripheral blood, monocytes are an
      interesting target as they represent a source of macrophages and dendritic cells,
      contributing to tumor growth, metastasis and angiogenesis as well as anti-tumor immune
      response.

      Investigators from the Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB) have over the years built
      an international network and team (UZ Leuven (Belgium), Jules Bordet Institute (Belgium), San
      Filippo Neri Hospital (Italy), University Hospital of Heidelberg (Germany)). With the initial
      aim to characterize different monocyte/macrophage phenotypes, the outstanding collaboration
      led to the development of an innovative test for the diagnosis of CRC that combines
      transcriptomic data with an efficient predictive model, the so-called "Monomark" test. In the
      Monomark study, VIB defined a genetic signature, which is induced specifically in circulating
      monocytes at early disease onset by soluble signals derived from transformed colon epithelium
      (in comparison to benign colon epithelium or other cancer histotypes). This gene signature
      was validated in a case-control study including 360 samples from the four European
      oncological centers with outstanding diagnostic accuracy, showing a sensitivity of about 90%
      and a specificity of about 95% (even when stratifying patients in stage I, II, III and IV)
      compared to other tests previously described or currently in use in the clinic (6,7).
      Moreover, preliminary data suggest the test can also detect relapse - an application that is
      being further developed.

      Within this study investigators propose to further develop the Monomark test for the
      screening application, in order to maximize the interest from potential licensees.
      Investigators will need to show that the assay is superior to existing assays in casu the
      FOBT/FIT assays. Therefore, we will compare the sensitivity and specificity of this test head
      to head to the FIT stool test currently used in clinical screening for CRC. These findings
      will showcase Monomark's potential as a novel, non-invasive, cheap and safe assay for early
      detection of CRC, thus increasing the cure rate of CRC patients and reducing costs for the
      public health. The outstanding network built around the Monomark diagnostic platform will
      strongly support and speed up its validation and commercialization with specialized
      methodologies and analyses.

      In this prospective study, the main goal is to evaluate the strength of the Monomark test in
      patients with a positive FIT test. Therefore, in parallel to the routine FIT screening, blood
      samples will be harvested and the monocyte genetic profile will be determined. This
      fundamental study, will disclose the diagnostic power of this biomarker panel head to head
      with the well-established FIT diagnostic test, a core prerequisite for the commercialization
      of the Monomark test as an alternative and more reliable CRC screening tool.

      Currently, a Flemish screening project is ongoing in male and female patients between 56 and
      74 years old. If patients have a positive stool test, they are advised to contact their
      general practitioner for planning of a colonoscopy. The goal is to avoid 400 deaths of colon
      cancer per year. In 2013, 248.970 patients were invited of which 49% send a stool sample to
      the lab. Of all the examined tests, 10.1% tested positive. However, only 5 to 10% of patients
      testing positive with the stool test are diagnosed with cancer. Therefore, the goal of this
      study is to discriminate with the monomark those patients with a high likelihood of having
      colon cancer.

      At University Hospital Gasthuisberg (Leuven, Belgium) there are weekly about 5 patients with
      a positive stool test that are referred for a screening colonoscopy. It has been computed
      that 167 patients would be needed to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Monomark
      test in patients with a positive stool test. To make sure that investigators can draw sound
      conclusions from this study, it is proposed to include 200 patients in total. In those
      patients it is planned to perform the blood based Monomark test. Therefore, during the first
      12 months approximately 200 patients will be recruited whereas in the next 6 months all the
      molecular, bioinformatics and statistical analysis required will be performed to draw a
      robust and clear comparison.

      The ultimate goal of this study is to provide solid data that the Monomark can be used as
      diagnostic tool and outperforms the current stool based diagnostic tests available on the
      market in order to screen more patients for early colon cancer and improve cure rate.
    
  