
    
      The seminal discovery that the in vitro growth of malignant cells could be absolutely
      dependent on L-ascorbic acid (LAA) was originally published in Sciene. The cell culture assay
      used with a mouse plasmacytoma model in this discovery was based on colony formation, and was
      essentially the same as the one used to grow normal hemopoietic colonies, such as CFU-GM and
      CFU-G, from normal bone marrow specimens. Subsequent analysis of the growth factors for these
      CFUs using this same culture system eventually led to the discovery of colony stimulating
      factors, such as GM-CSF and G-CSF, now widely used clinically. Human leukemia, specifically
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML), cell colonies also grow well in this culture system, as shown
      by extensive cell biology studies. In addition, cells from patients with myelodysplastic
      syndrome (MDS), a significant proportion of them progressing to AML behave similarly to AML
      cells in this culture system . In particular both AML and MDS are identical in that the
      growth of colonies is enhanced by addition of LAA to the cell culture media in a high
      proportion of these patients.

      The large volume of in vitro data thus generated, including correlations with direct clinical
      relevance is increasingly convincing that lowering of LAA levels could potentially be
      developed and utilized as a treatment for specific hemopoeitic malignancies. This was
      particularly attractive in view of the fact that the growth of normal hemopoietic colonies,
      such as CFU-GM and CFU-G, is never enhanced by LAA. Such an absolute selectivity would
      predict a lack of clinical adverse hemopoetic events from an intervention which lowered LAA
      levels. We also had seemingly-contradictory data that the growth of colonies from AML and MDS
      patients could be suppressed by addition of LAA, infrequently but sometimes profoundly.
      However, detailed dose response analysis later clarified this: low physiologic doses enhance
      and high pharmacologic doses suppress formation of leukemic colonies. From a therapeutic
      perspective, we would have greater expectations for a depletion strategy than for
      supplementation, because 1) leukemic suppression by addition of LAA is often accompanied by
      some mild suppression of the normal CFU and therefore is not absolutely selective; and 2) LAA
      supplementation has been clinically tested in a variety of solid tumors, with controversial
      outcomes.

      Therefore, our original protocol was developed primarily to accomplish lowering of LAA
      levels, with a subsequent oral LAA supplementation used primarily to prevent scurvy and only
      secondarily for possible benefit. However, with the first patient there was a strong
      indication of antileukemic effects during both the LAA depletion and supplementation phases.
      Based on this encouragement, the protocol was amended to formally alternate depletion with
      supplementation, and to utilize intravenous (IV) administration of LAA to achieve high dose
      supplementation. With 17 subsequent subjects having been treated, this study of the safety
      and efficacy of cyclic manipulation of LAA levels has demonstrated beneficial outcome in a
      high proportion of refractory and terminal patients with AML or MDS. Moreover, growing
      laboratory evidence being produced provides a molecular basis for these clinical outcomes.
    
  