
    
      Prior to the study each volunteer will undergo screening procedure (Health Screening
      Questionnaire) for compliance with the inclusion/exclusion criteria. The volunteers who meet
      those criteria will be invited to sign an informed consent. Following this the volunteers
      will be asked to complete:

        -  Gluten Sensitivity Questionnaire

        -  SF-36 Quality of Life Questionnaire

        -  Beacke Physical Activity Questionnaire

        -  DASS 21 Questionnaire

      It is anticipated that NCGS volunteers are following a low gluten or gluten-free life style.
      Evaluation of their dietary compliance with gluten-free diet will be done through using
      numerical scores (Biagi at al.,2009) - a system based on strategies that the subjects use to
      avoid eating gluten.

      Gastrointestinal symptoms will be assessed by the participant completing daily diary cards
      via a 100-mm VAS to score the presence and severity of overall abdominal symptoms, abdominal
      pain, bloating, wind, satisfaction with stool consistency, tiredness, and nausea.

      Severity of fatigue will be evaluated by the Daily-Fatigue Impact Scale (D-FIS), a
      questionnaire containing 8 items that evaluates the impact of fatigue on cognition, physical
      functioning, and daily activities.

      After one week of a baseline period, the subjects will be assigned to one week of dietary
      intervention (bread A, B, C or D), followed by 14-day wash-out period before crossing over to
      the next bread. All volunteers will be randomised to all four groups/cross over intervention.

      Treatment:

        -  Bread A - normal (gluten-containing) reference bread

        -  Bread B - bread with reduced gliadin content

        -  Bread C - bread with reduced ATIs

        -  Bread D - bread with reduced overall protein content

      Each treatment bread will be consumed for one week (3 slices per day), followed by washout
      period of at least 2 weeks or until symptoms induced during the previous dietary challenge
      resolved. Volunteers unable to continue a treatment due to intolerable symptoms will be
      permitted to cease the study food of that particular arm but can continue if they wish with
      the study.

      Bread will be provided to volunteers at the beginning of each treatment week. Compliance will
      be determined with questioning at time of review and counting the slices of bread left at the
      end of the treatment week.

      Pilot study

      For volunteers only recruited from the Aberdeen and the Aberdeenshire area as part of a pilot
      study we will also ask volunteers to make a single visit (at the beginning of the study) to
      the RINH. At this visit a fasting blood sample will be taken, the blood pressure will be
      checked and anthropometric measurements will be made.

      Blood test:

        -  IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase antibody and total IgA level.

        -  IgA endomysial antibody

        -  IgG deamidated gliadin peptide antibodies (DGP-AGA)

        -  Immunoglobulin IgG/IgA antigliadin antibodies (AGA)

        -  Flow cytometric basophil activation test

        -  Gliadin-specific T cells in the peripheral blood

        -  Full blood count

        -  Lipid profile

        -  Vit B12 and folic acid status
    
  