
    
      Approximately 65 percent of Americans are overweight or obese. They are at increased risk for
      diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, arthritis, respiratory
      disorders, pregnancy complications, and premature death. Research has demonstrated that
      weight status is associated with certain types of malignancies, including endometrial, colon,
      gall bladder, prostate, kidney, and postmenopausal breast cancer. The total direct and
      indirect costs attributed to overweight and obesity amounted to 117 billion U.S. dollars in
      2000.

      The 22-week Worksite Nutrition Study will (1) test whether a worksite intervention, which
      prescribes a low-fat vegan diet, is effective in promoting clinically significant weight
      loss, (2) evaluate whether the intervention reduces cardiovascular risk, particularly blood
      pressure and lipid concentrations, (3) assess whether the intervention improves glycemic
      control in individuals with type 2 diabetes, and (4) examine how the intervention affects
      work impairment and absenteeism.

      Participants (Group 1, n=60) at a specified worksite will be assigned to the diet
      intervention program, which prescribes a low-fat, vegan diet. A control group (Group 2, n=60)
      will be designated at a separate worksite. The participants in the control group will not
      receive an active intervention during the designated study period. Participants in the active
      intervention will attend weekly group meetings for nutrition education on the intervention
      diet.

      Diets will be assessed, in order to monitor adherence and for the purposes of comparison, in
      the intervention and control groups at baseline and at weeks 11 and 22 using a 3-day dietary
      record. Dependent measures, including body weight, blood pressure, lipid concentrations,
      quality-of-life measures, and A1c (for those with diabetes) will be assessed in the
      intervention and control groups at weeks 0, 11, and 22.
    
  