
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Understanding the genetic basis of common multifactorial diseases such as cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) remains an elusive goal, but the great advances in molecular genetic
      technology, statistical genetic methods, and phenotypic assessment of CVD risk factors in
      recent years have facilitated more sophisticated genetic studies of risks for heart disease.

      The study is a follow-up to one conducted in the 1970's and 1980's. The availability of 5
      large kindreds first identified and recruited as part of the "High Blood Pressure in the
      Young" program is an important resource. The investigators have an extensive array of
      baseline data that was collected in the late 1970s and early 1980s on 750 participants
      stemming from that project, although some data are available only on a subset of
      participants. The present study population centers on 764 individuals in five large,
      multigenerational, extended families (four white and one African-American) originally
      examined 25 years ago. Data collected from the original participants include hundreds of
      biochemical, medical, physiological, behavioral, physical, psychological, genetic and
      demographic traits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study consists of four specific aims: 1) Collect 25-year follow-up data from
      approximately 500 of the original participants, and new data from approximately 500 of their
      relatives not examined in the original study. The cardiovascular disease risk factor
      phenotypes to be collected include hemodynamic measures, carotid intima-media thickness, and
      measures of cardiopulmonary function. 2) Obtain DNA samples from these 1,000 individuals and
      use modern high-throughput molecular genotyping methods to create a 10 cM genetic marker map.
      3) Quantify and characterize the nature of genetic influences on CVD risk factors using
      quantitative genetic methods suited for cross-sectional and serial (follow-up) data from
      relatives in large extended families. 4) Conduct linkage analyses to identify chromosomal
      regions (QTLs) harboring genes that influence individual variation in cardiovascular disease
      risk factors. Following these linkage analyses, the investigators will examine more closely
      the strongest linkage signals with fine mapping linkage analysis in order to narrow
      chromosomal regions of interest. The study is a collaboration between Wright State University
      and the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research.
    
  