
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of a single dose of two drugs,
      rabeprazole and pantoprazole, on reducing the amount of acid in the stomach and esophagus in
      subjects with GERD. This study is conducted at one investigational center. The investigator
      will be blinded (he or she will not know whether the patient is taking rabeprazole or
      pantoprazole). The study is a comparative, randomized, single dose, two-way crossover,
      pharmacodynamic study examining the effectiveness of rabeprazole or pantoprazole on stomach
      acidity and esophageal acid exposure in GERD patients with nighttime heartburn. Patients will
      be randomized (like with the toss of a coin) to one of two sequences in receiving study
      medication; either one dose of rabeprazole in the first treatment period followed by one dose
      of pantoprazole in the second treatment period or one dose of pantoprazole in the first
      treatment period followed by one dose of rabeprazole in the second treatment period. The
      study will measure how the acid levels in the stomach and esophagus change after one dose of
      either study medication. The primary endpoint will be the percent of time that the stomach pH
      is greater than 4 (a pH level considered to be normal) during the 24-hour period after a
      single dose of each study medication. Another endpoint will be the 24-hour esophageal reflux
      time after a single dose of study medication. The esophageal acid exposure is determined by
      measuring how much acid flows backwards from the stomach to the esophagus. Patients will
      participate in two 48-hour treatment periods during which intragastric (stomach) and
      esophageal pH will be recorded at 8-second intervals using a probe inserted through the nose
      and down to the stomach. The two treatment periods will be be separated by a washout period
      of 6 to 13 days. On each day of the treatment periods, patients will be dosed in the morning.
      During each treatment period, patients will receive placebo on Day 1, and active treatment
      (either rabeprazole or pantoprazole) on Day 2. The main objective of the study is to compare
      the effects of a single dose of rabeprazole 20 milligrams to pantoprazole 40 milligrams on
      intragastric acidity and esophageal acid exposure in GERD patients with a history of
      nighttime heartburn and safety will be monitored in the study. Rabeprazole 20 milligram
      tablet once by mouth; pantoprazole 40 milligram tablet once by mouth
    
  