
    
      Objective

      The purpose of this pilot clinical study is to test the safety and efficacy of deep brain
      stimulation (DBS) of the nucleus accumbens, ventral striatum and ventral capsule in patients
      with treatment-resistant alcoholism and to provide critical information for planning
      subsequent clinical trials, including additional experience with the safety of this
      procedure.

      Study Population

      Ten patients 21 to 60 years of age with severe, treatment-resistant alcoholism will be
      enrolled in this study.

      Design

      This study is a randomized, sham-controlled trial with open-label extension exploring the use
      of DBS of the nucleus accumbens, ventral striatum, and ventral capsule in ten healthy alcohol
      dependent men and women who have failed repeated alcoholism treatments.

      Neurosurgical implantation of the DBS in the nucleus accumbens, ventral striatum and ventral
      capsule will be performed. Following surgery but prior to initiation of the titration phase,
      baseline cognitive and behavioral testing will be performed. Approximately four weeks
      following placement of the electrodes, a randomized, sham-controlled trial with an open-label
      extension will be instituted whereby participants will be randomized and blinded to undergo
      either titration for two weeks followed by 24 weeks with the DBS system ON, or titration
      followed by 24 weeks with the DBS system OFF.

      After 24 weeks with DBS ON or OFF, the open-label extension phase will occur. All
      participants will be readmitted to the hospital for the second two-week titration period. The
      cognitive and behavioral assessments performed at baseline will be repeated. Following the
      inpatient titration phase, they will be discharged from the hospital and followed in the
      outpatient clinic for 24 weeks with the DBS ON. Cognitive and behavioral assessments which
      were performed at baseline will be repeated at the end of this 24-week period. Participants
      will be followed monthly after this time for 9 months, for a total of approximately 24 months
      of active enrollment.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      Safety: Risks associated with DBS for alcoholism

      Efficacy: Alcohol consumption as measured by Alcohol Timeline Followback (TLFB).

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

      Secondary outcome measures include: 1) change in processing of rewards and punishments as
      measured in decision-making tasks, 3) change in mood as measured by Comprehensive

      Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS), 4) change in participation in social, physical, and

      rehabilitative activities as measured by the Mayo-Portland Adaptability Inventory-4 (MPAI-4),
      5) change in overall life satisfaction as measured by the Satisfaction with Life Scale
      (SWLS), 6) change in alcohol craving as measured by the Penn Alcohol Craving Scale (PACS),
      and (7) number of alcohol relapses and time to alcohol relapse.
    
  