
    
      Our goal is to advance palliative care with persons living with AIDS (PLWA) or life-limiting
      co-morbidities aimed at relieving suffering and maximizing quality of life. One objective is
      to identify variables which influence decision-making with respect to advance care planning
      (ACP) for PLWA, as well as to determine the unique person-centered needs of subgroups of
      PLWA, as these are unknown. The negative consequences of no ACP or poor ACP include: unmet
      care or delivery of unnecessary or unwanted care, conflict erupting in the ICU, or the
      importance of non-relative caregivers being dismissed, for example gay partners. A second
      objective is to identify a "best approach" for standard of care in ACP, a key component of
      palliative care, as an end of life support. This approach may minimize health disparities in
      the likelihood of both identifying a surrogate decision-maker and using advance directives.
      We propose building on our evidence based, theoretical model, FAmily-CEntered (FACE) Advance
      Care Planning intervention, an HIV specific ACP program for Black teens which gained
      acceptance and demonstrated efficacy through increased congruence in treatment preferences
      and universal complete of advance directives with a surrogate decision-maker. Given the
      demonstrated needs and benefits of ACP and the low utilization among adult Black PLWA, we
      propose meeting this need by building on our FACE model with adults living with advanced AIDS
      and/or life-limiting co-morbidities in Washington, District of Columbia (DC) a city with
      endemic HIV and significant health disparities in death rates by race in an
      adequately-powered, randomized, clinical, 2-arm, single-blinded, controlled trial. We will
      test the efficacy of the FACE intervention for increasing congruence in end-of-life treatment
      preferences between PLWA and their surrogate decision-maker, to determine if increased
      congruence can be maintained over time. We will also determine if FACE is acceptable to
      primarily Black inner city adult PLWA. We will recruit from four hospital-based clinics and
      randomize 288 patient/surrogate dyads (N=576 subjects) in a 2:1 ratio to either FACE
      Intervention (N=192 dyads) or Control (N=96 dyads). Participants with HIV dementia,
      suicidality, homicidality or psychosis will be excluded. Two 60-minuted sessions will be
      conducted with a trained/certified facilitator at weekly intervals: FACE Session 1: The
      Respecting Choices Interview (R); Session 2: Completion of The Five Wishes (c). Control will
      also be administered in a dyadic format: Session 1: Developmental History; Session 2:
      Nutrition and Exercise. Standardized self-report measures will be administered at baseline, 3
      month post-intervention 6 month post-intervention, 12 month post-intervention, and 18 month
      post-intervention. Thus, participants will be followed for an average of 2 years. This will
      be the first study to test an ACP model, integrating person-centered (GMM) and
      variable-centered analysis (GEE) to assess study outcomes.
    
  