
    
      Patient Screening: A comprehensive screening algorithm will identify patients with family
      history data in various sections of the electronic health record (EHR) who meet current
      genetic testing criteria. Randomization to study arm (Enhanced Standard of Care or
      Patient-Directed Standard of Care) will be at the level of the primary care clinic.

      Enhanced Standard of Care Patients will be offered the opportunity to schedule a pre-test
      genetic counseling visit. Pre-test counseling includes review of the family history, risk
      assessment, discussion of the purpose of genetic testing and possible outcomes, implications
      for insurance coverage, costs, and assessment of psychosocial needs. Patients can opt to
      proceed with genetic testing during this session. All test results are returned by a genetic
      counselor by phone or in person based on the patient preference. A copy of the results and a
      letter with tailored screening recommendations are returned to the primary care provider and
      patient via the patient portal or mail.

      Patient-Directed Standard of Care The pre-test genetic counseling visit will be conducted
      through access to an automated genetics education assistant accessed through the patient
      portal of the electronic health record. The automated approach will address all the
      components of the pre-test counseling and contains content designed by the genetic counselors
      at the University of Utah and NYU (New York University). Patients will have the option to
      contact genetic counselors through the patient portal, by phone, or in person but this will
      not be required. All results will be reviewed by a genetic counselor. Negative results will
      be returned by the automated genetics education assistant. Genetic counselors will return
      results for pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance via phone. A copy of
      the results and a letter with tailored screening recommendations will be provided to the
      patient and primary care provider via the patient portal.

      All patients will be offered the option to schedule follow-up appointments in the genetics
      clinics.

      Genetic Testing:

      Genetic testing will be performed by Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA)- certified,
      commercial laboratories based on standard clinical practice. Genetic testing will not be
      required to participate in the research questionnaires.

      Research Procedures:

      Two follow-up questionnaires will be sent via the patient portal following interaction with
      genetic counseling:

      i. Questionnaire #1: For participant who chose to receive genetic testing, a questionnaire
      will be sent approximately 4 weeks after their genetic results are returned. Through this
      questionnaire investigators will assess cognitive (i.e., recall, comprehension, uncertainty,
      risk perceptions), affective (i.e., test-related distress, positive reactions, decision
      regret), communication responses (i.e., family, provider), experience with genetic
      counseling, and sociodemographic characteristics. For those who chose not to test, a
      questionnaire will be sent approximately 4 weeks after last genetic service contact. In this
      questionnaire investigators will assess experience with genetic counseling, reason for not
      testing, decision regret, risk perceptions, and sociodemographic characteristics including
      numeracy.

      ii. Questionnaire #2: A questionnaire will be administered approximately 12 months after last
      genetic services contact. For those who chose to test, this questionnaire will ask about
      discussion of their test results with their primary care provider, family members, or others,
      and self-reported use of cancer screenings. For those who decide not to receive genetic
      testing, investigators will assess the self-reported use of cancer screenings, whether
      genetic testing was pursued at another time or through another source, communication with
      family members, and whether other relatives had received testing.

      For any participants who would like to complete questionnaires by telephone, a genetic
      counseling assistant or research coordinator will administer the questionnaire. Calls will be
      digitally recorded to allow for analysis of comprehension. Each questionnaire will take about
      15 minutes to complete. Participants may also complete the questionnaires by mail if they
      choose.

      In addition to the questionnaires, investigators will examine screenings, care or health
      procedures related to genetic services recorded in the electronic health record to determine
      if an impact is made because of participation in genetic services.
    
  