
    
      Fibromyalgia is the most frequent chronic diffuse painful disease (3 to 4% of the general
      population).

      Analgesic drugs are widely used in fibromyalgia, pain being the main symptom. However the
      effectiveness of analgesic drugs is often insufficient.

      Among non-drug therapies, rehabilitation exercise plays an important role with a special
      interest in terms of the quality of life, strain and pain.

      More recently the Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation effects have been evaluated in patients
      suffering from fibromyalgia with a statistically significative analgesic effect.

      Both rehabilitation exercise and Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) have shown their
      respective analgesic effectiveness in fibromyalgia. It now seems important to evaluate the
      combination of these two therapies.

      Main objective: To evaluate the analgesic effect of rTMS in fibromyalgia patients doing
      rehabilitation exercise.

      Primary endpoint:

      The evaluation methode used is a visual analog scale (VAS) of pain. Patients will note down
      every day VAS of over the last 24 hours.

      The evolution of the VAS during the treatment period with respect to baseline, will be
      compared in both groups, active rTMS and placebo rTMS.

      The investigators will analyze the average daily VAS for different weeks (W2, W4, W8, W14)
      compared to the average daily VAS at the baseline.

      After a baseline period of 15 days, patients will begin sessions of rTMS and rehabilitation
      exercise for a period of 14 weeks.

      The study is composed of three assessment visits : a baseline visit, a visit corresponding to
      the end of the therapy with exercise period and a last assessment visit at 26 weeks after the
      end of the treatment.

      These visits will include clinical examination, blood test, an effort test, an orthostatic
      test, a resistance to fatigue test and polysomnography.
    
  