
    
      -  On the assumption of our recent data (Thielmann et al, Lancet 2013, 382(9892):597-604),
           we performed a power analysis, revealing an estimated enrollment of 189 patients per
           group. But since no true data exist regarding RIPC and TAVI, interim analysis will be
           performed after 50 patients per group.

        -  After induction of conscious sedation or general anaesthesia, RIPC is accomplished by 3
           cycles of 5 min inflation/5 min deflation of a blood pressure cuff around the left arm
           to 200 mm Hg. In the placebo group, the blood pressure cuff remains uninflated for 30
           min.

        -  Blind: study coordinators, outcome assessors, operators and treating physicians except
           for the attending anaesthetist.

        -  Drugs used for conscious sedation: midazolam, remifentanil.

        -  Drugs used for general anaesthesia: sufentanil, etomidate, rocuronium, isoflurane.

        -  TAVI is performed by standard techniques using the balloon-expandable Sapien XT (Edwards
           Lifesciences Inc., Irvine, California, USA) and the next-generation Sapien 3 stent-valve
           bioprosthesis which replaces the Sapien XT prosthesis, when CE-approved.

        -  Arterial blood samples are obtained prior to and after RIPC-maneuver/Placebo, after
           aortic valve implantation and after access site closure, for biochemical analyses
           focussing on ligands that have been previously implicated in conditioning protocols at
           various organs. A bioassay system, consisting of a Langendorff-perfused isolated heart
           with ischemia and reperfusion will be used. This bioassay system will be exposed to the
           obtained arterial plasma of the patients.

        -  Venous blood samples are drawn before TAVI and at 1, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours after
           the procedure.

        -  Cardiac and cerebral MRI is performed in selected patients at baseline and within the
           first week after TAVI.

        -  On-site follow-up at 3±3 months, 12±3 months and yearly thereafter.
    
  