
    
      This was a retrospective multicentre study and is reported according to the Strengthening the
      Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement for cohort studies

      Between September and December 2017, 206 patients with III and IV degree HD, according to
      Goligher classification, from sixteen colorectal referral centres belonging to SICCR (Società
      Italiana di Chirurgia Colorettale), who satisfied inclusion criteria underwent open excision
      haemorrhoidectomy.

      The results obtained were compared with a homogeneous sample of 192 patients who underwent
      OEH in the same centres between April and July 2017 and who had received standard
      post-operative therapy without mesoglycan.

      All patients received the standard post-operative therapy (a recommended oral dose of
      ketorolac tromethamine of 10 mg every 4-6 hours, not exceeding 40 mg per day and not
      exceeding 5 post-operative days according to the indications for short-term management of
      moderate/severe acute post-operative pain and stool softeners) plus mesoglycan (Prisma® 30 mg
      2 vials i.m./day for the first 5 post-operative days and then Prisma® 50 mg 1 oral tablet
      twice/day for an additional 30 days, Mediolanum Farmaceutici, Milan, Italy).

      In each referral centre, the procedures were carried out by an experienced surgeon who had
      performed more than 200 haemorrhoidectomies.

      A clinical external examination was performed the first post-operative day, and an anorectal
      digital evaluation with proctoscopy was performed at T2, T3 and T4.

      During each follow-up visit, post-operative pain was evaluated at rest, after defecation and
      after anorectal digital examination using a visual analogue scale (minimum score = 0; maximum
      score = 10).

      Quality of life was evaluated pre- and post-operatively 90 days after the procedure using the
      SF-12 questionnaire.

      Polypharmacy was defined as 5 or more medications daily. Thrombosis was defined as one or
      more swollen painful piles at the site of the mucocutaneous bridge and was assessed at T2, T3
      and T4.

      Surgical wound healing (granulation) was evaluated at T2, T3 and T4 using the following 3
      items: infected, granulating, healed.

      Autonomy was evaluated at T2, T3 and T4 using the following 4 items: complete inactivity,
      total autonomy at home, ability to drive, return to normal activities (autonomy at home,
      driving, working).

      Bowel movements were evaluated, according to the proper guidelines, at T2, T3 and T4, and
      patients were classified in three categories: regular, constipation or diarrhoea.
    
  