
    
      Distal radius fractures (DRF) account for nearly one-fifth of all fractures in older adults
      with women sustaining them at a rate of 5 to 1 relative to their male counterparts. The
      majority of DRF occur as a result of low impact injuries to the wrist with the hand being
      outstretched and are most often managed via closed treatment and cast immobilization The
      aftereffects of these injuries include pain, distal upper limb immobility, distal
      sensorimotor changes, hand weakness, edema, and type I complex CRPS development. Women, those
      sustaining low-force injuries, and those who undergo closed treatment and cast immobilization
      of the DRF, are at increased risk for developing type I CRPS. Given that alterations in the
      brain's somatosensory strip likely influence CRPS development, a newer intervention, graded
      motor imagery, is being used to restore the affected limbs cortical representation to its
      typical state. Beyond pain reduction, the implications of this type of approach also include
      restoring sensorimotor function to the affected limb. Evidence supports that these
      interventions can impact CRPS symptoms as well as motor function but only after they've
      developed. To date, there is no literature exploring how these techniques, specifically
      graded motor imagery, can be applied to prevent or mitigate the aforementioned aftereffects
      of DRF in women.

      To this end the investigators propose to pilot a 6-week randomized comparative effectiveness
      trial, where the modified graded motor imagery program + standard of care group is compared
      to a standard of care (SOC) control group. Immediately following cast immobilization, the
      intervention group and control group will each participate in one 1-hr and three 30-minute
      clinic-based sessions and 15 minute home programs three times daily. Blinded assessments will
      occur at baseline, 3 weeks, cast removal, and one and 3 months after cast removal and will
      include pain, sensorimotor, edema, and CRPS diagnostic outcomes.

      The project's aims are to: 1) determine the feasibility of recruiting, enrolling, treating,
      and following participants and 2) determine if those who participate in a GMI and SOC hand
      therapy program have differing pain, function, and counts of CRPS diagnoses when compared to
      those who receive only the SOC. The investigators hypothesize 1) that the project will be
      feasible to carry out on a larger scale and 2) that an early GMI will improve the pain,
      functional and upper limb sensorimotor outcomes of persons with closed treatment of DRF
      relative to a standard of care intervention.
    
  