
    
      Background: The detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the most important tasks
      in medicine. Exercise-induced myocardial ischemia is the pathophysiological hallmark of
      stable CAD. Currently, sophisticated imaging techniques including coronary angiography,
      rest/stress myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and
      coronary CT-scanning are required to accurately detect CAD. Unfortunately, these techniques
      are associated with inherent risks due to substantial radiation exposure, intraarterial or
      intravenous application of iodinated contrast media, mechanical complications, require
      referral to a specialist, and are very costly. In addition, most of them provide anatomical
      but not functional information. For clinical practice, functional information that
      differentiates lesions that cause exercise-induced myocardial ischemia from functionally
      irrelevant lesions is critical. Exercise electrocardiography (ECG) is a widely used simple
      and non-invasive functional test, which however has imperfect sensitivity and specificity
      (both below 75%) in the detection of CAD. Novel cardiac biomarkers as well as novel
      computer-based quantitative approaches to analyse the ECG signal recorded during exercise
      offered by advances in information technology and signal processing may provide incremental
      value to the exercise ECG and thereby improve clinical care.

      Aim: The primary aim is to perform the largest study worldwide to evaluate novel biochemical
      and electrocardiographic signatures alone as well as in combination with the standard 12-lead
      exercise ECG in the detection of exercise-induced myocardial ischemia (diagnostic endpoint).
      The secondary aim is to evaluate these innovative tools in the risk prediction for the
      occurrence of cardiovascular death and acute myocardial infarction during long-term
      follow-up.

      Methodology: We will enroll approximately 4200 consecutive patients with suspected exercise
      induced myocardial ischemia referred for rest/ergometry myocardial perfusion SPECT. SPECT
      findings (complemented by coronary angiography and fractional flow reserve [FFR, if availabe]
      findings in patients who obtain both investigations) are used to adjudicate and quantify the
      presence of myocardial ischemia (the primary diagnostic end point). Clinical long-term
      follow-up will be obtained at 1 year, 2 years, 5 years and 8 years to record death,
      cardiovascular death, and acute myocardial infarction as well as coronary revascularisation.

      Investigational tests: Venous blood samples will be collected before exercise stress testing
      for the determination of biochemical signatures possibly associated with myocardial ischemia
      including high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I, high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T, B-type
      natriuretic peptide, IL-6, and cardiac microRNA. In addition, continuous ECG signals are
      recorded using 12 leads (16 leads in a subset of patients) and 24-bit amplitude resolution
      with 8000 Hz sampling frequency before, during and after the stress test. Novel methods of
      computer-based ECG signal-processing technology will be used to decipher electronic markers
      of myocardial ischemia and to develop improved software algorithms for automated ECG
      interpretation. All investigational tests will be performed in a blinded fashion.

      Potential Significance: We hypothesize that biochemical and electrocardiographic signals of
      myocardial ischemia will significantly improve the non-invasive detection of exercise-induced
      myocardial ischemia. This would markedly improve the initiation of treatment in affected
      patients and thus advance medical management of patients with suspected CAD. In addition,
      this approach would help to simplify (exercise ECG versus myocardial SPECT) the non-invasive
      detection of exercise-induced myocardial ischemia and help to avoid the inherent health
      hazards associated current radiologic imaging procedures.
    
  