
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled interventional pilot study in 20
      patients undergoing first-time total hip arthroplasty (THA) for chronic osteoarthritis at
      Stanford Medicine. We will screen, enroll and collect biologic and behavioral data from 20
      patients as outlined in previous observational and interventional clinical studies undertaken
      in close collaboration with the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. In particular, standard
      operating procedures for screening, recruiting, laboratory assessments, and clinical data
      collection are in place including eligibility screening via EPIC (EHR) ahead of patients'
      preoperative visit, coordinated recruitment and consenting during the pre-surgery visit
      including study- related laboratory work, further preoperative assessments after the visit
      (e.g. remote completion of questionnaires and direct import of results into REDCap), and
      real-time tracking of the data collection and storage process (e.g. including phone/email
      reminders if data are missing).

      Repeated assessments of pain, physical function, and analgesic medication will be made before
      surgery, daily on postoperative days 1-3, and then after postoperative weeks 2, 4, and 6.
      Delirium will be measured days 1-3 while in-house. Additional data will include demographics
      (age, BMI, sex, race, and ethnicity), surgical/anesthesia data (e.g. duration), and
      medical/medication history.

      Peripheral blood samples will be collected before surgery and 1hr and 24hr after surgery
      based on our prior study showing that monocyte activation (including STAT3, CREB and NFkB
      signaling responses in CD14+CD16- monocytes) early after surgery strongly correlates with
      delayed pain resolution and functional impairment. Exhaled breath samples will be collected
      intraoperatively prior to incision and at wound closure as well as at 1 and 24 hours after
      surgery.

      N-Acetylcysteine infusion: A loading dose of 50 mg/kg will be started as a 1-hour infusion
      before surgical incision, and will be followed by a maintenance dose of 50 mg/kg administered
      over 4 hours. This is a standard dosing paradigm that is safe when used intraoperatively and
      rarely causes significant adverse effects (mainly allergic reactions).

      Surgery and anesthesia: Patients will undergo unilateral hip arthroplasty performed by three
      surgeons using the same approach. The anesthetic and perioperative management of patients is
      standardized and follows ERAS-based recommendations.

      Measures: Well-validated instruments will be used to assess pain, pain interference and
      function of the affected and operated joint including the Western Ontario and McMaster
      Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) adapted for patients undergoing lower extremity
      joint surgery and the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Actigraphy will quantify activity from 1
      week before surgery to 6 weeks postoperatively. Opioid consumption will be quantified as
      intravenous hydromorphone equivalents (milligram/day) using widely accepted opioid conversion
      tables.

      Sample analysis: Blood and plasma will be collected and processed for analysis with mass
      cytometry as previously described. A 39-parameter human CyTOF antibody panel will be applied
      that will allow the simultaneous analysis of 1) all major immune cell phenotypes 2)
      endogenous intracellular signaling responses (including the pSTAT3, pCREB and pNF-kB signal)
      and 3) intracellular markers of reactive aldehydes (i.e. 4-HNE and MDA signal).

      Breath samples will be analyzed for aldehydes including formaldehyde, crotenaldehyde, and
      benzaldehyde using mass spectroscopy in the laboratory of Dr. Gross.

      Plasma samples will be analyzed for free MDA and 4- HNE in baseline, 1 and 24-hour plasma
      samples in the laboratory of Dr. Clark.

      Analysis and modeling of outcome data: Self-reported outcomes will be analyzed using the
      validated models associated with each outcome to extract a quantified and normalized number
      associated with recovery. The 60Htz actigraphy data will first be mined for patterns
      associated with daily activities (e.g. step counts) and intensity levels. Next, a baseline
      will be established using the data collected during and prior to surgery, for each variable.
      All variables will be normalized to this baseline to account for patient-specific effects.
      Finally, a multivariate linear model (with days passed since surgery as the response
      variable) will be used to model the entire actigraphy dataset. The area under the respective
      recovery curve of each patient according to this model will be used as an objective recovery
      outcome. In our preliminary studies (data not shown) this outcome has been found to be
      correlated with several aspects of the immune system.

      Analysis and modeling of CyTOF data: The large number of data points (millions of cells per
      patient) and measured variables (tens of signaling pathways in hundreds of cell types) pose
      unique computational challenges that cannot be addressed using traditional bioinformatics
      tools. We will develop a Bayesian framework that will combine a priori knowledge of the
      immune system with state-of-the-art mass cytometry profiling to build a predictive model of
      innate and adaptive immune cell signaling responses for each of the recovery outcomes.
    
  