
    
      The aflibercept-5-FU combination has never been evaluated as yet. Aflibercept, at a dose of 4
      mg/kg, has already been used in combination with 5-FU at the doses used in the simplified
      LV5FU2 regimen (folinic acid 400 mg/m2 IV in 90 min, then 5-FU 400 mg/m2 IV bolus on D1,
      followed by continuous perfusion of 5-FU 2,400 mg/m2 in 46h) (23) as part of the
      above-mentioned VELOUR trial, evaluating its combination with FOLFIRI (= simplified LV5FU2 +
      irinotecan). This trial was preceded by a phase I trial validating the doses used (24). It is
      therefore not necessary to perform a phase I trial if you use the same doses of 5-FU without
      irinotecan, within the context of a strategy for reducing toxicity in patients to be treated
      over a long period, and not search for the maximum tolerated dose of the combination.

      The aflibercept-LV5FU2 combination can be useful for patients who will never be resectable or
      operable, and for whom 5-FU monotherapy can be suggested to delay the toxicities of combined
      chemotherapies. Within this context, it is possible for aflibercept to provide a survival
      benefit. The previous VELOUR trial (18) did not indicate that toxicity would have a major
      effect on quality of life and increase the hope of prolonged progression-free survival in the
      arm with aflibercept.

      This is what the FFCD 11-01 - PRODIGE 25 trial proposes to study, as a preliminary for
      strategic studies evaluating the usefulness of including targeted therapeutics from the first
      line.

      This trial will evaluate the efficacy of the combination and its tolerance by studying
      toxicities and quality of life. Quality of life will be studied via the EORTC questionnaire
      QLQ-C30.

      The thymidylate synthase polymorphism type 2R2R-2R3R versus 3R3R seems to predict greater
      efficacy of 5-FU monotherapy. Stratification in this criterion will confirm or negate the
      prognostic or predictive nature of 5-FU efficacy linked to these polymorphisms.

      The draft version of this trial has been studied and evaluated by the scientific council of
      the Fédération Francophone de Cancérologie Digestive (FFCD) then the Digestive Group of the
      Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC) within the framework of
      their Partnership for Research in Digestive Oncology (PRODIGE cooperation).
    
  