
    
      Medication use is rising due to an aging population and expanding treatment indications for
      chronic diseases. Simultaneously, adverse drug events-harmful and unintended events related
      to medication use or misuse-have increased. In Canada, adverse events to outpatient
      medications cause over two million emergency department visits and 700,000 hospital
      admissions, costing over $1 billion in healthcare expenditures annually. Optimizing the
      benefits of medications while limiting their potential for harm is a public health priority
      across patient populations, health settings and medical disciplines.

      Patients with adverse drug events often seek care in hospitals due to the unexpected and
      serious nature of these events. After assessment and treatment, patients are discharged back
      into the care of a community-based provider who often cannot access the hospital's medical
      record, may not receive a legible or detailed discharge summary, and is at risk of either
      re-starting the culprit medication for chronic disease management in the case of an adverse
      drug reaction. The investigators developed ActionADE to address this type of information
      discontinuity. ActionADE was integrated to a province-wide network that links all pharmacies
      in British Columbia to a central data system, allowing users to see their patient's
      medication dispensing history.

      The investigators will conduct a triple-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      effectiveness of ActionADE on preventing subsequent adverse drug reactions. The trial will
      take place in two urban tertiary care (Vancouver General and Saint Paul's Hospitals) and one
      urban community hospital (Lions Gate Hospital) within the Greater Vancouver area, in British
      Columbia, Canada. Other hospitals may be added to accelerate recruitment into the trial if
      approved by the British Columbia Ministry of Health.

      The primary objective of the main trial is to evaluate the effect of providing information
      continuity about adverse drug reactions using ActionADE on culprit drug re-dispensations over
      12 months compared to standard care. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the effect on
      outpatient and emergency department visits, admissions, hospital-days and mortality.
    
  