
    
      Objectives:

      - Primary: To characterize and determine the incidence of adverse events of special interest;
      in subjects treated with Lenalidomide in real life setting in given indication.

      - Secondary:

        1. To observe the basic adverse event management approaches of physicians

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of Lenalidomide in given indication and to evaluate the
           prescription line.

        3. To monitor the reasons of patients' noncompliance with lenalidomide usage recommended in
           Patient Information Leaflet.

      Subjects will be recruited from approximately 36 hematology/oncology sites in Turkey. In all
      cases, the decision to treat the patient will be made prior to the decision to enter the
      subject into the study. All subjects enrolled will be prospectively followed up for up to 36
      months, where feasible, following the end of observed treatment period. This 36 month
      observation period will start from end of treatment. The observation follow up period will
      end 36 months after the end of lenalidomide or background observed treatment period, or at
      time of death, withdrawal of consent, or loss to follow up. Following completion of
      treatment, subjects will be followed up after 30 days and then every 6 months to assess
      status.

      Patients who are eligible and signed a consent form will be recruited consecutively. Subjects
      who temporarily discontinue treatment for any reason for more than 30 days will be withdrawn
      from treatment observation but will be observed for safety for up to 36 months (from the end
      of treatment). If the reason for discontinuation for subjects is due to an adverse event, the
      follow up of the adverse event will not be time limited and will continue until resolution or
      stabilization or when, in the opinion of the investigator, no additional useful information
      can be obtained from the event or the subject withdraws their consent to any more data being
      collected. Subjects will discontinue from the study if they switch to another treatment. No
      intervention will be performed to physician. Treatment will be according to physician's
      regular clinical practice.

      All treatments will be prescribed by the treating investigator in accordance with regular
      clinical practice.

      All assessments will be made according to the regular clinical practice of the treating
      investigator. Therefore if a parameter is requested on the case report form (CRF) but the
      investigator's normal practice is not to carry out such an assessment, then the field will
      not be completed.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data from all subjects who receive at least one dose of treatment will be included in the
      safety analysis.

      Adverse events will be classified using the MedDRA classification system. The severity of the
      toxicities will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE V. 4.03 whenever possible.

      Adverse event frequency will be tabulated by body system and MedDRA term. In the by subject
      analysis, a subject having the same event more than once will be counted only once. Adverse
      events will be summarized by worst NCI CTCAE V. 4.03 grade.

      Adverse events leading to death or to discontinuation from treatment, study-drug-related
      events, and serious adverse events will be listed separately.

      The Kaplan-Meier procedures will be used to characterize time to onset and time to resolution
      for adverse events of special interest. Multivariate logistic regression will be used to
      determine the demographic and baseline characteristics most predictive of developing adverse
      events of interest. A forward selection stepwise procedure will be used to identify the
      subset of relevant factors.

      Summary tables will also be provided for clinically relevant subgroups. Analyses will be
      undertaken to explore the course of neuropathy for subjects who have pre-existing neuropathy
      at baseline. Specifically, cross-tabulations will be used to summarize changes in severity
      observed during lenalidomide treatment and summary statistics will be provided for other
      relevant variables.
    
  