
    
      In the process of creating of a high-quality longitudinal dataset combining COPD templates
      and patient reported information and outcome (PRIO) to evaluate outcomes the APEX COPD
      registry supports changes and improvements in medical practice and deliver high quality
      research through the following mechanisms:

        -  Templates integrated into the primary care clinical systems to support standardization
           of care and data over time.

        -  Informing doctors at the point of consultation about the status of their patients
           through data-driven feedback.

        -  Pre-filled electronic data templates from existing EHR data and questionnaires to reduce
           administrative burden for Primary Care Clinicians (PCC).

        -  Engaging primary care clinicians in ongoing quality improvement initiatives directly at
           the point of care.

        -  Research publications regarding treatment effectiveness and associated risk in mild to
           moderate COPD, reason for therapy switch/escalation and hidden undiagnosed and untreated
           COPD patients in primary care.

        -  A strong network of primary care clinicians caring for patients with COPD in the US to
           drive the initiative and ensure impact on clinical practice through educational events,
           academic organizations and research outputs.

      The APEX COPD steering committee (SC) comprise of collective clinical expertise, scientific
      knowledge and experience in EHR, databases and research, forming an essential element of the
      APEX COPD registry. The SC plays an essential role in the development and governance of the
      APEX COPD registry, representing the sites participating, and providing the expertise
      necessary to implement and drive the initiative. Within this committee a smaller management
      group guides the operational aspects of the registry.

      The research database uses the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) v5 Common
      Data Model (CDM) and the OMOP terminology will be updated at least bi-annually. Standardized
      OMOP Concept IDs will utilize SNOMED, RxNorm and may be adjusted to improve data
      compatibility with other OPC COPD databases.
    
  