
    
      Study will enroll diabetic patients (new and established) meeting the inclusion criteria and
      who would provide an informed consent to participate in the study. This would include
      subjects who visit the endocrinology clinic and had either their retina evaluated by a
      teleophthalmology consult or visited the ophthalmology clinic for an indirect ophthalmoscopic
      fundus evaluation in the past 3 months. Subjects whose fundus has been recently evaluated in
      the past 3 months will also be re-called to the endocrinology clinic to get a fundus image
      captured on the Remidio NM FOP-10 device. Images will be captured by an operator who will be
      provided training in using the device prior to the study.

      Non-mydriatic fundus images are captured using a pre-defined imaging protocol. One disc
      centered and one macula centred 45 deg image is taken for each eye. The images are then
      submitted to an AI system for analysis that runs locally on the Remidio FOP. An initial image
      quality assessment is performed by the AI. If the image is of sufficient quality then the AI
      will give an output of either 'signs of DR detected' (that would include moderate NPDR,
      severe NPDR, PDR and/or DME present) or no signs of diabetic retinopathy detected (that would
      include no DR, mild DR, absence of DME). If the image is of insufficient quality, then the
      operator makes 2 more attempts using the same imaging protocol. The images that are output as
      insufficient quality will be noted. All subjects who have provided consent for dilation are
      then instilled with a single drop of 1% tropicamide solution. After 20 mins, mydriatic 2
      field (one disc centered and one macula centered) fundus images are captured and submitted to
      the AI for analysis along the same lines of non-mydriatic imaging. If the image is of
      insufficient quality then the operator makes 2 more attempts using the same imaging protocol.
      The images that are output as insufficient quality will be noted.

      De-identified patient data including age, gender, ethnicity and lens status (Cataract grade,
      pseudophakia, aphakia) along with the final diagnosis made by a certified
      grader/ophthalmologist during clinical examination/teleophthalmology are retrieved from the
      NHS database. This DR diagnosis will act as a reference standard against which the AI output
      will be compared.

      Data entry of subjects will be performed by approved trained Site Personnel. The
      de-identified data is stored onto an electronic data capture system (EDC). Approved Site
      Personnel will have a user specific log-in name and password to access the electronic data
      capture (EDC) system in order to enter study data. The principal investigator will ensure
      that all aspects of the study are complied with. The study will be conducted in accordance
      with applicable regulatory requirements and established rules for Good Clinical Practice
      (GCP).
    
  