
    
      Introduction: By 2020, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is projected to become
      the 3rd leading cause of death in the world. Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) has been shown to
      improve quality of life of people with COPD by decreasing their symptoms. However, the
      benefits obtained during PR tend to decrease within six months to one year after PR.

      The objective of this study is to implement a web platform following PR programs in order to
      improve COPD patients' adherence to self-management techniques. Specifically, the
      investigators will 1) evaluate the adherence to the use of the web platform and 2) the
      effects on exercise capacity, quality of life, the number of hospitalizations and
      exacerbations. Therefore, the investigators want to verify whether the addition of a
      tele-management tool allows the gains obtained during PR to be retained over 3, 6 and 12
      months. The hypothesis is that patients will maintain their PR gains if they use the
      platform.

      Methods: Participants with COPD will be selected in a PR group at CHUS Hôtel-Dieu de
      Sherbrooke. Their initial 10-week rehabilitation program will be followed by the use of a
      web-based tele-management platform for 12 months. Data will be collected at the beginning of
      PR (T1), end of the PR (T2), after three months of using the web platform (T3), after six
      months (Q4) and after 12 months (T5). To measure adherence, the research team will have
      access to a) the number of connections made on the site, b) the number of exercises
      performed, c) the duration and type of cardiorespiratory exercises as well as the muscular
      exercises filled in the logbook and d) the number of exercises performed (breathing,
      cardiorespiratory and muscular exercises) self-reported by the participants at the time of
      assessment. For the second objective, the measures used will be FEV1 for lung function, the
      6-minutes walk test for exercise capacity, COPD Assessment Test for quality of life, modified
      BORG scale (0-10) and the medical research center (MRC) for the feeling of dyspnea, the
      number of hospitalizations over 3, 6 and 12 months (self-reported) and the number of
      exacerbations via medication taken from their pharmacist.
    
  