
    
      Background:

      Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are activated in myocardial ischemia, digesting key
      structural components in cardiac muscle in the setting of myocardial infarction and
      myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (Schulz, 2007, Annu. Rev. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 47,
      211-42).

      The antibiotic doxycycline is the only drug approved as an MMP inhibitor by Health Canada and
      the U.S. FDA for the treatment of periodontitis and rosacea at sub-antimicrobial doses.

      Doxycycline decreases intracellular proteolysis, improves cardiac function, and reduces
      infarct size in animal models of ischemia-reperfusion injury (Cheung et al, 2002, Circulation
      101:1833-39; Villarreal et al, 2003, Circulation 208:1487-92).

      TIPTOP (Cerisano et al, 2014, Eur Heart J 35: 184-91) was a randomized open-label trial (110
      patients) that studied the effect of 1-week doxycycline given post-percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) in patients with anterior STEMI. Patients who received doxycycline showed
      improved echocardiographic indices at 6 months relative to untreated controls: left
      ventricular end diastolic volume index (LVEDVi) -8 mL ± 14 mL (P=0.004), left ventricular end
      systolic volume index (LVESVi) -6 mL ± 12 mL (P=0.02), and left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF) +5% ± 12% (P=0.04). They also showed decreased infarct sizes (-6%, P=0.05) by single
      photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).

      Rationale for study:

      The TIPTOP pilot study showed promise for doxycycline therapy to decrease adverse ventricular
      remodeling post-PCI in STEMI patients. Animal models suggest that MMP activation occurs early
      in reperfusion (within 5 minutes) following severe ischemia, and the TIPTOP pilot showed that
      early treatment may result in measurable clinical benefit. However, the TIPTOP pilot was an
      open label study and used a low resolution approach to measure clinical outcomes.

      This is a small-scale, single-centre Phase II trial with double blinding, and includes the
      use of magnetic resonance imaging to measure primary (LVESVi) and secondary outcomes (LVEF ad
      LVEDVi). The investigators anticipate beneficial effects of doxycycline, with patients
      showing lower levels of LVESVi and LVEDVi, increased LVEF by MRI, and reduced infarct sizes,
      compared to placebo at 3 months. The investigators also expect hospitalization and mortality
      rates due to cardiac events to be reduced in these patients.

      If successful, the overarching goal is to develop a multi-center randomized, blinded,
      placebo-controlled trial to examine the effect of early doxycycline therapy in the setting of
      STEMI.
    
  