
    
      After evaluating the anamnesis and having the written consent signed and clarified, the
      elderly women will be evaluated before and after the intervention period of 8 weeks of
      training on the vibratory platform. First, academics from the nutrition degree of the
      University of Santa Cruz do Sul (UNISC) will perform nutritional evaluations on the subjects,
      asking them their 24 hour eating habits, there will not be any interference on the subjects
      diet, also they will have to keep these habits until the end of the trial. Then there will be
      a socio-economical indicators evaluation through a questionnaire of socio-economical
      classification from the Brazilian Association of Research Companies.The evaluation of their
      level of physical activity will be done by the International Physical Activity Questionnaire.
      The anthropometrical evaluation will consider height, weight, body mass index, waist
      circumference, hip circumference, and hip-waist ratio. Body fat percentage, lean mass, and
      basal metabolic rate will be obtained through bioimpedance (Biodynamics 450, USA),
      recommending 5 hours fasting prior to the procedure. Biochemical tests will be done
      collecting blood at the University of Santa Cruz Exercise Biochemistry Laboratory, on the
      following variables: hemogram, glycemia, cholesterol, triglycerides, Urea, creatine, uric
      acid. Oxidative stress evaluation with the Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS)
      test will be done after urine collection once a week, before intervention and immediately
      after the session. Control group subjects will have urine collected twice: on the day when
      cards will be handed in and on the last day of evaluations. Physical evaluation will be done
      in the week prior to the intervention with the vibratory platform and in the last week of
      treatment, where flexibility through Wells Bank will be evaluated, as well as lower limb
      muscular strength by the maximum repetitions test, and palmar prehension strength will be
      obtained through dynamometer. Functional Capacity will be evaluated with the six minute walk
      test.

      The intervention procedure with the vibratory platform (Power Plate®, model my7™, UK) will
      last 8 weeks, 3 times a week with work periods lasting between 30 seconds and 1 hour and rest
      periods of 30 seconds to 1 minute with a total session time of 10 to 20 minutes. The
      individual will be then positioned in orthosis with a knee flexion of a 15° and a foot width
      distance of 20 cm. A frequency of 35 Hz and an amplitude of 2 mm will be used. The protocol
      with number of session, time of session, time of vibrations and rest, is as follows: 1st
      through 6th session, total time of 10 minutes, with 30 seconds of vibration alternated with 1
      minute rest; 7th through 12th session, total time of 10 minutes, vibrations and rest time of
      1 minute each; 13th trough 18th session, total session time of 15 minutes, vibrations and
      rest time of 1 minute each, 19th through 24th session, total time of 20 minutes, time of
      vibration 1 minute and rest time of 30 seconds.

      Statistical analysis: This will be done using the Statistical Package for Social Science
      (Version 23.0 USA) program. To test data normality the investigators will use the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Parametric data will be presented in mean and standard deviation and
      non-parametric data in median and interquartile intervals. The intragroup deltas from the pre
      and post training periods on the vibratory platform on both groups will be evaluated through
      Student´s T Test (paired T test or non-parametric equivalent for intergroup comparisons).

      To evaluate body composition, metabolic rate, palmar prehension strength, flexibility,
      muscular strength, distance traveled through the Six minute walking test (6SMWT), biochemical
      profile and oxidative stress between the groups evaluated pre and post training period, a
      Student´s T test will be used. Significance level will be p < 0,05.

      Sample size: It was based on a previous study by Rees et al. (2008). To detect a difference
      of 8,9 W/Kg between knee flexion torque pre and post training on the vibratory platform,
      considering a p value < 0,05, a statistical power of 80% and a 10% loss, 34 subjects will be
      needed in each group to be evaluated in pre and post training.
    
  