
    
      Part 1 of the study will involve only patients with PAD who are undergoing non-cardiac
      surgery and is an intervention study. Part 2 will involve patients with PAD who have
      participated in Part 1 and patients with PAD who are not undergoing surgery. This part of the
      study does not involve an intervention.

      The protocol for patients undergoing surgery is as follows: Part 1. Intervention study with
      follow-up for 30 days after surgery. Patients with planned surgery will be enrolled. We will
      test endothelial function at baseline using ultrasound and tonometry. They will then be
      randomzied to one of three groups: Atorvastatin 80 mg/d, Vitamin C 500 mg/d, or placebo.
      Subjects already on a statin medication at the time of enrollment will receive 40 mg/d of
      atorvastatin. Patients taking high dose statin (>40 mg/day) will be randomized to received
      vitamin C or placebo, and will not be eligible to receive any additional statin as part of
      the study. In the week immediately prior to surgery, we will test endothelial function a
      second time. They will then be followed for 30 days beginning with the day of surgery for
      cardiovascular events. Part 1 of the study involves 4 visits as follows: Visit 1 at
      enrollment will take place within 7-30 days of non-emergent vascular surgery and will last
      approximately 60 minutes Visit 2 will take place within approximately 1 week of surgery and
      will last approximately 30-40 minutes Visit 3 will occur on the 1st post-operative day and
      will last approximately 10-15 minutes Visit 4 will take place only if the subject is still an
      in-patient. It will take approximately 10-15 minutes Telephone contact will occur at 30 days
      post surgery and every six months thereafter for two years. The duration of telephone
      follow-up is expected to be approximately 5-10 minutes. Part 2 (long term follow-up):
      Patients who have completed Part 1 will be continued on in Part 2 of the study. Part 2
      involves two year follow-up with no study medication. Telephone contact will be made every 6
      months. subjects will make a visit to our research unit one year after the initial visit for
      physical examination, and if applicable, an ultrasound study of their bypass grafts.

      The protocol for patients with PAD who are not undergoing surgery is as follows. These
      patients will participate in Part 2 of the study only (long-term follow-up with no
      intervention). Visit 1: will last approximately 60 minutes and involve measurement of
      endothelial function by ultrasound and tonometry. We will contact the subject every 6 months
      by telephone (5-10 minutes) for two years to determine whether a cardiovascular event has
      occurred. Visit 2 will occur at 1 year post enrollment and will last approximately 20-30
      minutes. If the subject has had peripheral bypass surgery, we will perform an ultrasound
      study to determine graft blood flow.
    
  