
    
      Drug addiction is a chronic, devastating, but treatable disorder, for which there exists a
      growing armamentarium of evidence-based interventions, including pharmacotherapies and
      psychotherapies. A core principle of drug addiction treatment, however, states that no single
      treatment is appropriate for everyone; rather, treatments need to be adjusted based on
      patient characteristics and response in order to be maximally effective. Ideally, clinicians
      would identify a sequence of interventions that works best across different stages of
      addiction treatment, from abstinence initiation to relapse prevention. Adaptive treatment
      interventions have been used successfully to inform this sequential clinical decision-making
      process. For cocaine use disorders (CUD), the most potent intervention currently available
      for initiating abstinence is behavior therapy using contingency management (CM) procedures.
      Intensive CM has been shown to produce initial cocaine abstinence rates of 40%, unmatched by
      all other forms of behavioral or pharmacological treatment, making it a prototypical
      first-line therapy for CUD. Importantly, achievement of initial abstinence predicts future
      abstinence. For the clinician, these research findings translate into a straightforward
      question: Can the investigators drive CM response rates even higher with targeted adjunctive
      interventions?

      The proposed sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial (SMART) will provide the data
      needed to answer this question. First, the investigators will determine whether Acceptance
      and Commitment Therapy (ACT) in combination with CM increases initial treatment response
      rates. The investigators hypothesize that four weeks of treatment with ACT+CM will produce
      higher abstinence rates than initial treatment combining standard Drug Counseling with CM
      (DC+CM). The hypothesized synergism of ACT+CM on primary treatment mechanisms of experiential
      avoidance and reward sensitivity, respectively, will be examined. Second, for patients who do
      not respond to initial treatment, the investigators will examine whether dopamine-targeted
      pharmacotherapy is an effective augmentation strategy. Specifically, the investigators
      hypothesize that continued ACT+CM treatment with modafinil augmentation will be most
      effective in promoting abstinence relative to treatment combinations involving continued DC
      and/or placebo. Third, for patients who respond to initial treatment, the investigators will
      assess the relative benefit of continued treatment with ACT+CM, as compared to DC+CM, to
      prevent relapse. ACT emphasizes goal-directed actions based on values that are intrinsically
      motivating, and is thereby expected to be a more effective intervention for extending the
      duration of abstinence following initial treatment with intensive CM.
    
  