
    
      Electrodiagnostic examination is a valuable addition to clinical trials and is useful in
      disorders of neuromuscular excitability.

      The I/T curve is a non-invasive electrodiagnostic method for the quantitative assessment of
      neuromuscular excitation. Plotting it makes it possible to determine the rheobase (minimum
      stimulus amplitude to reach the stimulation threshold with a long pulse duration /1000 ms/)
      and chronaxie (minimum duration of a stimulus with an amplitude twice that of the rheobase
      needed to reach the stimulation threshold.

      Traditional electrodiagnostic examination is popular among clinicians due to its
      availability, ease of administration and usefulness in physiotherapeutic practice. The
      subjective assessment of muscle contraction and perceived current vibrations carries the risk
      of error and thus is a limitation of the method. Therefore, use of the I/T curve coefficient
      was proposed in this study. This coefficient is the arithmetic mean of the electrical charge
      needed to trigger a sensory or motor reaction at different widths of the electrical pulse.

      Polarized polychromatic incoherent low-energy radiation (PILER light) can affect the sensory
      and motor excitability of living tissue. The biological activity of light results from the
      energy of its ordered electromagnetic waves acting on living cells. No thermal effect is
      present, as the density of the energy transmitted to the tissues is low.PILER therapy often
      uses filters of different colours, each showing a slightly different effect on excitable
      tissue.

      The research questions of this randomised experiment were:

        1. Does PILER light affect sensory and motor excitation?

        2. Does the electromagnetic wavelength of PILER light influence its effect?

        3. Is the I/T curve coefficient a useful measure of sensory and motor excitation?
    
  