
    
      Background

      It is known that with increasing age sexual desire is declining in women. Multiple factors
      are being discussed to have an influence on this topic, such as cultural, individual and
      biological factors. Decreasing levels of sexual hormones and specifically androgens are
      believed to have an influence, hence a lot of women benefit from a testosterone replacement
      therapy. Yet the sole decline of androgen levels with inclining age cannot explain the loss
      of libido completely.

      A possible further factor might be the androgen receptor: It is known that the effect of the
      androgen in its target cells is depending on the functionality of the androgen receptor. This
      functionality is genetically determined by the polymorphism of the androgen receptor gene: In
      the gene there is a sequence with a varying number of CAG-repeats. This CAG-repeat is coding
      for a polyglutamine stretch in the androgen receptor which is responsible for the binding of
      co-activator proteins. The better these co-activator proteins are bound to the androgen
      receptor, the better the transcriptional activity of the latter. Previous studies have shown
      that the longer the CAG-Repeat, the weaker the binding of co-activator proteins, the lower
      the functionality of the receptor and therefore the lower the effects of the androgen on the
      target cell. Given this circumstances the same level of androgen can have different effects
      in two individuals.

      Objective

      In this pilot study, the investigators would like to correlate the testosterone serum levels,
      the functionality of the androgen receptor and the libido in 45 healthy, heterosexual
      middle-aged women.

      Methods

      45 healthy middle-aged women are being recruited and are being invited to come to the
      University Hospital in Berne. Here they will answer standardised questionnaires about their
      sexual function and libido and will give a blood sample to measure all the relevant
      parameters (fasting, premenopausal women: 1.-5. day of cycle): Total Testosterone, SHBG,
      Estrogen, DHEAS, FSH, LH, CAG repeats of the androgen receptor gene, TSH, fT3, fT4,
      Prolactin, Ferritin, CRP, Hemoglobin.

      A statistician will then assess the collected data. No interventions are planned.

      The following collaborators are providing support for this study: Dr. rer. nat. Ulrich
      Stefenelli, Würzburg, Germany, and Dr. med. Stefan Schmid, Rheinfelden, Switzerland.
    
  