
    
      Participants were recruited from four urban, public schools, serving predominantly
      low-income, African American adolescents. Recruitment occurred over two years, with two
      cohorts of ninth-grade students recruited. Participants who returned student assent and
      active parent/guardian permission were screened for imminent suicide risk. Those participants
      who were identified as at imminent risk for suicide were referred to mental health
      professionals at the school-based health center for risk assessment and appropriate services.
      Participants not at imminent risk completed a baseline assessment of coping, aggression, and
      suicidality, and were randomly assigned to either the A-CWS intervention or standard care
      control conditions. Randomization occurred at the individual level.

      Participants assigned to the A-CWS intervention condition received the 15-week A-CWS
      intervention. The intervention was facilitated by master's-level practitioners and
      implemented at the participating school during a non-instructional period of the school day.
      Intervention groups consisted of 8 to 10 participants, and intervention sessions were held
      for 45 minutes, once per week. Participants assigned to the standard care control condition
      were assigned to work with the school-based health center (SBHC) to receive standard
      behavioral services as delivered by SBHC mental health professionals.

      To assess outcomes of adaptive coping, suicidality, and interpersonal aggression,
      participants were assessed at multiple timepoints. After completing a brief screening
      assessment, all participants, regardless of condition, were assessed a total of four times:
      (1) at baseline, prior to randomization, (2) immediately following the conclusion of the
      A-CWS intervention, (3) 6 months after the conclusion of the intervention, and (4) 12 months
      after the conclusion of the intervention.
    
  