
    
      Part A:

      60 male and female subjects will be enrolled Subjects will receive 2 versions of once-weekly
      Corplex Donepezil TDS and QD oral Aricept; each administered for 35 days in 3 different
      treatment periods.

      For each treatment period; Subjects will receive a lead-in dose of approximately 5 mg
      donepezil/day for 7 days before commencing a dose of 10 mg donepezil/day for 28 days. Blood
      samples for donepezil PK and red blood cell (RBC) AChEI (as a potential pharmacodynamic [PD]
      marker) will be collected pre-dose through Week 8.

      Adhesion and skin irritation will be monitored throughout TDS Treatments. A washout period of
      at least 21 days between the last study drug administration (oral administration or removal
      of TDS, as appropriate) in each treatment period and the first application of TDS or oral
      drug administration, as appropriate, in the following treatment period.

      Safety will be monitored throughout the study by adverse event reporting, repeated clinical
      and laboratory evaluations

      Part B:

      Up to 47 subjects male and/or female will be enrolled This is an open-label, randomized,
      2-way crossover sub-study. Eligible subjects will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment sequences
      prior to the first TDS application.

      Subjects will receive 2 different once-weekly Corplex Donepezil TDS treatments (Treatments D
      and E), each administered for 1 week, in 2 different treatment periods (Treatment Period 1
      and Treatment Period 2).

      In each treatment period, subjects will receive a target dose of 5 mg donepezil/day for 7
      days. There will be a washout period of 35 days between removal of the first TDS in Treatment
      Period 1 and application of the second TDS in Treatment Period 2.

      Blood samples for donepezil PK will be collected pre-dose and through to Week 6 of each
      treatment period.

      Safety will be monitored throughout the sub-study by repeated clinical, skin irritation and
      laboratory evaluations.
    
  