
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the incidence of acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) requiring therapy in
           patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative disorders treated with
           busulfan, cyclophosphamide, and anti-thymocyte globulin prior to transplantation with
           filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (or bone marrow) from related
           or unrelated donors.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse and relapse-free survival in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of non-relapse mortality by day 100 and 1 year
           posttransplantation in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of Epstein-Barr virus reactivation, infections, and chronic GVHD
           in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of anti-thymocyte globulin.

        -  Conditioning and graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive oral
           busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 (16 doses), cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and
           -2, and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 3 hours on days -3, -2, and -1.

      Cohorts of 15 patients receive adjusted doses of anti-thymocyte globulin to determine the
      optimal dose at which Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) activation and GVHD are reduced. The optimal
      dose is the dose at which 2 consecutive cohorts receive the same regimen.

        -  Stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) or bone
           marrow transplantation on day 0.

        -  Posttransplantation GVHD prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV continuously on
           days -1 to 4 and then orally twice daily until day 180. Patients also receive
           methotrexate on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-45 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  