
    
      1. Study design

           Our long-term goal is to enlarge the evidence base for low resource-intensive and widely
           adaptable interventions that effectively target parenting outcomes to reduce risk of
           child physical abuse in settings with broad reach. The objective of this study is to
           test the effectiveness of two such interventions in promoting effective parenting and
           reducing child physical abuse risk as compared with "usual care" parenting education.
           The central hypothesis is that each of two brief interventions, Triple P-L2 and Play
           Nicely, will be more effective in improving parenting effectiveness and reducing child
           behavioral and emotional problems than the "usual care" condition. Full scale Triple-P
           is an evidence-based, five-level system of interventions shown to reduce risk for child
           maltreatment when all 5 levels are implemented. However, implementation of a single
           level would be much less costly, more easily disseminated, and might in itself reduce
           risk in a broader population. Play Nicely is a brief computer-based intervention that
           has shown preliminary evidence for shifting attitudes about use of physical discipline
           when implemented in a pediatric primary care setting. However, it has yet to be tested
           within a large randomized-controlled trial (RCT). The rationale for this study is to be
           able to inform policy for parent service or clinic centers serving high-volumes of
           parents that are interested in adopting relatively low-resource intensive interventions
           in order to reduce risk of child physical abuse and improve child health and development
           trajectories.

           This is a community-based RCT. Parents (n=1200) with children 2 to 7 years of age will
           be recruited from local Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
           Children (WIC) clinics and by open recruitment. Once consented, they will be enrolled, a
           baseline interview will be conducted, and they will be randomly assigned to one of 3
           conditions: (1) Triple P-Level 2 only (L2) intervention, (2) Play Nicely intervention,
           or (3) a "usual care" control group. Three months later, a follow-up interview will be
           conducted in order to test for intervention effects. In addition, a long term follow-up
           will be conducted to test sustained effects of the intervention. Participants' children
           (n=1200) will be enrolled for the long term follow-up. Children will be invited to
           participate in order for the adult participant to be observed interacting with the child
           in several very benign behavioral activities. Adult participants that do not want to
           enroll their child may participate in the long term follow-up survey which they will
           have previously consented to. Our study name for presentation in the local community is
           "Tulane Innovations in Positive Parenting Study" (TIPPS).

        2. Subject Population

           We will recruit a total number of 2400 participants for this study. We will recruit 1200
           adult participants from City of New Orleans and Jefferson Parish WIC Clinics. During the
           long-term follow-up visit, one child for each adult with be enrolled (n=1200).

        3. Procedure

      Recruitment: Recruitment has taken place in WIC clinic waiting rooms. If a parent is eligible
      and interested, the TIPPS Staff Member will then confirm that she has completed all necessary
      WIC documentation and that she is scheduled for a follow-up appointment with WIC before
      moving forward with consent and enrollment.

      Baseline Interview: After the participant is taken through the informed consent process, a
      TIPPS Team Member will then conduct the Baseline interview. Once the Baseline Interview is
      complete (approximately 45 minutes), the participant will be informed of their random
      assignment to one of three conditions: (1) Triple P-Level 2, (2) Play Nicely, or (3) Control.
      The next procedure will then depend upon which of the three groups the person is assigned to.
      (See "Arms and Interventions" section for more details.) Debrief: Once both the Baseline
      Interview and the Intervention phase are complete, a TIPPS Team Member will schedule the
      3-month Follow-Up Appointment, provide the control condition, provide an area-specific
      resource guide, and give the participant our incentive. The whole procedure (enrollment,
      baseline interview, intervention, and debrief) is expected to take no more than 2 hours.

      3-Month Follow-Up Visit: If the participant has a WIC appointment, when they return to WIC
      for their 3-month visit and once they've completed their WIC documentation, a TIPPS Team
      Member will conduct the 3-month interview with them. This interview should take no more than
      45 minutes. As with the baseline visit, childcare will be offered when available and the
      Suicide Risk Protocol will be followed if needed. In the event that the participant cannot
      return to the study site for their 3-month visit, the TIPPS team member will schedule the
      3-Month interview as a phone interview. If the participant is unwilling or unable to complete
      the follow-up interview over the phone, a follow-up interview will be scheduled at a more
      convenient location for the participant, such as a local business or the participant's home.

      The long term follow-up visit protocol described below is possible due to funding from NICHD
      which will fund this study from 7/2018 - 6/2023.

      Long Term Follow-Up Visit : Participants will be asked to arrive at the research site with
      their child indicated as the index child in the baseline survey visit. A trained research
      team member will conduct the informed consent procedures followed at the baseline visit. If
      the adult participate does not want her child to participate, she may complete the long-term
      follow-up survey which she has consented to previously. If she agrees to participate and
      gives permission for her child to participate, she must review and sign a new consent form
      before participating in any Long Term Follow-Up activities. The informed consent form will be
      a record of the mother's agreement for both her and her child to participate. Upon completion
      of the informed consent process, a research assistant will conduct the Long Term Follow-Up
      interview with the adult participant. A separate research assistant will engage the child
      participant in several tasks. The first task will be the NIH Toolbox, which measures
      Cognitive flexibility and executive function, administered by tablet. Next, the child will be
      given the Marshmallow Test, which is an inhibitory control task where the child is told to
      wait for to eat a marshmallow until the research assistant returns to the room, and if they
      are able to wait, they will get two marshmallows. The time before the child eats the
      marshmallow is a validated measure of inhibitory control; inhibitory control has been found
      to be a significant predictor of child health and development outcomes across the life
      course.

      Following the surveys, ECG data will be collected on the child and mother concurrently,
      acquired using Mindware Technologies mobile recorders, and transmitted via wireless signals
      to a computer monitored by a research assistant. After participant and child leads have been
      connected to ECG machines, the participant and child will do 3 very benign behavioral
      activities together: 1) watch a short video, 2) tell a story together, and 3) engage in a
      cooperative task (drawing with an Etch A Sketch). Interactions will be video recorded with
      parental consent and child assent and coding of parent and child behaviors will be done using
      the coding interactive behavior (CIB) coding system. Respiratory Sinus Arrhythmia (RSA)
      values will be processed in 30-second epochs across tasks for mothers and for children, and
      multilevel growth models will be built examining each 30-second epoch over the course of the
      task, relative to the individuals' baseline RSA. Dr. Drury will have full oversight of the
      dyadic coding of video recorded interactions between mother and child. Lastly, a TIPPS Team
      Member will provide the participant with locally-based health care resources guide.

      4. Benefits

      There will be no direct benefits to subjects for participating in this research, but the
      knowledge gained from the study may benefit society in general. Anticipated benefits might
      include a participant's greater understanding of positive parenting techniques.

      5. Costs

      There will be no costs to the subject for participating in this research study.

      6. Alternatives

      Subjects always have the option to not participate in the research.
    
  