
    
      There are three phases to this research study:

        1. DEVELOPMENT OF A TREATMENT MANUAL TO HELP REDUCE PSYCHOLOGICAL DISTRESS IN PARENTS OF
           NICU INFANTS.

           We currently have pilot data on a three session intervention designed to reduce
           psychological distress in NICU parents. In this phase of hte study, we plan to augment
           this intervention by adding an additional three sessions for a total of six sessions
           which will comprise our new treatment manual. To accomplish this, we will conduct a
           comprehensive review of the content of all current empirically based cognitive behavior
           therapy (CBT) treatments for PTSD, abstract the key elements, compare the key elements
           with our current treatment for PTSD and construct a fourth session using a combination
           of Stress Inoculation Training techniques (including relaxation training, thought
           stopping, cognitive restructuring) and imaginal re-exposure. A similar process will be
           used to identify parent-child interventions currently available used with premature or
           other vulnerable young children. The redefinition of the infant and reeducation of the
           mother to promote sensitivity toward and attachment with the infant are likely topics.

        2. PILOT THE MANUALIZED TREATMENT IN AN OPEN TRIAL WITH 10 NICU MOTHERS, SOLICIT FEEDBACK
           AND MODIFY INTERVENTION SESSIONS.

           To obtain clinically relevant feedback and prepare for any unforeseen logistical issues,
           we will pilot the six session treatment intervention in 10 mothers whose newborns are
           hospitalized in the LPCH NICU. The recruited parents will be representative of the
           population of mothers that the intervention is intended for-English and Spanish speaking
           mothers of infants >= 28 weeks, over 1000 grams, born at LPCH or transferred within 72
           hours with CRIB scores, a measure of medical severity, of 15 or less. Children
           transferred for cardiac surgery and those with congenital abnormalities will not be
           eligible. Mothers will be approached by a member of the NICU staff within 72 hours of
           the infant's admission to the NICU. The mother will be given an information sheet about
           the project and invited to speak with the study coordinator. Potential subjects who give
           informed consent will complete the three screening instruments, the Stanford Acute
           Stress Reaction Questionnaire (SASRQ), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Beck Depression
           Inventory-I (BDI I) and the sociodemographic questions.

           Within 48 hours, one of the study psychologists, will contact enrolled mothers,
           establish a schedule for the 6 sessions and initiate the course of treatment. The
           sessions will be individual and held at a time and location convenient for the mother.
           We expect that most sessions will be in the LPCH NICU in private offices suitable for
           therapy sessions. Should the infant be discharged from the NICU prior to the 6th
           session, the remaining sessions will be scheduled at home, LPCH or the Department of
           Psychiatry. Following the 6th session, the mothers will be contacted by the study
           coordinator who will administer the instruments chosen for the post intervention
           assessment and assess satisfaction with the treatment sessions. Specific questions will
           include: What did you like/dislike about the treatment?; Which sessions were most/least
           helpful?; Could the treatment be structured differently?; Was the timing/length of the
           sessions appropriate?; Were the techniques taught useful?; How satisfied were you with
           this intervention? All evaluation materials including changes in pre/post scores on our
           instruments will be summarized and presented to our Scientific Advisory Group. Once
           consensus is reached on the revised manual, the manual will be rewritten to incorporate
           feedback and data obtained in the pilot study.

        3. CONDUCT A RANDOMIZED TRIAL OF THE TREATMENT INTERVENTION COMPARED TO AN INFORMATION,
           USUAL CARE, SUPPORT CONTROL CONDITION.

      Eligible mothers (N=100) will be randomly assigned to receive either: (1) the manual driven,
      CBT-based trauma focused plus mother redefinition/education intervention; or (2) information,
      usual care/support. The intervention is expected to last 3 weeks with two 45-55 minute
      sessions weekly. Participants in both conditions will be assessed at baseline, within one
      week after the completion of the intervention or at 4-5 weeks for the control group and at
      6-months post-baseline.

      The information/usual-care/support condition was chosen to control for possible symptom
      changes due to routine clinical contacts common in the NICU, the effect of time, the effect
      of attention and any effects due to repeated assessments. Parents in the information/usual
      care/support group will receive one 45 minute information session on the policy, procedures
      and environment of the NICU by a Neonatal Nurse Practitioner (Table 4). We have chosen to use
      a Nurse Practitioner for the information comparison because this is a role they often assume
      at LPCH. This session is based on an LPCH Hospital Information Packet that is routinely
      distributed to all NICU parents, although generally without any instruction or face-to-face
      review of its content. Women in this group will be followed up by telephone or in the NICU
      one week after the information session to answer any questions that they may have. In
      addition, mothers will be referred to the existing parent mentor program for support and
      coping strategies. By adding the parent mentor support we expect that the contact will be
      similar to the intervention group and, thus, will approximate an attention-matched comparison
      condition. Mothers in this group will also receive the care that is typical for NICU parents
      including contacts with nurses, physicians, social workers, chaplaincy and developmental
      psychologists.

      Thirty of the participants in the intervention arm will be randomized to receive an expanded
      intervention of 6 additional sessions (sessions 7-12). These sessions will elaborate on the
      themes identified in Session 4 and follow the current models of PTSD treatment that generally
      provide a minimum of 12 sessions. These sessions will likely use cognitive restructuring to
      address distortions about the NICU experience. Specific issues explored will be
      individualized to each parent but may include parental guilt, parental anxiety about their
      infant's medical health, and difficulties related to the perceived absence of a parental
      role. There will also be a strong emphasis on the use of stress inoculation training to
      assist parents in developing strategies to manage trauma symptoms. The 30 participants in the
      intervention arm who are not randomized to the expanded intervention will be offered contact
      with the existing parent mentor program. Parent mentors offer support, coping strategies and
      suggestions on how to normalize life after the NICU hospitalization. Should an infant die,
      the mother will be disenrolled from the study and assisted with a referral for conventional
      mental health support services.
    
  