
    
      Urinary infection is one of the most common bacterial infections in pediatrics and requires
      urine collections to be diagnosed. In France, among children under 3, urine samples are
      collected thanks to collecting bags. This nursing care, extensively recommended for young
      children, was the subject of a study (still in progress) in 2009 conducted by the nurses of
      the CHU of Limoges and the CHI of Poissy. The results have shown that the removal of the
      collecting bags could involve pains as severe, or even worse, as the ones observed during a
      urinary catheter.

      The lack of documentation and stunning results of our 2009 study persuaded healthcare teams
      to carry on their researches and posed the following problem: the removal of the collecting
      bags can cause an acute pain which could result in a major discomfort for a child under 3.

      In practice, the removal of the collecting bag is made without any special precautions, or
      with the use of several products such as the Oiled-limestone liniment. This non-medicated
      product, commonly used for the care of the infant seat, intra and extra hospital field, would
      facilitate the removal of adhesives and plasters, according to the empirical experience of
      caregivers. Work teams have set as their main goal to compare the different levels of acute
      pain involved for children under 3 during the removing of the collecting bag, depending on
      the use, or not, of the Oiled-limestone liniment (randomized into 2 parallel groups), with,
      as a main endpoint, the difference between the results assigned to the acute pain by a pain
      evaluation scale (FLACC: Face-Legs-Activity-Cry-Consolability).

      Thanks to studies in usual care among different medical centers, that would be randomized and
      blindly conducted, healthcare teams would like to verify the hypothesis that the use of
      Oiled-limestone liniment could reduce acute pain involved in the removal of urine collecting
      bags among children under 36 months old. The study will be submitted to the parents of
      children aged 0 to 36 months old admitted to the pediatric emergency and needing a urine
      sample using a collecting bag.

      The method of pain evaluation with the FLACC scale will be carried out as following: a
      caregiver will remove the collecting bag, with or without the use of the Oiled-limestone
      liniment, according to a prior randomized draw, and, at the same time, a second caregiver
      will film the care in order to provide experts assigned to measure objectively the level of
      the pain felt by the child during the care with videos.

      Based on 136 children, during 24 months, this study would imply 3 inclusions in every medical
      center each month. Each inclusion should last 30 minutes.

      Expected benefits would be, at first, improvement in the quality of healthcare for young
      children and improvement in the practice of the nurses, the nursery nurses, the auxiliaries
      of child welfare and the caregivers. This study would also suggests new recommendations for a
      good practice of nursing care, with accurate guidelines helping with the removal of
      collecting bags among children under 3.
    
  