
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common chronic joint disease of the aging patient. The
      primarily affected joints are the knee and hip. The progress of the disease has an important
      influence on the patient´s life, including functional and social activities, body image and
      emotional well being. Furthermore, socioeconomic aspects play an eminent role in the
      treatment of osteoarthritis in joints.

      In non-operative treatment, pain reduction and improved function are the primary goals. It is
      important to distinguish between systemic and local therapeutic options. In the systemic
      treatment, palliation of pain can be achieved by simple analgetics, non- steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs and opioids. Local therapy can selectively treat the symptomatic
      joint. Intraarticular application of different drugs by injection can be performed.
      Glucocorticoids are the most commonly used intraarticular agents, which reduce pain and
      improve function and well being. In recent years, the intraarticular use of different
      hyaluronan (HA) products became more widely accepted. Hyaluronan is a physiological component
      of the synovial fluid and cartilage matrix. It is responsible for the viscoelastic properties
      of the synovial fluid. In osteoarthrotic joints, the molecular weight and the concentration
      of endogenous HA are decreased compared with healthy joints. This implies a reduction of the
      viscoelasticity of the synovial fluid. In order to restore this viscoelasticity, augment the
      flow of the synovial fluid, normalise the synthesis and inhibit the degradation of endogenous
      hyaluronan, an application of exogenous HA can be performed. The therapeutic effects and the
      safety of intraarticular application of HA in the treatment of OA in the knee have been
      demonstrated in several clinical trials. Until now there are only three studies that
      objectively analysed few aspects of the functional outcome after treatment with HA.
    
  