
    
      Background

      For individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1D) the current gold standard to evaluate the
      carbohydrate (CHO) amount of a meal is by carefully weighing its different components and
      calculating the CHO content using reference nutritional tables. The resulting CHO amount is
      then used to define the insulin dose needed to avoid an abnormal postprandial glucose
      profile. Since this is a cumbersome procedure in real life, diabetic individuals often
      estimate the CHO amount based on their personal experience. Especially for food served on a
      plate CHO estimates are often significantly over or underestimated leading to high variation
      in postprandial blood glucose. Besides the immediate risk of hypoglycaemia, there is emerging
      evidence that suboptimal control of postprandial glucose is affiliated with increased risk
      for long-term complications (e.g. diabetic micro- and macro-vascular diseases).

      The effect of CHO counting in T1D control has been increasingly recognized and investigated.
      A meta-analysis including five studies on individuals with T1D has shown, that improved CHO
      counting accuracy reduces the HbA1c significantly (0.64% reduction in HbA1c compared to a
      control group). Teaching adult individuals with T1D to count CHO reduces HbA1c significantly
      and also leads to an improvement in quality of life. Similar findings are reported in
      children, in whom higher CHO counting accuracy is associated with a lower HbA1c. Even a short
      educational intervention of 4 weeks can still result in a significant and sustained effect on
      HbA1c reduction 9 months after without having an increase in hypoglycaemia. Lower CHO
      counting accuracy is a significant predictor of prolonged time in hyperglycaemic state. In
      one study with adults only 31% of the participants estimated the CHO content with an error of
      less than 20 grams per day and accurate CHO estimation were correlated with the lowest HbA1c
      values. In line with these findings another study has shown that individuals on intensive
      insulin therapy count CHO content of meals with an average error in the order of 16 grams or
      21%. In general there is overestimation of small meals and a substantial underestimation of
      large meals. While breakfast (+8.5%) and snacks (-5%) were estimated fairly accurately, lunch
      (-28%) and dinner (-23%) are more prone to errors leading to an underestimation in the order
      of 30 grams. In children, an inaccuracy of ±10grams does not deteriorate the postprandial
      glycaemic control, whereas a ±20 grams variation significantly impacts the postprandial
      glycaemia.

      The debate how to optimally estimate CHO intake is on-going and controversial. Fact is that
      even well trained diabetic individuals find it difficult to estimate CHO precisely and that
      especially meals served on a plate are prone to false estimations underlining an emergent
      need for novel approaches to CHO estimation. The investigators hypothesize that computer
      vision supported CHO estimation can have a beneficial impact on postprandial glucose control,
      ultimately leading to reduced episodes of hypoglycaemia and reduction in long term
      complications.

      The recent advances in smartphone technologies and computer vision permitted the development
      of applications for the automatic dietary assessment through meal image analysis. The
      applications are using either a number of images or a short video of the upcoming meal, as
      captured by the user's smartphone. Although several systems have been proposed in the past
      decade, none of them is designed for individuals with diabetes, while they rely on strong
      assumptions, which often do not hold in real life, or require too much user input. The GoCARB
      system provides CHO estimations to individuals with T1D, by using only two meal images. The
      current version GoCARB has been designed to deal with

        -  elliptical plates with a flat base;

        -  single-dish images;

        -  fully visible food items. The system works without assumptions on the food shape, while
           it supports the following food classes: Pasta, green salad, meat, breaded food, beans,
           carrots, mashed potato, rice, potatoes, bread, cheese, egg, couscous, mushrooms and
           spätzli.

      Objective

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of GoCARB-supported CHO estimation in
      the postprandial glucose control of individuals with T1D on sensor augmented insulin pump
      therapy.

      In a typical scenario, the user places a credit card-sized reference object next to the meal
      and acquires two images using her/his smartphone. A graphical user interface guides the user
      in choosing the optimal angles for image acquisition based on the smartphone's built-in
      sensors. The images are then transmitted to a dedicated server via Wi-Fi or the mobile
      network. Then, the following computer vision algorithms are activated: the plate is detected
      and the different food items on the plate are automatically segmented and recognized, while
      their 3D shape is reconstructed. On the basis of the shape, the segmentation results and the
      reference card, the volume and CHO content of each item is then calculated by combining the
      food types with its volumes. Finally, the results are displayed to the user.

      Methods

      This study's overall objective is to perform a prospective randomized controlled clinical
      pilot study comparing postprandial glucose control assisted by the GoCARB system against the
      usual care approach by the participants. Scope of the study will be to investigate whether
      the postprandial glucose profile is improved by using the GoCARB prototype for CHO
      estimation. Postprandial glycaemia is evaluated using continuous glucose monitoring.
    
  