
    
      Background: Most patients with dyspnea primarily consult physicians in private practice.
      Heart failure and pulmonary disease are "epidemic" disorders and account for the majority of
      cases of dyspnea. There are approximately 24 million individuals in the United States with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and another 10 million persons suffer from asthma.
      These illnesses generate in excess of 17 million physician office visits a year at a cost of
      over $10.4 billion. In addition, there are nearly 1.5 million new cases of heart failure in
      North America and Europe every year. The total direct cost of care for heart failure exceed
      $38 billion in the United States per year. Therefore, cost-effective management of these
      diseases is of paramount importance. Unfortunately, the rapid and accurate differentiation of
      heart failure from other causes of dyspnea in private practice is challenging. The symptoms
      of heart failure may be nonspecific, and signs are not sensitive enough and considerably
      overlap with those of pulmonary disease. In addition, signs of volume overload take time to
      evolve and may be completely absent in patients with acute heart failure.

      B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a neurohormone secreted from the cardiac ventricles in
      response to ventricular volume expansion and pressure overload. BNP levels are significantly
      higher in patients with congestive heart failure as compared to patients with dyspnea due to
      other causes. Recently, the researchers were able to show that the use of BNP levels
      significantly improves the management of patients with acute dyspnea in the emergency
      department. As a simple, non-expensive assay easily applicable in private practice is
      available, rapid measurement of BNP might also be very helpful in establishing or excluding
      the diagnosis of heart failure in patients presenting with acute dyspnea in private practice.

      Aim: To test the hypothesis that a BNP guided diagnostic strategy would improve the
      evaluation and management of patients presenting with acute dyspnea to physicians in private
      practice and thereby reduce total cost of diagnosis and treatment.

      Primary endpoint: Total medical cost within 3 months. Secondary endpoints: Hospitalisation,
      time interval to the initiation of the most appropriate therapy, 3-month mortality, dyspnea
      (NYHA) at 3 months, 12-month mortality, 12-month total medical cost, cost-effectiveness.

      Patients and Methods: The trial is designed to enrol 250 patients presenting with acute
      dyspnea to physicians in private practice. Patients will be randomly assigned 1:1 into a
      control group using evaluation of patients according to local standards without the use of
      BNP (or other natriuretic peptides) and to a BNP group with early testing for BNP by a rapid
      point-of-care assay during the first consultation in each private practice.

      Expected results: It is the researchers' hypothesis that a BNP guided diagnostic strategy
      will improve the evaluation and management and thereby reduce total cost of diagnosis and
      treatment.

      Significance: Given the significant morbidity associated with dyspnea, as well as the
      enormous expenses associated with heart failure and pulmonary disease, BNP testing could
      represent a major advance in clinical medicine. In addition, BNP testing in the appropriate
      clinical setting may prove very helpful in the attempts to reduce cost of health care to
      society without reducing (but possibly increasing) the quality of health care.
    
  