
    
      Four novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) have been released to the market ahead of any county
      in the world. However, no information is available on the clinical results of NOACS and their
      secondary preventive effects in Japanese population.

      Medical care for acute-phase stroke is constantly advancing. Specifically, in addition to
      thrombolytic activator tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), advancement of endovascular
      thrombectomy has made it possible to treat patients who would not have been saved otherwise.
      In Japan, cerebrovascular accident had been the third leading cause of death, but now has
      dropped to the forth thanks to wide use of various treatments. Nevertheless, patients often
      suffer from severe sequelae after stroke, even if they survive. In other words, major
      challenge in the treatment of stroke is not only to save the patients but also to improve the
      long-term prognosis.

      In large-scale study, NOAC showed an equal to or greater efficacy in preventing recurrence of
      stroke compared with warfarin and significantly reduced the incidence of bleeding
      complications. Furthermore, Aristotle trial comparing apixaban vs. warfarin demonstrated that
      apixaban provided a significant prevention of stroke recurrence as well as significant
      reduction of bleeding complications and deaths.

      Heparin and warfarin had been used as the mainstream agents for the prevention of recurrence
      after hyperacute phase treatment.However, Aristotle trial showed that there was a significant
      difference in thromboembolic events between apixaban treatment (1.27 %/year) and warfarin
      (1.60%/year) (RR 0.79, p<0.01). Also, major bleeding events were less frequent in the
      patients with apixaban treatment (2.13 %/year) compared to those with warfarin (3.09%/year)
      (RR 0.69, p<0.001). This study is conducted on the basis of expectation that the use of
      apixaban in place of traditional warfarin therapy further improve prognosis and reduce
      bleeding complications in Japanese patients with acute occlusion of major cerebral artery.
      Additionally, the study will analyze the correlation of the use of apixaban with the
      prognosis and the incidence of bleeding/ischemic events in patients with intracranial artery
      stenosis greater than 50% and with atrial fibrillation
    
  