
    
      The World Health Organization has been estimated that cigarette smoking will claim the lives
      of 500 million people alive today and as many as one billion people in the 21st century. Even
      though clinical therapy for smoking cessation have showed efficacy, long-time abstinence rate
      is low yet.

      Tobacco Free Cigarettes (TFC, also known as electronic cigarettes) are battery-operated
      devices designed to vaporize a liquid solution of propylene glycol and/or vegetable glycerin
      in which nicotine or other aromas may be dissolved.

      The worth of these tools is that it reduces the risk for smoking related diseases. If the use
      of the TFC in heavy smokers favor a reduction of the cancers' risk, the role in antismoking
      program has not completed cleared yet. the World Health Organization (WHO) and the US Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) have promoted the launch of research on this field.

      In a prospective 6-month study, TFCs were shown to substantially decrease tobacco cigarettes
      consumption without causing significant side effects. The study showed that declines in
      cig/day use and expired carbon monoxide (CO) levels were observed at each study visits in all
      three study groups, with no consistent differences among study groups. Furthermore, rapid
      improvement of breathing symptoms were recorded.

      However, tobacco cigarettes consumption after 1 year were reported only in about 10% of
      participants. This is probably due to the fact that the research was targeted to smokers non
      intended to quit. We argue that in motivated smokers much better result might be achieved.

      From a physiological point of view TFCs appears to contrast craving for tobacco, in the same
      manner of a nicotine replacement therapy. In an overview of the Cochrane Library studies on
      35.000 patients were assessed showing that the NRT utilization in antismoking treatment helps
      smokers in short-time (three months), but not in the long-time (six months). This is probably
      due to an exclusively focus on physiological issues.

      The protocol provides the opportunity to test the efficacy of TFC tools in clinically
      controlled setting, in order to reduce tobacco consumption and improving clinical.
      Furthermore, the protocol is nested in the lung cancer screening program COSMOS II, that will
      allow subject recruitment and continuous monitoring. The Cosmos II (Continuous Observation of
      SMOking Subjects) aims to improve early diagnosis of lung cancer considered today as the most
      important life-saving tool. This is a Italian study, coordinated by IEO created to identify
      an optimal personalized protocol for early diagnosis in people subject to high risk of lung
      cancer. The COSMOS II will enroll 10,000 heavy smokers or former smokers throughout Italy.
      COSMOS II derives from the previous successful screening project COSMOS I.

      Methods/Design

      Main objectives:

      To evaluate the impact of a three months TFC program to reduce smoking-related respiratory
      symptoms (dry cough, breath shortness, mouth irritation and catarrh) as consequence of a
      reduced tobacco cigarettes consumption among a CT screening population.

      Secondary objectives:

      1. To assess the success rate of smoking cessation attempts in the three groups 2 To monitor
      safety and toxicity during the study 3. To evaluate psychological and behavioral (lifestyle)
      effect of TFC 4. To assess the TFC use impact on quality of life .

      More in details, the main aim of the project refers to the efficacy of TFCs in tobacco in
      improving the lung health of heavy smokers involved in the COSMOS II program. If proved safe
      and efficacy, TFC should be included in lung cancer screening programs as a standard tool to
      reduce the smoking-related risks for lung diseases. Naturally, this aim requires a scientific
      approach, since TFC should not increase the nicotine dependence. Another fundamental aim of
      the project refers to the efficacy of TFCs in tobacco consuming reduction. In particular,
      none study have already test the feasibility and the efficacy of these tools in limiting risk
      behaviors (tobacco smoking) among heavy smokers enrolled in a lung cancer screening program.
      Consequently, we want to analyze if providing TFC to participant in a controlled protocol
      will reduce tobacco consumption and related health problems and breathing problems. We also
      aim to analyse the psychological characteristics and needs of subjects enrolled in the COSMOS
      II program, in order to evaluate how risk perception (the premise of risk behaviour adoption)
      is associated with a psycho-cognitive profile. We argue that an important and successful
      screening project, as the COSMOS, should incorporate a comprehensive approach to the
      individual.

      Finally, thanks to the use of a continuous data tracking system and the concomitant uses of
      questionnaire based anamnestic assessment of lifestyle and behavior habits, it will be
      possible to collect data in order to find consistency and discrepancies between the two
      methods.

      TRIAL DURATION AND STUDY DESIGN

      The project will last 24 months and is designed as a 6-months Nested Randomized Control Study
      and will be conducted in European Institute of Oncology.

      The protocol addresses physical and clinical characteristics, in order to find out the
      effects of smokers' behavior, and psychological parameters, to test if some individual
      feature may hinder behavioral changes and the related positive effects on health. Indeed,
      heavy smokers are characterized by specific psycho-cognitive traits. In particulars, they
      generally present high level of impulsivity than non-smokers. At the same time, smoker tends
      to have an high level of activity in the behavioral approach system (BAS). It has been
      suggested that high BAS sensitivity is involved in addictive behaviors, for instance smoking.
      Individuals with high level of BAS are more incline to enact approaching behaviors and
      experience positive affect when they receive positive rewards. Furthermore, Dovratek and
      colleagues (2011) have demonstrated that smokers with high rumination attitude show a greater
      risk of relapse during the abstinence, especially, in those smokers characterized by high
      levels of impulsivity.

      The experimental design, the timeline and nicotine doses were derived from previous research
      protocol that have demonstrated to be suited to achieve similar objectives. With respect to
      group 1 and group 2, a double blind randomization will be used, in order to avoid and
      confound effects. Consequently, participants using TFC won't know if the will "vape"
      nicotine-containing or nicotine-free.

      Starting by this framework and In order to achieve the objectives described above we designed
      the protocol as follows:

        1. To all subjects a physical, psychological, cognitive and behavioral (lifestyle)
           screening based on battery of fast and validated tools, will be administered. It will
           allow the assessment of the personality traits, the awareness's degree and the openness
           to change.

        2. Each subject recruited will be involved in a behavioral support program (low-intensity
           counseling), in order to support subjects to track their data and to gather fast
           information when needed about the research activities.

        3. The protocols will be organized in three arms:

             1. In the first arm subject will receive a 3-months TFC (with nicotine) program and a
                further 3-months monitoring program; they will undergo to a basal and final
                evaluation;

             2. In the second arm subject will receive a 3-months TFC (nicotine-free) program; they
                will undergo to a basal and final evaluation; they will be monitored for 6 month
                (data tracking);

             3. In the third arm, only baseline/final evaluation, data tracking and behavioral
                support will be delivered.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to each group after the first assessment point.

      In each group, participants will follow a 6 month program (3 months of active program plus 3
      months of monitoring). All participant will be monitored over the time for sleep quantity and
      quality of sleep and lifestyle, either through traditional instruments, and through the use
      of an electronic bracelet.

      Participants will be trained to the use of the electronic bracelet and data will be collected
      through a cloud system allowing to compute statistical correlations between lifestyle,
      withdrawal symptoms, desire to smoke, recurrences, and so on. From this point of view, the
      research project will collect data currently not available. An e-messaging based helpline
      will be activated in order to offer full assistance to participants for the use of bracelets
      and research related activities.
    
  