
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a 3-month control-theory-based
      online support intervention consisting of 8 online video teleconsultations and access to a
      secure online personal health record on self-management behaviours of adults with type 2
      diabetes, as measured by the Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities (SDSCA). Secondary
      outcomes will include glycemic control, BMI, waist circumference, diabetes self-efficacy,
      computer and health literacy, patient satisfaction with care and perceived ease of use and
      perceived usefulness of the technology.

      Hypothesis:

      Patients who receive online support for diabetes self-management and access to an online
      personal health record will have higher self-management of diabetes scores after they receive
      the intervention compared to before the intervention.

      Justification:

      In British Columbia (BC), an estimated 10.3 percent of the population is expected to have
      diabetes by 2020, at an estimated cost to the BC healthcare system of 1.9 billion dollars per
      year. Enhancing diabetes self-management has been estimated to be the single most
      cost-effective intervention in the primary care setting. Results of telemedicine
      interventions for management of diabetes have been mixed; many interventions show promising
      improvement in health behaviours, self-efficacy and glycaemic control, while others show
      small or no effects. A 2015 meta-analysis of the clinical effectiveness of telemedicine
      randomized controlled trials for type 2 diabetes found a significant decrease in HbA1C
      overall, with the largest decrease being amongst Internet-based interventions. A recent
      Cochrane systematic review and meta-analysis of computer-based self-management interventions
      for adults with type 2 diabetes found that interventions using mobile phones showed a greater
      reduction in glycaemic control than did the telehealth interventions overall. A
      meta-regression of techniques in 122 healthy eating and physical activity self-management
      interventions for diabetes found that self-monitoring explained the greatest amount of
      among-study heterogeneity, accounting for 13% of these differences. Self-monitoring is a
      component of control theory, which proposes that in order to effectively manage behaviour,
      there must be a clear, realistic goal, an action plan for attaining it, a means of monitoring
      whether a person is on track, feedback, and opportunities for reviewing goals in the light of
      feedback. Providing additional information for behavioural providers through an online
      personal health record, and integrating behavioural support with ongoing primary care through
      shared action plans, the effectiveness of behavioural support provided online may be
      increased. Standard treatment primarily involves management of diabetes through medications
      and may involve referral to a diabetes education centre for education about diabetes
      self-management. The best method to support patient self-management has not been clearly
      identified.

      Objectives:

      The specific outcome to be examined is self-management of type II diabetes as measured by the
      Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities (SDSCA).

      Research Method:

      A pre-post intervention study with a multicentre cohort of 125 patients who will be provided
      with an online support intervention and followed over three months to evaluate change in
      diabetes self-management behaviours and clinical outcomes. We will recruit a total of 125
      patients with type 2 diabetes through 12 participating primary care physicians. After consent
      is obtained, participants will be provided with training to use the glucometer, online video
      teleconsultation tools and online personal health record.

      Online Support Intervention:

      The online support intervention is designed as a supplement to usual care provided by the
      family physician, and will be delivered via the Internet through the company Treatment, Inc.
      a West Vancouver-based provider of patient self-care solutions and services (see Treatment
      Diabetes Screen shots). The three-month online support intervention involves two primary
      components to facilitate patient self-management: 8 online video teleconsultations with a
      certified health professional (for a total of 2.5 hours, weekly at first, then bi-monthly)
      and access to an online personal health record to promote health care behavioural change.
      Certified healthcare professionals will provide the 8 online video teleconsultations and will
      provide reports to the primary care provider as needed and at the end of the 3-month
      intervention. Participants will also be given a glucose meter (Bayer Contour® Next meter)
      from which glucose readings can be uploaded to the online personal health record. The patient
      will use their own glucometer strips as provided by the BC government prescription plan.

      Data Collection:

      The primary outcome is change in diabetes self-management behaviour as measured by the
      Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities (SDSCA) which includes diet, exercise,
      self-monitoring of blood glucose, foot care and smoking. Secondary outcomes include change in
      HbA1C, BMI and waist circumference, diabetes self-efficacy, satisfaction with care, and
      acceptance of using technology for online support. (See attached document: Measurement
      Instruments) The primary care provider will have access to the patient's online information,
      including self-monitored glucose values, for review. Participants will complete online
      questionnaires at baseline and at end of study.

      Sample Size Calculation:

      The statistical power for the study was modeled with a two-tailed paired sample t-test to
      test changes in SDSCA from baseline to three months. Published studies using the SDSCA have
      shown effects sizes of change in intervention groups ranging from .278 to .53. Thus,
      conservatively estimating an effect size of .278, to achieve 80% power at a p <.05
      significance level, a sample of 125 participants will be required, assuming a 20%
      longitudinal attrition rate. Attrition rates in the 10% to 20% range have been reported in
      previous similar Web-based intervention studies.

      Data Analysis:

      Two-tailed paired sample t-tests will be performed to test for changes in mean
      self-management behaviours from baseline to three months. Correlations will explore relations
      between the outcome variables and health literacy, computer literacy and the control
      variables. Changes across time in the secondary outcomes (clinical outcomes, diabetes
      self-efficacy) will also be examined using paired-sample t-tests to explore for trends and
      effect sizes for future studies. All tests will be performed using SPSS version 23, with a p
      <.05 significance level.
    
  