
    
      Recent literature data raise important questions on the beneficial effect of dietary fats.
      Dietary intake of nuts, although with high caloric burden, is however characterized with high
      intake of fatty acids with known beneficial health effects. Those fatty acids include mono-
      (MUFA) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), to whom beneficial health effects are
      ascribed.

      Among nuts, walnuts are characterized with comparatively high levels of MUFA and PUFA,
      especially content of alpha-linolenic PUFA, considered essential fatty acid, since not
      synthesized endogenously in humans. Dietary intake of alpha-linolenic acid is shown to be
      inversely related with cardiovascular risk factors, both in interventional studies and
      epidemiological cohorts. Molecular background of alpha-linolenic actions is bidirectional,
      and includes the action itself, as well as beneficial endogenous conversion towards
      long-chain fatty acids, including eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic fatty acid.

      Although high caloric intake is indicated with intake of walnuts, literature data suggest
      that consumption of walnuts does not increase body weight.

      Dietary intake of walnuts has been shown to decrease cholesterol fractions, triglycerides and
      apolipoproteins in adult population. Also, consumption of walnuts was associated with
      decrease in blood pressure.

      The study design is cross-over, controlled, randomized nutritional intervention. The
      participants are randomly assigned to receive either study treatment, or no treatment, and
      are crossed after five weeks.

      The study subjects are instructed to continue with their habitual diet and physical activity.
      Additionally, study subjects are instructed to avoid walnuts and nuts other then study
      treatment, during the complete study period of 10 weeks.

      Sample size calculation was conducted by use of online calculators, and was based on the low
      density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Namely, in order to achieve decrease in 0.5 mmol/L, in
      a sample with projected standard deviation of 0.7 mmol/L, and type I and II errors being 0.2
      and 0.05, respectively, 62 subjects are needed.
    
  