
    
      CHAPLE syndrome is a newly discovered genetic disorder characterized by excessive loss of
      proteins in the gastrointestinal tract, referred to as protein-losing enteropathy. The
      disease typically presents in early childhood with facial and extremity edema in relation to
      hypoalbuminemia, chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive and, in extreme cases, severe
      thromboembolic disease that can lead to premature death. Patients afflicted with this newly
      discovered disease have been treated with conventional medications, including inflammatory
      bowel disease drugs to reduce gastrointestinal inflammation, albumin and immunoglobulin
      replacement therapy, dietary modification, supportive measures to supplement micronutrients
      and vitamins, surgery to remove affected intestinal segments, among others. These
      interventions have often provided only partial relief, with no capacity to alter the natural
      course of the disease.

      CHAPLE syndrome is caused by loss of a complement regulatory protein due to deleterious
      mutations in the CD55 gene, which results in excessive activation of the complement system.
      Based on the scientific observations that complement hyperactivation is the primary event
      that underlies disease manifestations, it was hypothesized that complement inhibition therapy
      can potentially reverse the pathological processes. Through a compessionate program 3 CHAPLE
      patients from a single family have been treated with a complement C5 blocker antibody called
      eculizumab, with favorable response (Kurolap et al. PMID: 28657861). While these observations
      confirm the primary role of complement hyper activation in PIL associated with CHAPLE
      syndrome, the pathogenesis of PILs not related to CD55 deficiency (non-CHAPLE PIL) remains
      unknown. It is hypothesized that that there may be pathogenetic intersections between CHAPLE
      and non-CHAPLE PILs.

      Following a clinical observation that eculizumab provides a rapid clinical relief in
      unrelated CHAPLE patients based in Turkey similar to Kurolap et al.'s report, researchers of
      this study decided to evaluate the clinical outcome of eculizumab among subsequent CHAPLE
      patients who are placed on this therapy. In parallel, molecular investigations on biological
      samples under eculizumab therapy are being carried to dissect the key alterations under
      complement C5 blockade.

      The current study is based on use of high-throughput methods to investigate PILs, including
      exome sequencing (for the non-CHAPLE PILs), transcriptomics, proteome and microbiome
      investigations. The aims of the study include; 1. Discovery of signatures and biomarkers in
      CHAPLE, 2. Identification of the molecular etiology of non-CHAPLE PILs and potentially
      discover novel gene defects. The integrated application of genomics, transcriptome,
      proteomics and microbiome aims to identify key mediators and pathways operative in the
      pathogenesis of intestinal lymphangiectasias. Serial evaluation and longitudinal follow up of
      patient samples under eculizumab (anti-complement C5 antibody) therapy investigates dynamic
      alterations in the pathological profiles in CHAPLE syndrome. It is anticipiated that these
      studies will improve the diagnosis and treatment of CHAPLE and related conditions.

      Goals of the current study include:

        1. To discover novel gene defects underlying PILs not related to CD55 deficiency.

        2. To identify signatures of CHAPLE disease and non-CHAPLE PILs that may reveal key
           mediators of disease and additional novel therapeutic targets.

        3. To explore the efficacy of eculizumab in a larger group of CHAPLE patients from
           unrelated families, with variable degree of disease severity.

        4. To analyze patient samples collected before and during eculizumab therapy with the
           following objectives:

             1. To understand relations between eculizumab concentration, complement function
                (CH50, AH50) and complement protein levels (C3, C5, CFB, C3a, C5a, sC5b-9, Bb, Ba)

             2. To explore biomarkers of inflammation and thrombosis, complications of the disease
                that can occur in certain affected individuals.
    
  