
    
      Gender differences in rates of depression emerge during adolescence. Although rates of
      depression increase for both boys and girls during adolescence, the increase is more dramatic
      for girls. By late adolescence, girls are twice as likely as boys to develop depression.
      Because the transition to adolescence has been identified as a period of increased risk for
      girls, preventive interventions targeting early adolescent girls may promote resilience and
      prevent depression. The Girls in Transition (GT) program is a group intervention for 6th
      through 8th grade girls and is designed to address risk factors that are specific to girls.
      This study evaluates the effectiveness of the GT intervention in promoting coping strategies,
      preventing symptoms of depression and anxiety, and providing benefits in other outcomes
      related to depression, such as self-image.

      Adolescents in this study will be assigned to one of two conditions: a group that will
      participate in the GT program in Spring 2006 (GT #1), or a waitlist control group that will
      participate in the GT program approximately two years later (GT #2). Students who participate
      in the program will attend eleven 90-minute after-school sessions led by the investigators.
      In the GT program, students learn cognitive-behavioral skills (such as strategies to cope
      with emotions and negative thinking) and problem-solving skills (such as assertiveness), and
      they discuss societal messages about women's appearance and roles. Adolescent participants
      will complete questionnaires about coping strategies, self-image, and feelings of
      hopelessness, depression and anxiety at five points during the study: at the beginning of the
      study (baseline) and at follow-ups approximately 6, 12, 16, and 24 months after baseline. In
      addition, students will complete an interview at baseline and then again 12 months later
      about experiences in which they have coped with stressful situations. Parents will complete a
      questionnaire about their child's life events at three assessment points (baseline and at
      follow-ups approximately 12 and 24 months after baseline).
    
  