
    
      VWF is a high-molecular-weight multimeric glycoprotein, synthesized and released by vascular
      endothelial cells and megakaryocytes that play an important role in platelet-endothelial cell
      interaction and stabilizing the factor VIII (FVIII) coagulation protein.

      Von Willebrand factor (VWF) is an acute-phase protein and a marker of endothelial damage.

      VWF is crucial for platelet adhesion and aggregation. High-molecular weight multimers (HMWMs)
      are involved in platelet aggregation under high shear stress but under normal conditions it
      presents solely in the subendothelium and released into the bloodstream following activation
      of endothelial cells.

      Coagulation and inflammation are simultaneously activated and respond in synergy as a
      preserved mechanism to repair the injured areas during tissue damage.

      This observation is particularly relevant in acute inflammatory diseases, such as sepsis, but
      it also seems to be very important in chronic inflammatory conditions, such as inflammatory
      bowel disease.

      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with its two main forms, ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn
      disease (CD), is a chronic inflammatory condition characterized by local and systemic
      inflammation predominantly affecting the gastrointestinal tract and well known to be
      associated with a hypercoagulable state and subsequently with an increased risk for venous
      thromboembolism (VTE).

      Thromboembolic complications such as Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT) and Pulmonary Embolism (PE)
      represent amongst IBD complications an important and underestimated factor to be borne in
      mind which can significantly influence patient's morbidity and mortality.

      In fact, according to the latest population-cohort studies, a 2 to 3-time fold increased risk
      of developing of thromboembolic complications was reported for IBD patients compared to
      general population.

      In particular as Grainge., et al. and Papa., et al. both demonstrate in their studies, the
      incidence of thromboembolic events varies depending on the activity phase of the disease,
      suggesting that there is a higher risk of thromboembolic complications especially during IBD
      flares, with similar relative risk values for both Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis.

      Although the causes of the increased risk of VTE in IBD are not yet completely understood,
      endothelial dysfunction has been demonstrated in IBD and it is evident through increasing
      levels of endothelial injury markers. The most frequently used biochemical markers of
      endothelial damage include von Willebrand factor (vWF), TM, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1
      (VCAM-1), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and endothelin-1 (ET-1).

      In 2017 Cibor et al published the first report of the effects of parameters associated with
      the structure and function of VWF on hemostasis in IBD. On the one hand, ADAMTS13: Ag was
      lower in IBD patients than in controls, particularly in subjects with UC; this resulted in an
      increased number of circulating multimers of VWF and thus an elevated thrombotic risk. The
      prothrombotic effects are enhanced by markedly elevated VWF: Ag.

      On the other hand, the incidence of AVWS, which leads to an increased risk for bleeding, was
      higher in IBD patients. These findings provide insight into the elevated risk for
      thromboembolic events and bleeding observed in UC and less frequently in CD. The
      dysregulation of the balance between VWF function and ADAMTS13 reported herein might
      contribute to the complex hemostatic abnormalities observed in IBD.

      Currently, the association between CD and AVWS is likely underestimated, especially in cases
      of acute bleeding not related to disease activity.

      In 2017 Di Sabatino, et al reported three cases of IBD patients, who developed severe
      hemorrhagic manifestations due to the concomitant presence of an AVWS, in addition to other
      three cases was described in the literature. Such a condition can be life-threatening and its
      timely identiﬁcation is mandatory to adopt the optimal therapeutic strategy.

      The association between AVWS and IBD might be more frequent than expected. The autoimmune
      pathogenesis of IBD makes the association more likely. The availability of specialized
      coagulation centers and correlation with clinical information should confirm the diagnosis.

      Methodology:

      Patients will be subjected to the following:

      Clinical assessment:

        1. The clinical assessment will include demographic data, the presence of comorbidities,
           cigarette-smoking habits, previous history of thromboembolism and medications.

        2. Body mass index (BMI) will be calculated for all patients.

        3. In patients with CD and UC, the following parameters will be evaluated: disease
           duration, disease location, disease activity, complications, and past surgical
           procedures. Complications are defined as abscesses, fistulae, and stenoses.

        4. Disease activity will be assessed according to ECCO-ESGAR Consensus Guidelines 2018.

      Laboratory assessment:

      The following will be done for all patients:

        1. WBC, hematocrit, platelet count.

        2. partial activated thromboplastin time.

        3. C-reactive protein (CRP), and fecal calprotectin.

        4. VWF: Ag, VWF: RCo and VWF: CB.

      Radiological tests:

      In cases with suspected arterial or venous thromboembolism, the appropriate radiological
      study will be done (i.e. venous doppler for deep venous thrombosis).
    
  