
    
      Context Adverse drug events (ADEs) may occur in community or hospitalized patients. A review
      of the literature reports an incidence of ADEs varying from 0.1 to 61.4 %. This wide range
      may be explained by different designs and case-mix in the studies. For instance, the
      incidence of ADEs is higher in surgical wards or in the elderly, and increases with the
      number of prescribed drugs. In the elderly, the risk of ADE has been reported as 2-fold
      higher than that of a younger population. Some ADEs may not have been prevented, for example
      when the event was associated with an intended or known effect (e.g. neutropenia after
      cytotoxic drugs administration). However, some other ADEs might have been prevented whenever
      they were related to medications errors (omission, commission, dosing errors, prescription
      despite known allergies…). The proportion of preventable ADEs has been reported to range from
      25% to 43% of total ADEs.

      ADE can lead to extra monitoring because of biological abnormalities but also in more serious
      cases, to temporary or permanent harms, and even to death. Prolonged hospitalizations are
      also attributed to ADE. Gastrointestinal tract events are the most common type of ADEs,
      followed by electrolyte and renal events, hemorrhages, metabolic and endocrine events. Drugs
      involved are cardiovascular drugs, followed by analgesics, antibiotics and anticoagulants.

      Discrepancies between patient's current medication and the drugs prescribed at hospital
      admission hospital are frequent (27 to 54%) and have been reported in numerous studies.
      Potential consequences of such discrepancies have been extensively studied but data dealing
      with clinical outcomes are sparse.

      Medication reconciliation is a process aiming at the creation of the most appropriate list of
      patient's medications, thus decreasing medication discrepancies and eventually ADE.
      Medication reconciliation can be performed by physicians, nurses, pharmacists. Usual sources
      of information for medication reconciliation are patient's prescriptions from the attending
      physician, patient's interview, hospital records… Additionally, information technology and
      electronic health records are of great help in this process. In France, drugs dispensed to a
      patient in community pharmacies during the 4 past months are registered in his/her electronic
      pharmaceutical record which is available to any pharmacist nationwide. This database is
      protected and can be consulted after recognition of the patient's healthcare card. To date,
      the contribution of this record to medication reconciliation has not been studied. The
      CONCIPAGE study will estimate the impact of a medication reconciliation using patient
      pharmaceutical record, on the occurrence of ADEs during the hospitalization of patients aged
      65 years and over.

      Design The CONCIPAGE study is a national, multicenter, cluster-randomized, two-period
      cross-over study. It will estimate the impact of a medication reconciliation using patient
      pharmaceutical record, on the occurrence of ADEs during the hospitalization of patients aged
      65 years and over.

      Fifteen hospitals gathering 20 centers (8 geriatric departments, 8 internal medicine
      departments, and 4 orthopedic surgery departments) will participate in the study. An
      equilibrated randomization will be applied to the 20 centers. The recruiting period will last
      for 24 months and will be divided into four 6-month consecutive periods (A, B, C, D). During
      the first 6-month period (period A), 5 centers (1 to 5) will apply one strategy (intervention
      or usual care) while 5 others (6 to 10) will apply the alternative strategy. Centers 11 to 20
      will not recruit patients during period A. During the next period (period B), centers 11 to
      15 and 16 to 20 will apply the intervention or the control strategy, while centers 1 to 10
      will apply a 6-month wash-out period. During period C, centers 1 to 10 will apply the
      alternative strategy as compared to that applied during period A (cross-over design), while
      centers 11 to 20 will apply the 6-month wash-out period. During period D, centers 11 to 20
      will apply the alternative strategy as compared to that applied during period B, while
      centers 1 to 10 will not recruit patients during period D.

      Description of the intervention During the control period, no intervention will be held. The
      prior to admission medication list will be made as usual by the hospital physician: interview
      of the patient and relatives, prescriptions brought by the patient, call to community
      physicians and pharmacists, hospital medical records, etc. This process will result in a
      medication prescription list at admission.

      During the intervention period, a local hospital pharmacist will independently perform an
      additional (i.e. to that made by the hospital physician) prior to admission medication list,
      using the above-mentioned sources and in addition, with the help of the electronic
      pharmaceutical record. The medical reconciliation in the intervention period consists in the
      comparison of the pharmacist's and physician's prior to admission medication lists. Such a
      reconciliation might lead to a modification of the medication prescription that was made by
      the physician at admission.

      Patient follow-up Patients will be included the day of admission and will be followed-up up
      to 30 days. A study pharmacist will be enrolled and will be in charge of collecting follow-up
      data for all patients. The study pharmacist will visit centers 2, 4, and 7 months after the
      beginning of each period. He/she will study the record of each patient included in the study,
      and will collect all potential biological or clinical abnormalities, prescriptions of
      antidotes and diagnostic imaging, transfer to ICU, death.

      Objectives The primary objective of the study is to assess the impact of medication
      reconciliation by a pharmacist using usual sources plus the electronic pharmaceutical record
      on ADE occurring in hospital settings.

      The secondary objectives are the following:

        -  To assess severity and preventability of ADE in both groups.

        -  To assess the distribution of ADE in both groups.

        -  To compare the 30-day mortality rates observed in the two groups

        -  In the intervention group only, to assess the rate of intentional (treatment
           modification intended by the physician) and unintentional discrepancies between the
           prior to admission medication list made by the pharmacist and the hospital physician's
           prescription at admission.

        -  In the intervention group only, to assess the rate of discrepancies between the hospital
           prescription at admission and the prescription after medical reconciliation

        -  To estimate the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.

      Analysis set. The primary analysis will be conducted according to the intent-to-treat
      principle (ITT), at the individual level, considering every patient included irrespective of
      the patient's follow-up and will take into account the clustering nature of data.

      Sample size The calculation of number of patients takes into account the cluster cross-over
      design and results in 44 patients per center and per period. This figure will be rounded to
      50 patients per center and per period (to integrate lost to follow-up patients). We therefore
      intend to include 2000 patients in the study. Once the required 50 inclusions will be reached
      in a given center during a given period, the inclusions will be stopped in this center until
      the end of this period.

      Methods for main endpoint analysis. The proportion of patients with at least one ADE observed
      in the intervention group will be compared to that observed in the control group. A
      hierarchical logistic regression model will be developed for making this comparison, with the
      period, the arm, and the cluster, handled as fixed effects, and the order of strategies, and
      individual residual error handled as random effects. To assess the efficacy of the
      intervention we will test if the slope of regression line is statistically different from 0.

      Methods for secondary endpoint analyses. The analysis of secondary endpoints will be
      performed using the same methodological framework taking into account the clustering and the
      period effect but with linear models (for continuous variables) or Poisson (for rates),
      depending on the type of outcome analyzed. Any comparison of baseline variables (considering
      the cluster structure of the study) will be based on Mantel-Haenszel or Wilcoxon signed rank
      test.

      Methods for medico-economic analysis The analysis will be performed according to the payer's
      perspective with a horizon time of 30 days, and will result in estimating the incremental
      cost effectiveness of the intervention, expressed as a cost per ADE avoided: [hospital costs
      (intervention) - hospital costs (control)] / [number of ADEs (intervention) - number of ADEs
      (control)].
    
  