
    
      The effects of hypercapnia on cerebral blood flow velocity and arterial blood pressure in
      healthy subjects lead to an increase in orthostatic tolerance, peak HR and time to peak HR
      compared with normocapnic orthostatism. The CO2 effects on heart rate and orthostatic
      tolerance were observed in a small group of POTS patients with orthostatic hypocapnia, after
      supplying CO2 to correct hypocapnia. It is unclear, however, whether this intervention will
      also work for the broader POTS population. This might constitute an attractive option of
      therapy for POTS patients.

      The investigator's hypothesis is that increasing end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) will reduce
      orthostatic tachycardia and orthostatic symptoms in patients with POTS. The secondary
      hypothesis is that blood pressure will be better maintained during increased ETCO2 via
      improved cardiac output.

      INTERVENTION The RespirAct™ system (Thornhill Research Inc., Toronto, Canada) is a
      computer-controlled gas blender providing CO2, O2 and nitrogen for a subject to inhale while
      breathing for the purpose of controlling the concentrations of the respective blood gases.
      The RespirAct™ records inspired and exhaled gas concentrations, which can be recalled,
      analyzed and graphed. Data is collected breath-by-breath including end-tidal O2 and CO2, the
      length of inspiration and expiration for the breath, the respiration rate and the tidal
      volume per breath. The system has been Health Canada approved and utilized in several
      publications in healthy individuals and clinical populations. Subjects will be fitted with a
      face mask which will be connected to a tube supplied with gas from RespirAct™ system

      Primary Analysis The primary analysis will compare the magnitude of ΔHR from supine to HUTT
      during hypercapnia compared to HUTT with no intervention (HUTT 3 and 4 vs 1). The comparison
      will use a paired t-test (or a Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test if the data are non-normally
      distributed).

      Secondary Analysis The secondary analysis will compare the VOSS Symptom Rating at the end of
      each 8 min HUTT, comparing each HUTT run.

      Sample Size Calculation Since this is a pilot study, there are few preliminary data about the
      effect of hypercapnia on orthostatic symptoms in POTS adults. A clinically meaningful
      reduction in orthostatic tachycardia of 10 bpm would be clinically significant. It is
      estimated a standard deviation of about 15 bpm for our sample. With the aforementioned
      assumptions for a paired test of continuous data and a 0.05 two-sided significance level, a
      sample size of 20 POTS patients would allow for 80% power to detect this difference. To
      account for study withdrawal and dropout the investigators intend to enroll 26 POTS patients
      in total

      Adverse Event (or Unanticipated Problem) Reporting Any adverse events of a serious nature
      will be reviewed immediately with the principal investigator. Serious adverse events will be
      reported in writing to the CHREB within 10 days of the PI's notification of the event. All
      study adverse events will be summarized once a year, during the annual review reporting, for
      the CHREB. The research coordinator will be responsible for tracking adverse events in this
      study.

      The adverse event will be described with the following information: description of the event,
      outcome of the event, how long it lasted, whether the event required treatment or
      intervention, and the outcome.

      The definition of events is as follows:

      Mild - transient and mild in nature, with no treatment necessary. Moderate - some
      intervention and treatment necessary, but the participant completely recovers. Severe - an
      event that results in hospitalization, disability, death or is life-threatening.

      Data & Safety Monitor There will be no external Data & Safety monitor for this study.

      PRIVACY and CONFIDENTIALITY ISSUES

      Protected Health Information will be used in this study. The investigators will comply with
      the patient privacy guidelines of the University of Calgary and applicable provincial and
      federal rules.

      The research team is comprised of experienced research nurses and research assistants who are
      aware of the importance of confidentiality of health information. Paper research records will
      be stored in a locked office. Digital records will be stored on password-protected University
      of Calgary computers/servers and in the University of Calgary Clinical Research Unit REDCap
      Database.

      Every effort will be made to publish and present the data from this study. At no time will
      any participant be identified in any such publication

      Information about participants will be handled as confidentially as possible, but there is
      always the potential for an unintended breach of privacy.

      Data Management Plan:

        -  All data will be stored under an assigned participant code for data storage and a master
           list linking the code to the participant name and other identifiers will be kept on the
           encrypted restricted access drive at the University of Calgary.

        -  All data collected before, during, and after the study, including identifiable data,
           will always be kept on password protected computers on an encrypted restricted access
           drive at the University of Calgary or in the case of paper records, locked in a secure
           file cabinet in a locked room. Only the researchers will have access to these.
    
  