
    
      The current situation unfolding with regards to the COVID-19 virus is changing core aspects
      of people's lives in a unique manner. This study aims to examine the psychological, social,
      and financial impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic at various stages of the outbreak.

      Individuals 12 years and older are recruited from three main groups: general population,
      people with chronic illnesses and healthcare professionals.

      An online survey is distributed via multiple hospitals, provincial/national organizations,
      and web-based platforms at various phases of the outbreak. The survey includes validated
      questionnaires and custom-made questions to asses the current situation. It notably addresses
      the following themes: demographics, COVID-19 symptoms and diagnoses, social distancing
      practices and social interactions, living situation, financial situation, family and
      work-related challenges, access to healthcare, as well as sleep, physical and mental health.

      The survey is available in English and French. It is built on a decisional tree structure
      with customized subsets of questions based on previous answers.The survey contains an
      adolescent version and an adult version, and also includes targeted questions for individuals
      with a current diagnosis of a mental/medical illness. Consent is also sought to link data
      from parent-child dyads to enable finer analyses of family dynamics. Healthcare staff are
      invited to answer questions about work-related difficulties, usefulness of virtual tools for
      clinical practice, as well as moral distress and moral resilience in the context of clinical
      practice. Healthcare staff who are short on time can chose fill out an abbreviated version.
      Participants have the option of enabling linkage to linked to provincial health
      administrative data, and to provide their twitter and facebook handle for social media and
      mood monitoring through artificial intelligence algorithms. Participants have the option of
      being followed longitudinally during and after the outbreak.
    
  