
    
      The prevalence of low back pain is around 60% - 80% and its the 5th most common disease to
      seek medical help. 80% of patients who have an acute onset of low back pain whether treated
      or not relieved on symptoms, while unfortunately 10% of patients' low back pain will worsen
      end eventually progress to chronic low back pain. With the increase on the number of
      different techniques on spinal surgery, and an increase in the number of patients who had
      risk factors undergone spinal surgery caused an increase in the number of patients who had
      new complaints after surgery. The term Failed Back Surgery Syndrome describes new complaints
      or not enough ease on the complaints of a patient who had spinal surgery. Due to the
      variation of the criteria of assessment, it is noted that around 10% -40% of the patients who
      had spinal surgery will have Failed Back Surgery Syndrome.

      Failed Back Surgery Syndrome is commonly described as pain in low back and/or legs with
      difficulty in daily activities. Pain might be radicular or localized to the low back, it
      might be mechanic or neuropathic in nature.

      Some of the pathologies that cause Failed Back Surgery Syndrome are loss of height on the
      disc, arthrosis, spinal stenosis caused by the hypertrophy of the facet joints, recurrent
      disc herniation, arachnoiditis, central stenosis, epidural fibrosis, instability,
      pseudoarthrosis, and discitis.

      Rehabilitation is one of the vital parts of the treatment of Failed Back Surgery Syndrome.
      After a detailed patient history and a complete physical examination, clinicians should
      create a rehabilitation program that aims improvements on pain, functionality, quality of
      life and activities of daily living and is tailored for the patient. It is shown that
      patients who undergo rehabilitation programs had improvements in physical functionality,
      posture, and difficulties with walking. Other conservative treatments include cognitive
      behavioral therapy and noninvasive injection techniques.

      Literature shows that multifidus muscle is damaged and atrophied in the patients who had
      spinal surgery. Also, there is a correlation between functional impairment and atrophy.
      Usually, the muscles that control flexion and extension of the low back are weak in patients
      who have low back pain. Extensor muscles, especially the erector spinae muscle group are the
      posterior stabilisers of the vertebral colon. Loss of endurance and weakness of these muscles
      and low back pain have a correlation and strengthening these muscles will result in an
      improvement in low back pain.

      Injections of local anesthetics on chronic pain syndromes are being used successfully for a
      long time. There are some examples of successful interventions on pelvic pain, myofascial
      pain syndrome and nonspecific chronic low back pain in the literature. While surgery is the
      first line of treatment in cases where the cause is the compromise of the neural structures
      or spinal instability, the pain will increase with recurrent surgery in other causes.
      Ligaments of the intervertebral disc complex which are innervated by the nociceptive neurons,
      facet joints, and paravertebral muscles are thought to be the reason for pain in Failed Back
      Surgery Syndrome. In a systemic review that took place in 2015; the superiority of injections
      done with saline, a mixture of steroids and local anesthetics and steroids alone for facet
      joints and epidural injection procedure was investigated. Investigators demonstrated that
      injection with local anesthetics alone was effective in treatment. Another systemic review in
      2019 showed that injection of local anesthetics was effective and was superior to botulinum
      toxin A in the treatment of myofascial pain.

      Intradermal injection of a drug is related to longer pharmacological effects compared to
      intramuscular and subcutaneous injections. Lidocaine antinociceptive, analgesic,
      anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, anti-viral, wound healing, releasing of endogen opioid effects
      were demonstrated. In the light of all the information above, the investigators wanted to
      research whether intradermal injection of the local anesthetic in patients with Failed Back
      Surgery Syndrome has effects on pain and functionality or not.
    
  