
    
      BACKGROUND: A frequent and disabling impairment in persons who suffered acquired brain injury
      after stroke is left hemispatial neglect (LHSN). LHSN is a spatial attentive syndrome
      characterized by a reduced ability to attend, perceive and consciously represent the left
      contralesional space, in the absence of a primary sensory deficit. Commonly, the LHSN is due
      to a lesion on the right inferior parietal cortex and/or on the right fronto-parietal areas.
      Furthermore in stroke, LHSN is often associated with a mixture of attention and motor
      deficits leading to complex cognitive and behavioral pictures, which may even interfere with
      the administration of standard cognitive treatments for LHSN. However, several studies
      already demonstrated the efficacy of rehabilitation treatments on patients with LHSN, in
      terms of reducing disability, using various rehabilitative techniques and assessment tests.
      The rehabilitation techniques can be distinguished, accordingly to the used tools in:
      cognitive treatments (i.e. visual scanning training) and non-invasive brain stimulation
      methods (i.e. r-TMS). Conventional cognitive treatments (CCT) for LHSN involve different
      types of exercises aimed at reducing attentive bias for the ipsilesional space and/or
      promoting awareness of contralesional space by a continuous training of the patient's spatial
      exploration abilities. Instead, the TMS is a non-invasive method to modulate excitability of
      the cerebral cortex. The frequency of TMS pulse determines the type of modulation on the
      cerebral cortex (i.e. inhibitory <1 Hz; excitatory> 5 Hz). The most used TMS paradigm for the
      rehabilitation of LHSN is the r-TMS (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation) and it is
      based on the model of the inter-hemispheric competition. According to the model, the cerebral
      areas responsible for spatial orientation are contralateral to the attended hemifield (i.e.
      the left cerebral areas are responsible for the spatial orientation towards the right
      hemifield) and exert a reciprocal inter-hemispheric inhibition. The left and right
      fronto-parietal cortices are part of a intra-hemispheric network, which together with a
      parietal inter-hemispheric pathway, control the spatial orientation. In particular, a lesion
      on the right parietal cortex causes disinhibiting of the left parietal cortex and therefore a
      pathological over-activation of the latter.

      According to the model, this left over-activation inhibits the right contralateral neural
      activity, as an increase of the healthy hemisphere inhibition activity on the damaged
      hemisphere. For these reasons, in the LHSN, a pathological orientation or pathological
      attention bias is determined towards the right hemifield after right stroke. Often, the r-TMS
      treatments aimed at rebalancing the inter-hemispheric competition through a stimulation of
      the parietal-parietal pathway, in particular inhibiting the intact areas of the left parietal
      cortex. The results showed significant post-treatment improvements in several
      neuropsychological and behavioral tests. In particular, a recent study showed how low-
      frequency r-TMS on the intact contralesional parietal areas reduced the clinical symptoms of
      LHSN after 10 treatment sessions. Improvements were stable 15 days after the treatment.

      Despite evidence of efficacy of single treatment on cognitive symptoms of LHSN, many authors
      agree that the use of different rehabilitative techniques on the same patient are useful for
      generalizing clinical improvement and have a greater potential in reducing long-term global
      disability. However, in the literature, only few study tested effects of combined
      interventions on LHSN. Here, we aim at assessing the efficacy of a novel rehabilitation
      protocol, based on r-TMS in combination with a CCT, based on visual scanning training AIMS

      To compare the efficacy of a combined r-TMS and CCT intervention aiming at reducing cognitive
      symptoms of LHSN, in a sample of right Stroke patients with LHSN, within the context of an
      RCT.

      To evaluate the long- term impact of the intervention To evaluate the effect of the
      intervention on other clinical measures (activity of daily living, attentive and motor
      functions) and on psychophysiological indices.

      METHODS: Multicenter, Randomized Controller Trial, with blind assessments on pre-test,
      post-test and on 3 months follow-up.

      POPULATION: Right stroke patients with clinical evidence of LHSN INTERVENTION: Inhibitory
      low-frequency r-TMS on the intact left parietal cortex combined with a conventional cognitive
      treatment (visual scanning training) for 2 weeks. Multidisciplinary assessment with clinical
      and psychophysiological indices.

      CONTROL: SHAM group with a placebo r-TMS stimulation combined with visual scanning training
      for 2 weeks. Multidisciplinary assessment with clinical and psychophysiological indices.

      OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcome is represented by a specific assessment of cognitive symptoms in LHSN
      with the Behavioral Inattention Test (BIT)

      The secondary outcomes will consider the impact of the intervention on other clinical and
      psychophysiological indices. In particular we will test:

      Activity of daily living and everyday life independence, attentive functions and motor
      independence.

      A psychophysiological index based on Visual-Evoked Potentials

      (VEPs). In particular we will focus on the N1 component, a posterior negativity, which is
      altered in terms of latency and amplitude in LHSN population. In order to study effects of
      the r-TMS in the inter-hemispheric parietal pathway, we will extract indices of
      inter-hemispheric transmission time (IHTT) on the N1 latency and of spatial attention bias on
      N1 amplitude.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: In the intervention and in the control groups we expect a significant
      improvement of the clinical (cognitive, activity of daily living, attentive and motor
      functions) and psychophysiological indices, because both groups will be treated with an
      effective rehabilitation protocol (visual scanning training).

      However, unlike the standard methods of rehabilitation, the new techniques of magnetic
      stimulation such as r-TMS allow the execution of a cognitive task through the pre-empowerment
      of a specific network or neuronal circuit. This effect could facilitate experiential learning
      during cognitive training, with a richer and more articulated neural environment, as well as
      selectively stimulated according to the areas most involved in the lesion. In the case of
      LHSN the mechanism of empowerment concerns the preserved parietal areas and the
      inter-hemispheric connectivity. As a consequence, r-TMS could increase the "responsiveness"
      of the peri-lesional areas and of the inter- hemispheric connectivity during cognitive
      training, increasing its effectiveness with respect to the SHAM condition. Therefore, we
      expect a larger improvement on the intervention group, because the r-TMS could modulate the
      responsiveness of the specific spatial attention pathway. At three months, it is expected a
      stabilization of functional improvements.

      Randomization method In order to ensure that each arm will contain an equal number of
      individuals, eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups with a
      blocked randomization method based on a block size of 4.

      Assessor and patient blindness: obviously, the physician who will administer the r- TMS or
      the SHAM stimulation will not be blind to the randomization. However, to ensure a
      double-blind assessment, pre-treatment assessments will be performed prior to randomization.
      An assessor not aware of the patient randomization group will conduct post-treatment and
      follow-up assessments. Also the visual scanning protocol will be administered by therapists
      unaware of the patient randomization and patients themselves will be instructed not to reveal
      any information on the brain stimulation treatment received.

      Case report form and data monitoring Specific case report forms (CRF) for every test in the
      assessments are already available and will be used. During the treatment the responsible
      physician will report any adverse event in the treatment-CRF. All information and results
      will be promptly reported on the electronic database. A researcher will be responsible for
      the electronic database, data analyses and will draft the single patient record at the end of
      all procedures.

      Maximization of inter-rater reliability of assessment and treatment methods

      In order to minimize biases deriving from inter-rater measurement errors, the following
      interventions will take place during the start-up stage:

        1. Collegial assessment of voluntary patients by the various assessors and therapists in
           order to standardize the administration modalities and resolve discrepancies between
           scoring and treatment procedures.

        2. Subsequent development of an "assessment manual" and of a "treatment manual" containing
           all information necessary to the administering and scoring procedures.

      Cases lost at follow-up In case of lost to follow-up, the information available up to that
      moment will be considered. If participant is lost at follow-up, it will be analyzed on the
      basis of the "intention to treat" principle. Finally, the reason for quit the study will be
      reported for each participant lost at follow-up.

      Sample size

      The sample size was calculated using the following formula:

      https://www.dropbox.com/s/y56umrt7z93en1w/Simple%20size%20formula.docx? dl=0

      The sample size resulting from the formula calculated for the BIT is 25.2. Consequently, the
      minimum sufficient simple to reach the primary aim is, assuming approximately 10% of subjects
      lost to follow-up, 60 subjects (30 X group) recruited over a three-year period.

      Data Analyses In order to evaluate cognitive symptoms of LHSN in the two groups (primary
      outcome), differences in the BIT will be analyzed, between the pre-treatment (T0),
      post-treatment (T1) and follow-up (T2) phases for both groups of patients (r-TMS + CCT group
      and SHAM + CCT group). For this purpose, analyses of covariance will be performed for the BIT
      scale using a mixed-model ANCOVA with a 2X3 design, where the "between" factor is represented
      by the randomization group (r-TMS + CCT, SHAM + CCT) and the "within" factor is represented
      by the assessment time (T0, T1, T2). Whenever necessary, Greenhouse-Geiser correction will be
      applied and corrected p-values will be reported. In the ANCOVA, an adjustment will be made
      for the pre-treatment values and other possible confounding factors such as age, gender and
      education of the participants. Besides p-values, effect sizes will be provided in order to
      assess the size of treatment effect. Similar analyses will be performed also for the
      secondary outcomes on clinical and psychophysiological measures. Data analysis will be
      performed using Matlab (The Mathworks Inc.) and SPSS (version 13).
    
  