
    
      Background: The VA has a long history of developing and providing state-of-the-art prosthetic
      technology and rehabilitation services for Veterans with lower extremity amputations (LEA).
      Despite VA's goal to provide patient-centered, gender-sensitive care to all Veterans,
      prosthetics research in VA has mainly included and focused on the needs of men. Women are the
      fastest growing demographic in VA, and VA currently provides care to over 1,200 women with a
      major LEA. That number will likely increase as the number of women Veterans, currently at its
      highest point in history, is expected to continue rising. Primary goals of rehabilitation
      following a major LEA include successfully fitting a prosthesis and providing training to use
      the prosthesis to achieve functional mobility. Greater prosthesis use is associated with
      improved mobility, functioning, and independence as well as better quality of life. Thus,
      identifying the extent to which women achieve functional mobility through prostheses that fit
      them and meet their needs is critical to ensure that VA is providing excellent and equitable
      care. Accordingly, the goal of this research is to provide information that will improve
      clinical care for women Veterans with LEA.

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to: 1) characterize prosthetic prescription
      rates, prosthetic-device types, time to prescription, and their correlates among women with
      major LEA as well as evaluate gender differences in these outcomes using administrative data;
      2) identify barriers and facilitators to achieving successful functional mobility, factors
      impacting prosthetic use and satisfaction, and needs and preferences related to prostheses
      among women with major LEA who were prescribed a prosthesis using qualitative interviews; and
      3) characterize prosthetic use, prosthetic satisfaction, functional mobility, and
      health-related quality of life and their correlates among women as well as evaluate gender
      differences in these outcomes using survey data.

      Methods: To achieve these objectives, the investigators will capitalize on VA's extensive
      electronic medical record data, including the Corporate Data Warehouse (Aim 1), qualitative
      interviews (Aim 2) and a quantitative survey (Aim 3) with Veterans with LEA. Both
      administrative data and the survey will include women and men, to characterize women overall
      and in comparison to men. The investigators will determine which patients have received
      prescriptions for definitive prostheses by linking procedure data related to amputations and
      prosthetics data (which are all available within the Corporate Data Warehouse); other
      outcomes will be assessed via survey. For Aim 2, the investigators will conduct
      semi-structured telephone interviews with a sample of women with a major LEA who were
      prescribed a prosthesis. Aim 3 will involve a self-administered mailed survey that will
      permit us to characterize prosthetic use, prosthetic satisfaction, functional mobility, and
      health-related quality of life and evaluate clinical, social/environmental, and
      prosthetist/prostheses-related factors as potential determinants of outcomes among women as
      well as potential mediators that explain observed gender differences.

      Impact: For VA to realize its vision of being a world leader in providing lifelong,
      gender-sensitive amputation care, assessing prosthetic and functional outcomes among women is
      critical, as is understanding the factors that may negatively and positively contribute to
      women's prosthetic and functional outcomes. This study would significantly expand the
      evidence base for women Veterans with LEA and produce information that would inform
      improvements in clinical care for this population.
    
  