
    
      PRE-PHASE: Patients may receive corticosteroids and/or hydroxyurea at the discretion of the
      treating physician prior to beginning induction therapy. A seven-day corticosteroid
      pre-phase, which can include days of corticosteroid receipt prior to protocol registration,
      will precede initiation of TKI therapy on day 1. Corticosteroid dose and schedule are at the
      discretion of the investigator during the pre-phase, with dosing caps of prednisone 120
      mg/day, dexamethasone 24 mg/day, or biologic equivalents thereof.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Induction therapy consists of dexamethasone in combination with TKI. TKI
      therapy will generally begin with dasatinib 140 mg daily (dose changes or transition to
      alternative TKI permitted subject to the provisions in the protocol). Patients will receive
      dexamethasone 10 mg/m2/day (up to 24 mg /day) in single or divided doses, days 1-24.
      Dexamethasone will be tapered days 25-32 (±3 days for start and end of taper); the TKI will
      be continued during and following the dexamethasone taper. Recommended CNS prophylaxis
      consists of intrathecal (IT) or intra-Ommaya (IO) methotrexate 12 mg day 22 and day 43 (±7
      days); of note, methotrexate 12 mg is recommended though agent/dosing left to discretion of
      investigator. Hydrocortisone IT may be given along with methotrexate at the discretion of the
      investigator. Bone marrow evaluations will be performed on days 22 (±3 days) and day 43 (±3
      days) and will include minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment by BCR-ABL1 transcript
      studies and flow cytometry. Under certain circumstances, the induction period may be extended
      for up to 21 days with bone marrow studies repeated at that time.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients in complete response (CR) or CR with incomplete hematologic
      recovery (CRi) following remission induction, with or without MRD, proceed to consolidation
      therapy, defined as day 1 of cycle 1 of blinatumomab, within 21 days of day 43 or the date of
      BMA establishing CR/CRi, whichever is later. TKI will be administered continuously. Patients
      will begin Blinatumomab 28 mcg/daily IVCI for patients ≥45 kg; patients <45 kg will be
      treated at a dose of 15 mcg/m2/day, capped at a dose of 28 mcg/day, given for a 28-day cycle,
      with dose adjustments further subject to the provisions outlined in the protocol. Inpatient
      admission is recommended for at least days 1-3 of cycle 1 of blinatumomab (≥72 hours from
      start of infusion). Following each 28-day infusion of blinatumomab, a mandatory period of 14
      days off blinatumomab will follow during which bone marrow evaluation will be performed with
      MRD assessment and CNS prophylaxis will be administered. The consolidation period will
      consist of 3 cycles of blinatumomab given as such. Patients may come off therapy at any point
      to undergo allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT).

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients in complete molecular response (as defined within the protocol)
      following blinatumomab cycle 3 and not proceeding immediately to alloHCT may proceed to
      maintenance therapy, defined as day 1 of cycle 4 of blinatumomab, within 28 days of
      completion of blinatumomab infusion in cycle 3. TKI will be administered continuously.
      Blinatumomab will be given for up to 4 additional 28-day cycles (cycles 4-7) with a mandatory
      period of 28 days (±7 days) off blinatumomab between cycles, during which CNS prophylaxis
      will be administered. Bone marrow evaluation with MRD assessment will be performed after
      cycles 5 and 7 of blinatumomab.

      FOLLOW-UP: TKI maintenance is recommended but not required. Further post-remission therapy,
      if any, at the discretion of the treating physician. Following completion of all required
      study treatments and assessments, patients enrolled will be followed for long-term survival
      and relapse outcomes as outlined in the protocol.
    
  