
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether carboplatin radiosensitization increases long term event-free
      survival for high risk medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) patients.

      II. To determine whether isotretinoin increases long term event-free survival for high risk
      medulloblastoma/PNET patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare residual disease response to radiation alone versus radiation plus carboplatin.

      II. To identify molecular prognostic indicators suitable for patient stratification in future
      trials.

      III. To evaluate the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) during phases of active treatment
      specific to treatment modalities.

      IV. To describe the neuropsychological functioning of the study population and to evaluate
      the relationship between neuropsychological status and health related quality of life.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to Arm A or Arm B (Arms C and D closed to accrual as of
      Amendment 3 1/27/15).

      ARM A (standard chemoradiotherapy and standard maintenance therapy):

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) five days a week for 6
      weeks. Patients also receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute once weekly
      for 6 weeks. Six weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients proceed to maintenance
      therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, vincristine sulfate
      IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 8, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 2 and 3.
      Patients also receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) or IV beginning on day 4 and continuing
      until blood counts recover (at least 10 days). Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of
      6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (standard chemoradiotherapy plus carboplatin and standard maintenance therapy):

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate and undergo radiation therapy as in
      Arm I. Patients also receive carboplatin IV over 15 minutes on each day of radiation therapy.
      Six weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients proceed to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive maintenance therapy as in Arm I.

      ARM C (standard chemoradiotherapy, standard maintenance therapy plus isotretinoin, and
      continuation therapy with isotretinoin - CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 1/27/15):

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients undergo chemoradiotherapy as in Arm I. Six weeks after completion
      of chemoradiotherapy, patients proceed to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive isotretinoin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1 and
      days 16-28 and cisplatin, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, and filgrastim as in Arm I
      maintenance therapy. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then proceed to continuation
      therapy.

      CONTINUATION THERAPY: Patients receive isotretinoin PO BID on days 15-28 every 28 days for up
      to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D (standard chemoradiotherapy plus carboplatin, standard maintenance therapy plus
      isotretinoin, and continuation therapy with isotretinoin - CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 1/27/15):

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients undergo chemoradiotherapy as in Arm II. Six weeks after
      completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients proceed to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive maintenance therapy as in Arm III. Patients then
      proceed to continuation therapy.

      CONTINUATION THERAPY: Patients receive continuation therapy as in Arm III.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 1 year.
    
  