
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum feasible dose (MFD) or maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety of
      cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific T cells in combination with dose-dense temozolomide in
      patients with recurrent glioblastoma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the immunological effects in
      resected glioblastoma after intravenous administered cytomegalovirus (CMV)-stimulated
      adoptive T cells in patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). (Phase II: recurrent
      glioblastoma undergoing resection) III. To correlate 6-month progression-free survival rate
      (PFS6) with objective clearance of CMV antigens as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and
      by ex vivo T-cell-specific effector responses using intracellular cytokine profiling. (Phase
      II: recurrent glioblastoma undergoing resection) IV. Overall survival (OS). (Phase II: newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Time to progression, overall survival (OS) as well as immunological reactivity and safety.
      (Phase II: recurrent glioblastoma undergoing resection) II. Safety and tolerability of
      dose-dense temozolomide in combination with intravenous administered CMV-stimulated adoptive
      T cells in patients receiving adjuvant therapy after completing external beam radiotherapy
      with concurrent temozolomide for newly diagnosed glioblastoma. (Phase II: newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma) III. Overall objective response rate (ORR), median duration of response, PFS6.
      (Phase II: newly diagnosed glioblastoma)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the persistence and expansion of adoptively-infused CMV-specific T cells by
      multiparameter flow cytometry in serially-sampled peripheral blood. (Phase I) II. To identify
      imaging characteristics such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) textural analysis associated
      with immunological changes in tumor following treatment with CMV-stimulated adoptive T cells.
      (Phase II: recurrent glioblastoma undergoing resection) III. To ascertain if adoptive
      transfer of CMV-specific T cells leads to the expansion of T cells with specificity to other
      glioblastoma antigens (i.e. epitope spreading) by performing longitudinally monitoring of
      antigen-specific T cell frequency with enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay (ELISPOT).
      (Phase II: recurrent glioblastoma undergoing resection) IV. To determine the persistence and
      expansion of adoptively-infused CMV-specific T cells by multiparameter flow cytometry in
      serially-sampled peripheral blood. (Phase II: newly diagnosed glioblastoma)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of CMV-specific T cells followed by a phase
      II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once a day (QD) on days 1-21 and
      CMV-specific T cell transfer intravenously (IV) over 1-5 minutes on day 22. Patients undergo
      surgery on day 30 of cycle 1. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive temozolomide
      PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-21 and CMV-specific T cell transfer
      intravenously IV over 1-5 minutes on day 22. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 4
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive
      temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 3 months.
    
  