
    
      Preliminary clinical evidence suggests that Service Members with symptoms of post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) or Post Traumatic Stress (PTS) who participate in the Service Dog
      Training Program (SDTP) report improved physical and psychological outcomes, including those
      with overlapping symptoms associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and post-concussion
      symptoms (PCS). Since 2011, over 3,000 injured Service Members have participated in the SDTP.
      The program entails teaching Service Members how to train service dogs. Participation in this
      program helps injured Service Members develop skills, such as attention and discipline, which
      are needed to successfully shape the dog's behavior and are translatable to other social
      settings. Further, participation in the program appears to enhance the participants'
      well-being, quality of life, and relationship with significant others, including their
      children. Moreover, Service Members (SM) who participate in the SDTP report being motivated
      to participate in the program for the chance of helping other wounded warriors, who will be
      the recipients of the dogs that they train.

      Despite the reported anecdotal benefits from the SDTP, there has been a lack of prospective
      controlled research studies that examine the efficacy of the program or the biological basis
      as to how it may be helpful to improve the underlying disease. This study intends to examine
      the psychological, social, and biological effects of the SDTP combined with standard of care
      for individuals with symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS), including those with
      overlapping TBI and persistent Post-Concussive Symptoms (PCS). This study will also seek to
      identify potential psychological, physiological, and/or biological factors that may influence
      the degree of response from this noninvasive intervention, as well as its potential impact on
      disease/symptom modification. Further, for those subjects with family members, it will seek
      to share data with a parallel study ongoing at the University of Maryland to evaluate the
      effects of the SDTP on family member stress levels, relationship satisfaction, communication
      evaluate the effects of the SDTP on family member stress levels, relationship satisfaction,
      communication and parenting.

      To accomplish these aims the researchers will recruit DEERS eligible medical beneficiaries
      who are experiencing PTS and PCS symptoms. Up to 156 participants will be recruited in the
      National Capital Region (NCR) for a ten-week longitudinal pre-post study, in which each
      participant will serve as their own control. Additionally, up to 104 participants will be
      recruited for a three-week longitudinal parallel randomized study will be available for
      participants recruited through the National Intrepid Center of Excellence (NICoE) 4-week
      Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP).

      Each participant in the active group will train a service dog using methods that facilitate a
      relationship between the trainer and dog for the gradual shaping of desired behavior.
      Self-report measures of behavioral symptoms will be given weekly throughout participation in
      this study. Biological measures, including blood collection, HR, BP, etc. will be collected
      at baseline, during the three-week training follow-up, during the six-week training follow-up
      (NCR participants only), and at a three-month post-training followup (optional for NICoE IOP
      participants). The researchers will also be collecting self-report assessments from the
      participant, observational reports from an Occupational Therapist (OT) and electronic health
      records to track healthcare utilization and social skills (i.e. communication).

      The study is being carried out in collaboration with the Center for Neuroscience and
      Regenerative Medicine (CNRM). Under this collaboration, the study will use the CNRM Core
      Resources including the CNRM Biorepository. Data stored and shared within the CNRM Data
      Repository will be coded, and upon destruction of the Master List, de-identified.
    
  