
    
      There have been multiple studies performed to determine a medication that will decrease the
      pain associated with intrauterine device insertion. These studies have tested the use of
      misoprostol as well as NSAIDS to determine if these decrease the pain associated with
      insertion. There has also been one small, poorly performed, study that tested the use of
      intracervical topical lidocaine prior to IUD insertion. Misoprostol and NSAIDS were found to
      be non-efficacious in decreasing pain. Topical lidocaine was shown to be effective, however,
      secondary to this being a poorly performed study, additional studies are needed. This study
      is to determine if topical lidocaine does indeed decrease the pain associated with insertion
      of the Mirena® (levonorgestrel intrauterine device).

      This is a double blinded experimental study to determine whether or not topical lidocaine gel
      applied to the cervix and intra-cervically decreases pain associated with insertion of the
      Mirena® (levonorgestrel intrauterine device). Subjects will be randomized into two groups.
      One group will receive 2% lidocaine gel on the cervix and intra-cervically. The other group
      will receive a placebo, which will consist of KY being placed on the cervix and
      intra-cervically. After the Mirena® (levonorgestrel intrauterine device) is inserted, each
      subject's pain will be assessed by using a visual analog pain scale, and their response will
      be recorded on the information form. This pain scale will be assessed at the time of
      insertion, five minutes after insertion, and ten minutes after insertion. The only other
      study that researched the use of topical lidocaine prior to insertion of an IUD only recorded
      a pain scale at the time of insertion. Additional scores will be recorded at five and ten
      minutes to determine if pain is reduced in those time periods. These time periods have been
      chosen in order that all of this information can be recorded during a normal office visit. A
      visual analog pain scale is the scale included which measures pain on a scale of zero to ten
      with zero being no pain at all and ten being the worst pain of your life. This pain scale
      will be a scale ranging from zero to ten with faces depicting the amount of pain involved for
      each score. Since there will be different physicians placing the intrauterine devices, there
      will be a protocol on how to perform the insertion in an attempt to make all insertions as
      uniform as possible. A copy of this protocol has been included.
    
  