
    
      Prospective, multi-center, single arm study designed to evaluate the safety and performance
      of the Shockwave Coronary Rx Lithoplasty® System to treat calcified lesions in the coronary
      arteries for the purpose of enhancing the placement of stents and reducing the ultimate
      residual stenosis. Patients will be enrolled and consented in the study based on history and
      in some instances an angiogram obtained prior to the study. The study is designed to
      demonstrate that the Shockwave device can safely and effectively deliver localized shockwave
      energy for balloon dilatation of calcified, stenotic, coronary arteries. Subjects will be
      prepared for PCI per the institution's standard protocol. Medications will be administered
      per the treatment protocol. Femoral access will be obtained using a 6F access sheath, and
      guiding catheter placed at the ostia of the right or left coronary artery. Baseline
      angiography of the culprit lesion will be performed prior to placement of a 0.014" guide
      wire. Baseline and either IVUS or OCT will be performed to determine the Maximum Lumen Area
      (MLA), percent stenosis, and volumetric lesion assessment. Baseline angiography will be
      performed to determine lesion length, % stenosis and reference vessel diameter. The
      investigational device will be prepped per the IFU and positioned at the target lesion. The
      distal end of the balloon catheter will be connected to the patient cable. The balloon
      catheter will be inflated to 4 atm and the investigator will deliver 10 pulses for 20
      seconds. The balloon will then be inflated to reference vessel diameter and then deflated to
      reestablish flow and complete one treatment cycle. The treatment cycle will then be repeated.
      Angiography and either IVUS or OCT will be repeated for the treated lesion.. A coronary stent
      will be deployed at the site of treatment. Angiography and either IVUS or OCT will be
      performed following stent placement. Patients will be followed through discharge and at 30
      and 180 days. A subset of up to five (5) subjects will receive an angiographic assessment at
      the 180 day follow up visit, per the Sponsor's discretion.
    
  