
    
      Objective: To build the Texas Youth Depression and Suicide Research Network to support the
      development of a Network Participant Registry and characterization of systems and
      interventions to examine statewide population health outcomes.

      Methodology: Youth patients of participating clinics (ages 8-20) and their parents will be
      recruited for participation in the Network Participant Registry Study. Upon informed
      consent/assent, baseline data will be collected regarding mood symptoms, suicidal ideation
      and behavior, associated comorbidities, treatment history, services use, and social
      determinants of health. Youth participants and parents will be sent monthly measures through
      the Electronic Data Capture (EDC) system developed and maintained by UT Southwestern.
      Additionally, measures will be given at provider visits to support delivery of
      measurement-based care within the clinics.

      Number of Participants: 5000 Participants and/or Coupled Participants (coupled-Parent and
      Youth)

      Criteria for Inclusion: This study will enroll youth with depression and/or suicidal
      ideation. and meet all of the following criteria:

        -  Be 8 to 20 years of age;

        -  Have a positive screen for depression (e.g., based on PHQ-2 (score ≥3) and/or PHQ-A of
           10 or greater, OR positive for suicidal ideation or behavior (e.g., based on CHRT-SR or
           PHQ-A item 9); OR be in treatment for depression;

        -  Be willing to provide consent/assent (parents/LAR or young adult participant, aged
           18-20, must be willing to provide consent; youth, aged 8-17, must be willing to provide
           assent);

        -  Be able to speak English or Spanish sufficiently to understand the study procedures and
           provide written informed consent to participate in the study;

        -  Be willing to dedicate appropriate time to complete scheduled study assessments and
           measures (both parent/LAR and youth).

        -  Be able to provide a reliable means of contact. Visit Schedule: Screening Visit,
           Baseline, 6 Follow-Up Visits (2 of which are In-Person, and 4 of which are Remote), and
           Final Visit. Duration of study is approximately 12-13 months; some visits will be
           conducted remotely.

      Outcome Measures: Multiple streams of outcome measures will be utilized for this protocol,
      including self-report and parent-report measures, research assessor-completed measures,
      clinic level measures, and data obtained through chart review from the EHR.

      Safety and Tolerability Measures: Adverse event (AE) recording, 9 item Patient Health
      Questionnaire (PHQ-A), Concise Health Risk Tracking (CHRT)-SR, and Self-Report.

      Statistical Justification: The goals of the statistical analyses includes the following:

        -  To provide a descriptive summary of the data by participating network nodes as well as
           by various socio-demographic characteristics of the participants such as age groups,
           gender (as a biological variable), urban or rural, degree of fidelity to MBC, etc.

        -  To build predictive models for treatment outcomes and trajectories of disease course as
           well as models to assist with treatment selection that may benefit subgroups of
           participants.
    
  