
    
      The evaluation of chest pain patients in the emergency department remains a costly and
      difficult challenge, because a large proportion of them do not suffer from an acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS). The adequate ruling out of ACS in patients with chest pain is crucial, as the
      erroneous discharge of a patient with ACS is associated with a high risk of cardiac events.
      Rapid assessment of these patients is critical to direct further diagnostic and therapeutic
      strategies. Electrocardiography (ECG) and cardiac troponin (cTn) are the current diagnostic
      cornerstones and complement clinical assessment in current AMI guidelines1. They allow to
      rule in an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) within the first 3 hours after presentation in
      the majority of patients and offer the opportunity to initiate appropriate, evidence-based
      treatment. The vast majority of patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with
      suspected AMI, however, finally prove not to have AMI. The current process of ruling out AMI
      is time-consuming and expensive. One fourth to one-third of patients with AMI present without
      significant ECG changes indicative of acute ischemia; therefore, the ECG is of little help to
      rule out AMI, especially in the setting of non-ST elevation ACS (NSTE-ACS). High-sensitivity
      (hs)-cTn assays have been developed recently, enabling measurements of concentrations that
      are ∼10-fold lower than those previously measurable. Recent studies have confirmed the
      increased accuracy of these high-sensitivity assays compared with conventional assays in the
      early detection of AMI and in the safely ruling in or out of coronary causes of chest pain.
      However, concerns have been raised about a possible specificity deficit with these new
      assays. In addition, a second measurement of hs-cTn may be warranted in order to increase the
      accuracy of the assay.

      Copeptin, the C-terminal part of the vasopressin pro-hormone, and a marker of acute
      endogenous stress, has been demonstrated to be useful for a more rapid ruling out of acute
      myocardial infarction. Current evidence for the diagnostic validity and performance of a
      combination of high sensitivity-cardiac troponin and copeptin is limited and controversial. A
      Bayesian probabilistic approach is likely to be the correct way to evaluate the possible
      incremental value of copeptin in the detection of ACS. Thus, we aim at prospectively
      evaluating the diagnostic accuracy of copeptin, hs-cTn, CK-MB and myoglobin, alone or in
      combination with hs-cTn, for the early diagnosis and ruling out of Non-ST-Elevation (NSTE)
      ACS versus non-cardiac causes of chest pain in a selected cohort of Emergency Department (ED)
      chest pain patients according to their pre-test probability, as assessed through a
      combination of two validated clinical risk score systems (i.e. Chest Pain Score and TIMI Risk
      Score).
    
  