
    
      The cost of child welfare services in the U.S. has been estimated at $20 billion per year.
      During the past decade, the number of teenagers in foster care has nearly doubled. Numerous
      studies have documented that these adolescents are at high-risk for developing serious
      problems, including substance use, participation in health-risking sexual behaviors,
      involvement in the juvenile justice system, serious educational problems and school drop-out,
      failed placements/foster care "drift" and homelessness. Yet, there is little research on the
      characteristics of interventions that can be used to guide the improvement of services for
      this vulnerable population of youngsters. The proposed study extends our previous research
      with adolescents referred for serious behavioral and emotional problems and research with
      elementary-aged children in foster care to a test of the efficacy of a preventive
      intervention for adolescents placed with foster and kin care providers in the San Diego
      County Child Welfare System. Two hundred and forty adolescents and their foster/kin care
      providers will participate (i.e., 60 in a foster/kin parent training only condition, 60 in a
      parent training plus youth skill training condition, and 120 in a casework "as usual" control
      condition). In addition to testing the efficacy of the two levels of intervention, the
      investigators propose to examine the effects of the intervention on a set of youth behavioral
      and health-related outcomes. Parenting mediators to be tested include positive parenting,
      parental supervision, and non-harsh discipline. Youth mediators are social competence,
      commitment to school, and knowledge about norms related to health-risking behaviors including
      substance use and high-risk sexual behavior. In addition, theoretical hypotheses about the
      effects of early risk/adversity factors to youth outcomes will be examined, and an economic
      analysis will be conducted to examine the relative benefits and costs associated with the two
      levels of intervention.
    
  