
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the impact of remote perioperative telemonitoring care versus surgeon only
      perioperative care on clinically significant changes in functional recovery (accelerometer
      daily step count) and related secondary patient-centered outcomes (sleep, sedentary time,
      symptom severity, symptom interference with daily activities).

      II. Compare the impact of remote perioperative telemonitoring care versus surgeon only
      perioperative care on postoperative complications (Comprehensive Complications Index - CCI)
      and related secondary surgical outcomes (hospital readmission).

      III. Compare early withdrawal (dropout or loss of accelerometer device) between the
      comparators.

      IV. Explore perioperative telemonitoring care-related experiences (acceptability, technology
      usability, uptake/integration) among patients, families, and surgeons through qualitative
      focus groups and exit interviews.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I (REMOTE PERIOPERATIVE TELEMONITORING CARE GROUP): Before surgery, patients complete a
      functional and nutritional assessment. The home environment of patients will also be
      assessed. Based on findings, patients undergo personalized prehabilitation. Patients also
      wear an actigraph throughout the study to measure and record daily steps taken and sedentary
      time. Patients use the TapCloud application (app) on a smart device (phone, tablet) or home
      computer to collect, track, and report their symptoms. Based on patient input in the TapCloud
      app, a real-time alert is sent to a registered nurse (RN) when predetermined thresholds are
      met. RNs then contact the patient via the TapCloud app and further phone calls if necessary.
      Patients, caregivers and surgeons may also participate in a focus group in-person, via
      telephone, or videoconferencing.

      GROUP II (SURGEON ONLY PERIOPERATIVE CARE GROUP): Patients and their families meet with the
      surgeon at least once before surgery. After surgery, patients are managed daily during
      post-operative care. Patients may receive a referral for functional and nutritional
      prehabilitation at the discretion of the surgeon/surgical team. Patients and their families
      receive instructions to follow the standard procedures for reporting problems between clinic
      visits, including contacting their surgical team if symptoms become severe and physical
      function worsens; and the use of the hospital call line to report problems. Patients,
      caregivers and surgeons may receive the opportunity to participate in focus group in-person,
      via telephone, or videoconferencing.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 3-4 months.
    
  