
    
      Prior to being enrolled in this study, they will undergo an evaluation to determine
      eligibility. The study doctor will obtain a complete medical history, complete a physical
      examination including blood pressure and heart rate. The doctor will also obtain a baseline
      ECG as well as blood tests (approximately two tablespoons of blood). In order to decrease the
      effects of food, exercise and the sleep/wake cycle variability, all blood samples must be
      taken between 8AM - 10AM and patients will need to fast (no food or drink) for 10 hours prior
      to the blood test. Patients will also need to strain from working out prior to the blood
      test. The study will ask for a list of current medications. Patients will not be eligible if
      they have a history of or now require long-term anticoagulant (blood thinner) therapy (i.e.
      Coumadin or anything patients may be taking to prevent blood clots) have an allergy to
      bevacizumab or any other drugs used in the study.

      Many of the following evaluations are commonly done to determine diagnosis and/or stage of
      breast cancer and may have already had some of all of them done. If the following procedures
      were not done within three weeks, they will need to be done again prior to receiving any
      study therapy.

        -  Diagnosis of breast cancer by fine needle aspiration or core needle biopsy will be
           required for entry in this study.

        -  Clip Placement - a clip will be placed in the tumor during the core biopsies as a marker
           to assist surgeons at the time of surgery.

        -  Tumor Clip Placements - a caliper is similar to a ruler and is used to measure the tumor
           from the outside of the body instead of always having to use an ultrasound or MRI.

        -  Tumor Ultrasound - this is a non-invasive exam that uses sound waves to produce a
           picture of your tumor.

      All study participants will be treated with bevacizumab 15 mg/kg plus docetaxel 75 mg/m2 and
      cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 every three weeks for a total of four treatments. Three weeks
      after the completion of this part of the treatment patients will start receiving doxorubicin
      60 mg/m2 every three weeks for a total of four treatments. All these drugs will be given as
      intravenous infusion on the first day of each three-week period.

      Patients will come in for every three week visits and have a physical exam including blood
      pressure and heart rate. Medications lists will be taken and any side effects that may have
      been experienced. Tumor caliper measurements will be done and blood will be drawn at each of
      these visits.

      A mammogram and MUGA scan will be done again just prior to surgery. Patients will undergo
      tumor surgery approximately six months after treatment. Patients will need to visit the study
      physician one month after surgery for another physical examination including blood pressure
      and heart rate, an assessment of any side effects and a list of current medications.
    
  