
    
      Up to 29 Subjects with metastatic, non-hematological cancer can be entered. Potentially
      hundreds of healthy Donor-participants will be recruited. A Donor Registry will be built to
      store ABO/Rh-specific donors; these donors will be tested for HLA-specific genotyping as well
      as fully tested for infectious diseases.

      Each patient will be receiving granulocytes from approximately 4 to 6 donors. Each donor will
      be HLA-mismatched to avoid engraftment of the granulocytes and any transfusion-related GVHD.
      These infusions will take place over a 1 to 2 week period, the timing of which will be
      dependent on both the subject's tolerance and the availability of the donors.

      Subject Response Assessment:

      For all patients not demonstrating disease progression, response status will be evaluated
      between Days +90 to +100 after the last infusion. Day+1 is the first day of white cell
      infusion. All measurable lesions (lesions that can be accurately measured in at least one
      dimension [longest diameter to be recorded] as ≥20 mm with conventional techniques or as ≥10
      mm with spiral CT scan) up to a maximum of 10 lesions representative of all involved organs
      should be identified as target lesions and will be recorded and measured at baseline. Target
      lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (lesions with the longest diameter) and
      their suitability for accurate repetitive measurements (either by imaging techniques or
      clinically). A sum of the longest diameter (LD) for all target lesions will be calculated and
      reported as the baseline sum LD. The baseline sum LD will be used as reference to further
      characterize the objective tumor response of the measurable dimension of the disease. The
      criteria for response, progression, and relapse are as follows.

        -  Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions.

        -  Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD)
           of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

        -  Progression (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions taking
           as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance
           of one or more new lesions.

        -  Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient
           increase to qualify for PD taking as references the smallest sum LD since the treatment
           started. Patients having a documented response with no reconfirmation of the response
           will be listed with stable disease.
    
  