
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In a new model of survivorship care planning, planning started within the first two months
      of therapy, followed by additional survivorship care planning at the end of therapy or 6
      months post diagnosis, evaluate the proportion of eligible survivors and participating
      caregivers who complete the survivorship care planning.

      II. In a feasibility study of survivors and their identified support caregivers (70 survivors
      with or with a participating caregiver at VICC and 70 survivors with or without a
      participating caregiver at MMC), evaluate psychosocial well-being, engagement, resource
      utilization and adherence to recommended treatment and follow-up guidelines.

      III. Assess the outcomes of survivors and participating caregivers treated at VICC and MMC to
      further individualize survivorship planning that will incorporate the optimal timing and
      content together with socioeconomic and cultural considerations. The pillars of this novel
      intervention (i.e., survivorship care planning, psychosocial assessment and patient
      engagement) are responsive to the recommendations of the IOM. The project proposed herein
      will build directly upon our work in the P20 grant and will set the stage for the planned R01
      RCT, which would be directly responsive to NCI PAR 12-275. The ultimate aim is to inform best
      practices in survivorship planning in community and academic cancer centers, serving diverse,
      including underserved minority populations, with sufficient power to detect differences
      between treatment groups.

      OUTLINE: Patients and their caregivers participate in an upfront survivorship care planning
      session.

      Patients and their caregivers meet with the Survivorship Nurse Practitioner (NP) at the VICC
      or the Nurse Navigator (NN) at MMC during an initial survivorship care planning session (30
      minutes total) to identify resources that may be needed during and following therapy. The
      patient and their caregiver then meet together with the NP or NN (60 minutes total) to
      discuss the planned therapy, the expected course of recovery and recommendations for
      follow-up, and are provided with a preliminary survivorship care plan (SCP). Caregivers also
      receive the National Cancer Institute publication, "When Someone You Love is Being Treated
      for Cancer". Patients and their caregivers proceed with therapy. At the end of therapy,
      patients and their caregivers schedule a one-hour visit with the NP or NN for a booster
      survivorship care planning session (SCPS). At this booster session, they will review the
      questionnaires and receive an individualized final SCPS and the "REACH for Survivorship"
      handbook.

      After completion of treatment for cancer, patients and their caregivers complete follow up
      assessments at the end of treatment and again two months after the end of treatment.
    
  