
    
      The patients invited to participate in a research study on Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD)
      and saffron as a nutritional anti-inflammatory supplement.

      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is composed of Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis
      (UC). Continuous altered immune responses and inflammation associate with this disease. More
      than two-thirds of patients reported that IBD-associated symptoms negatively affected their
      quality of life and their performance at work.

        -  Patients with IBD are generally put on immunosuppressants (that block or slow
           participants' immune system to lower the level of inflammation). Long-term use of these
           immunosuppressants have some serious side effects.

        -  The goal of this protocol is to lower the need for these immunosuppressants by giving
           saffron as capsules in two different doses. The investigators will assess whether the
           addition of saffron will improve the overall patient's status and decrease the need for
           immunosuppressants. If participants have been prescribed immunosuppressants by the
           participant's doctor, saffron will be added to the participants' treatment.

        -  The investigators request that the subject answer as many questions as they can during
           this visit. If they are unable to complete the questionnaires during this visit, the
           investigators ask them to please return them within 7 days. If the investigators do not
           receive the questionnaires, the investigators will make one phone call to remind the
           subjects to send the questionnaires back.

        -  The subject medical record and colonoscopy report will be used to determine IBD or
           health status, the blood sample will be used to assess immune markers (inflammatory and
           antiinflammatory), stool sample will be used to assess some inflammation markers and
           saffron effect on the intestinal bacterial composition, a saliva sample will be used to
           assess whether saffron selectively affects the intestinal bacteria but not the saliva
           bacteria and the urine sample will be used to assess saffron release in body fluids.

        -  Participants are being asked to participate in this research project because
           participants are having a normal colonoscopy for screening, or IBD.

        -  If a biopsy is taken at colonoscopy. a pathologist will use a portion to make a
           diagnosis. The investigators are requesting permission to use a portion of the excess
           tissue that the pathologist does not need, for this research project.

        -  Samples will be collected at baseline (day 0) and 8 weeks later after saffron capsules
           utilization.

        -  This is a double-blind clinical trial, you will not know whether participants are given
           a placebo (capsule without saffron) or saffron dose 1 or 2. This is important for
           participants and for the study process, to avoid any psychological effect on the
           expected saffron effect.

        -  However, by the end of the 8 weeks and after collecting and analyzing the data from all
           participants, the investigators will inform the subject of what the subjects were given
           and potential next steps.
    
  