
    
      Around 13,000 thyroid and parathyroid operations are performed per year in England for both
      benign and malignant disease. Reliable identification of parathyroid glands is critical to
      the success of thyroid and parathyroid surgery. In thyroid surgery, inadvertent injury to
      parathyroid glands may cause temporary or permanent hypoparathyroidism (low calcium levels
      needing long term treatment); the latter is associated with significant long term problems.
      In parathyroid surgery, early identification of normal and/or enlarged parathyroid glands
      helps in deciding on the extent of surgery and increases the chances of postoperative normal
      calcium levels.

      Methylene Blue (Methylthioninium chloride, MB) is a dye that when given intravenously in high
      doses, is taken up differently by thyroid and parathyroid tissue. It is currently used during
      parathyroid surgery by some surgeons to help identify enlarged parathyroid glands by visual
      examination alone. At these doses, there is a risk of adverse effects from administration of
      MB. Such visual examination is unhelpful in the identification of 'normal' parathyroid
      tissue. MB is not currently used in surgery for thyroid pathologies. MB exhibits fluorescent
      properties in the near-infrared range (light just beyond the visible spectrum). This can be
      picked up by an appropriate imaging system. This has potential to identify and differentiate
      between 'normal' parathyroid, 'abnormal' parathyroid and thyroid tissue during surgery.

      The investigators have established the feasibility of the intra-operative use of a near
      infra-red fluorescent imaging device called Fluobeam® and demonstrated the ability of this
      device to pick up near infra-red fluorescence from human tissue after administration of
      intravenous MB. Animal experiments have shown that doses as low as 0.1mg/kg of MB given
      intravenously enable fluorescent visualisation of thyroid and parathyroid glands.

      This study will aim to optimise the dose and timing of administration of MB in human thyroid
      and parathyroid surgery and to develop a protocol which would then subsequently be assessed
      for effectiveness in a multi-centred randomized controlled setting.
    
  