
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 28 days.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive decitabine by
      vein over 1 hour on Days 1-5 of each cycle.

      You will also take eltrombopag capsules by mouth 1 time every day of each cycle. You should
      take it on an empty stomach (1 hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal) with 8 ounces (1
      cup) of water.

      Do not eat calcium-rich foods (such as dairy products and juices with added calcium), or take
      other drugs (such as antacids) or supplements containing iron, calcium, aluminum, magnesium,
      selenium, and/or zinc for 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking eltrombopag.

      If a dose of eltrombopag is vomited, you should not make it up or re-take it on the same day.
      If the morning dose is missed, it may be taken up until 5:00 PM on the same day.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 8, 15, and 22 of Cycle 1 only, blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, on Day 1 of Cycles 2-4, then every 3 cycles (Cycles 7, 10,
      13, and so on), you will also have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check the status of the
      disease and for cytogenetic testing.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, once each week blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn
      for routine tests.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 5 days of your last dose of study drug, you will come to the clinic for an
      end-of-treatment visit. The following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check the status of the disease and for
           cytogenetic testing.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Follow-up Visit:

      About 28 days after your last dose of study drugs, you will come to the clinic for a
      follow-up visit. The following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Eltrombopag is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of low platelet counts in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
      (ITP -- a severe bleeding disease). Decitabine is FDA approved for the treatment of MDS and
      is commercially available. The combination of eltrombopag and decitabine to treat MDS is
      investigational.

      Up to 50 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  