
    
      There are 3 accepted indications for transfusing FP:

        1. bleeding in patients with prolonged coagulation tests that cannot be corrected with
           other products or medications,

        2. prior to surgery or invasive procedures in patients who have prolonged coagulation test
           that cannot be corrected with other products or medications and

        3. plasmapheresis for Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia Purpura.

      While the indications for FP seem relatively straightforward, there are still large
      variations in use and important inappropriate use. This is due to the lack of properly
      conducted studies evaluating the true risk of bleeding in patients with an abnormal
      coagulation tests and, as a consequence, a lack of knowledge about the true benefits or harms
      of transfusing FP to reduce bleeding.

      The current paradigm for the use of FP to treat or prevent bleeding is based on the following
      assumptions:

        1. elevated coagulation tests represent a decrease in coagulation factors that will
           contribute to bleeding,

        2. FP transfusions will increase the levels of coagulation factors and correct the
           coagulation test abnormalities,

        3. the correction of the coagulation test abnormality will decrease bleeding. However,
           there is a lack of evidence to support each of the assumptions in this paradigm.

      First, while decreases in coagulation factor levels may increase the risk of bleeding, this
      only occurs when coagulation factor levels decrease below a minimum hemostatic threshold. The
      minimum hemostatic for most coagulation factors is 30%. In vitro data demonstrates that, in
      samples with a single factor coagulation deficiency, the commonly used coagulation tests, the
      prothrombin time (usually reported as an international normalized ratio (INR) and the
      activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) will become abnormal when the levels are 25-40%
      or below. However, in the setting of multiple factor deficiencies, which is the situation
      usually encountered in clinical practice, mild to moderate increases in INR are seen with
      coagulation factor levels that are considerably higher than the minimum hemostatic threshold
      of 30%. Work by the group and others confirm that in patients with critical illness and liver
      disease factor levels are consistently above the hemostatic threshold even when the INR is
      elevated. This lack of correlation between abnormal coagulation test results and increased
      bleeding risk is supported by a systematic review of observational studies that showed no
      increased bleeding risk in patients with abnormal coagulation tests as compared to patients
      with normal coagulation tests.

      Second, the expected improvement in coagulation factor tests following a FP transfusion is
      often not seen especially in mild to moderate coagulation test abnormalities. Given the
      concentration of 1 unit/ml for individual coagulation factor levels in FP, transfusing four
      units of FP (approximately 800-1000 mls) to a 70 kg patient with a 5-litre blood volume,
      would be expected to increase levels by a maximum of 16%. However, the effect on the INR will
      also depend on the starting level of the coagulation factors. If the levels are very low
      (less than 10%), this will result in a significant improvement in the INR, but if the initial
      levels are only mildly decreased, the same increase in coagulation factor levels will make
      little change in the INR. Furthermore, the INR FP units can be as high as 1.3. The lack of
      efficacy of FP to correct the INR or aPTT in patients with mild increases in the INR has been
      demonstrated in a number of studies.

      Finally, there is little data from clinical studies that demonstrates that attempting to
      correct abnormal coagulation tests with FP reduces bleeding. Based on clinical experience, in
      patients with a high INR and active bleeding, FP may be beneficial in controlling bleeding.
      However, the prophylactic use of FP has never been shown to reduce bleeding. The only
      prospective clinical trials showed no reduction in bleeding following FP transfusion in
      neonates, patients with pancreatitis or after cardiac surgery. A retrospective study of FP
      use in critical care patients showed no differences in bleeding after the administration of
      FP.

      Overall there have been few randomized controlled studies that have examined the efficacy or
      effectiveness of FP transfusions. Only 3 randomized controlled studies evaluating the
      effectiveness of FP (as compared to no treatment) prior to invasive procedures have been
      carried out. All 3 studies failed to recruit sufficient patients due to important issues in
      the design of these trials. The main failure in the first two studies was the narrow
      eligibility criteria. Two studies only included patients undergoing a single type of
      procedure and they included only patients with very mild coagulation abnormalities (i.e. an
      INR equivalent of less than 2.0). Thus, many patients with modest coagulation abnormalities
      were excluded thereby leaving only a small pool of potentially eligible patients. The third
      study failed to recruit patients for a number of reasons including restrictive inclusion
      criteria and inability to obtain consent for emergency procedures especially after hours.
      While this study recruited patients undergoing a variety of invasive procedures and used a
      wider INR threshold, they did reduce the number of potentially eligible patients by not
      including patients with thrombocytopenia or patients on anti-platelet agents (both common in
      ICU patients). Less than 30% of eligible patients were enrolled as informed consent from the
      patients or a surrogate was required prior to enrolling the patient. As ICU patients
      frequently have prolonged INR tests and require urgent procedures at the time of admission, a
      deferred consent process and the ability to enroll patients after hours is absolutely
      essential to ensure that eligible ICU patient who are usually not able to give consent are
      not systematically excluded from the trial due to the need for informed consent.

      In summary, FP is commonly transfused prior to invasive procedures in patients with an
      elevated INR. Remarkably, there is no evidence that transfusing FP reduces bleeding
      complications when transfused prophylactically. Observational data suggests that an elevated
      INR does not increase risk of bleeding from invasive procedures. However, there is no
      randomized clinical trial data to support not transfusing FP. This lack of evidence combined
      with fear of causing bleeding during an invasive procedure and an under-appreciation of the
      potential harms associated with blood transfusions contributes to continued practice of
      transfusing FP prior to invasive procedures. Given that mild to moderately increased
      coagulation tests have not been associated with increased bleeding following invasive
      procedures and the FP transfusion are known to only partially correct abnormal coagulation
      tests, the prophylactic use of FP may be exposing patients to potentially life-threatening
      adverse reactions without providing any benefit. Previous randomized controlled trials of FP
      transfusions prior to invasive procedures have failed to enroll sufficient patients, but they
      had important limitations in their design that affected their ability to recruit patients.

      A pilot study is required to determine if, by using specific strategies to increase
      enrollment, a large pragmatic clinical trial can successfully be implemented to determine the
      benefit and safety of transfusing FP prior to invasive procedures. The planned study will be
      pragmatic and open to the most common procedures in ICU patients who are known to represent
      the largest group of patients receiving FP.

      This study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized controlled pilot trial with blinded
      outcome assessment. In this trial evaluating feasibility, the investigators will randomly
      allocate ICU patients who have an elevated INR and require an invasive procedure to receive
      either a FP transfusion or no transfusion. Patients will be followed for bleeding
      complications and adverse transfusion reactions for 48 hours following the invasive
      procedure, and for mortality for the duration of their hospital stay. All bleeding
      complications will be recorded using a validated bleeding score and adjudicated by blinded
      assessors.
    
  