
    
      Only a small percentage of dependent-marijuana smokers who are seeking treatment for their
      marijuana use is able to achieve sustained abstinence. The objective of this study is to
      investigate the interaction between marijuana and two potential treatment medications:
      lofexidine and oral THC, with the direct goal of using this information to improve marijuana
      treatment outcome. In mice, the α2-receptor agonist, clonidine, reversed symptoms of
      cannabinoid withdrawal (Lichtman et al., 2001). The purpose of this study is to determine if
      lofexidine, an α2-receptor agonist with a more favorable side-effect profile than clonidine,
      decreases symptoms of marijuana withdrawal and thus decreases marijuana relapse, as compared
      to placebo. Oral THC is FDA-approved for appetite enhancement. Lofexidine, which is currently
      not FDA-approved, is used in Europe to treat symptoms of heroin withdrawal, and to treat
      hypertension. For the purposes of this model, relapse is defined to a return to marijuana use
      after a period of abstinence. We have shown that oral THC reduces symptoms of marijuana
      withdrawal at doses that produce minimal intoxication (Haney et al., 2004). Thus, the effects
      of oral THC alone and in combination with lofexidine will be determined. The study will
      utilize an inpatient/outpatient, counter-balanced design, with each participant maintained on
      each of four medication conditions for 8 days each: placebo, lofexidine, oral THC, and oral
      THC combined with lofexidine. During the inpatient study phases, participants will have the
      opportunity to self-administer placebo or active marijuana 6 times per day. Outpatient phases
      are for medication clearance so no medications will be administered. This study will provide
      important information of the effect of these potential treatment medications on both
      marijuana withdrawal symptoms, and on subsequent marijuana self-administration.
    
  