
    
      Study eyes are defined as the eye(s) that fulfil all inclusion criteria but none of the
      exclusion criteria. The IOP will be measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry. The IOP at
      every visit will be taken by one examiner (masked) using the same slit lamp and tonometer.
      Three consecutive readings will be taken at each time and the mean of the three values used
      in the statistical analysis. The examiner will not be aware of the treatment the patient is
      on. The scale of the tonometer will be concealed to the examiner, and the IOP value read off
      by an assistant after the examiner determines the end point of tonometry.

      At the Baseline visit and last visit of each Treatment period (Day 0, 42 and 84), IOP will be
      measured at 9 am and 5 pm. On Day 14 and 56, IOP will be measured only at 9 AM.

      Thus, when the IOP is measured in the clinic at 9 AM, approximately 13 hours would have
      elapsed from the evening dose. This will coincide with the approximate peak effect of
      bimatoprost and latanoprost. The IOP reading at 5 PM will be the approximate trough for
      latanoprost and bimatoprost.

      The IOP at the end of each Treatment period at 6 weeks (Day 42 and 84) will be utilized as
      the primary endpoint and a comparison of mean IOPs of the two treatment groups compared with
      the baseline (Day 0). For those who do not, for any reason, complete the 6-week assessment,
      their last IOP measure will be carried forward to provide the endpoint. However, the number
      of such cases within each treatment group will also be reported.

      Prior to the trial, all patients will undergo clinical examinations and eye tests to
      determine eligibility.

      After being enrolled into the trial, patients will be randomized to receive either
      latanoprost or bimatoprost. They will be subjected to a list of tests (details of schedule
      and procedures in Appendix A) on the baseline day (Day 0) and instructed that the first eye
      application will start at 8pm on the same day. For 6 weeks, patients assigned to the
      latanoprost treatment group will administer latanoprost 0.005% in the evening. Patients
      assigned to the bimatoprost group will administer 0.03% bimatoprost once daily (in the
      evening). Study visits will be on Day 14 (Visit 2) and Day 42 (Visit 3).

      After 6 weeks, patients will be crossed over to the other medication. Patients will undergo
      exactly the same regimen of examination and clinic visits as in Treatment period I. Study
      visits will be on Day 56 (Visit 4) and Day 84 (Visit 5).
    
  