
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the commonest cause of morbidity and mortality in chronic dialysis
      patients, including those treated with CAPD (Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis) [1].
      Uncontrolled arterial hypertension in ESRF leads to progression of LVH, which is a strong
      predictor for coronary events, CHF and mortality [2]. Fluid overload is a major factor in the
      pathogenesis of arterial hypertension in CAPD patients [3]. Therefore, interventions to
      optimize volume status, and hence blood pressure, are considered central in the management of
      such patients. Such therapies include restricting dietary sodium and water intake, use of
      diuretics in patients with residual renal function and optimization of peritoneal
      ultrafiltration with sodium and water removal [1]. As shown in the EAPOS Study, peritoneal
      ultrafiltration was important predictor of mortality [4].

      Peritoneal fluid and salt removal can be increased by using a more hypertonic dialysis fluid
      using glucose as osmotic agent. Consistent use of hypertonic glucose solutions may damage
      peritoneal membrane and may also lead to increased systemic absorption of glucose with
      subsequent hyperglycemia, increased thirst and excessive water drinking. Concerns about the
      role of glucose in deterioration of peritoneal membrane function have been supported in
      recent studies [5]. Generally, the evolution of peritoneal membrane properties over time is
      characterized by a progressive increase in small solute transport, leading to higher glucose
      absorption rate from peritoneal fluid and loss of ultrafiltration capacity [6]. Such a high
      peritoneal transport status is associated with less peritoneal fluid removal, overhydration,
      hypertension and LVH. High peritoneal transport status is a risk factor of mortality in CAPD
      patients [7].

      In recent years, there has been an increasing focus on association between inflammation,
      increased oxidative stress and high peritoneal transport rate and their relation to mortality
      in CAPD patients [8 ]. Inflammation has been shown to increase a peritoneal transport rate in
      CAPD patients [8]. Both inflammation and increased oxidative stress may impact to inadequate
      fluid removal. The exact mechanism of this phenomenon is not fully understood.

      Several experimental and clinical studies showed that increased oxidative stress in dialysis
      patients may be due to inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis by ADMA (Asymmetric
      Dimethylarginine ), known to be endogenous inhibitor of NO synthetase [9]. ADMA may be
      significantly reduced by dialysis [10]. Metabolism of ADMA is primarily by the enzyme DDAH ,
      which activity is decreased by inflammation, oxidative stress, diabetes mellitus and
      hypercholesterolemia [11]. It was proposed that circulating ADMA may be one mechanism
      accounting for the resistant hypertension and fluid overload in dialysis patients [11].

      Based on current knowledge, treatment aimed at reducing oxidative stress should decrease ADMA
      levels [11], and it is logical to suggest that such a therapy might improve BP control and
      fluid status in CAPD patients. In our opinion, it is worth to check an ability of antioxidant
      therapy to produce a favorable effect on biological properties of peritoneal membrane. One
      preliminary study on effect of antioxidant Vitamin E showed a small beneficial effect on ADMA
      in chronic kidney disease [12].

      N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) is an active antioxidant proved to be safe and beneficial in
      hemodialysis patents [13]. In our recent study, NAC effectively reduced the ototoxic effect
      of gentamicin in chronic hemodialysis patients [14].

      The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of N-acetylcysteine on peritoneal small
      solute clearance and removal of salt and water in prevalent CAPD patients.
    
  