
    
      Evidence in the literature has demonstrated how different factors have been associated with
      CMV disease; however, the effect of new anticancer therapies (personalized chemotherapies,
      biological and immunological treatments, extreme surgery, etc.) on CMV disease is unknown.
      The investigators believe that studying this subgroup of patients should be one of the
      primary issues as the number of patients with these characteristics will increase
      significantly in the near future.

      Likewise, it is important to point out that in the real world diagnosing CMV disease is a
      real challenge for the intensive care physician (due to subclinical or not specific clinical
      presentations, confusion factors, low clinical suspicions, etc.) thus its diagnosis and
      eventual treatment could be improved. These undesired diagnostic and therapeutic flaws
      provide a unique opportunity to (i) describe the natural evolution of the disease, (ii)
      address the effect of the disease in the outcome of the patients and (iii) estimate the
      potential number of patients that could benefit from a new management.

      HM Hospitales (https://www.hmhospitales.com/) is a Spanish private group made up of five
      tertiary university hospitals in Madrid (HM Madrid, HM Torrelodones, HM Sanchinarro, HM
      Puerta del Sur y HM Monteprincipe). In addition, the group has a specialized center focused
      in cancer ("Clara Campal" oncologic center https://www.hmciocc.com/ ) with a phase I Unit
      (STAR-CIOCC
      http://startmadrid.com/index.php/en/2014-10-02-23-29-01/madrid-locations/2014-10-10-00-46-42)
      , five medical-surgical ICUs (one in each hospital) that assist 1200 patients/year (35% with
      cancer) and a surgical department specialized in robotic and laparoscopic procedures.

      To define the incidence of CMV reactivation and disease is of paramount importance as several
      studies have suggested an association between CMV disease and an increased mortality rate,
      prolonged mechanical ventilation as well as length of ICU and hospital stay. Furthermore, CMV
      disease increases the risk of acquiring a nosocomial infection that could also have an effect
      on the outcome of the patients [Ziemann et al. Crit Care Med. 2008;36(12):3145; Sinclair. J
      Clin Virol. 2008;41(3):180]. Likewise, as several anti-CMV treatments are (valacyclovir,
      valanciclovir, ganciclovir, foscarnet or cidofovir), or will be shortly (letermovir),
      available the increased morbidity and mortality associated to this infection in critically
      ill patients could be improved dramatically.

      This research proposal is seeking to answer four questions in a general ICU cohort of
      patients and in the subgroup of critically ill patients receiving anti-cancer therapy:

        1. Which is the incidence of CMV infection and disease?

        2. What is the natural evolution of CMV infections that do not receive anti-CMV treatment?

        3. What is the impact of anti-CMV treatment in the patient´s outcome (mortality, days under
           mechanical ventilation and days at ICU)?

        4. What are the risk and protective factors for developing CMV infection after ICU
           admission?
    
  