
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the anti-tumor activity (in terms of the tumor response rate using the Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) of pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride)
      (GW786034) in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas.

      SECONDARY OBJEC TIVES:

      I. To assess safety profile of pazopanib. II. To assess duration of tumor response. III. To
      assess time to treatment failure. IV. To assess progression-free survival time. V. To assess
      overall survival time.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For patients with secretory tumors, to examine changes in urinary catecholamine and/or
      metanephrine levels.

      II. For patients with secretory tumors, to examine whether pazopanib-induced changes in
      urinary catecholamine and/or metanephrine levels during the first cycle of treatment may be
      associated with objective tumor response.

      III. To examine associations between tumor response and somatic mutational status in archived
      tumors, or germline mutational status in patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells,
      (presence of succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit D [SDHD], succinate dehydrogenase
      complex subunit B [SDHB], ret proto-oncogene [RET], von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor [VHL],
      neurofibromatosis type-1).

      IV. To examine associations between tumor response and tumor expression levels of angiogenic
      and vascular markers including hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha (HIF-1a), vascular
      endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGF-R) (total and phospho-) and microvessel density in
      archival tumor tissue.

      IV. To examine whether the extent of tumor response/regression may be correlated with plasma
      pazopanib (GW786034) concentration achieved after the third cycle (first cycle after run-in
      cycles) of pazopanib (GW786034) therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 (days 1-14
      of courses 1 and 2). Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo urine and blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study
      for correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  