
    
      This is a prospective observational study designed to assess serial changes in quantitative
      respiratory parameters in patients on different modes of MV e.g. synchronized intermittent
      mandatory ventilation, controlled mechanical ventilation and pressure support ventilation.
      This strategy will compare serial changes in diaphragm muscle parameters in ventilator
      strategies that provide different level of spontaneous respiratory effort and targets for MV.
      The study will be carried out at Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center. The protocol has been
      approved by the Institutional Review Board. All adult (>18 years) patients admitted to an ICU
      will be screened. Written informed consent will be obtained from each patient or their
      surrogate.

      Daily ultrasound studies will be done on the diaphragm muscle. The first study will be
      conducted within 48 hours of ICU admission. Serial exams will be repeated daily until the
      patients are extubated or transferred out of the ICU. A maximum of 7 ultrasound studies will
      be performed since the focus is to demonstrate the utility of early serial changes in
      measurable parameters on ultrasound. Images will be acquired on both sides during quiet
      breathing with the patient's arms relaxed by the side in a neutral position while lying with
      the head of bed at 30 degrees. Most ICU patients are in this position. Diaphragm muscle image
      at end expiration on each side will be acquired in B mode with a 6-13 MHz transducer in the
      mid axillary line using the intercostal approach. Diaphragm excursion will be measured
      bilaterally through anterior subcostal approach in the M mode through a 2-5 MHz transducer.
      Images will be acquired in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the AANEM position
      statement. Each ultrasound examination will be done at a time when it does not interfere with
      concurrent ongoing nursing & medical care.

      To determine the effect of the serial changes that occur in respiratory muscle thickness and
      echodensity on MV, linear regression models will be applied. The distribution of the outcome
      variables and the need for any transformation to approximate normality will be checked. The
      outcome variables are serial changes between first and last visit diaphragm muscle thickness
      and echodensity. The covariate of interest is the mode of MV. The confounding variables are
      neurological disease, acute lung injury, cumulative fluid balance, age, BMI, history of
      smoking, duration between the first and last ultrasound examination and the nutritional
      status (albumin, cumulative calorie intake and type of tube feeds). Since serial changes are
      the outcome variables, besides the potential confounders, baseline outcome measures will be
      also adjusted in the regression models. Model selection approaches will be used to select the
      confounding variables adjusted in the models. Furthermore, to consider the changes across
      different ultrasound visits, first the individual trajectories of the outcome variables will
      be displayed graphically. Then, the mixed effects model will be used to examine the
      associations. This model can handle repeated measures over time by modeling the covariance
      structure. The covariates will be the same as described previously for the linear regression
      model. Logistic regression models will then be used to determine if the serial changes in
      diaphragm muscle thickness and echodensity predict the total number of days on MV, success at
      SBTs and successful extubation.

      Diaphragm ultrasound is a promising new method for evaluating the diaphragm during MV. The
      investigators feel that the study proposal is extremely relevant in its ability to explore a
      novel approach to assess the risk of extubation failure, very early on, in the course of MV
      based on change in muscle echotexture using a noninvasive bedside tool. The investigators
      propose that changes in diaphragm configuration associated with MV correlate to clinical
      outcomes as measured by days on MV and extubation failure. The early serial changes detected
      by ultrasound suggest a potential benefit of proactive early therapies designed to preserve
      respiratory muscle architecture to reduce days on MV and prevent extubation failure. The
      investigators further hypothesize that different ventilator modes may affect these changes
      differentially and these changes might be prevented by titrating ventilatory support to
      maintain normal levels of respiratory effort. If spontaneously breathing patients and
      patients on low level of ventilatory support show differential changes on diaphragm muscle
      parameters compared to patients on controlled modes and higher ventilatory support, clinical
      protocols might need to emphasize alternate strategies that focus on "muscle protective" or
      "muscle restorative" ventilation. Ultrasound can also be used to develop clinical paradigms
      that involve inspiratory muscle training in helping patients who have failed extubation in
      getting liberated from MV.

      The goals are to use the pilot data generated through this grant to power and design a
      randomized controlled trial of a "muscle protective" or "muscle restorative" ventilation
      strategy and assess its effectiveness in reducing days on MV and extubation failure compared
      to current medical practice. This team approach will involve a novel collaboration of key
      members with expertise in muscle ultrasound, mechanical ventilation, mechanisms of muscle
      wasting related to acute lung injury and physiological effects of exercise on respiratory
      muscle hence representing critical input into developing clinical strategies to assess and
      reduce the burden of extubation failure. The investigators believe this approach is
      innovative in aiming to use a non-invasive bedside clinical tool to develop "muscle
      protective" and "muscle restorative" ventilator strategies with a focus on early respiratory
      rehabilitation in critically ill patients on MV.
    
  