
    
      To determine if glycine produces improvement in negative symptoms and D-cycloserine produces
      worsening in symptoms compared to placebo, patients will undergo a double blind study of
      d-cycloserine and glycine treatment added to clozapine.

      Clozapine is more effective for negative symptoms of schizophrenia than conventional
      neuroleptics, but the neurochemical actions contributing to this superior clinical efficacy
      remain unclear. Recent evidence points to a role for glutamatergic dysregulation in
      schizophrenia, as well as important differences between conventional agents and clozapine in
      effects upon glutamatergic systems. D-cycloserine, a partial agonist at the glycine
      modulatory site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, improves negative symptoms when
      added to conventional agents and worsens negative symptoms when added to clozapine. High-dose
      glycine also improves negative symptoms and has provided preliminary evidence suggesting that
      glycine improves negative symptoms when added to clozapine. Serum concentrations of glycine
      predicted response to both high-dose glycine and D-cycloserine. Both clozapine and
      D-cycloserine may improve negative symptoms by activation of the glycine modulatory site of
      the NMDA receptor complex. Because D-cycloserine is a partial agonist, it may act as an
      antagonist at the glycine site in the presence of clozapine, whereas the full agonist,
      glycine, would not be expected to worsen negative symptoms in the presence of clozapine.

      This study proposes to administer a fixed-dose of D-cycloserine, glycine, or placebo added to
      clozapine in 45 patients with schizophrenia. Because assessments are standardized between
      studies, results from this study can be compared with results from a previous study of
      D-cycloserine added to conventional neuroleptic.

      The study was ultimately suspended before participants were enrolled, due to definitive
      findings indicating that pairing treatment of D-cycloserine with Clozapine resulted in
      worsening of negative symptoms.
    
  