
    
      Clinical, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, with analysis by
      intention to treat.

      50 individuals will be selected with a diagnosis of diabetes / hypertension and has been
      followed in Diabetic Nephropathy Clinic of the Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of
      Campinas (UNICAMP). Participants are divided into 02 groups: 1) 25 patients treated with
      maximum dose of ACE-I and / or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARBs) + Placebo (absence of
      epigallocatechin gallate) and 2) treated 25 patients with maximum dose of ACE-I and / or ARBs
      + green tea (epigallocatechin gallate).

      The patients will receive four capsules Polyphenol E - epigallocatechin gallate (Polyphenon
      Pharma, NY) per day, corresponding to 800 mg of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), or placebo
      (no epigallocatechin gallate) for 3 months. Patients will not be aware of the treatment they
      are receiving. The subjects will be allocated for the treatment or placebo, stratified by
      sex. To avoid the influence of researchers, the randomization list will be generated and
      maintained by trained personnel in a different location from the study. Before treatment and
      immediately after 3 months of treatment will be obtained in the primary outcome measures
      (albuminuria) and secondary (plasma metabolites of flavonoids, level of urinary
      F2-isoprostane and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine). In these same times will be obtained: blood
      biochemistry (glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, urea, creatinine, sodium, potassium, blood
      count, calcium, phosphorus, cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, uric acid), 3 samples of
      first morning urine to determine albuminuria, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), blood
      pressure measurement of 24 h, physical examination, weight, blood pressure and heart rate.
      Adherence to the study will be evaluated by weekly phone and the expected increase in plasma
      of flavonoids using the green tea (epigallocatechin gallate). The antihypertensive drug may
      be adjusted to obtain the desired pressure (<130/80 mmHg).
    
  