
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Acute cardiac ischemia (ACI), including acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and unstable angina
      pectoris, is the leading cause of death in women in the US. Despite growing interest in
      ischemic (coronary) cardiac disease in women, little research has focused on women in the
      most common site of ACI initial evaluation and care: the emergency department (ED). Improving
      medical care quality and outcomes for ACI in women will require an understanding of gender's
      influence on initial ED presentation, diagnosis, triage, treatment, and outcomes.The detail
      of prospectively-collected data and number of patients available for this project with the
      resulting large statistical power (while savings the cost of the $1.8 million ACI-TIPI Trial
      data collection effort) and the experience of the CCHSR in over a decade of related studies
      of factors influencing the triage, treatment, and outcome of ED patients with ACI, provide
      this project with substantial promise of new and useful results.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The five studies included. STUDY I: Were women's emergency department (ED) presentations of
      ACI different from men's? STUDY II: Were there differences between women and men in the ED
      diagnosis and triage of patients with chest pain and other symptoms suggestive of ACI? STUDY
      III: Were there differences between women and men in the use of non-invasive and invasive
      treatments among patients presenting to the ED with ACI? STUDY IV: Were there significant
      differences between women and men in medical outcomes during the acute event and within 30
      days following ED presentation with ACI? STUDY V: Had differences between women and men in
      their ED presentation, diagnosis, and/or triage for chest pain or other symptoms compatible
      with ACI changed over the past 10-15 years? In studying the impact of gender, these studies
      also included analyses for primary and interaction effects related to patient
      sociodemographic features, ED presenting clinical features, physician type and training,
      hospital type and ED setting, health insurance type, and include adjustments for patients'
      probabilities of having ACI as well as their likelihood of acute cardiac mortality.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  