
    
      ARDS is a hot topic due to its high morbidity and mortality. Severe ACP is independent
      predictor of mortality of ARDS and mortality of patients of ARDS with ACP is up to 48% to
      60%. Therefore, prevention and treatment of ACP is key of improvement of mortality of ARDS
      patients. The occurrence of ACP is closely related to elevated RV afterload, which is due to
      pulmonary vascular spasm (caused by hypoxia and hypercapnia) and effect of cardiopulmonary
      interaction (due to inadequate mechanical ventilation), as well as the factors such as
      inadequate fluid treatment and other inadequate treatments. Therefore, ARDS with right
      ventricular dysfunction is hard to treat and easy to aggravate.

      Critical care ultrasound could show pathophysiologic changes of lung and ventricular
      interaction and direct etiological treatment and pulmonary artery catheter could perform
      continuous and accurate monitoring. Therefore, Critical care ultrasound and PAC have their
      own advantages respectively and is complementary to each other theoretically. Experts
      opinions recommend echocardiography is mandatory and PAC could be considered in ventilated
      ARDS patients. However, there is no acknowledged therapeutic protocol, and no one know how to
      combine these two monitor tools, including specific application protocol, integration of
      parameters and the decision tree.

      We had demonstrated the feasibility of combined monitoring protocol oriented delicate fluid
      management and mechanical ventilation, and the value of kidney protection under systemic
      treatment of optimized monitoring through the kidney contrast-enhanced ultrasonography. At
      the same time, we preliminary built the systemic diagnostic and treatment decision tree and
      provided the way and entry point of our study.

      We hypothesize that combined critical care ultrasound and PAC monitoring-oriented therapy
      protocol (CUP protocol), would improve prognosis of patients of ARDS with right ventricular
      dysfunction.

      Therefore, the overall goal of the study is: 1) To build the combined critical care
      ultrasound and PAC monitoring-oriented therapy protocol （CUP Protocol）in detail for patients
      of ARDS with RV dysfunction. Advantage of CUP protocol is that it directly aims at key
      parameters that we need for the prevention and treatment of such patients; we could improve
      the mechanical ventilation protocol, unequal pulmonary lesions, hemodynamics management and
      reduce pulmonary artery pressure according to these parameters, so that to improve the
      prognosis of the patients.2) To verify the value of CUP Protocol in ARDS with ACP.
    
  