
    
      Study Treatment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive IMRT.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive PBT.

      You will receive radiation therapy 1 time each day, 5 days a week (Monday through Friday) for
      up to 28 treatments.

      Your doctor may think it is in your best interest to also receive chemotherapy while you are
      receiving radiation therapy. If this occurs, you will sign a separate consent form for these
      drugs with a full description of how they are given and the risks they may cause.

      Study Visits:

      Before you begin receiving radiation therapy, you will have a baseline visit. The following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have a PET/CT or CT scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have lung function tests

        -  You will complete the symptom and quality of life questionnaires.

        -  Your esophagus will be examined using an endoscope. If the doctor thinks it is needed,
           you will have a biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      You will then have a study visit every week while you are receiving radiation therapy. The
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status, weight, and vital signs will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will complete the symptom and quality of life questionnaires.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive radiation therapy for up to 28 treatments (about 5½ weeks). You will no
      longer be able to receive radiation therapy if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up:

      After you stop receiving radiation therapy, there will be a 4-6 week break. During this time,
      you will contacted 2 times each week to complete the symptom and quality of life
      questionnaires. You will receive a call from an automated calling service or from the study
      staff at a scheduled time of your choosing. You will continue to be followed routinely during
      treatment and for follow-up visits and tests.

      About 4-6 weeks after you stop receiving radiation therapy, the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status, weight, and vital signs will be recorded.

        -  You will have a PET/CT scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have lung function tests.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will complete the symptom and quality of life questionnaires.

        -  Your esophagus will be examined using an endoscope. If the doctor thinks it is needed,
           you will have a biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      If your doctor thinks it is in your best interest after you have completed radiation therapy,
      you will have surgery to remove the tumor. You will sign a separate consent form that
      describes the procedure and its risks. As part of this study, the study doctor will check you
      for side effects and discomfort after the surgery.

      Every 3-4 months for 2 years, and then every 4-6 months for the next 3 years, you will have
      follow-up visits. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status, weight, and vital signs will be recorded.

        -  You will have either a CT or a PET/CT scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will complete the symptom and quality of life questionnaires. (If the disease gets
           worse, these questionnaires will no longer be completed.)

      Additionally, the following tests and procedures will be performed at follow-up visits only
      when the doctor thinks they are needed:

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) may be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You may have lung function tests.

        -  Your esophagus will be examined using an endoscope. If the doctor thinks it is needed,
           you will have a biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      You may be contacted by the study staff to ask about your health, even if you choose not to
      return to MD Anderson for follow-up visits after completing treatment for esophageal cancer.

      This is an investigational study. IMRT and PBT are delivered using FDA-approved and
      commercially available methods. It is investigational to compare IMRT to PBT.

      Up to 180 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  