
    
      The purposes of this proposal are to (1) develop pilot data of a treatment strategy that
      manipulates phosphate loading in an effort to ameliorate the development of secondary
      hyperparathyroidism by increasing endogenous calcitriol levels, which itself, along with
      decreased phosphate levels, may be potential survival factors; (2) examine the effect of
      phosphorus restriction/fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23)reduction strategies on insulin
      resistance and cardiac structure and function in individuals with renal dysfunction. If this
      proof-of-concept study validates our approach, we will embark on larger trials with extended
      follow up that would aim to show that the treatment window of phosphate reduction strategies
      should be expanded to the millions of normophosphatemic patients with early-stage CKD with
      the ultimate goal being improved survival.

      We hypothesize will test the following hypotheses:

        1. Decreased dietary phosphorus loading in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with
           normal serum phosphate levels, through dietary restriction, treatment with dietary
           phosphate binders or a combination of both, will lead to decreased FGF-23 levels,
           increased calcitriol levels and decreased parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. In an effort
           to understand the magnitude and effectiveness of our interventions according to CKD
           stage, we will test the hypothesis in an equal number of stage 3a (estimated Glomerular
           Filtration Rate or eGFR 45 - 60 ml/min), stage 3b (eGFR 30 - 45 ml/min) and stage 4
           (eGFR 15 - 30 ml/min) CKD patients. This will allow us to define the optimal timing
           along the spectrum of CKD when our interventions will be most effective which will be
           critical for planning future longer term outcome studies.

        2. Subjects who receive phosphorus reduction strategies will display increased calcitriol
           levels and decreased insulin resistance from baseline to post-intervention compared to
           subjects who are randomized to the control arm. The degree of improvement will be
           modulated such that those who receive both dietary phosphorus restriction and phosphorus
           binders will display the greatest change.

        3. Decreased levels of FGF-23, resulting from phosphorus restriction interventions, will be
           associated with improved cardiac function, particularly measures of diastolic function
           as evaluated by pre- and post-intervention echocardiograms.

      Overview of Study Design

        -  Randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled, physiological, crossover study with a 2
           x 2 factorial design of CKD patients

        -  Written, informed consent will be obtained from all potential subjects at an initial
           screening visit at the General Clinical Research Center (GCRC), after which they will
           undergo a brief history and physical, and baseline blood measurements to determine
           eligibility.

        -  A certified nutritionist will evaluate subjects' baseline dietary intake during the two
           week run-in period.

        -  Eligible subjects will provide two 24-hour urine collections on separate days prior to
           initiating the protocol to calculate their creatinine clearance and estimate their mean
           urinary Pi and calcium excretion while eating their usual diets.

        -  This run-in period will be followed by randomization to binders (Lanthanum Carbonate)
           vs. placebo and to a phosphorus restricted vs. unrestricted diet

        -  25% of subjects will receive binders + restricted diet; 25% binders + unrestricted diet;
           25% placebo + restricted diet; and 25% placebo + unrestricted diet (the control group)

        -  Block randomization will ensure that the 4 intervention groups will include 10 subjects
           each from CKD stages 3a, 3b and 4 (120 total)

        -  The nutrition interventions will be managed by a certified nutritionist

        -  Subjects who are randomized to the unrestricted phosphorus diet arms will be encouraged
           to maintain their normal eating habits and will not receive any specific dietary
           counseling from the nutritionist.

        -  Subjects who are randomized to the phosphorus restriction arms will receive dietary
           counseling to reduce their phosphorus intake to a target of 900mg/day. If their intake
           is already estimated to be below that level, they will be encouraged to maintain their
           current intake. Subjects with lower phosphorus intake at baseline (<900 mg/d) who are
           randomized to the unrestricted phosphorus diet will not be encouraged to increase their
           intake.

        -  All subjects will take a pill, either the phosphorus binder lanthanum carbonate or a
           placebo, to ensure subject blinding.

        -  The nutritionist will meet with all subjects regardless of whether they are consuming a
           reduced phosphate diet or their normal diet. Since it is difficult to reduce phosphorus
           intake, subjects who are randomized to phosphorus restriction arms will be aware of
           their intervention. However, subjects who are randomized to the unrestricted phosphorus
           diet will not be told of their randomization. The nutritionist will counsel them on
           healthy eating habits as a form of "placebo".

        -  Three months of follow up post randomization, during which:

             -  Fasting blood and urine measures will be repeated every two weeks after
                randomization throughout the three month intervention. Data for the study endpoints
                as well as safety data (see below) will be collected at these time points.

             -  A certified nutritionist will counsel subjects randomized to the phosphorus
                restricted diet on how to substitute foods in their diet that are high in
                phosphorus with foods of equivalent nutritional value that are lower in phosphorus
                using counseling techniques employed in routine clinical practice. The nutritionist
                will not advise subjects that are randomized to an unrestricted phosphorus diet to
                change their eating habits in any way.

             -  The nutritionist will use 3-day food records to evaluate the intake of all study
                subjects over the 3 month intervention. Subjects will receive their first 3-day
                food record form at the screening visit (visit 1) and return it on visit 2 to be
                examined by the study nutritionist in preparation for counseling. After the initial
                counseling session, subjects will bring their completed 3-day food records to the
                GCRC at visits 4, 7 and 9.

        -  All subjects will undergo a limited echocardiogram to measure physiological changes in
           diastolic function pre- and post-intervention.
    
  