
    
      RATIONALE AND RESEARCH QUESTION Distal pancreatectomy (DP) is defined as the resection of the
      left portion of the pancreas extending from the neck to the tail of the gland. DP is burdened
      by the occurrence of clinically-relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) in a
      significant proportion of patients.Traditionally, during DP drains were placed
      intraoperatively in proximity of the pancreatic stump to mitigate the potential occurrence of
      POPF. Postoperatively, drains were usually kept in place until a POPF was ruled out by the
      presence of drain fluid amylase (DFA) values lower than 3-fold the upper limit of normal
      serum amylase, and a non "sinister" appearance of drain fluid in accordance with the
      International Study Group on Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS) definition. For this reason, drains
      were usually maintained in place after surgery for at least 5 - 7 days. Although there is
      some preliminary evidence that early drain removal in the subgroup of patients with DFA1 <
      2,000 U/L, no prospective study has yet evaluated the impact of an early drain removal
      strategy compared to standard management. Therefore, the overall aim of this study is to
      contribute evidence about the effect of an early drain removal policy on postoperative
      outcomes following distal pancreatectomy.

      The primary research question is to evaluate to what extent does early postoperative drain
      removal according to a validated DFA1 impact on clinically-relevant POPF rate after distal
      pancreatectomy in comparison to standard drain management. The primary (confirmatory)
      hypothesis is that, early drain removal will result in a reduced proportion of patients
      experiencing grade B-C POPF according to ISGPS definition.

      Furthermore the exploratory hypotheses that, in comparison to standard care, early drain
      removal will: (1) reduce time to postoperative functional recovery, (2) reduce number and
      severity of postoperative complications, (3) reduce postoperative surgical site infections,
      (4) improve self-reported physical function status, (5) improve generic health-related
      quality of life and (6) be cost-effective, will be tested.

      STUDY DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS The study is designed as a two-group, assessor-blind,
      randomized trial. Participants will be randomly assigned with a 1:1 ratio into one of two
      groups: (1) standard drain management or (2) early drain removal strategy. The intervention
      will be provided during hospital stay. Adult people with pancreatic body or tail diseases
      (i.e. pancreatic cancer, cystic neoplasms, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, etc.) planned
      for distal pancreatectomy with or without splenectomy at the San Raffaele Hospital IRCCS
      (HSR) will be considered for inclusion.

      RECRUITMENT PROCESS

      The step-by-step recruitment process is described below:

        1. Patients scheduled for elective distal pancreatectomy who meet the inclusion/exclusion
           criteria will be informed about the study by a surgeon at their first office
           consultation

        2. If the patient has interest in participating in the study, at the preoperative clinic
           visit or at the time of hospital admission, a trial investigator will discuss the study
           in detail with the patient

        3. The potential participant or their legal representative will read the consent form. Once
           the informed consent is signed and the patient enrolled in the study, preoperative
           assessment will be undertaken

      SURGICAL TECHNIQUE The standard surgical procedure for DP will be performed and will not be
      influenced by this study protocol. The choice of minimally invasive versus open technique
      will be at surgeon's discretion. As a general rule, patients with benign lesions or
      neuroendocrine tumors will be approached laparoscopically, while pancreatic cancer cases are
      discussed on an individual basis according to tumor location and vessel proximity.
      Splenectomy and standard lymphadenectomy will be routinely performed in cancer patients. A
      spleen preserving procedure with preservation of splenic vessels will be attempted only in
      non-neoplastic cases at surgeon's discretion. Pancreatic stump transection will be performed
      with a stapler in laparoscopic procedures, whereas in open procedures the pancreas will be
      cut using the scalpel followed by selective suturing of the pancreatic duct when visible.

      To evaluate the association between pancreatic parenchymal structure and occurrence of POPF,
      in addition to standard pathology assessment, the pancreatic specimen will undergo a specific
      pathological evaluation. Haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained sections (between 1 and 4 for
      each case) of the pancreatic resection margin will be reviewed by two expert pancreatic
      pathologists, blinded to all clinical information. All the definitive slides will be assessed
      for their acinar, fat and fibrosis content as a proportion of the total surface area. Acinar,
      fat and fibrosis scores will then calculated for each patient so that their sum is equal to
      was 100%. The final score for each patient will be the result of two pathologists reached a
      consensus agreement by the two pathologists.on the scoring of each patient.

      DRAIN MANAGEMENT

      At the end of the operation, after reassessing exclusion criteria, participants will be
      randomized into one of two groups:

        1. Standard postoperative drain management: Participants randomized to this group will
           receive the current standard of care at our institution. The drain will be maintained at
           least until postoperative day 5. If DFA on POD 5 is lower than 3-fold the upper limit of
           normal serum amylase value, and/or the drain fluid does not appear "sinister" (i.e.
           varying from dark brown to greenish fluid to milky water to clear "spring water"
           pancreatic juice like appearance) according to the clinical team, the drain will be
           removed. If the drain is maintained in place beyond POD 5, it will be removed inhospital
           or after discharge when the daily amount is lower than 10 ml and there are no signs of
           ongoing infection.

        2. Early drain removal: Participants randomized to this group, will have an early drain
           removal (before POD 3) if DFA on POD1 is lower than 2000 U/L and/or the drain fluid does
           not appear "sinister" (i.e. varying from dark brown to greenish fluid to milky water to
           clear "spring water" pancreatic juice like appearance) according to the clinical team.
           If DFA is greater than 2000 U/L, the drain will be maintained in place. If the sample on
           POD1 DFA is not available (e.g. drainage fluid is viscous and amylase value cannot be
           evaluated) or the sample could not be analyzed (e.g. the fluid collection tube is lost
           or not sealed) DFA will be evaluated on POD2, and drain removal will be considered if
           DFA is lower than 2000 U/L. If DFA on POD 3 is lower than 300 U/L, that is 3-fold the
           upper limit of normal serum amylase value, and/or the drain fluid does not appear
           "sinister" (i.e. varying from dark brown to greenish fluid to milky water to clear
           "spring water" pancreatic juice like appearance) according to the clinical team, the
           drain will be removed. Otherwise, the drain will be kept in place and .the patient will
           then follow standard postoperative drain management as described above.

      All patients will measure serum amylase and drain fluid amylase along with other routine
      postoperative laboratory tests on POD 1 - 3 - 5 as the current standard of care.

      Furthermore, as drain fluid microbial contamination is considered to play a potential role
      for the POPF occurrence, a drain fluid culture for aerobic and /anaerobic microorganisms will
      be performed on POD1 (baseline) and POD5, in order to evaluate the predictive ability of
      early bacterial contamination in the abdominal fluid for clinically relevant POPF.

      MEASUREMENTS AND OUTCOMES Demographic data, medical history, laboratory values and
      information relevant to the surgical procedure will be recorded. The main (confirmatory)
      outcome of interest will be the occurrence of CF-POPF at 90 days after surgery, defined as
      grade B or C POPF according to the 2016 ISGPS definition.

      The proportion of patients discharged home without an abdominal drain represents the
      explanatory outcome measure. It will be evaluated at time of hospital discharge.

      Time to functional recovery (TFR) will be measured by subtracting the date of surgery from
      the date when participants achieves standardized criteria (tolerance of oral intake, recovery
      of lower gastrointestinal function, adequate pain control on oral analgesia, ability to
      mobilize and self-care and no evidence of untreated medical problems).

      Postoperative complications occurring during the index admission or in a subsequent
      readmission, when related to surgery, will be recorded up to 90 days after surgery and graded
      by severity using the Dindo-Clavien classification. Additionally, the Comprehensive
      Complication Index will be calculated.

      Postoperative morbidity at 90 days after surgery will include:

        -  Surgical site infections classified as superficial incisional, deep incisional or
           organ-space according to the definition by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention

        -  Post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage and delayed gastric empting as defined by the ISGPS
           Self-reported activity status will be measured using the Duke Activity Status Index
           (DASI) and Generic heath related quality of life will be measured using the Patient
           Reported Outcome Measure Information System (PROMIS)-29+2 Profile v2.1. These
           questionnaires will be completed before surgery, at 15, 30 and 90 days after surgery.
           Cost-effectiveness will be estimated by the ratio of differences in costs to differences
           in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) between the two groups.

      BLINDED ASSESSMENT An examiner blinded to the participants' treatment allocation will obtain
      all measures. The code for group allocation will not be revealed until all analyses are
      completed. The effectiveness of blinding will be estimated by asking the assessor to guess
      the participant's group allocation at the completion of the 90 days assessment. It is not
      possible to blind the participants to their group assignment.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND TIMELINES Recent studies carried at the HRS Division of
      Pancreatic Surgery showed that, when standard drain management is used, the proportion of
      patients developing CR-POPF is approximately 46%. Sample size requirement for the present
      study was estimated for an α level of 0.05 and 80% power to detect a 23% reduction in this
      proportion (risk ratio 0.23/0.46=0.5). According to this estimate, a sample of 66
      participants per group is considered sufficient for our analysis. A sample size of 75
      participants per group (total sample of 150) is targeted to account for possible dropouts.
      Regression models will be used to test the main hypothesis related to the superiority of
      early drain removal based on a reduction of CR-POPF at 90-days after surgery. The
      randomization list will be created with the "Block randomization" rule, in order to reduce
      bias and achieve balance in the allocation of participants to the two arms.

      The Division of Pancreatic Surgery at HSR performs about 90 distal pancreatectomies annually.
      Based on previous trial experience, approximately 90% of these patients will be eligible and
      agree to participate. Therefore, 150 participants could be feasibly enrolled in 21 months.
      With an additional 90 days follow-up required for the primary outcome, the timeline for this
      study is 24 months.

      SAFETY Previously completed studies have shown that early drain removal in patients with DFA1
      values lower than a validated threshold in patients undergoing pancreatic head resection is
      not only safe but beneficial, as it reduces the incidence of CR-POPF and the risk of further
      complications due to the persistence of a foreign body
    
  