
    
      Rationale/Background:

      For a long time diagnostic imaging has been used in planning radiation treatment for the
      carcinoma of the cervix, although it is not the essential part of FIGO staging work up. In
      the past, treatment planning was based on examination under anesthesia (EUA) findings and
      standard portals were used. Various studies have shown high risks of geographical miss and/or
      inappropriate tumor coverage (up to >70%) with the use of standard portals, which was related
      to poor local control. Increasingly, diagnostic/planning CT and MRI imaging are used to plan
      radiation treatment.

      Most patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix, who are not candidates for radical
      hysterectomy, are treated by radiotherapy, often with concomitant chemotherapy with a
      curative intent. Amongst those patients, where cure is not achieved, there are a significant
      proportion who fail first or only in the pelvis. Higher doses of radiation would be expected
      to reduce this risk. With conventional radiotherapy, higher doses of radiation result in a
      higher rate of complications. New technology available at the Cross Cancer Institute
      (tomotherapy + intensity modulated radiation therapy [IMRT]) would be expected to permit
      higher doses of radiation to be delivered but avoid the increased risk of complications.
      Accurate definition of clinical target volume, composed of the cervix, uterus, gross primary
      tumor and the regional lymphatic drainage is required for accurate treatment planning. The
      MRI imaging is expected to be valuable in this regard. Demonstrating this is the immediate
      aim of this study. The investigators' long term aim will be to replace conventional external
      beam radiotherapy with helical tomotherapy. They expect to be able to apply increasing doses
      of radiation to the GTV + CTV and monitor short-term treatment effects with biological
      imaging, principally magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Eventually the investigators hope
      to be able to individualize radiation doses based in part on biological imaging, before and
      during treatment.

      In their center the investigators routinely perform diagnostic and planning CT scans of
      almost all Ca. cervix patients before radiation treatment planning. This study will involve
      one additional MRI scan of the pelvis, which will take about 30 minutes to perform; this
      process has potential benefit in the treatment planning.

      Studies comparing imaging modalities for diagnostic accuracy:

      There are studies in which CT and MRI scans were performed preoperatively and results were
      compared with surgical-pathological outcome to confirm their diagnostic accuracy in terms of
      tumor detection, parametrial invasion, lymph node status and adjacent organ involvement. MRI
      was consistently reported to be more accurate than CT scan in terms of tumor delineation and
      normal organ localization. This is also true for a meta-analysis of 17 eligible studies.

      Studies Comparing Imaging Modalities for Treatment Planning:

      Not surprisingly CT planning was shown to be superior over standard field technique for
      external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) and brachytherapy planning for ca cervix patients.
      There was less chance of geographical miss by using an imaging modality for planning. Studies
      comparing MRI and CT for treatment planning showed that MRI led to significant changes in
      field borders.

      Image Fusion:

      Harms W et al from Germany studied the fusion of CT and MRI images from sixteen patients who
      were treated by interstitial (n=12) and endocavitary (n=4) brachytherapy for recurrent
      cervix, head and neck, sarcoma and vulva carcinoma. They compared conventional
      3D-brachytherapy planning based on CT-information alone to brachytherapy planning based on
      fused CT and MRI data. They measured the accuracy of image fusion using predefined
      corresponding landmarks in the CT and MRI data. They found that an automated algorithm was
      robust and reliable (mean registration error 1.8 mm, range 0.8-4.1 mm, SD 0.9 mm); tumor
      visualization was difficult using CT alone; and brachytherapy treatment planning based on
      fused CT and MRI data enabled better definition of target volume and critical structures as
      compared to treatment planning based on CT alone.

      Patients and Methods:

      Ten patients with a histological diagnosis of cervix carcinoma who are to receive treatment
      at the Cross Cancer Institute will be enrolled in this fusion study. They will go through the
      usual investigations prior to treatment planning, including CT imaging. In addition, patients
      will have an MRI of the pelvis which takes approximately about 30 minutes.

      CT and MRI imaging will be fused using fusion software. Treatment planning for standard four
      field box technique and tomotherapy will be done on CT images as usual and subsequently on
      fused images. Tumor coverage and normal organ doses will be recorded and compared. Tumor
      control probabilities and normal tissue complication probabilities will be calculated for the
      different plans to facilitate objective comparisons.

      Conclusion:

      Most patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix, who are not candidates for a radical
      hysterectomy, are often treated by concomitant chemo-radiation with a curative intent.
      Patients who cannot achieve a cure with this treatment fail first or only in the pelvis. The
      higher doses of radiation would be expected to reduce this risk, which cannot be achieved
      with conventional radiotherapy due to higher rates of complications. Tomotherapy based
      treatment planning would be expected to obtain higher doses of radiation to be delivered but
      avoid the measured risk of complications. More accurate definition of clinical target volume,
      composed of the cervix, uterus, gross primary tumor and the regional lymphatic drainage is
      required for accurate treatment planning. Currently the investigators are planning on the
      basis of CT scan only in their center; MRI scan is consistently shown to be superior over CT
      for treatment. Fusing MRI and CT images are expected to delineate structures more accurately
      compared to CT alone and therefore will be valuable in accurate treatment planning to deliver
      higher doses to CTV without increasing treatment related complications.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess the feasibility of image fusion between MRI and CT for radiotherapy (RT)
           planning in Ca. Cervix

        2. To determine the added value of fused MRI and CT over CT alone for RT planning.
    
  