
    
      Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a debilitating and fatal neurodegenerative disorder that
      characterized pathologically by α-synuclein (aSyn) accumulation in oligodendrocytes, the
      myelinating glial cells of the central nervous system (CNS), and symptomatic therapeutic
      strategies are still limited.

      The parkinsonian type of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) has parkinsonian symptoms as its
      prominent manifestation and may have an initial but short-lived response to levodopa
      (L-dopa). Deep brain stimulation (DBS) at the subthalamic nucleus (STN) or globus pallidus
      interna(GPi) has been an established treatment for Parkinson's disease(PD) patients with
      medically intractable fluctuations and has shown long-term efficacy to improve parkinsonian
      motor symptoms, such as bradykinesia, rigidity and rest tremor. However, DBS therapy is
      mostly ineffective in MSA patients. For the patients with MSA-P, improvement in motor
      function is short-lasting and rapidly followed by the early appearance of freezing of gait
      (FOG) and postural instability that counteracted DBS benefits and often leads to significant
      disability and loss of quality of life. Dopaminergic therapy or other symptomatic medications
      only offer limited alleviation of FOG and often lose their effect over time. Spinal cord
      stimulation (SCS) is a well-established therapy for treating chronic lower back or low limb
      pain neuropathic pain. Recently, some pilot studies demonstrated the safety and significant
      therapeutic outcome of SCS for FOG in PD, MSA-P and primary progressive freezing
      gait（PPFG）patients.

      Can combined DBS with SCS be an alternative approach for symptomatic treatment of
      parkinsonian symptoms and gait-associated problems in patients with MSA-P? The purpose of
      this clinical study is to understand the combined treatment effectiveness for MSA-P.

      It's a a multi-center, prospective, open label clinical study with a 12 months follow-up
      period. The intended study population is individuals suffering from multiple system atrophy
      with predominant parkinsonism. Each subject will complete an enrollment/screening/baseline
      visit, an DBS&SCS implant and activation visit, and 3 months, and 12months follow-up visits.
      Data collected at the enrollment visit after the consent process includes: demographics,
      baseline clinical status, MSA-related medical history, and inclusion/exclusion criteria
      assessment.Baseline assessment includes: Movement Disorder Society Sponsored Revision of the
      Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) III,New Freezing of Gait Questionnaire
      (NFOGQ), Gait and Fall Questionnaire (GFQ), PD-related quality of life (PDQ-39) and Berg
      Balance Scale(BBS). The participants will proceed to implantation after satisfying implant
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Medtronic Model 3389 DBS electrodes (Medtronic, U.S.A.)
      will be implanted in the STN bilaterally using a stereotactic technique, connected to a
      dual-channel ACTIVA Neurostimulator (Medtronic); Paddle-shaped SCS electrode with 16 contacts
      (AdaptiveStim® 39, 565; Medtronic, USA) will be implanted into the epidural space at the
      thoracic levels ranging from T10 to T12. Electrode positions of DBS will be verified by
      postoperative CT-MRI image fusion and electrode position of SCS will be verified by X-ray.
      The stimulators will be turned on within 1 month after electrode implantation surgery. The
      stimulation parameters could vary freely, but medications will be kept constant during the
      study period. At the end of month 12, participants will enter the long-term follow-up in
      which medications could vary freely.
    
  