
    
      In this current proposal, the research plan is based on our pilot study, which randomized
      infants with NAS to receive morphine or clonidine. The treatment groups were similar as to
      mean birth weight, gestational age, Apgar scores, and postnatal age at treatment. Infants
      enrolled had no other medical or surgical complications. Treatment was initiated per our NICU
      standard at the time, and will be continued in this protocol. Total LOS was shorter by about
      1 week in the clonidine (mean of 15 days), compared to 21 days in the morphine group.

      Aims and Objectives:

      To determine whether the treatment of NAS with a non-opiate medication, clonidine, will be
      more effective than morphine

        -  Compare Clonidine and morphine for the treatment of NAS. Compare the efficacy of each
           drug which is determined by duration of treatment in number of days, number of dose
           escalations needed to achieve needed treatment, and the need for second drug treatment.

        -  Evaluate the neurobehavioral performance scores (habituation, orientation, self-
           regulation, motor/reflexes, and stress/ abstinence scales) using the neonatal intensive
           care (NICU) network neurobehavioral scale (NNNS) in both treatment groups. This exam
           will take place after treatment begins, and at one month post-natal age (38-44 weeks
           post menstrual age) or at discharge, whichever comes first.

      To determine whether treatment of NAS with clonidine will result in better early childhood
      outcomes than those treated with morphine • Compare the cognitive, motor and behavioral
      development of children in both treatment groups using the Bayley III Scales of Infant
      Development at 6 months, one and two years of age.

      To build population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models and determine factors that affect
      exposure and response to morphine and clonidine

      • Measure blood levels obtained at random times and correlate to Finnegan scores. The
      pharmacodynamics may help with understanding NAS medications and coping measures in babies.
    
  