
    
      Thymidine kinase 2 (TK2) is a protein involved in the normal function of mitochondria.
      Thymidine kinase 2 deficiency (TK2d) is a form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome and is
      a very rare inherited genetic disorder. TK2d leads to abnormally low amounts of DNA in
      mitochondria and because of the low amount of DNA, the mitochondria are not able to provide
      the energy that cells need to function properly, which causes severe muscle weakness that can
      progress until patients lose the ability to stand, walk, eat, and breathe independently.
      There are no FDA-approved medicines to treat TK2d.

      MT1621 is a therapy that targets the underlying pathophysiology of TK2d by restoring
      mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replication fidelity. MT1621 consists of a combination of
      deoxynucleosides (the building blocks of mtDNA) given orally. Deoxynucleoside combination
      therapy improves nucleotide balance, increases mtDNA copy number, improves cell function, and
      prolongs life in preclinical models of TK2d.

      This is a Phase 3, prospective, multicenter, open-label treatment study to assess the
      efficacy and safety of MT1621 in patients with TK2d. In order to be eligible for this study,
      participants must have the TK2d genetic mutation and must not have ever received MT1621 or
      nucleos(t)ides before entering the study.

      Participants who meet entry criteria will be enrolled in one of the following two groups
      depending on their age at time of enrollment:

      Group A: ≤12 years of age. Participants will receive MT1621 on Day 1 for up to 24 months and
      complete study visits every 3 months where they will undergo safety, motor milestone, and
      functional efficacy assessments.

      Group B: >12 years of age. Participants will undergo up to a 9-month run-in phase where they
      will complete safety and efficacy assessments only to better characterize the natural course
      of late-onset TK2d. Once the run-in phase is complete or upon meeting the escape rules during
      the run-in phase (defined as an objective decline in motor or respiratory status per
      protocol), participants will receive MT1621 and complete safety, motor milestone, and
      functional efficacy assessments for up to 39 months.

      Once all participants have completed the treatment phase as described above, they will
      complete a final follow-up contact 4 weeks after the last dose.
    
  