
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Pragmatic cluster randomized clinical trial

      SETTING:

      Nine Family Medicine Groups (FMGs) take part in the study. FMGs are primary care clinics
      delivering family medicine services. They include physicians and nurses, and collaborate with
      other health professionals.

      Eligible FMGs meet the following criteria:

        1. 2 physicians, 1 nurse, 1 community pharmacist, 1 member of the medical administrative
           support, and 1 other health professional (nutritionist, kinesiologist, or psychologist)
           accept to participate by collaborating to the facilitation activities, if the FMG is
           assigned to the facilitation group;

        2. 1 physician, 1 nurse, 1 community pharmacist and 1 other health professional
           (nutritionist, psychologist, kinesiologist) accept to play a role in the internal
           facilitation team, if the FMG is assigned to the facilitation group;

        3. a room is available for the case manager nurse for the equivalent of one day/week over
           15 months;

        4. 100 eligible patients accept to participate in the study, with a minimum of 15 patients
           per physician participant.

      All FMGs in the TRANSIT study are given access to the TRANSIT program, to the supportive
      clinical tools cliniques, and to a case manager nurse. Training will be offered on the use of
      the electronic directory of health resources and on motivational interview.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      Prior to randomization, each clinician is assigned to one FMG only. Each FMG will be paired
      with 2 others of the same level of CVD preventive care (score <6 or ≥6), as estimated with
      the questionnaire "Assessment of Chronic Illness Care" (ACIC). Usually, medical clinics
      report a score of 5 or less at baseline.

      Participating FMGs (n=9) will be randomly assigned to facilitation (n=6) and to passive
      diffusion (n=3). FMGs will be randomized simultaniously in blocs of 3. For each bloc, 2:1
      ratio (facilitation:passive diffusion) will be respected. Randomization will be stratified in
      fonction of the ACIC score (score <6 or score ≥6). Because of the small number of
      participating FMGs, grouping GMFs in blocs of 3 according to the ACIC score will ensure
      complete blocs are found in each randomization stratum.

      ANALYSIS:

      For all variables, multivariable analysis models taking account the intracluster correlation
      (linear/SAS PROC MIXED) for continuous and categorical variables (logistic/PROC GENMOD) will
      be developed. Significative variables (p<0.2) in bivariable model including the study group
      will be included in the multivariable model. We will then apply a backward selection
      procedure and include in the final model those variables that were statistically significant
      at p < 0.1.
    
  