
    
      To establish the diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of RTE-guided EUS-FNA as
      compared to conventional EUS-FNA in a series of patients with solid pancreatic masses.

      Protocol design Phase II, two-arms, open-label, randomized controlled trial.

      Trial population Patients with solid pancreatic masses detected at abdominal imaging
      (ultrasound, CT-scan or MRI).

      Protocol Treatments

        -  The Treatment arm will undergo RTE-guided EUS-FNA with 25 G needle.

        -  The Control arm will undergo conventional EUS-FNA with 25 G needle.

      Technical procedure

      Under sedation with propofol, EUS will be performed using a curved-array transducer. A 25 G
      needle with a central stylet to protect the aspiration channel of the needle will be
      introduced though the endoscope's working channel. RTE assessment of pancreatic masses will
      be performed using a last generation ultrasound machine, and all suspicious areas at
      elastography (i.e. those appearing in dark blue color as a consequence of higher cellularity
      of tumoral tissue) will be recorded and stored in our database. Beside qualitative assessment
      based on red-green-blue color map, a semi-quantitative approach providing a numeric value
      expressed as strain ratio5 will be undertaken.

      The needle will be then inserted into the most suspicious part ("dark blue") of the lesion
      and immediately after the procedure the stylet will be removed. More than 10 to- and fro-
      movements will be made within the lesion and aspiration will be obtained with a 10 cm3
      suction syringe applied to the hub of FNA device. Up to four passes will be performed. At the
      end of the procedure, the needle will be retracted and the samples fixed in 95% ethanol
      solution. After being grossly checked for adequacy samples will be prepared for cytological
      examination with Papanicolaou staining.

      The reference standard for classification will be surgery or death from PC in those subjects
      unsuitable to surgery. In particular, if after a follow-up of 6 months there will be no sign
      of disease progression or if disease regression will be registered, the lesion will be
      classified as inflammatory.

      Lesions diagnosed as malignant by cytopathology on EUS-FNA sample and finally confirmed by
      surgery or clinical course will be considered to be true positives (TPs); similarly, benign
      aspirates finally diagnosed as benign will be considered to be true negatives (TNs). On the
      other hand, those aspirates apparently benign at cytopathological examination which will be
      finally diagnosed as malignant will be considered to be false negatives (FNs).
      Non-diagnostic/inconclusive samples will be registered as such in the database and for
      analytical purposes when computing diagnostic accuracy will be classified as FNs.

      Primary Endpoint Diagnostic yield of the procedure.

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Diagnostic sensitivity

        -  Diagnostic specificity

        -  Number of passes needed to achieve an adequate sample

        -  Safety

      Sample size and study duration It will be planned to enroll 142 patients (71 per arms) within
      1 year. A minimum follow up of 6 months from the last patient unsuitable to surgery will be
      required.
    
  