
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the common diseases which causes pain and disability with
      increasing age. In developed countries, it is said to be one of the ten diseases which
      decreases functionality most. With a prevalence between 22% - 39%, 7% of which are patients
      who are over 65 years old, and when examined world-wide, it is stated that knee OA is seen
      18% of women and 9,6% of men. Knee OA is characterized by pain, and; functional loss and
      progressive mobility where motions are required a physical activity of lower extremity. The
      disease causes 80% of restriction of motions and 25% of restriction of daily life activities.
      Additionally, along with the loss of proprioception, it can be seen defects of static and
      dynamic postural stability and the loss of balance. The factors of disease cause reduced
      muscle strength, defects of functionality of muscles and reduced workout capacity. According
      to the radiographic classification of Kellgren and Lawrence, quadriceps muscle weakness is
      frequently seen without atrophy and pain in early phases of knee OA of which degree is 0 or
      1. If the symptoms are accompanied by a knee pain, the weakness of muscles will show an
      increase more and cause dysfunction and progression of disease. An increase of force in the
      muscles of quadriceps and hamstring plays a positive role for stability and mobility of
      joints and pain tolerance.

      In the literature, studies with intra-articular HA injection in the treatment of knee OA are
      frequently seen, but the number of studies about the co-injection of HA, CS and GA is
      scarcely any. At the same time, studies investigating the effect of intra-articular
      viscosupplementation injection on isokinetic muscle strength was not observed. Therefore, the
      investigators aimed at investigating the effects of HA, CS and GA injection on isokinetic
      quadriceps and hamstring muscle strengths in our study.
    
  