
    
      Thyrotoxicosis was the biochemical and physiological manifestations of excess thyroid
      hormone. The clinical manifestation was palpitation, heat intolerance, hand tremor, and
      weight loss. The clinical manifestation also included nervous system, including anxiety,
      tension, irritability, hyperactivity, fatigue, and insomnia.

      Where tensions features include restless, short attention span, and the impulse to want to
      move around. Some patients will progress to a non-specific psychiatric disorders. According
      to the study, about 10% of patients will occur very frank psychosis, 3, 31% to 69% of
      patients with depressive symptoms, 61% to 62% of patients with symptoms of anxiety.

      Some studies using reliable evaluation tool to evaluate behavioral changes in patients with
      thyrotoxicosis, such as Clyde emotional scale, multi-faceted personality assessment table
      (Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI)), or observation of a response time to visual or
      audio stimulation. After treatment of thyrotoxicosis, most of these indicators have improved,
      but some indicators were still abnormal after treatment of thyrotoxicosis, such as MMPI and
      voice response time.

      The physiological causes of the changes of these nervous system is not clear. The symptoms
      was improved after the use of sympathetic inhibitors, so presumably this may correlated with
      autonomic nervous system disorders.

      Thyroid hormone receptors are widely distributed in the brain may also be one of the cause.
      But there still some other reasons for the changes of neurological symptoms because
      neurological symptoms may not be back to normal even after thyroid function returned to
      normal. Autoimmune dysfunction affect brain function may be the most possible reason. Graves'
      disease is the most common cause of thyrotoxicosis and it is related to autoimmune thyroid
      antibodies.

      Clinically, some patients of Graves' disease may combined with other autoimmune disease, such
      as Sicca syndrome. The patient may still have nervous personality traits despite normalized
      thyroid function. Some patients even need long-term use of anti-anxiety medication.

      In this study, investigators hope to analyze the personality traits of patients with
      hyperthyroidism,especially patients of Graves' disease, in Taiwan and to observe the changes
      during treatment. Investigators also hope to observe the statistical change of other
      non-thyroid-specific autoimmune index in this thyrotoxicosis patient. After obtaining these
      results, investigators will evaluate whether to continue to study the hypothesis of affection
      of brain of thyrotoxic patients by the abnormal autoimmune system.
    
  