
    
      Enrollment Patients will be enrolled during their acute admission for an ACS. At this visit,
      patients will be introduced to the study and given a follow-up study visit at the MGH Heart
      Center 2 weeks following their ACS. We will also ask them about their physical activity
      levels in the time before their ACS.

      On the date of enrollment, study staff will estimate baseline physical activity using the
      Stanford 7-day Physical Activity Recall Scale (PAR). Additionally, contact information
      (address, phone number, email) will be obtained from the subject along with his/her social
      security number in order to provide a check for compensation.

      Initial Evaluation:

      After enrollment, subjects will have a visit 2 weeks post-ACS in the MGH Heart Center.
      Several procedures will occur during this visit.

        1. Baseline assessments. Subjects will complete self-report measures to assess the
           following:

             -  Gratitude will be assessed using the Gratitude Questionnaire-6 (GQ-6). The GQ-6 is
                a brief, validated six-item measure of dispositional gratitude.

             -  Optimism will be measured using the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R), a short
                6-item rating scale.

             -  Baseline adherence to health behaviors will be measured using items from the MOS
                Specific Adherence Scale (SAS) that ask about diet and medication adherence.

             -  Baseline medical and functional status will be measured using the MOS Short Form-12
                (SF-12). The SF-12 is a cardiac symptom scale adapted from the Women and Ischemia
                Syndrome Evaluation (WISE) study, and the Duke Activity Symptom Index (DASI) for
                function.

             -  Depression will be measured using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9,which is a
                9-item scale.

             -  Anxiety will be measured using the anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and
                Depression Scale (HADS-A). The HADS-A is a 7-item scale.

        2. Biomarker collection. Subjects will also have a single blood draw (2 tablespoons or 10
           ml/cc) for the following biological factors that are important to cardiac health and may
           be modified by psychological states. A total of 15 ml/cc of blood will be drawn.

        3. Chart review for baseline variables. We will review subjects electronic medical record
           to gather data on sociodemographic variables (age, gender), medical information
           (severity of initial ACS), and overall cardiac function.

      3 month phone call:

      Three months after enrolling in the study, we will call participants to help them test the
      accelerometer. We will also schedule their 6-month study visit and repeat all self-report
      measures. Finally, we will remind them to wear the accelerometer for 14 days prior to their
      6-month visit and record their physical activity each day for 14 days. We will schedule this
      call at a convenient time for the participant (on a weekday, weeknight, or weekend).

      Provision of accelerometer:

      One month before their six-month visit, we will mail the Pebble uniaxial accelerometer
      (Fitlinxx, Shelton, CT) to the participant, along with an instruction sheet and technical
      support contact information. We will contact subjects shortly after to make sure the
      accelerometer arrived, and we will have them wear the devices for several days to ensure that
      there are no troubles with fit, operation, or remembering to use the devices.

      6 month assessment:

      Finally, subjects will return to the MGH Heart Center Clinic 6 months post-ACS. At this
      assessment, we will repeat all self-report measures, collect accelerometers, draw blood (2
      tablespoons or 10 ml/cc) for biomarkers, and inquire about readmissions since enrollment. We
      will gather additional information about readmissions from participants' physicians and
      medical records for this exploratory outcome.
    
  