
    
      Sudden Infant Death Syndrome is one of the leading causes of death in infants (Hospital for
      Sick Children, 2016; Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 2016). The first few years are
      crucial as many factors contribute to infants' healthy development and much of the critical
      growth period occurs during sleep. Newborns spend the majority of a day sleeping, up to 16
      hours (Parmelee, Shulz, & Disbrow, 1961). Infants generally breathe irregularly with
      significant breath-to-breath variability and periodic breathing characterizing regular and
      apneic states (Alvaro & Rigatto, 2012). However, when an abnormal rhythm or apneic period
      arises, the situation becomes critical with a limited window of opportunity to save the life
      of a newborn (e.g., Sudden Infant Death Syndrome or Bradycardia). An apneic state occurs when
      there is an absence of respirations for 20 seconds (Alvaro & Rigatto, 2012). The
      characterization of apnea can be divided into different states such as obstructive apnea,
      central apnea, and mixed apnea. Emerging literature in adults indicate a correlation between
      sleep apnea with increased risks of cardiovascular health problems (Wimms, Woehrle,
      Ketheeswaran, Ramanan, & Armitstead, 2016; Wu, Yuan, Wang, Sun, Liu, and Wei, 2016; Hao,
      Xiandao, Li, Jingwu, Jinghua, & Yongxiang, 2016). With the ultimate goal of early detection
      of changes in respiratory rates and patterns, improved methods of monitoring and detection
      along with sounding an alarm will allow for early intervention and potential prevention of
      death or critical illness.

      The study involves evaluating the sensor effectiveness on healthy human participants. The
      participants will spend one night sleeping on the functional bed sheet in the Nursing
      Simulation Centre at York University. Pressure signals will will be recorded during the
      night, and later evaluated for the respiration rate and patterns. Hourly during sleep, the
      researcher will assess and document participants' respiratory rates and patterns, and pulse
      oximeter readings (which includes the oxygen saturation reading and heart rate). Audio-visual
      recording of the participants during their sleep will be captured for support of the
      interpretation of signal anomalies. The data collected from the functional bed sheet will be
      compared to clinical grade hourly manual monitoring of the respiratory rates and patterns by
      reseachers and registered nurses.

      Paricipants will complete a pre-screening form prior to settling in for the night. When ready
      for sleep, participants will be directed to position themselves on the bed sheet and through
      a variety of different sleeping positions (back, front, right side, left side) to establish a
      baseline. During sleep, the sensors on the functional bed sheet will capture participants'
      movement and respiratory indicators. Hourly, the researcher will obtain the physiological
      findings of respiratory rate and rhythm (obtained through observation), and heart rate and
      oxygen saturation level (obtained from the pulse oximeter)

      This study will be followed by a pre-clinical study conducted with infant and adult high
      technology mannequins. The pre-clinical study evaluates the efficacy of the functional bed
      sheet sensors to detect pressure variations, respiratory rates and patterns both within
      normal and abnormal limits. Researchers will evaluate sensor data looking for signal
      deviances. This phase is fundamental and will provide evidence to support the clinical study
      that evaluates the effectiveness of the device on human participants.
    
  