
    
      Augmented neuromuscular training (aNMT) integrates biomechanical screening with
      state-of-the-art augmented reality headsets to display real-time feedback that maps complex
      biomechanical variables onto simple visual feedback stimuli that athletes "control" via their
      own movements. The central hypothesis is that aNMT biofeedback will improve joint mechanics
      in evidence-based measures collected in realistic, sport-specific virtual reality scenarios.
      Specifically, the purpose of this investigation is to determine the efficacy of aNMT
      biofeedback to improve high-risk landing mechanics both in a laboratory task and during
      sport-specific scenarios. Based on the investigator's preliminary data, the investigators
      hypothesize that aNMT biofeedback will produce greater improvements in localized joint
      mechanics compared to neuromuscular training that incorporates sham feedback during the drop
      vertical jump (DVJ) task. In the secondary Aim, the investigators hypothesize aNMT will
      produce improved localized joint mechanics and global injury risk techniques during
      sport-specific maneuvers assessed in immersive virtual environments compared to the sham
      feedback. The expected outcomes will support increased efficiency and enhanced efficacy of
      feedback for personalized and targeted injury prevention training. The positive impact will
      be the improvement of injury risk mechanics and the potential to reduce injury on the field
      of play. A randomized, repeated-measures design will be used to test the two hypotheses for
      Aim 1: First, that aNMT will produce greater improvements in localized joint mechanics
      compared to the sham feedback group during the DVJ task; second, based on the preliminary
      data the investigators expect that innovative aNMT will lead to graduated joint improvements
      and reduced global injury risk mechanics that will exceed the overall task transferred
      reductions in high risk biomechanics following 12 real-time biofeedback training sessions.
      Previously described techniques will be used to measure biomechanical risk factors during a
      DVJ task performed at the beginning and end of the 6-week pre-competition training period.
      Athletes will be randomized into one of two groups: 1) aNMT biofeedback or (2) sham
      (augmented reality glasses with a stimulus that will provide exercise repetition count). Each
      athlete, as well as the statisticians, will be blinded to the intervention. All athletes will
      receive 12 training sessions over a 6-week period during their pre-competition season and
      each of the groups will have longitudinal assessment of biomechanical outcome measures
      captured at each biofeedback session. All participants will complete pre-training testing, 6
      weeks of intervention, post-training testing, and post-season testing.
    
  