
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common genetic diseases affecting children and young
      adults [1]. Lung disease is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in these patients
      and sensitive markers of lung disease in CF are important for directing therapy in these
      patients.

      LCI, measured by multiple breath washout (MBW), has been shown to be more sensitive than
      traditional pulmonary function tests (PFTs) for assessing the treatment effect of novel
      therapies in CF patients [2,3]. However, LCI provides no information regarding the spatial
      distribution of ventilation inhomogeneity within the lungs and improvements in mucus plugging
      of poorly ventilated regions can paradoxically worsen the LCI [4,5]. Thus an imaging
      technique that can capture regional changes in the distribution of ventilation might be
      better suited than LCI to detect treatment effects and could also help to better define the
      utility of LCI as a clinical tool.

      Xe-MRI is a safe, non-ionizing modality for imaging the lungs, providing an accurate spatial
      representation of ventilation inhomogeneity [6]. Xe-MRI has been shown to be effective in
      imaging of adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and CF [6]
      however, there are no published studies using Xe-MRI in children.

      The hypothesis of this study is that Xe-MRI and LCI will provide complimentary information
      when quantifying ventilation inhomogeneity in CF lung disease and that Xe-MRI will be able to
      define patients in whom LCI fails to capture positive effects of treatment. The ultimate goal
      is to develop more sensitive tools for longitudinal monitoring to direct the clinical care of
      CF patients in the future.

      To accomplish this, the investigators will compare the ability of Xe-MRI and LCI to detect
      changes in ventilation inhomogeneity in patients with CF before and after treatment for a
      pulmonary exacerbation, a common pulmonary complication of CF.
    
  