
    
      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversibly binding P2Y12 receptor inhibitor that yields, in a
      dose-dependent fashion, greater and more consistent inhibition of platelet aggregation than
      standard regimens of clopidogrel in patients with stable atherosclerotic disease and ACS.
      However, little information is available regarding its complex effect on thrombogenesis and
      platelet activation in acute coronary syndromes setting. It has been widely demonstrated the
      potential role of MP in several biologic processes known to take part to pathophysiology of
      coronary syndromes, such as inflammation, coagulation and apoptosis. Recent studies focused
      on miRNAs' regulatory activity of several cellular processes, such as proliferation,
      differentiation, development, and cell death, and on their role as biomarkers in ACS. The
      investigators suppose that the observed major efficacy of ticagrelor is related to its
      actions on MP and microRNAs. Considering the major clinical effectiveness shown by ticagrelor
      in comparison with clopidogrel, the investigators hypothesize a more pronounced MP levels
      reduction as a possible mechanism for ticagrelor clinical benefits. Moreover, on the basis of
      the last evidences of microRNA involvement in the ACS pathophysiology, the investigators aim
      to assess the effect of ticagrelor on microRNA expression, in order to provide evidences for
      pleiotropic actions of this drug, which could partially explain its major efficacy in
      reduction of cardiovascular events in ACS patients.

      In summary, principal hypothesis of the study are:

        -  Considering that ticagrelor is a stronger P2Y12 receptor inhibitor than clopidogrel, the
           investigators suppose that an increased inhibition of P2Y12 receptor by ticagrelor could
           reduce circulating levels of platelet and endothelial MP.

        -  In consideration of the observed role of microRNAs in expression of P2Y12 receptor, the
           investigators speculate that patient's susceptibility to P2Y12 receptor inhibitors could
           be influenced by microRNAs levels. Moreover, the investigators suppose that ticagrelor
           could influence microRNAs levels, considered as marker of cardiovascular risk

      Aims of the study are:

        -  to assess MP levels variation in Non ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes (NSTE-ACS)
           patients treated with ticagrelor in addition to low or high acetyl-salicylic acid (ASA),
           in comparison with clopidogrel+ASA treatment, to demonstrate that major clinical
           efficacy of ticagrelor could be partially attributed to its influence on release of MP,
           that have an important role in coronary instability.

        -  to evaluate microRNAs levels variation in Non ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes
           (NSTE-ACS) patients treated with ticagrelor in addition to low or high ASA, in
           comparison with clopidogrel+ASA treatment, and to study possible correlations between
           microRNAs and MP levels, supposing that the ability of ticagrelor in reduced MP level
           could be related with microRNAs expression.
    
  