
    
      Eligible subjects enrolled in the study will receive EEDVSMit by IV injection twice weekly as
      a 20 min infusion beginning at study day 1 for the first cycle (4 weeks) then weekly for
      subsequent cycles. Subjects will undergo radiological assessment of their tumours after the
      first cycle, and every second cycle thereafter. Dosing with EEDVSmit will continue unless
      there is radiographic evidence of progressive disease (PD) per RECIST criteria version 1.1,
      the subject becomes intolerant to the study medication, signs and symptoms of clinical
      progression are evident as determined by the principal investigator, or the
      subject/parent/guardian withdraws consent. Suspected tumour progression should be confirmed
      with a repeat scan after 4 weeks to exclude the possibility of pseudoprogression.

      Determination of EGFR expression for eligibility of subjects will be assessed at the local
      site. In addition, radiological assessment confirming measurable disease by the RECIST
      criteria is also required for entry into the Part B of the study.

      The study will be conducted in two parts: Part A -Dose Exploration and Part B -Dose
      Expansion.

      Part A - Dose Exploration:

      The dose exploration part of the study is aimed at determining a recommended phase 2 dose
      (RP2D) in this patient group. A standard dose escalation with a rolling 6 design will be
      used.

      Part A will commence dosing at one log scale below the maximum dose tested in the recent
      adult recurrent glioma trial (with the first 4 doses administered at 1/10 of the starting
      dose) and escalate to a maximum of 8x109 EEDVSMit evaluating the safety and tolerability, of
      EEDVSMit. The first 4 doses administered will be reduced by a further log reduction.

      Part B - Dose expansion:

      The dose expansion phase (Part B) will begin upon completion of the dose exploration (Part
      A). Up to 12 subjects with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours will be treated at the
      Recommended Phase Two Dose (RPTD). All doses, including the first 4, will be at the same dose
      level established in Part A (RPTD).
    
  