
    
      VELCADE is a drug that blocks growth of cancer cells and helps destroy them. This research
      will help us to determine if VELCADE when combined with chemotherapy is useful in treating
      the leukemia with which you have been diagnosed. Your leukemia is a type that did not respond
      to chemotherapy or has come back after successful therapy.

      VELCADE is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of multiple
      myeloma for patients that have received at least one prior therapy. Multiple Myeloma is a
      type of cancer that develops from blood cells. The dose of the drug being used in this
      research study is the same as what is used for the treatment of myeloma but the number of
      injections is less. VELCADE has, however not been approved by the FDA for use in acute
      leukemia. Mitoxantrone and etoposide, the other two chemotherapy drugs are also used for
      treating leukemia.

      In the first part of the study, we are going to test the safety of VELCADE at different doses
      when given with mitoxantrone and etoposide. You may be enrolled at any one of three doses. In
      the second part, we are going to assess the response to the combination of VELCADE and
      chemotherapy drugs. You will receive VELCADE at the chosen dose based on safety assessment
      from Phase I. It will be administered as an intravenous (through the vein) injection on day-1
      and day-4 of the 5-day schedule. In addition, you will also receive mitoxantrone over 15
      minutes and etoposide over 45 minutes from days 1-5. The first 28 days from the beginning of
      the treatment will be called a treatment cycle.

      On day-14 of the treatment cycle, you will have a bone marrow biopsy done to see if all the
      leukemia cells have disappeared. If there is no evidence of leukemia, then you may receive
      growth factors to help your marrow recover faster. If there is still presence of leukemia, in
      the same amount or more, then the treatment will be considered a failure and you will not
      receive any more of this treatment.

      If there is a partial improvement then you will receive additional cycles of VELCADE with
      chemotherapy as described above until there are no signs of your disease. This is called a
      complete remission.

      Therapy will be withheld at any time if there is concern that you are having side-effects
      that are not medically acceptable. Once the side-effects have resolved, VELCADE therapy may
      be re-started at a lower dose.

      It is estimated that you may require about two to three cycles of therapy.
    
  