
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare systemic autoimmune connective tissue-disease
      characterized by fibrosis, inflammation, and vasculopathy. SSc is responsible for skin
      fibrosis that can either be limited or diffuse. The latter phenotype of the disease is
      commonly associated with visceral involvement and therefore similar to graft versus host
      disease (GvHD) reaction. It can be life threatening in case of pulmonary or cardiovascular
      involvement. Nonetheless SSc remains a severe disease responsible for important disability
      and a poor quality of life.

      There is a growing body of evidence that supports the implication of the JAK-STAT tyrosine
      kinases pathway in the activation of fibroblasts of patients with SSc. A genetic polymorphism
      of STAT4 was found to be associated with the diffuse form of the disease and inhibition of
      STAT4 gene is associated with a decrease in TGF-ß and IL-6 cytokines activation, which are
      two major cytokines implicated in SSc pathogenesis. Recently, Pedroza et al. confirmed the
      implication of STAT3 in skin fibrosis mechanisms. Indeed, the authors showed an enhanced
      activation of STAT3 and demonstrated in vivo that the inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation
      prevented skin fibrosis in a murine model of SSc. These data were confirmed by a work of
      Zhang et al. who showed that the inhibition of JAK1 was also needed to prevent skin and lung
      fibrosis. Altogether these works confirmed the implication of the JAK pathway in fibrosis
      mechanism.

      Itacitinib is a Janus kinase inhibitor that specifically targets JAK1 and decreases STAT3
      phosphorylation. Itacitinib was shown to efficiently treat patients with myelofibrosis,
      rheumatoid arthritis, and chronic plaque psoriasis. Very interestingly, itacitinib efficacy
      has also been reported in patients with acute GvHD. Altogether these data and studies
      reinforced the investigator's working hypothesis.

      The efficacy and safety of this proposal must be tested.
    
  