
    
      The qualitative research will use grounded theory path to interview therapists and patients
      for 60 minutes in the baseline, after 5 weeks treatments and after the 10 weeks treatments.
      The subjective experience of the therapists and patients in two pilot MBCT groups will be
      described and explained. And the entire process of treatments will be participatory observed.

      In the second part of the study, all patients will take blood test and functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) scan in the baseline and after 10 weeks, to gather data in genetics
      and imaging features, which can help the study to discover biological indicators of the
      curative effect. And after the patients and their custodians signed the consent form, all of
      participants will be blindly assigned to three groups by a predetermined random table which
      is generated by Microsoft Excel 2010 for ensuring randomly fair distribution across
      conditions. The investigators will not decode these numbers until the intervention group is
      assigned.

      As the research tools, a range of self-rating scales, other-rating scales and behavioral and
      physiological measures will be mainly applied to assess clinical symptoms of participants at
      baseline (week 0), mid-treatment (week 4), at the end of acute treatment (week 10), and
      during the maintenance phase (week 14, 22 and 34).

      After 10 sessions, all the participants including the non-responders and the responders (ie,
      decrease in Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale [YBOCS] scores ≥ 25%) will enter the
      maintenance phase for 6 months. The participants in MBCT group will continue MBCT treatments
      at home. The participants in drug therapy group will continue on their treatment program
      without changing the type and dosage of medication they have been using. By comparing
      clinical symptoms, such as obsessive and compulsive symptoms, anxiety, depression, quality of
      life and other clinical symptoms and behavior, the study will describe the short-term and
      long-term effects of MBCT in patients with DSM-IV obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
    
  