
    
      Preoperative mechanical bowel preparation (MBP) has been proposed in an attempt to reduce the
      colonic fecal load and to limit the risk of surgical site contamination, thus theoretically
      limiting the risk of postoperative SSI. However, several randomized-controlled trials (RCT)
      and meta-analyses, have suggested the absence of benefit, in term of postoperative morbidity,
      of preoperative MBP before elective colon cancer surgery. A meta-analysis of RCT, comparing
      MBP to no-MBP before elective colon cancer surgery, even suggested that MBP could be
      associated with an increased SSI rate, as compared to no-MBP. These results led the latest
      French surgical guidelines of the Société Française de Chirurgie Digestive (SFCD) to
      recommend the absence of MBP before elective colon cancer surgery.

      However, recent studies suggested that the adjunction of oral antibiotics during MBP could
      help efficiently reduce the risk of postoperative SSI. Indeed, a recent meta-analysis of RCT
      have suggested that patients preoperatively receiving both MBP and oral antibiotics were
      exposed to a significantly reduced risk of postoperative SSI, as compared to patients
      receiving only preoperative MBP. This result was confirmed in a recent RCT which compared
      preoperative MBP and oral antibiotics versus MBP alone in a heterogeneous population of
      patients who underwent laparoscopic colonic or rectal surgery. This latter study reported a
      50% reduction of SSI rate in the "MBP and oral antibiotics" group, as compared to the "MBP
      alone" group. Finally, three recent large retrospective registry studies compared the
      outcomes of four different strategies of preoperative colonic preparation before colorectal
      surgery: 1) MBP and oral antibiotics, 2) MBP alone, 3) Oral antibiotics alone, and 4) No
      colonic preparation. However, to date, no RCT has compared the "No preparation" group, which
      is the gold standard according to the international and French guidelines, to the "MBP and
      oral antibiotics" group.

      The present study is therefore the first double-blinded RCT to compare the SSI rate for 4
      types of colonic preparation before elective laparoscopic colonic surgery: 1) MBP and oral
      antibiotics, 2) MBP alone, 3) Oral antibiotics alone, and 4) No preparation.
    
  