
    
      This is a dose-escalation study of 50 mg or 100 mg cetuximab-IRDye800.

      Clearance of the tumor margin during surgical resection of pancreatic cancer is clinical
      importance, as margin-positive resections are suspected to be associated with rapid emergence
      of distant metastases shortly after surgery. However, pancreatic cancer is known to be
      difficult to visualize intraoperatively. Nonetheless, better detection of tumor tissue might
      improve the rate of complete tumor clearance, thereby improving outcomes. However, in order
      to be actionable, the data from such enhanced tumor detection must be available during the
      resection procedure. This study evaluates the use of a dye, Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW, that is
      administered pre-surgery, and is detectable during the surgical procedure.

      Florescent Imaging Cetuximab is a chimeric (mouse/human) monoclonal antibody that targets the
      epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR). EGFR is highly-expressed in pancreatic ductal
      adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and is a good target for antibody-mediated imaging, due to its
      transmembrane position. Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW is cetuximab labeled with IRDye800, an
      N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) ester infrared dye. IRDye800 has very similar properties compared
      to indocyanine green, and indocyanine green is readily detectable with a number of imaging
      systems. This study evaluates the Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW as a intraoperative labeling agent.

      Patients receive Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW intravenously (IV) at 50 mg or 100 mg over 30 minutes
      to 1 hour on day 0. Within 2 to 5 days, patients undergo surgery with intraoperative imaging.
      Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW is used as part of a tumor-targeted molecular imaging procedure
      operating on the principles of differential accumulation of the antibody-dye conjugate in
      pancreatic tumor tissue vs normal pancreatic tissue vs pancreatitis tissue.

      Excised tissues are prepared as formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) blocks for assessment
      of fluorescent intensity.

      Photoacoustic imaging (PAI) For purposes of non-quantitative comparison, photoacoustic
      imaging (PAI) of the tumor lesions is also conducted. PAI refers to a non-invasive evaluation
      by ultrasound of the area of the resected tumor and surrounding tissue. PAI may have special
      utility for detecting tumors within 5 to 7 mm of depth, with a high degree of spatial
      resolution, which might be useful to enhance generation of tumor-free surgical margins. PAI
      does not utilize ionizing radiation, and should complement and conform to the findings from
      the fluorescent imaging.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      Determine the efficacy of cetuximab-IRDye800 in intraoperatively identifying pancreatic
      cancer compared to surrounding normal pancreatic and extrapancreatic tissue, as measured by
      tumor-to-background ratio.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      Determine the tolerability of the cetuximab IRDye800 as an imaging agent in patients
      undergoing resection of pancreatic cancer.
    
  