
    
      Metformin is the most widely prescribed anti-diabetes medication in the world and the
      first-line therapy for treating type 2 diabetes (T2D) in youth and adults. However, metformin
      s glucose-lowering ability is variable in clinical practice, and efficacy is further limited
      by poor medication adherence because of metformin-associated adverse effects.
      Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms such as bloating, abdominal discomfort, cramping, and diarrhea
      are the most common side effects associated with metformin use occurring in up to 80% of
      individuals at drug initiation and up to 30% in individuals on chronic treatment. In youth
      with type 2 diabetes, the burden of metformin-associated side effects is high because
      metformin is the only oral FDA-approved for treatment and there are no other oral
      alternatives. Therefore, identifying ways to mitigate these GI side effects, especially in
      youth with type 2 diabetes, is of high clinical significance. New data suggest that
      metformin-induced changes in the gut and/ or the microbiome may be related to both its
      beneficial (glucoselowering) and adverse effects. To address this clinical challenge,
      prebiotic fibers that are non-digestible food ingredients, may help to improve metformin
      tolerability by increasing beneficial bacteria and stool metabolites, such as short chain
      fatty acid (SCFA) stool concentrations. This pilot study will test the hypothesis that a
      prebiotic microbiome modulator (MM) - containing prebiotic fibers and polyphenols - will
      reduce GI side effects of metformin at time of initiation and change the stool metabolite
      profile in youth and young adults with T2D treated with metformin, age 10-25 years who are
      not on insulin therapy. The 9-week study will have 2 phases and 6 outpatient visits at the
      NIH Clinical Center. Phase 1 is a 5-week randomized double blind cross-over trial with two
      1-week intervention periods (metformin + prebiotic and metformin + placebo) during which
      subjects will eat a standardized diet. Phase 2 will occur immediately following phase 1 in
      which participants will start an open-label 4-week intervention with metformin and the
      prebiotic MM.
    
  