
    
      A number of studies have explored the role of visual, vestibular and somatosensory systems in
      the control of upright posture. However, the cortical control of postural stability, in
      general, and the role of higher cognitive function in assessment of postural stability, in
      specific, has not been studied extensively. It is well established that certain features of
      postural control change during the advancing years of life so that the stability of posture
      can be a problem in the elderly. However, neural mechanisms of postural stability that
      decline with age and make older adults more prone to falling have not been identified
      specifically. To characterize specific causes of falling in the elderly is problematic,
      because human posture is a product of an extremely complex dynamical system and like any
      other physical activity undergoes dramatic changes in organization throughout the life-span.
      In our previous research we showed the neural activation patterns embodied in the
      electroencephalogram (EEG) were associated with recognition of unstable postures in young
      healthy subjects. In another protocol, we propose that these patterns will systematically
      change with aging, and will result in difficulty to discriminate relevant from irrelevant
      information in the control of upright posture. The present study focuses on the evaluation of
      neural activation patterns underlying recognition of unstable postures in 15 young controls
      and 15 elderly subjects using both the block and event-related functional MRI (fMRI) designs.
      We will first analyze how the frontal-parieto-occipital circuits play a role in perception of
      postural stability in young subjects and then perform similar studies using elderly subjects.
      After the fMRI measurements a detailed evaluation of the haemodynamic response (BOLD) signals
      will be performed. Further analysis will look at the functional connectivity between the
      motion-selective cortical area (V5), the posterior parietal cortex (PP) and the frontal
      cortex (FC), using correlation methods. It is expected that from the study will uncover
      important insights in neural mechanisms as it relates to the self-perception of postural
      stability and its deterioration as a result of aging.
    
  