
    
      Treatment duration in both groups was a mean of 4 weeks. Therapy was performed daily
      excluding weekends and consisted of 45 minutes of individual work with an oncological
      physiotherapist. In the treatment group, manual myofascial techniques were used to decrease
      muscle tension and increase elasticity of the soft tissues in the surgical area as well as in
      tissues that could affect range of motion (ROM) and cause pain. Fascial techniques were used
      together with the following techniques: deep massage of neck and shoulder girdle muscles;
      trigger point therapy; tissue scar treatment in the vicinity of the scar and directly on the
      scar, by stretching, breaking, pulling, as well as static and dynamic rolling; post-isometric
      relaxation (stretching) of shoulder and neck muscles; active release technique of the chest
      and shoulder; selected fascial distortion model techniques; and fascial manipulation
      techniques consisting of developing specific CC-center of coordination and CF-center of
      fusion points in the operated area and the shoulder on the same side. The exact sequence and
      number of procedures differed in each patient according to need as determined by prior
      functional examination. The control group underwent kinesiotherapeutic procedures that
      included various floor gymnastic exercises with gymnastic stick, balls, and/or elastic tapes,
      conventional massage of neck and shoulder girdle muscles and therapeutic exercises to
      increase ROM in the upper limb and in the chest area. Both groups before or after every of
      the treatment procedure underwent ten-minute manual lymphatic drainage in the limb on the
      mastectomy side.

      Patient interviews and diagnostic examinations were performed at baseline (pre-treatment) and
      after treatment finalization. The following variables were assessed during the diagnostic
      examination of the muscle length with Janda's protocol:

      Pectoralis Major - pars clavicularis - the normal length of these fibers allows the patient's
      arm (in an extended position close to the body) to rest below the horizontal.

      Pectoralis Major - pars sternocostalis - the normal length of these fibers allows the
      abducted the patient's arm to 90° to rest below the horizontal.

      Pectoralis Major - pars abdomen - the normal length of these pectoral fibers allows the
      abducted the patient's arm to 150° with slight external rotation to rest in a horizontal
      position.

      Latissimus dorsi - the normal length allows the arm to rest horizontally to the table with
      the lumbar spine flat on the table.

      Descending part of trapezius - the length is assessed qualitatively by noting the end-feel
      resistance. The normal end feel is gradual rather than abrupt.

      Levator scapulae - the length is assessed qualitatively by noting the end-feel resistance.
      The normal end feel is gradual rather than abrupt.
    
  