
    
      Supportive Housing for Families is a care management program that serves families who are
      experiencing child welfare needs (risk of losing custody of children or difficulty regaining
      custody of children) and severe housing needs. The program has been in operation for over 10
      years and has been demonstrating positive outcomes for clients in terms of housing stability
      and family environment outcomes.

      A federally funded, five-year demonstration project and evaluation focused on a new and
      enhanced version of the program, the Intensive Supportive Housing for Families program
      (ISHF). Through a three arm randomized controlled trial, this study compared clients in three
      groups: parents who are randomly assigned to (1) enroll in ISHF, (2) participate in the
      existing Supportive Housing for Families (SHF) program, and (3) receive Child Welfare
      Business as Usual Services. This was the first randomized evaluation of this program, and the
      grant required examination of whether those who participate in an enhanced version of the
      program, which incorporates prompt access to evidence-based interventions, vocational
      services, and trauma services, show superior outcomes than clients randomized to the existing
      program. Further, clients in both of these conditions (SHF and ISHF) were compared to those
      receiving child welfare services in Connecticut as usual (BAU) without a supportive housing
      intervention.

      This research has three components: a) a process evaluation, b) a cost/economic analysis, and
      c) an impact analysis.

      The process evaluation and cost analysis were previously completed while the project was
      ongoing. Now that the project has ended, the final report on all project activities has been
      submitted to the funder, the Administration for Children and Families.

      This impact analysis addressed the following primary research questions:

        1. Do clients who receive supportive housing services (SHF and ISHF interventions combined)
           demonstrate improved child welfare outcomes compared to those in the Child Welfare (DCF)
           Business as Usual (BAU) intervention?

        2. Do clients who receive any supportive housing services (those in the SHF and ISHF
           interventions combined) demonstrate improved parental well-being compared to those in
           the Child Welfare (DCF) Business as Usual (BAU) intervention?

        3. Do clients who receive supportive housing services (SHF and ISHF interventions combined)
           demonstrate improved parenting skills compared to those in the BAU intervention?

        4. Do clients who receive any supportive housing services (those in the SHF and ISHF
           interventions combined) demonstrate increased self-sufficiency compared to those in the
           BAU intervention?

        5. Do clients who receive any supportive housing services (those in the SHF and ISHF
           interventions combined) demonstrate improved child development compared to those in the
           Child Welfare Business as Usual intervention?

        6. Do clients who receive any supportive housing services (those in the SHF and ISHF
           interventions combined) demonstrate improved child well-being compared to those in the
           Child Welfare Business as Usual intervention?

      A set of secondary research questions ask: across each of these outcomes (i.e., child
      welfare, parental well-being, parenting skills, self-sufficiency, child development, child
      well-being), are there differential effects across the three intervention options, ISHF, SHF,
      and BAU [such that those in ISHF show greater improvement than clients in the SHF program who
      show greater improvement than those in BAU]?

      Main outcome measures were assessed at 12, 18, and 24 months post-randomization. Housing
      outcomes included shelter stay and subsidy deployment. Child welfare outcomes included child
      removal and reunification, subsequent allegations and substantiations, and case closure.

      Results: Access to either intervention group was associated with higher family preservation
      and reunification, with service model intensity demonstrating minimal impact. An economic
      evaluation revealed that the intensive model cost the most, but the existing SH program and
      routine care incurred equivalent per-child costs.

      The PI of this research was originally at the University of Connecticut and moved to Chapin
      Hall. The research has concluded and the investigators are drafting a manuscript.
    
  