
    
      For decades the prevalence of smokers has been declining. However, during the last four years
      the prevalence is stagnated. All municipalities are offering support to/ and during smoking
      cessation. Nevertheless, a lot of the municipalities find it very difficult to recruit
      smokers to their programs - in particular smokers with low socioeconomic status.

      Hypothesis: It is assumed that more smokers with low socioeconomic status, which are
      otherwise very difficult to reach with smoking cessation offerings, will attend in municipal
      smoking cessation programs if they are offered a financial incentive. It is also assumed that
      smokers with low socioeconomic status, who have difficulty quitting smoking, will achieve
      higher smoking cessation rates if they are offered a financial incentive of abstinence from
      smoking. The target group of this study is therefore smokers with low socioeconomic status
      (SES).

      The study involves 6 intervention municipalities (3 financial incentives municipalities and 3
      campaign municipalities), and 6 control municipalities. The investigator conducts matched
      randomization at municipality level, and matches the municipalities on number of smokers
      recruited to smoking cessation programs in the previous year (2017).

      All 6 intervention municipalities receive 102.000 DKK (16536,43 UDS) which must be used on
      their intervention. Beside the intervention everything goes on as usual in each municipality.
      Each municipality is its own control and the change will be analyzed after the intervention.
      The prevalence of smokers in each municipality is registered as usual by means of the Health
      Profiles, however not in this study!, which aim not is to measure the number of citizens
      quitting smoking unaided, but solely aim to focus on the municipals smoking cessation
      activities.

        1. Intervention in the 3 financial incentives municipalities: the municipalities will make
           simple invitations and advertisements, showing that smokers can achieve a financial
           incentive of 1200 DKK if they abstinence from smoking.

           The period of a smoking cessation program is 7 weeks, and participants will receive a
           financial incentive as a gift voucher the 4 last meeting days, if validated abstinent
           from smoking.

        2. Intervention in the 3 campaign municipalities: each municipality decides how the
           campaigns/advertisement should look/be like. The campaign should try to target smokers
           with low SES, recommending getting support during smoking cessation.

        3. Control municipalities: 6 "clean" control municipalities perform their smoking cessation
           activities as usual and do not receive any financial resources. They do not know that
           they are control group in a trial.

      The investigators measure validated recruitment- and abstinence rates 6 and 12 months after
      last session.
    
  