
    
      Objective:

      This project will study epigenetic mechanisms, the inheritance of (both Mendelian and
      complex) and biomarkers of Immune Mediated Eye Diseases, in families of many nationalities
      and ethnic backgrounds in order to identify the genes that, when genetically mutated or
      epigenetically regulated, cause immune mediated eye disease, and the pathophysiology through
      which they act.

      Study Population: The number of participants to be enrolled has no logical upper limit, but
      will be at 1,000 during the next five years. Race, age and sex matched controls, anonymous
      volunteers will also be needed to donate a blood sample. The study consists of ascertaining
      individuals and families with multiple individuals, if possible, affected by immune mediated
      ocular disease.

      Design:

      These patients and their families will undergo detailed ophthalmologic examinations and,
      where indicated, additional non-investigational examinations to characterize their ocular
      status. A blood sample will be collected from each individual and immunophenotyped using Flow
      Cytometry. Serum will be isolated for testing serological markers. One or more
      sub-populations of cells (including but not limited to CD4 plus and CD8 plus T cells, B
      cells, CD14 plus monocytes, dendritic cells, NK cells, neutrophils and granulocytes) will be
      isolated. DNA, RNA and chromatin may be isolated for further gene expression profiling and
      epigenetic studies. Association of genetic or epigenetic changes with ocular inflammatory
      disease in patients and their families will be identified using one of the techniques
      including but not limited to DNA-seq, BS-seq, MeDIP-seq, ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, microarray, PCR,
      and multicolor Flow Cytometry staining. DNA samples from the AREDS study, held under the
      DCR/NEI Repository protocol (07-EI-0168), will also be used for analysis. If necessary, the
      gene product or blood sample will be characterized biochemically.

      Outcome Measures:

      Immunophenotyping, gene expression and epigenetic changes will be reported using Statistical
      analysis performed using the t test or ANOVA and post-hoc testing with Fisher s least
      significant difference test. Unless otherwise noted, results are presented as the mean SEM.
      Biochemical, metabolic, and physiological effects will be individualized to the specific
      assay
    
  