
    
      Neuroblastoma is one of the most aggressive childhood tumors arising from neural crest cells.
      Nearly 50% of patients with high risk disease have poor long-term survival even after
      multimodal treatments. Novel immunotherapy targeting tumor-specific antigens has been
      developed to meet the desperate need.

      Disialoganglioside (GD2) is a well-studied tumor associated antigen which is expressed
      uniformly in NB but restrictedly in normal tissue. Over the past few years, CAR-T therapy
      against GD2 in NB has achieved encouraging but modest outcomes. Only a fraction of patients
      achieved measurable responses. Like for many other solid tumors, CAR-T therapy for NB is not
      as effective as for hematologic malignancies.

      In this study, the investigators use "multiple targeting" approach as the strategy to
      overcome the challenge in treating NB. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is expressed
      in normal prostate but is upregulated in prostate tumor. However, PSMA expression is not
      restricted to prostate cancer. By immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining, the investigators
      confirmed that PSMA is expressed in a variety of solid tumors, including brain tumor,
      neuroblastoma and some lymphoma tumor tissues. Therefore, PSMA could potentially serve as a
      promising target for antigen-specific immunotherapy in patients with NB. In addition, CD276
      (B7-H3) is an immune checkpoint molecule highly expressed on many solid tumors including NB.
      CD276 has been characterized to be involved in tumor evasion and thus its expression is
      correlated with poor prognosis. These characteristics make CD276 an attractive candidate for
      immunotherapy. Given the significant variation of tumor antigen expression among patients,
      the investigators aim to examine GD2, PSMA and CD276 expression in each patient's tumor
      sections by IHC staining, and combine two or three highly-expressed targets for the 4SCAR-T
      therapy. This individualized and multi-antigen-targeted approach is a new strategy to
      overcome the limited clinical outcome in the 4SCAR-T therapy against NB.

      The purpose of this clinical study is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of the
      combinational GD2, PSMA and CD276 4SCAR-T cell therapy against NB. Another goal of the study
      is to learn more about the function of the multi-4SCAR-T cells and their persistency in the
      patients.
    
  