
    
      Malaria is the most important human parasitic disease. Although pregnant women are a
      high-risk group, they are almost systematically excluded from clinical trials, for fear of
      teratogenicity and embryotoxicity; thus, we generally lack sufficient information on the
      safety and efficacy of most antimalarials in pregnancy, as well as evidence-based
      recommendations for the prevention and treatment of malaria during pregnancy.

      The WHO recommendation to use artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) in the 2nd and 3rd
      trimester is already implemented in several African countries. However, the documentation of
      their efficacy and safety in pregnancy is still limited, especially concerning the African
      contexts.

      Therefore, we propose to test 4 fixed-dose combinations (artemether-lumefantrine,
      amodiaquine-artesunate, mefloquine-artesunate and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine), to
      evaluate their efficacy and safety when administered to pregnant women (2nd and 3rd
      trimester) infected with P. falciparum. Explanatory variables will be collected for treatment
      failure (PCR-corrected) and for recurrent parasitaemia. The primary hypothesis tested will be
      the clinical equivalence (pair-wise non-inferiority) of the 4 treatment regimens with
      clinical equivalence defined as difference in treatment failure rates (PCR corrected) of 5%
      or less.

      In addition, an attempt will be done to carry out in vitro testing at the time of recurrent
      infection. However, the success of the test will depend on the parasite density. In addition,
      blood samples collected on filter paper at day 0 and at day of recurrent parasitaemia will be
      genotyped for the search of known molecular markers related to drug resistance. Not all
      samples will be analyzed; rather these will be selected according to the therapeutic response
      so that the prevalence of molecular markers will be compared between treatment successes,
      true treatment failures and new infections.
    
  