
    
      Automated DOT (a-DOT), a smartphone app that uses facial recognition software and advanced
      features to detect non-ingestion, combines the accuracy of in-person DOT with the convenience
      of real-time centralized data collection and monitoring. Adding a daily side effect diary to
      a-DOT will further allow precise tracking of timing of both medication ingestion and side
      effects which may be compromising adherence. Zepatier (elbasvir and grazoprevir) is a new
      once-daily fixe-dose combination tablet which has achieved high rates of SVR ranging from 94
      to 97 percent in genotype-1 infected patients including those with HIV/HCV coinfection and
      renal impairment. Zepatier is administered for 12 to 16 weeks, depending on HCV genotype,
      prior treatment history, and the presence of certain baseline NS5A polymorphisms (1a only).
      By administering Zepatier via this innovative a-DOT platform, the investigators hypothesize
      that PWIDs treated in real-wrold settings can be successfully treated with high rates of
      adherence and SVR.

      In this proposed 18-month trials, 75 PWIDs enrolled in opiate agonist treatment (genotypes 1a
      and 1b) with chronic HCV will be enrolled over a 12-month period, and randomized to either
      aDOT or treatment as usual (TAU). The investigators will recruit PWIDs from diverse community
      settings include a syringe exchange program (NYHRE), federally-qualified health center
      (Comprehensive Health Care Center), homeless shelter (The Living Room), and a methadone
      maintenance treatment program (Montefiore Wellness Centers). All patients (inlcuding
      treatment-experienced and HIVV/HCV coinfected subjects) will be treated with Zepatier-based
      regimens as per the standard of care. Rigorous data are necessary to judge the contribution
      of a-DOT to the success of HCV treatment in PWIDs. By performing a randomized trial of a-DOT
      HCV therapy (Zepatier with and without ribavirin), the investigators will evaluate the
      efficacy of a-DOT for improving HCV treatment outcomes among PWIDs.
    
  