
    
      Objective:

      The specific aims for this study are: (1) to identify health professional educational and
      clinical microsystem determinants of outcomes for hypertension and smoking cessation in
      veterans. (2) to test the efficacy of three increasingly intensive methods for implementing
      panel management strategies among health care providers in VA primary care clinics: providing
      only panel data, providing panel management support, and providing support plus clinical
      microsystem-enhancing education and training.

      Research design:

      This project will consist of two phases. Phase I (one year) is the development of the
      necessary measurement and data infrastructure to assess health professional education,
      microsystem function, and clinical outcomes. In Phase 2 (two years) the study team will
      conduct a clinical demonstration project, comparing three interventions in a randomized
      controlled trial. Primary care teams will be randomly allocated to one of three arms: 1)
      panel management data, 2) panel management data and support, and 3) panel management data,
      support and education. The investigators will assess the impact of the implementation of
      panel management on primary patient outcomes in hypertension and smoking cessation (blood
      pressure and quit rates). The investigative team will also assess the impact of the
      implementation of panel management on secondary, intermediary, patient (patient activation,
      adherence, behavior change), provider (knowledge and attitudes, self-efficacy, job
      satisfaction) and microsystem outcomes (collective efficacy, teamwork, use of data, redesign
      of patient processes and provider roles/responsibilities, use of panel management
      strategies).

      Methodology:

      The study will utilize a multi-method, quasi-experimental design at VA NYHHS. Primary care is
      delivered through two teams at the Manhattan and five teams at the Brooklyn campuses.
      Patients, staff, nurses, and physicians are assigned to specific teams, thereby limiting
      contamination in this study.
    
  