
    
      Melasma, is a relatively common chronic pigmentation of the face, although it may be
      localized also on the neck and forearms. It is also called as chloasma or mask of pregnancy.
      It has higher prevalence in women and occurs less commonly in men. It most commonly affects
      the sun-exposed areas of skin of face. Three patterns of presentation have been reported:
      Centro-facial, malar and mandibular forms. The interplay of various risk factors are known to
      contribute in the pathogenesis of melasma such as genetic predisposition, ultraviolet
      radiation, hormonal factors, oral contraceptives and drugs like phenytoin. Thyroid
      abnormalities were reported to occur with melasma. Skin pigmentation is a common
      manifestation in nutritional deficiencies and frequently associated with deficiency of
      vitamin B12 . Increased iron may affect the pattern and course of pigmentation, however it is
      unclear how they coexist. Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is synthesized from
      7-dehydrocholesterol by photochemical process in the skin and through successive
      hydroxylation to its active metabolite. 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1, 25(OH)2D3; calcitriol]
      is formed in liver and kidney. Intracellular receptor (VDR) helps in binding of vitamin D
      which helps the epithelial cells and melanocytes a target for vitamin D. Although vitamin D
      is used in the treatment of melanoma and psoriasis and active role of 1, 25(OH)2D3 in skin no
      reports of melasma associated with vitamin D reported. The dysfunction of 1,25(OH)2D3 - VDR
      system may lead to periodontal disease . Mineral bone density could be directly related to
      deficiency of vitamin D which also progress to osteoporosis. Studies have reported that
      anemia may predispose to periodontitis but the correlation was not determined. Until date, no
      studies reported any correlation or mere association between melasma, periodontitis and serum
      vitamin D abnormalities as well as decreased Hb levels. The present study was intended to
      assess the presence of periodontitis and vitamin D deficiency in melasma patients and
      evaluate clinical presence of periodontitis, which may occur in conjunction with melasma and
      vitamin D deficiency. The mere presence of melasma may help to investigate for further oral
      issues such as periodontitis and anemia which may or may not be associated with vitamin D
      abnormalities.

      Patients visiting the Dept. of Oral medicine, with melasma on face within the age group of
      30-70yrs in either gender were included in the study, matched with similar control group
      without melasma after obtaining informed consent.

      The patients were divided into 2 groups. Group A, had Patients with melasma in whom 2 ml of
      blood was collected for estimation of serum-vitamin D levels, and complete blood picture was
      estimated for Haemoglobin percentage and clinical oral examination was evaluated for
      periodontitis. Group B served as control arm, where same procedure of blood parameter
      estimation and clinical examination protocol was followed as in group A.

      Total number of 100 patients participated in the study, 50 in each group. The samples that
      resulted out of recruitment were tabulated and appropriate statistical analysis was done
      comparing the both groups with the presence or absence of periodontitis and serum vitamin D
      abnormalities and serum Hb% levels.
    
  