
    
      The goal of this study is to examine the effectiveness of FCT on a number of youth, family,
      and cost outcomes, as compared to a Level II or Level III out-of-home placement.

      Children who are appropriate for Level III service may exhibit the following behaviors:

        -  Inability to follow directions and conform to structure of school, home or community

        -  Constant, sometimes violent arguments with caretakers, peers, siblings and/or teachers

        -  Moderate level of self-injurious behavior, risk taking, sexual promiscuity

        -  Suicidal actions/history of serious suicidal actions

        -  Almost daily physical altercations in school, home or community

        -  Constant verbally aggressive and provocative language

        -  Frequent and severe property damage

        -  Probable involvement with the legal system

        -  Frequent school suspensions

        -  Moderate to high risk for sexually victimizing others

      Typically, children approved for such services are in need of:

        -  A higher level of supervision and structure than can be provided in a Level II facility;

        -  Supervision by awake staff during times when the child is sleeping in order to maintain
           the child;

        -  A facility that is "staff secure" (i.e., there are no locks, but the child needs a high
           level of constant supervision to be maintained in the community; and

        -  Child is only minimally accepting of treatment.

      Overall, this service is responsive to the need for intensive, active, therapeutic
      intervention, which requires a staff secure treatment setting in order to be successfully
      implemented. This setting has a higher level of consultative and direct service from
      psychiatrists, psychologists, therapists, medical professionals, etc.

      Residential Treatment Level II Service provides a moderate to highly structured and
      supervised environment. This level of service is responsive to the need for intensive,
      interactive, therapeutic interventions, which still fall below the level of staff
      secure/24-hour supervision or secure treatment settings. The staffing structure may include
      family and program type settings.

      A. Program Type The staff is not necessarily awake during sleep time, but must be constantly
      available to respond to a beneficiary's needs, while beneficiaries are involved in
      educational, vocational, social or other activities, except for periods of planned respite.

      B. Family Type The provider is not necessarily awake during sleep time but must be constantly
      available to respond to a beneficiary's needs, while beneficiaries are involved in
      educational, vocational, social or other activities, except for periods of planned respite.

      C. Program Type and Family Type Activities

      This service in the family or program settings includes the following activities:

        1. Individualized and intensive supervision and structure of daily living designed to
           minimize the occurrence of behaviors related to functional deficits to ensure safety
           during the presentation of out-of-control behaviors or to maintain an optimum level of
           functioning.

        2. Specific and individualized psychoeducational and therapeutic interventions (e.g., anger
           management, social skills, family living skills, crisis intervention, etc.)

        3. Direct and active intervention in assisting beneficiaries in the process of being
           involved in and maintaining in naturally occurring community support systems and
           supporting the development of personal resources (assets, protective factors, etc).

      Approximately 750 children/youth will be randomized into one of the two treatments after a
      Managed Care Organization (MCO) has authorized the OHP request. Birthdays will serve as the
      method by which children/youth are randomized (e.g., children born on an even numbered day
      would be randomized into FCT, and children born on an odd numbered day would be randomized
      into the OHP they were just authorized for). This randomization would occur at the MCO-level,
      within the Utilization Management division (UM).

      Duke-Center for Child & Family Policy (CCFP) staff will approach those families randomized
      into the OHP (i.e., control group) to participate in the study within a month of the
      authorization. CCFP and the MCOs will enter into a Business Associate's Agreement (BAA) that
      will provide CCFP with identified information in order to approach the OHP providers and
      families about the study.

      For those children/youth randomized to receive FCT, MCOs and CCFP staff will work in tandem
      to notify FCT providers of these potential patients. FCT providers will then approach
      families about participating in FCT rather than the OHP. They would also recruit the families
      to participate in the research study, regardless of whether or not the family chooses to
      participate in FCT. The study would utilize an intent-to-treat design, whereby all families
      assigned to receive FCT, regardless of whether or not they actually receive the service, will
      be considered as the "treatment" group in analyses.
    
  