
    
      Radiation therapy plays an integral role in the definitive treatment of breast cancer by
      reducing the risk of locoregional recurrence and improving patient outcomes. Despite the
      availability of supportive care services, many patients have unmet needs which may lead to
      unexpected negative outcomes. Anxiety can affect patients' ability to cope, interfere with
      treatment and self-manage their own care. Strategies to improve cancer care include patient
      navigators or case managers, early interventions and self-management of side effects to
      reduce treatment-related toxicities. Therefore, minimizing distress from treatment and
      engaging patients by personalizing care according to their unique needs will optimize use of
      supportive care services and improve clinical outcomes.

      A Cochrane review demonstrated that information and supportive care sessions delivered by
      non-physician healthcare providers improves both emotional wellbeing and quality of life in
      breast cancer patients. A prospective randomized, Australian study by Halkett et al.
      demonstrated that an education intervention delivered one-on-one by Radiation Therapists
      effectively reduces breast cancer patients' psychological distress and improves preparedness
      for treatment. This highlights the importance of early and accessible education resources
      where patients experience direct access to the radiation therapy team.

      Further research is required to investigate the efficacy of person-centered model on patient
      experiences and relevant clinical outcomes. Specifically, it is expected this model will
      reduce patient anxiety, improve preparedness for radiation therapy through education, and
      improve patient self-management of radiation-toxicities. The proposed study focuses on
      patients with breast cancer because of the experience in testing the model on this group and
      their relatively uniform treatment at all Ontario cancer centres, which will facilitate
      translation of this model in the future. A randomized controlled study will determine the
      efficacy of the person-centered model versus standard care, and generate high-quality
      evidence in an unbiased setting that was not possible in the prior clinical pilot phases.

      Personalizing patient experiences in radiotherapy, coupled with improvements in treatment
      quality and supportive care, may improve clinical outcomes including toxicity and quality of
      life.
    
  