
    
      An acute, randomized cross-over study that compares two types of fibre-based hydrogels
      differing in their lubrication properties, resulting in different pastiness and instrumental
      mechanical properties (lubricity). The gels are prepared using dietary fibres (kappa
      carrageenan, alginate). Both hydrogels contain added watermelon flavor, food grade color and
      sweetener. Water acts as a control and has the same flavor, color and sweetness to match the
      hydrogels.

      Participants are asked come to the laboratory on three occasions. Before participating, each
      participant is screened for eligibility criteria using an online health screening
      questionnaire and Three Factors Eating Questionnaire. Participants are offered one of the
      three products (water or either of the two gels), the order of which is randomized and
      counterbalanced.

      Participants are instructed to fast for 11 hours and to restrict from drinking alcohol for 24
      hours before each session. In the first session, weight and height are measured. Participants
      then provide baseline (- 5 minutes) appetite ratings on a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS).
      After that they are given a standardized breakfast (females - 250kcal, males - 350 kcal).
      Then, participants are asked to rate their appetite on a 100-mm VAS in every 30 minutes for
      the next 2.5 hours. After that, they are given the preload - either hydrogels differing in
      their structure complexity or water. After consuming the preload, appetite ratings are
      recorded by the participants on three time points on 100-mm VAS. Ad libitum food is offered
      as lunch after 30 minutes after ingesting the preload and the last VAS is taken. Food intake
      is measured. Saliva is taken three times during each session after breakfast, before and
      after preload consumption to measure protein, mucin content, amylase activity, and salivary
      lubricity (tribology).
    
  