
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in reproductive age,
      with an incidence of 5 -10%. Classically clomiphene citrate (CC) is the first approach to
      induce ovulation in patients with PCOS. Although 70-80% of PCOS women can ovulate by the
      treatment with CC, only 40%of the PCOS women become pregnant. Women who do not ovulate with
      increasing doses of CC are described as being CC-resistant and remain a major challenge in
      gynecologic endocrinology. Traditional alternatives for CC-resistant patients include
      gonadotropin therapy and laparoscopic ovarian diathermy.

      Letrozole is an orally-active aromatase inhibitor, with good potential for ovulation
      induction. Letrozole acts by reducing estrogen production by blocking androgens to estrogens
      conversion. Additionally, it has no adverse effect on endometrium and cervical mucus (4).
      This releases the pituitary from negative feedback of estrogens and releases FSH. Also, an
      added positive effect is increased follicular sensitivity to FSH through amplification of FSH
      receptor gene expression.

      Laparoscopic ovarian drilling (LOD) can avoid or reduce the need for gonadotropins for
      ovulation induction. Several potential mechanisms of action of LOD have also been suggested.
      The reduction of inhibin production following LOD is followed by an increase in FSH secretion
      and recruitment of a new cohort of follicles. Other theory is restoration of normal
      production of the putative gonadotropin surge after laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery.
      Moreover, drainage of androgens and inhibin from follicles surface may inhibit the excessive
      collagenisation of overlying ovarian cortex and facilitate Softening of ovarian tunica.
      Neighbouring follicles that are not undergoing atresia may then mature and gain access to the
      ovarian surface, facilitating ovulation. Initiation of normal inhibin B pulsatility by LOD
      appears to correlate with the postoperative onset of ovulatory cycles.

      The main drawbacks of LOD are adhesions formation and ovarian atrophy. That is why minimising
      the number of diathermy points and avoiding diathermy near the ovarian hilum are recommended.

      All women with clomiphene resistant PCOS attending the subfertility clinic of Cairo
      university hospitals will be invited to participate in the study. PCOS diagnosis will be
      based on chronic anovulation and sonographic picture of polycystic ovaries. Clomiphene
      resistance will be defined as failure of ovulation in spite of receiving 150mg of clomiphene
      citrate for 5 days starting from the 3rd-5th day of the menstrual cycle.

      Exclusion criteria are age >40 years, other causes of infertility, hyperprolactinaemia,
      previous Letrozole or LOD therapy, and body mass index (BMI)>35.

      The study will be explained to all the participants and a written informed consent will be
      obtained before participation.

      Full history will be taken followed by complete examination and sonographic evaluation.
      Sonographic picture of polycystic ovaries will be defined when there are at least 12
      follicles 2-9mm in the ovary and/or ovarian volume>10cm3 140 women with clomiphene resistant
      PCOS will be randomly divided into 3 equal groups using computer generated random numbers.
      Group 1 will receive Letrozole, group 2 will have LOD and group 3 will act as the control
      group with no intervention.

      Group 1 will receive Letrozole (Femara®, Novartis, Switzerland) 2.5mg twice daily for 5 days
      starting from the 3rd day of menstruation or progesterone withdrawal bleeding. Group 2 will
      have LOD in which the ovaries will be stabilised by grasping the ovarian ligament and
      monopolar diathermy will be used to do 4-10 punctures in each ovary. The number of punctures
      will be individualised according to the size of the ovary.

      Serial vaginal ultrasound scans were done starting from the 10th day of menstruation, the
      frequency of monitoring will be individualized according to the women's response. When the
      dominant follicle reaches 17mm or more women will receive Human chorionic gonadotrophin
      (Choriomon® IBSA, Switzerland) 5000IU and a timed intercourse will be advised 36 hours later.
    
  