
    
      This study aims to use a "stepped care" model of CBT-I treatment beginning with an online
      (dCBT-I) approach for initial treatment and then stepping up to a more personalized,
      telemedicine approach with mindfulness delivered via trained nursing staff (tCBT-I) with
      individuals who are insomnia non-remitters. By successfully treating insomnia, the objective
      is to prevent acute and long-term effects of insomnia; daytime symptom clusters (daytime
      fatigue and sleepiness, depressive symptoms, and quality of life); and nocturnal rumination
      and worry.

      This trial utilizes a sequential multiple assignment randomized trial (SMART) design to test
      the effectiveness of the stepped care model to treat insomnia. The initial phase of the
      design will use randomization to dCBT-I or an attention control group. Following this phase,
      a second randomization to tCBT-I or attention control will be provided to those who do not
      respond to initial dCBT-I.

      The digital CBT-I treatment is delivered through the online program Sleepio. tCBT-I will be
      delivered by nursing staff trained in CBT-I.

      Male and female participants who have insomnia, are age 18 and older, and who are recruited
      into the study will complete an initial assessment of their qualifications that are based on
      the severity of their insomnia symptoms, depression symptoms, and physical and mental health
      status. Qualified participants will then be administered an in-depth survey to evaluate
      several facets of sleep and mental health. At the completion of this initial survey,
      participants will be randomized into either an active control or dCBTI. Following the first
      treatment, participants will again be surveyed (Post-treatment 1) to determine if there have
      been changes since study initiation. Insomnia non-remitters from the dCBT-I group will be
      randomized into the next treatment in the sequence, which is tCBT-I or attention control.
      tCBT-I will incorporate previously introduced material with a personalized approach; therapy
      components include sleep restriction, stimulus control, mindfulness, relaxation therapy, and
      cognitive behavioral therapy as it relates to sleep and sleep-related dysfunctional
      cognition. Participants will be compensated.
    
  