
    
      The investigators are interested in recruiting individuals who report that they smoke
      cigarettes daily, are motivated to make a serious attempt at quitting, and are willing to try
      to use the hypnosis intervention and provide feedback regarding their experience with the
      intervention.

      The intervention would be pre-recorded and programmed to be an interactive hypnotic tool. It
      will be delivered through Amazon's Alexa device. The participants will be provided with the
      Alexa Dot device if they already do not possess one. Alexa Dot is a device sold by Amazon and
      widely used by consumers. What will be specific to this pilot is the interactive nature of
      the program that has been developed using the "skills beta testing tool" by Amazon.

      Potential participants will be recruited through websites and social media such as Facebook,
      flyers and by study Investigator, Dr. David Spiegel (or a member of his staff) who will
      propose the possibility of participation in the pilot study to patients seen at the clinics
      who may be eligible; he will also invite his psychiatrist colleagues to do the same for their
      patients. If the patients indicate that they are interested, they will be contacted by a
      research coordinator who is a member of Dr. Spiegel's staff. The coordinator will provide
      them with information about the pilot study, answer their questions, and determine whether
      the patient is eligible for the study. Eligible participants will be 18 years or older, able
      to read and understand English, and have a desire to quit smoking. Once found eligible,
      participants will pay one visit to the lab for about 1 hour, where they will be guided
      through the online auditory intervention by Dr. Spiegel (or a member of his staff), undergo
      hypnotizability testing, and complete brief questionnaires. This will take approximately one
      hour and will take place at The Center on Stress and Health. After the lab visit participants
      will continue using the intervention at home as needed. Furthermore, participants will be
      taking an at-home 10-15 minute survey at baseline, and then 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24-month
      follow-ups
    
  