
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether a metabolic response, defined as a 25% decrease in peak tumor
           standardized uptake value (SUV) after the first course of chemotherapy, provides early
           prediction of treatment outcome (tumor response and patient survival) in patients with
           stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer undergoing platinum-based chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the test-retest reproducibility of quantitative assessment of tumor
           fludeoxyglucose F 18 (^18FDG) uptake in these patients.

        -  Determine the time course of treatment-induced changes in tumor ^18FDG uptake in these
           patients.

        -  Determine, in an exploratory analysis, changes in tumor volume during chemotherapy by
           multislice CT scanning in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

        -  Group I: Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 (^18FDG) positron emission tomography
           (PET)/CT scanning twice and 1-2 volumetric CT scanning (1-7 days apart) before starting
           treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients undergo additional ^18FDG PET/CT
           scan and a volumetric CT scan once between the first and second course of chemotherapy.

        -  Group II: Patients undergo ^18FDG PET/CT scan and volumetric CT scanning once before
           starting treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients undergo additional ^18FDG
           PET/CT scan and volumetric CT scanning once between the first and second course of
           chemotherapy, and may undergo once between the second and third course of chemotherapy.

        -  Group III: Patients undergo ^18FDG PET/CT scanning twice (up to 1 week apart) before
           starting any treatment.

      In groups I and II, patients also undergo standard follow-up CT scanning every 6 weeks (i.e.,
      every other chemotherapy course) for up to 18 weeks.

      After completion of chemotherapy, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 1 year.

      Biomarker

        -  Imaging: See

        -  provided by American College of Radiology Network.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 285 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  