
    
      In this study the investigators use an objective evaluation system which deconstructs
      laparoscopic colectomy into its component steps. Critical components of the procedure as well
      as overall operative performance can be evaluated. This is applied to surgeons and trainee
      surgeons attending laparoscopic colorectal training courses using different training models
      to compare each model and correlate outcomes with each model to pre-course experience. This
      project is aimed at better educating trainers and getting better information on the validity
      of new training models for laparoscopic colectomy.

      Aims of Project

        -  To observe and assess surgical technique during laparoscopic colorectal skills training
           courses using a previously validated tool for formal assessment of surgical technical
           skills.

        -  To evaluate technical errors and patterns of error during training at laparoscopic
           colectomy.

        -  To determine outcomes and error rates with different training models and correlate these
           with prior surgical experience.

      Number of participants/subjects in research:

      Subjects will be recruited in several sites:

        -  the principal investigators facility at University Hospitals of Cleveland Case Medical
           Center, where surgeons from outside institutions visit regularly for training courses

        -  Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) Laparoscopic
           colorectal training courses, where surgeons participate in courses with invited faculty
           at national meetings (the PI is national Program Director and runs these courses).

        -  American Society of Colorectal Surgeons (ASCRS) Laparoscopic colorectal training
           courses, where surgeons participate in courses with invited faculty at national meetings
           (the PI is national Program Director and runs these courses).

      Course attendees will be informed before the start of an appropriate laparoscopic course that
      the study is being performed. The study will be explained to them in detail and they will be
      given a copy of the appropriate paperwork to review. Verbal consent will be requested. It
      will be explained to them that they should feel under no pressure to participate in the
      study, and that if they do participate that these data are not used for their evaluation. The
      number of cases of components of cases that they perform will not be related to participation
      or non-participation in the trial.

      Study Design This is an observational study in which trainees' technical surgical skills are
      evaluated while performing specific steps of laparoscopic colectomy cases, as outlined in the
      accompanying datasheets. The plan is to enroll 200 participants.

      At the completion of each case, forms will be completed by the trainee, and by the teaching /
      supervising surgeon. Independent observers cannot be used, as only an attending laparoscopic
      colorectal surgeon is adequately skilled to score the resident performing the case, and it is
      not feasible to have a second attending surgeon present during each case.

      Dr Delaney will score trainees when possible using the standardized form. For courses at
      University Hospitals Case Medical Center (UHCMC), the colorectal faculty will be instructed
      in standardized assessment, and will also assess trainees. For courses at SAGES or ASCRS, the
      course faculty will be shown the training assessments and directed in the standardized
      assessment prior to evaluations.
    
  