
    
      Severe clinical complications including acute rejection and opportunistic infections in solid
      organ transplantation (SOT) are mainly caused by inadequate impairment of cell-mediated
      immunity (CMI) by immunosuppressive therapy. In particular CMV is responsible for increased
      morbidity and mortality revealing the need for either prophylactic or preemptive antiviral
      treatment. Recipients with negative CMV serology (R-) receiving a graft from a seropositive
      donor (D+) are at highest risk of developing CMV-associated complications. Therefore, these
      patients usually receive antiviral prophylaxis whereas patients at intermediate risk (D+/R+
      or D-/R+) are treated either prophylactically or preemptively. Although prophylaxis is
      efficient, it is also accompanied by harmful side effects and high costs. Thus, there is a
      need for a personalized antiviral as well as immunosuppressive therapy to optimally treat the
      patient and to improve long-term patient and graft survival. The detection of a protective
      threshold of functional CMV-reactive cells may help to predict the onset of viral
      complications, thereby minimizing harmful side effects. Currently available tools to measure
      CMV-specific cellular immunity reveal striking limitations including a lack of
      standardization necessitating a commercially available standardized test system. The Lophius
      kit T-Track® CMV represents a highly standardized and sensitive diagnostic tool to assess the
      functionality of a network of clinically relevant CMV-reactive effector cells. It is based on
      the stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) with urea-formulated
      immunodominant CMV proteins, pp65 and IE-1, and the subsequent quantification of CMV-specific
      CMI (spot forming colonies) using a highly sensitive IFN-γ ELISpot. This study aims to assess
      the suitability of the Lophius Biosciences kit T-Track® CMV to determine the CMV-specific CMI
      in renal transplant recipients scheduled for a preemptive antiviral treatment strategy.
      Furthermore, it will be investigated if the results obtained with T-Track® CMV are suitable
      to define a cut-off value of CMV-specific CMI mediating protection from CMV reactivations and
      related complications. Moreover, possible associations between CMV-specific CMI measured with
      T-Track® CMV and clinical complications including acute rejection episodes and opportunistic
      infections will be analyzed as well as the influence of the immunosuppressive treatment and
      the patient's HLA type on viral immunity.
    
  