
    
      Approximately 84 volunteer patients will be included in the study, patients older than 18
      years, under 75 years of age, with a minimum of 3 months of mechanical back pain, Visual
      Analog Scale score of at least 60 patients will be included. Who are older than 18 years of
      age, having mental problems, having peripheral problems affecting the central nervous system,
      having received physical therapy to the lumbar region in the last 3 months, having been
      applied to the lumbar region within the last 3 months, having a history of lumbar region
      surgery, having a history of patients with motor deficit in the extremity, needle phobia,
      lidocaine and / or kinesio tape allergy, patients with wound, infection, burn, allergic
      lesions in the application area will not be included.

      Patients included in the study will be included in the first (first), second (second), third
      (third) or fourth (fourth) treatment group by random number generator method.

      The first group will be given the hot package (20 minutes / day) + exercise + 1. 4. 7. 10.
      13. 16. days.

      The second group will be given a hot package (20 minutes / day) + exercise + 1. 4. 7. 10. 13.
      16 days.

      The third group hot package (20 minutes / day) + exercise + 1. 4. 7. 10. 13. 16. days,
      kinesio tape will be applied to the determined areas.

      the fourth group hot package (20 minutes / day) + exercise + 1. 4. 7. 10. 13. 16. days sham
      tape application will be made in the regions determined. ****

        -  Patients in all groups will continue to use the hotpack and exercises until the 3rd
           month after the first day of their study. First session exercises with the same
           physiotherapist (stretching for back-waist, iliopsoas and hamstring muscles; exercise
           range of hip and waist; hip and waist isometric exercises). Each patient will do the
           exercises 20 minutes after the hot package application.

             -  saline and local anesthetic injection points to be applied to the lumbar region:

                  1. Future points on spinous projections from L1 to L5

                  2. Lumbar region 2 from the middle point of the spinous output bilateral and 2 cm
                     to 4 cm lateral points

                  3. To each point of the iliac lobe of iliac crest will be injected subcutaneously
                     with 0.5 ml 0.5% lidocaine-containing local anesthetic.

                  4. 6 mm 30 gauge needle tip will be used for injection.

                  5. For each patient who underwent subcutaneous local anesthetic, an average of
                     18-20 ml of 0.5% lidocaine-containing local anesthetic and 18-20 ml of 0.09%
                     NaCl-containing isotonic saline will be used for each patient.

                  6. These points are the points of quadle technique applied in neural therapy.

                       -  Kinesio taping will use 2 cut-to-length I-bands with a length of about 15
                          cm long for one patient. Space correction technique will be used for
                          patients. The lumbar region of the patients will be glued vertically to
                          the paravertebral muscles vertically 3-4 cm lateral to the spinous
                          projections. As a starting point for patients, S1 will be adhered to the
                          vertebra without tension, then the patient will be asked to come with
                          maximum lumbar flexion posterior.

                            -  For a patient in the treatment of sham kinesio taping, 2 pieces of
                               approximately 15 cm long ends will be used to cut the curved I
                               bands. The lumbar region of the patients will be glued vertically to
                               the paravertebral muscles vertically 3-4 cm lateral to the spinous
                               projections. Patients in the upright posture, kinesio tape S1
                               applied from the vertebra without stretching will be glued upwards
                               and taped upwards.
    
  