
    
      Yakson touch

        1. Universal precautions to maintain sterile conditions will be taken.

        2. Then the therapist will warm both hands with a radiant warmer so that the temperature of
           the palms reaches between 93F and 94F (33.9-34.4°C). Digital thermometer will be used to
           check the temperature of palms.

        3. The therapist will relax arms and shoulder muscles for 1 minute and will do deep
           breathing to accumulate Ki energy on the palms.

        4. The Therapist will apply Yakson on the neonate. Yakson will be given for 15 minutes
           which will be divided into resting the hands, caressing gently, and again resting the
           hands, each of which will last for 5 minutes. Throughout the application of Yakson,
           fingers and palm of the therapist will be in constant contact and the contact will be
           such that there is no pressure on the infant.

        5. Resting the hands for 5 minutes- While one hand is resting on the chest and abdomen of
           the neonate and other hand is supporting the back, the therapist will concentrate on
           resting hands assuming that a healthy Ki energy is passing to the neonate. During this
           therapist will do slow breathing to remain relaxed.

        6. Caressing gently for 5 minutes-With hand in same position, the therapist will caress
           repeatedly for 5 minutes. Therapist will caress for 1 minute, rest for 30 seconds,
           caress for 1 minute, rest for 30 seconds and caress for 2 minutes. The therapist will
           caress the abdomen and chest of the infant in clockwise direction in a diameter of 1
           centimeter in circular motion every 10 seconds

        7. Resting the hands for 5 minutes- The therapist will rest the hands as previously
           described.

      (* The therapist will caress repeatedly for 5 minutes. Therapist will caress for 1 minute,
      rest for 30 seconds, caress for 1 minute, rest for 30 seconds and caress for 2 minutes. The
      therapist will caress the abdomen and chest of the infant in clockwise direction in a
      diameter of 1 centimeter in circular motion every 10 seconds.)

      Kinesthetic stimulation For giving kinesthetic stimulation the infant will be placed in
      supine position. There will be six passive flexion and extension movements. Each of the
      movement will each last for approximately 10 seconds. The movements will be performed in the
      following order -right arm, left arm, right leg, left leg, both legs simultaneously

      Control group treatment The neonates in control group will receive Kangaroo mother care
      (holding the neonate skin to skin by mother) for one hour a day and developmental
      positioning(positioning of preterm infants for optimal physiological development) for 20
      minutes per hour for 5 days.
    
  