
    
      Neuroimaging studies have shown that acute alcohol administration decreases glucose
      metabolism in the human brain, which was initially thought to reflect decreased brain
      function. However, subsequent studies showed that even low doses of alcohol, with minimal
      behavioral effects, also decreased baseline brain glucose metabolism and further. This led to
      the hypothesis that the reduction in brain glucose metabolism during alcohol intoxication
      reflected the brain's utilization of an alternate energy substrate, e.g. the alcohol
      metabolite acetate. Acetate is not a ketone body, but biochemically similar to the ketone
      bodies, which include acetoacetate, BHB and acetone. Ketone bodies are similarly taken up by
      the Monocarboxylate Transporters in neurons, and other brain tissue. A pre-clinical trial has
      demonstrated that the implementation of a KD for 10 days significantly reduced the behavioral
      measures of alcohol withdrawal symptomatology in rats. In this study, we want to investigate
      if the attenuating effect of the KD observed in rodents, is also applicable in humans, i.e.
      whether a ketogenic dietary supplement, here a ketone monoester, would be effective in
      suppressing alcohol withdrawal symptoms in humans.

      Objectives:

      We will investigate the effect of a five times daily oral administration of a ketone dietary
      supplement beverage vs. placebo on the need for benzodiazepines in alcohol withdrawal
      syndrome. The KME beverage is a supplement to standardized out-patient alcohol withdrawal
      treatment.

      Study population:

      36 participants aged 18-70 with a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder according to the DSM-V,
      ICD-10, and a previous history of treatment-requiring alcohol withdrawal syndrome.

      Design:

      Clinical double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, three-day clinical trial, with an
      MRS (Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy) sub-study. The participants will be randomized to
      receive either the ketone ester beverage, or a placebo beverage 5 times daily. Participants
      will be asked to register benzodiazepine use in a medication-diary during the study.
      Participants will be asked to self-monitor blood-glucose and ketone levels by use of
      fingerstick measurements. During the study patients will be evaluated for withdrawal
      severity, and complete questionnaires on alcohol craving, sleep, anxiety and mood.
    
  