
    
      Investigators will develop and refine a two-phase emotion regulation intervention. This
      process will involve 5 steps: 1) conducting 5-8 key informant interviews, including obtaining
      feedback on a drafted manual and materials from providers and case managers, 2) integrating
      the qualitative data, 3) running 2 participants through a condensed version of the
      intervention and obtaining feedback on the content, language, and text message interface, 4)
      integrating the additional feedback, and 5) conducting an open pilot with 10 participants to
      assess feasibility and acceptability of the revised intervention. The pilot will include 3
      research assessment visits which will involve completion of self-report questionnaires using
      Qualtrics at baseline, within one week of completion of phase 1, and within one week of
      completing phase 2. Viral load (VL) will be assessed at baseline and at the final follow up.

      Qualitative interviews. The investigators will conduct 5-8 semi-structured qualitative
      interviews with providers and case managers. Interviews will inquire about unmet
      psychological barriers to HIV-care, perceptions of proposed domains and text message
      questions and response options. All interviews will be recorded, transcribed and analyzed
      using thematic analysis. Prominent themes and suggestions brought up in the interviews will
      be integrated into the intervention materials and implementation.

      Trial run of pilot. After integrating the feedback from the key informant interviews,
      investigators will recruit two participants to complete a condensed version of the
      intervention. After each of the 5 sessions, participants will be asked to complete perceived
      usefulness surveys. Both participants will then be interviewed to obtain feedback on the
      intervention. These interviews will be recorded, transcribed and analyzed using thematic
      analysis. Prominent themes and suggestions brought up in these interviews as well as logistic
      challenges will be integrated into the intervention materials and implementation procedures.

      Text messages. Investigators will use questions adapted from a previously published
      personalized bi-directional text message intervention involving HIV+ substance users (TxText)
      to assess mood, adherence and substance use. Each participant will receive 3 texts/week
      inquiring about current mood over the course of the intervention. Additionally, in phase 2
      each participant will receive weekly texts asking about their medication adherence. Given the
      stigmatized nature of substance use, investigators will use a coded query, adapted from
      TxText, which assess substance use in the form of a weather question. This coded query
      strategy has demonstrated feasibility and acceptability among a similar population of HIV+
      active substance users. All participants will be reminded of the meaning of this question
      during phase 1. During the last in-person intervention visit, participants will identify 5
      positive self-reappraisal statements and link them to response options to the mood query
      based on when they feel each would be most helpful in regulating their emotions. Throughout
      phase 2, participants will then receive their linked positive-self reappraisal statements in
      response to mood queries. Participants will then be asked to respond on a 6-point scale
      indicating how helpful the positive self-reappraisal was (0=extremely unhelpful to 5=
      extremely helpful), which will be used to assess engagement in phase 2 of the intervention.
    
  