
    
      Study Description: This randomized controlled trial will determine whether aerobic exercise
      training has a beneficial effect on physical function, health-related quality of life,
      free-living physical activity and sleep quality among survivors of COVID-19. Participants
      will be randomized to either an aerobic exercise training and education (AET+) group or a
      control education only group (CON) for 10 weeks. Assessments for physical function,
      self-reported health outcomes for quality of life (QOL), free-living physical activity and
      sleep quality will be measured at baseline and following the 10-week intervention period.
      Participants in the CON group will then crossover and perform AET after the 10-week follow-up
      visit. All participants will be monitored for one year to capture free-living physical
      activity, sleep quality and health-related QOL outcomes over time. It is hypothesized that
      following 10 weeks, physical function, health-related QOL, free-living physical activity and
      sleep quality will show greater improvement with AET+.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To examine the effect of aerobic exercise training on physical function in
      participants recovering from COVID-19.

      Secondary Objectives: To examine the effect of aerobic exercise training on patient reported
      outcomes and other health-related QOL components in participants recovering from COVID-19; To
      examine the effect of aerobic exercise training on free-living physical activity and sleep
      quality in participants recovering from COVID-19.

      Exploratory Objectives: To explore the effect of aerobic exercise training on clinical
      outcomes, cardiorespiratory function, cognition, biomarkers, metabolomics, ultrasound-based
      muscle measurements, and vascular function in participants recovering from COVID-19; To
      explore the feasibility of conducting the AET program remotely in the crossover CON group of
      participants recovering from COVID-19; To explore follow-up physical activity, sleep quality
      and health-related QOL outcomes over 1 year in participants recovering from COVID-19.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoints: Physical function as measured by distance walked during the 6 minute walk
      test after 10 weeks post-randomization with AET+ and CON.

      Secondary Endpoints: Patient-reported outcomes and other health-related components after 10
      weeks post-randomization with AET+ and CON; Free-living physical activity and sleep quality
      after 10 weeks post-randomization with AET+ and CON.

      Exploratory Endpoints: Clinical outcomes, cardiorespiratory function, cognition, biomarkers,
      metabolomics, ultrasound-based muscle measurements, and vascular function after 10 weeks
      post-randomization with AET+ and CON; Collection of initial feasibility data to conduct
      exercise sessions remotely; Explore relationships between the physiological variables and
      post-study health outcome variables over time.

      Study Population: Ninety male and female adults (18 to 80 years old) recovering from
      COVID-19, from the greater Washington DC metropolitan area.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants: Single-site study (NIH Clinical
      Center)

      Description of Study Intervention:

      Aerobic Exercise Training: Participants will perform aerobic exercise, 3 times a week for 10
      weeks, with supervision by credentialed RMD staff members. Participants will be encouraged to
      target 30 minutes of continuous aerobic exercise. The intensity of exercise will be gradually
      increased from light-moderate to moderate-high as safely tolerated by the participant and
      guided using heart rate targets.

      Education: Participants will have weekly education sessions for 10 weeks.

      All sessions are approximately 1 hour and will be conducted remotely by credentialed RMD
      staff members.

      Participants randomized to AET+ will perform both exercise training and education during the
      10 week intervention period. Participants randomized to CON will perform education only
      during the first 10 weeks, followed by exercise training during the second 10 weeks
      (crossover).

      Study Duration: 36 months

      Participant Duration: Up to 16 months if randomized to AET+, and up to 19 months if
      randomized to CON
    
  