
    
      Individuals with OSA can experience up to 300 sleep disruptions each night, which may result
      in excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), one of the most common symptoms of OSA. EDS can have
      serious consequences, including motor vehicle accidents, poor school performance, and
      work-related accidents and performance issues. The most common treatment for OSA is CPAP
      therapy. This involves wearing a mask over the nose while sleeping; air then flows through
      the mask into the nose to maintain a level of pressure that keeps the breathing passages
      open. CPAP therapy typically results in fewer sleep and breathing disruptions during the
      night, which may increase an individual's alertness levels during the day. The purpose of
      this study is to evaluate the relationship between severity of sleep-disordered breathing and
      daytime alertness levels in adults with and withoutout symptoms of OSA.

      This study will involve three to five study visits over a 2- to 3-month period. During the
      first 3 days, participants will record their sleep habits in a diary and will wear a device
      that measures breathing, oxygen levels, and sleep position. All participants will then take
      part in a 1-night inpatient stay at the sleep center lab during which brain, eye, muscle,
      heart, and breathing activity will be monitored. Participants with a confirmed diagnosis of
      OSA will stay at the sleep lab one additional night for observation while using a CPAP
      machine. The following day, tests to measure alertness, ease of falling asleep, and
      sleepiness levels will be administered. Participants will then use the CPAP machine at home
      for 4-6 weeks; each machine will be set at an appropriate level for the participant, and will
      record breathing patterns and pressure. Participants will receive weekly phone calls for
      monitoring purposes. At the end of Week 4, participants will return to the sleep lab for one
      additional night of CPAP monitoring, followed by alertness and sleep testing. Those with
      severe OSA will use the CPAP machine at a newly adjusted level for 5 additional days and
      return for repeat testing. All participants who have been compliant with CPAP will return to
      the lab for overnight sleep testing without the CPAP machine and for alertness testing.
    
  