
    
      This is a multi-center study to identify biomarkers or marker combinations for early
      prediction of pregnancy complications in twin pregnancies in the first, second or third
      trimester.

      In the future, the identified patients' risk will enable patients' referrals for proper
      prevention when such will become available

      Specifically the investigators aim for

        -  Predicting the risk to develop preeclampsia, IUGR, preterm delivery, gestational
           Diabetes Melitus

        -  Assessment of major and minor markers for chromosomal and structural anomalies

        -  Identification of placenta accrete spectrum disorders and vasa previa

        -  Diagnosis of specific MC twin complications such as TTTS

      The investigators will stratify and assess all the above according to chorionicity and
      delivery with complications at <32 weeks, <34 weeks, <37 weeks, and at any gestation.

      Screening methods will be conducted in the first, second or third trimester or at any
      gestation

      Also the investigators aim to Identify the risk to lose one or both twins at <32 weeks, <34
      weeks, <37 weeks and at any gestation, the ability to predict fetal birth weight at <32
      weeks, <34 weeks, <37 weeks and at any gestation

      The investigators also aim for monitoring any of the following maternal complications
      including placental abruption (clinically or on placental examination), postpartum hemorrhage
      (defined as blood loss ≥1 L within the first 24 hours after birth) at <32 weeks, <34 weeks,
      <37 weeks and at any gestation.

      The investigators will monitor

        1. Neonatal morbidity due to intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) grade II or above - Defined
           as bleeding into the ventricles, Grade II (moderate) - IVH occupies <50% of the lateral
           ventricle volume, Grade III (severe) - IVH occupies ≥50% of the lateral ventricle volume
           or Grade IV (severe) - Hemorrhagic infarction in periventricular white matter
           ipsilateral to a large IVH

        2. Neonatal sepsis confirmed bacteremia in cultures, anemia defined as low Hemoglobin and /
           or hematocrit requiring blood transfusion, respiratory distress syndrome defined as need
           for treatment by surfactant and ventilation, necrotizing enterocolitis requiring
           surgical intervention, and composite of any of the above

        3. Newborn admission to neonatal intensive care units (NICU), length of stay and therapies
           during the admission.

        4. Ventilation defined as a need for a positive pressure (continuous positive airway
           pressure (CPAP), nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP)) or intubation and a
           composite of any of the above

        5. Any maternal complications within the first 6-10 weeks post delivery. The investigators
           will recruit patients in the different sites aiming for 1200 twin pregnancy and will
           collect the patients' entire pregnancy data for developing an algorithm to calculate the
           risk to develop the complications
    
  