
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. Demonstrate the criterion validity of the Sleep-Related Breathing Disorder subscale of
           the PSQ as a screening tool for the diagnosis of OSA in children with Down Syndrome,
           using polysomnography as the gold standard.

           Hypothesis: Compared to the published threshold for a positive screen in the general
           pediatric population (≥ 7 of 22 positive responses), the threshold for a positive screen
           that corresponds to an optimal sensitivity and specificity in the Down syndrome
           population will be significantly different.

        2. Demonstrate the construct validity of the OSA-18 as a scale to assess sleep-related
           quality of life in children with Down Syndrome by comparing OSA-18 scores to an
           objective measure of disease burden (polysomnography) and a generic quality of life
           instrument (the Pediatric Quality of Life inventory, PedsQL).

      Hypothesis: OSA-18 scores will be significantly associated with the Apnea-Hypopnea Index
      assessed by polysomnography and the PedsQL Total Score, Physical Health, and Psychosocial
      Health summary scores.

      Background:

        1. Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Down Syndrome: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) affects 1-5% of
           children in the US and has been associated with a myriad of health consequences
           including cardiovascular complications, behavioral disturbances, and neurocognitive
           dysfunction. In contrast, there is a reported OSA prevalence of 31-79% in children with
           Down Syndrome due to traits that predispose to OSA including hypotonia, obesity, and
           craniofacial anatomy such as midfacial and mandibular hypoplasia which can lead to
           pharyngeal crowding. With increased risk of congenital cardiovascular defects in the
           Down Syndrome population, it is possible that these children are also at risk of the
           most serious complications of OSA including pulmonary hypertension.

           OSA has also been shown to have a significant impact on quality of life. Behavioral
           problems associated with OSA include reduced attention, hyperactivity, irritability and
           problems with peers. Previous studies in the general pediatric population have shown
           similar quality of life scores in children with symptoms of OSA as children with asthma
           and rheumatoid arthritis. In children with Down syndrome, reduced sleep has been
           associated with reduced cognitive function, memory, poor communication skills, and poor
           self-help skills. Furthermore, parents of children with sleep disordered breathing often
           suffer from sleep deprivation themselves which can result in negative impacts on family
           life, decreased ability to care for their children and higher levels of maternal stress.

        2. Subjective Measures of Sleep Disordered Breathing and Obstructive Sleep Apnea: Overnight
           polysomnography (PSG) is the gold standard for diagnosing OSA in children. However, due
           to cost and inconvenience, only a minority of patients being evaluated for OSA undergo
           PSG prior to adenotonsillectomy. One survey study conducted among pediatric
           otolaryngologists showed that 31% of respondents said they referred children suspected
           of OSA for PSG "rarely" or "never." In a separate study, 75% of pediatric
           otolaryngologists surveyed referred for PSG in less than 10% of children with suspected
           OSA. Commonly cited factors for this include cost of obtaining PSG and delay in
           obtaining PSG due to availability. In addition, a substantial proportion of patients
           referred for PSG are either lost to follow-up or experience significant delays in
           treatment due to testing. As a result, alternative methods of screening for or
           diagnosing OSA have been explored that are cheaper and less burdensome. This includes a
           variety of questionnaires that were designed to screen the pediatric population for
           symptoms of sleep disordered-breathing (SDB) and assess its impact on quality of life
           within a clinic setting. The Sleep-Related Breathing Disorders subscale of the Pediatric
           Sleep Questionnaire (SRBD-PSQ) was developed to screen for SDB using 3 categories:
           daytime sleepiness, snoring, and behavioral disturbances.3 This has previously been
           validated in children aged 2-18 within the general pediatric population. The OSA-18 is a
           survey that measures the impact of SDB or OSA on disease-specific quality of life in
           children by assessing common manifestations of the disease including sleep disturbance,
           emotional distress, daytime function, and caregiver concerns. This questionnaire has
           been validated in children ages 6 months to 12 years. Validated subjective measures like
           these capture different aspects of the disease experience than objective measures like
           PSG. They can also be used to assess large numbers of patients with far less burden and
           expense than PSG which frequently has long wait times due to limited capacity.

        3. No Validated Screening instruments or OSA-related QOL measures in Down Syndrome: Despite
           the high prevalence of OSA in the Down syndrome population and the availability of
           widely used questionnaires for SDB, screening for SDB is generally inconsistent in this
           population. Even when parental report of symptoms of SDB is solicited, multiple studies
           have demonstrated poor diagnostic accuracy of parental history compared to PSG. A recent
           study investigating parental assessment of the symptoms of SDB found that 66% of Down
           syndrome patients had frequent symptoms consistent with SDB including snoring, witnessed
           apnea, and restless sleep. However, there was no association between the frequency of
           these symptoms and diagnosis with OSA. Other studies have similarly demonstrated poor
           diagnostic accuracy of parental history with respect to PSG findings. For this reason,
           the most recent American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guideline regarding management of
           Down syndrome patients has recommended routine screening for OSA using PSG in all
           patients by the age of 4, regardless of symptomatology. There are currently no validated
           instruments for screening for OSA or assessing OSA-related quality of life in the Down
           syndrome population.
    
  