
    
      Background & Rationale. In patients with pre-existing invasive aspergillosis allo-HSCT is
      feasible without progression of fungal infection. However, the influence of invasive
      pulmonary aspergillosis (IA) on transplant related complications and on long term survival
      has not been investigated in a larger patient cohort under current conditions.

      Recently the IDWP and ALWP performed a retrospective analysis on the impact of preexisting
      aspergillosis on allo-HSCT outcome.2 In summary, there was a trend towards impaired outcome
      of allo-HSCT in patients with prior IA but there was no significant impact on important
      allo-HSCT transplant outcomes, such as survival, GVHD and relapse. The data suggest that a
      history of IA should not generally be considered a contraindication for allo-HSCT. To be able
      to more precisely investigate the impact of IA on allo-HSCT, a non-interventional prospective
      study is needed.

      Primary objective:

      To determine if pre-existing IA influences non-relapse mortality after allo-HSCT

      Secondary objectives:

      - To determine if pre-existing IA influences:

        -  relapse free survival

        -  overall survival

        -  incidence and severity of GVHD

        -  incidence of relapse

        -  incidence of IA post allo-HSCT

      for the subgroup of transplant with previous IA

      • progression of IA

      Research design:

      Prospective study. Study recruitment is expected to start by May 1st, 2016. It is expected
      that recruitment will be closed by October 31st 2017. Follow up will be till one year after
      transplant.

      Items:

      Data from Med A form, Med C form for all patients, Aspergillus form for patients with
      probable/proven IA.

      Endpoint(s):

      Primary endpoint: 1-year non-relapse mortality cumulative incidence

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  1-year relapse free survival

        -  1-year overall survival

        -  1-year incidence and severity of GVHD

        -  1-year incidence of relapse

        -  status of IA (before conditioning and at 1 year)

      Study population

        -  First allo-HSCT in patients with AML or

        -  First allo-HSCT in patients with ALL or

        -  First allo-HSCT in patients with MDS

      Cohort 1: History of probable or proven invasive aspergillosis Cohort 2: No History of
      probable or proven invasive aspergillosis

      Cases: Prior IA = probable/proven IA according EORTC 2008 criteria (Cohort 1) Controls: No
      prior proven probable IA = all other patients = those really negative for IA and those with
      possible IA (Cohort 2)

      Sample size Assuming a 20% incidence of non relapse mortality in patients without proven or
      probable history of IA, a total of 2100 HSCTs will be needed in order to test the hypothesis
      that the incidence of non relapse mortality in cohort 1 (HSCTs with previous history of
      proven or probable IA) is not higher than cohort 2 (HSCTs without history of IA or with
      previous history of possible IA) by more than a specified margin of 10%. The estimated
      proportion of HSCTs in cohort 1 is 5%, thus 105 and 1995 HSCTs will be needed in cohort 1 and
      cohort 2, respectively, considering an alpha=0.05, a beta=0.2.

      Data Collection & Statistical Analysis Plan:

      (List all research variables to be collected and list all outcome variables to be analysed,
      give a brief description of the method of analysis (in collaboration with the EBMT
      statistician) All data collection will be performed by the IDWP Data Office (Leiden)
      according to EBMT guidelines.

      Primary endpoint: non relapse mortality The non relapse mortality will be estimated using the
      cumulative incidence method. Death due to transplant will be considered as an event, whilst
      relapse of the underlying disease will be considered as competing events. Patients alive at
      the end of the follow-up will be censored at this date. Cohort 1, vs. Cohort 2 will be
      compared by the Gray test.

      A cause specific Cox model will be performed in order to estimate the risk of dying for
      Cohort 1 respect Cohort 2.

      The following variables will enter the multivariate model as possible confounders: age (as
      continuous variable), gender (M vs. F), underlying disease (ALL vs. AML/MDS), status at SCT
      (1st CR vs. ≥ 2 CR vs. Prim Refr/noCR), time from diagnosis to SCT (as continuous variable),
      donor type (sibling vs. UD vs. Haplo), source of SCT (BM vs. PB vs. CB), donor age, d/r
      gender match, d/r CMV status, conditioning regimens (MAC vs. RIC vs. TBI), type of
      immunosuppression (in vivo T depletion y/n, in vitro T-depletion y/n), DLI post SCT (y/n),
      centre.

      Secondary endpoints Relapse free survival and overall survival will be estimated by the
      Kaplan-Meier methods. Incidence of GvHD and incidence of relapse will be estimated by the
      cumulative incidence methods. A cause specific Cox model will be estimated to compare Cohort
      1 and Cohort 2; it will be adjusted by the confounders analyzed also in the primary endpoint.

      The severity of GvHD will be described by descriptive statistics. Frequencies and percentages
      will be use for categorical variables, whilst median, range, mean and standard deviation will
      be computed for continuous variables.

      Additional descriptive statistic will be separately performed in cohort 2. Main
      characteristics of patients will be also described.
    
  