
    
      Sickle cell disease is a severe monogenic disorder which affects approximately 80,000
      patients in the US. It is characterized by a vasculopathy with involvement of multiple organs
      and resulting in complications such as ischemic stroke, pulmonary hypertension,
      autosplenectomy, priapism, as well as chronic kidney disease (CKD). Despite the high
      prevalence of CKD and its known association with increased mortality, the natural history of
      CKD and the factors associated with changes in kidney function in patients with SCD remain
      incompletely defined. Furthermore, the available treatment options for albuminuria, an early
      manifestation of CKD, in patients with SCD are limited. In fact, no controlled studies have
      confirmed the long-term efficacy of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, the
      current "standard of care." There is increasing evidence for a contribution of endothelial
      dysfunction to the pathophysiology of albuminuria in SCD. The association of biomarkers of
      endothelial function with albuminuria provides opportunities, not only to assess the effect
      of therapies which improve endothelial function, but also to evaluate the predictive value of
      these biomarkers for a decline in kidney function. The long-range goal is to develop a model
      to identify patients at particularly high risk for a decline in kidney function.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate rate of change in kidney function (decline in
      estimated glomerular filtration rates and increase in albuminuria) and identify biomarkers of
      endothelial function, metabolomic profiles and clinical characteristics for the worsening of
      kidney function and for a rapid decline in kidney function. At the conclusion of this
      proposed work, the investigators will have an improved understanding of the natural history
      of CKD in sickle cell anemia. With the limited available therapies for the treatment of
      albuminuria in SCD and the paucity of data on the long-term efficacy of available
      pharmacotherapies, identification of biomarkers for the progression of CKD will facilitate
      the development of treatments which may be more effective than the current "standard of
      care."
    
  