
    
      Colorectal carcinoma is one of the cancers with higher incidence, although a progressive
      decrease in both incidence and mortality rates has been recently recorded in European
      countries. Rectal cancer may be diagnosed when the disease is at an advanced stage, causing
      obstructing symptoms. Colostomy represents a standard treatment option in these patients
      although it negatively impacts on quality of life. Consequently, alternative treatments have
      been proposed such as self-expandable metallic stent or thermal ablative treatments (i.e.
      laser or argon plasma coagulation endoscopic treatments), which are, however, not
      complication-free and not always feasible.

      Radiotherapy (RT) is a potentially effective method in the treatment of symptoms of rectal
      carcinomas. Nevertheless, almost all the evidences about palliative RT in rectal cancer have
      been published more than two decades ago and were based on 2D conventional RT, which is
      nowadays no longer used. Consequently, prospective studies on the efficacy of 3D-RT in the
      management of symptomatic rectal cancer are still lacking.

      The aim of this prospective study was to assess the efficacy of palliative short-course 3D RT
      (SCRT) in patients with symptomatic obstructive rectal cancer. This trial was a prospective
      Phase II study performed at the Fondazione di Ricerca e Cura "Giovanni Paolo II" in
      Campobasso (Italy).

      Therapy Radiotherapy During the simulation process, patients were immobilized in prone
      position on an up-down table, a device aimed at reducing small-bowel irradiation. To limit
      the organ motion, patients were instructed to empty the bladder and drink 300 cm3 of water
      one hour before CT-simulation and before every daily treatment fraction. After oral
      administration of contrast medium to allow bowel localization, simulation CT images were
      taken in 5 mm increments over the region of interest. Delineation of the clinical target
      volume 1 (CTV1) included the gross tumor volume (GTV, both primary tumor and enlarged pelvic
      nodes) and the corresponding mesorectum plus 2 cm cranio-caudally. The planning target volume
      (PTV) was the CTV plus 0.8 cm margin in all directions. Organs at risk (OARs) were contoured
      as follows: 1) the small intestine was defined as all intestinal loops below the sacral
      promontory (recto-sigmoid junction excluded); 2) femoral heads were contoured from the
      cranial extremity to the level of the lower margin of ischial tuberosities; 3) the bladder
      was contoured entirely with no distinction between the wall and its content. Conformal
      three-dimensional RT was planned (3D-RT) using the Oncentra-Masterplan treatment planning
      system (Nucletron B.V., Veenendaal, Netherland). Short course RT (total, 25 Gy; 5 fraction in
      5 days) was delivered with an isocentric four-field box technique. Dose was specified
      according to the ICRU Report 62. Dose-volume histograms (DVHs) were calculated for the PTV
      and OARs and the QUANTEC constraints were followed. Radiotherapy was delivered by 10-15 MV
      photon energy. The beams were delivered by an Elekta Precise Linac (Elekta Oncology Systems,
      Crawley, UK) equipped with standard multi leaf collimators (MLC). A daily online correction
      protocol of isocenter position was applied using portal imaging, with set-up correction in
      case of deviations > 0.5 cm in any direction. All stages of the treatment planning process
      were subjected to a systematic independent check procedure, as previously described. In
      patients with grade 3-4 toxicity, RT was suspended and treatment was resumed after recovery
      from toxicity in the degree ≤ 2.

      Chemotherapy Use of chemotherapy was allowed based on the referring physician preferences,
      comorbidities and age. Chemotherapy was discontinued during RT, one week before and after the
      delivery of RT.

      Statistical Analysis Primary end-point of the present study was the rate of complete response
      (CR) of obstructive symptoms following radiation treatment. According to the Simon's optimal
      design, the study required the enrollment of 9+8 patients in order to detect a significant
      rate of CR of obstructive symptoms (error probability limits: alpha 0.05; beta 0.2). In case
      of no detection of CR of obstructive symptoms in the first 9 enrolled patients, the
      interruption of enrollment and the closure of the study were planned. In case of detection of
      at least 1 CR of obstructive symptoms the study design required the recruitment of at least 8
      additional patients for the final evaluation of symptoms response rate. To account for a
      possible non-participation rate of 5%, we increased the sample size of the second stage to
      nine subjects. Continuous variables were reported as median with range. Categorical variables
      were reported as proportion and percentage. The survival curves were computed with the
      Kaplan-Meier method. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS v. 22 (IBM Corp., Armonk,
      NY, US) and Stata 14.1 SE (Stata corporation, College Station, TX, US)
    
  