
    
      BACKGROUND

        -  R935788 (fostamatanib disodium) is a kinase inhibitor with activity in vitro against
           several kinases known to be mutated or aberrantly expressed in malignant cells.

        -  Anticancer drugs that target multiple kinases are of particular interest because tumors
           may rely on several different kinase pathways for survival.

        -  R935788 has shown promising activity in the NCI 60-cell line panel against colon cancer,
           non-small cell lung cancer, and renal cell carcinoma cell lines, as well as in two renal
           cell xenograft models. R935788 is orally absorbed in tumor-bearing mice at
           concentrations that achieve antitumor activity and are not associated with observable
           toxicity.

        -  Phase I studies in patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura, rheumatoid arthritis
           and lymphoma have demonstrated safety with a continuous dosing schedule, and a maximum
           tolerated dose (MTD) has been established.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To determine the clinical response of R935788 administered orally twice a day on a
           continuous schedule in patients with colorectal carcinoma, pheochromocytoma, follicular,
           medullary, or papillary thyroid cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, hepatocellular
           carcinoma, carcinoma of the head and neck, and renal cell carcinoma.

        -  To evaluate the safety of R935788 in patients with various solid tumors.

        -  To determine the effects of R935788 on circulating tumor cells, circulating endothelial
           cells and levels of phosphorylated AKT and extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK)
           in tumor samples.

        -  To evaluate the biochemical response to R935788 therapy in patients with thyroid
           malignancies and pheochromocytoma.

      ELIGIBILITY

        -  Patients with histologically documented pheochromocytoma, follicular, medullary, or
           papillary thyroid cancer, colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung carcinoma (excluding
           squamous cell histology), hepatocellular carcinoma, carcinoma of the head and neck, as
           well as renal cell carcinoma) whose disease has progressed after any therapy or who have
           no acceptable standard treatment options.

        -  Radiation or chemotherapy is not permitted within 4 weeks prior to study enrollment.

        -  Patients must have recovered from toxicities of prior therapies to at least eligibility
           levels.

      STUDY DESIGN

      -This is an open-label, Phase II study of R935788. Patients will receive R935788 orally twice
      a day in 28-day cycles without interruption. Imaging studies will be obtained every 2 cycles.
      Following a limited dose escalation portion in each stratum, a two stage design will be used,
      the initial stage of which will consist of 15 to 21 patients depending on tumor type in each
      of 7 strata.
    
  