
    
      Background: The number of worldwide implanted cardiac electronic devices (CIED) is increasing
      continuously. On the other hand, the number of (more and more complex) surgical and catheter
      based interventions in this population is increasing as well. Recommendations for
      peri-operative management are often based on older data from case reports and small
      collectives. Data especially in particular subpopulations is limited.

      Objective: The study aims to evaluate the peri-operative management and outcome of patients
      with implanted CIED undergoing non-CIED related surgery or catheter interventional procedures
      (ablation) in clinical routine. Data from the study are expected to provide evidence for
      recommendations improving perioperative management and device programming.

      Study design: bi-center, non-randomized, observational registry, retrospective
      data-collection, on-going prospective patient enrollment, descriptive statistics Centers:
      Klinikum Fuerth (dep. for Heart and Lung disease, section for clinical electrophysiology),
      Klinikum Nuernberg (dep. for Heart surgery).

      Patients and methods:

      Primary endpoint: number and type of peri-operative adverse device related events (ADE)

      - all complaints, adverse events and adverse device effects will be documented and classified
      according to the ISO/DIS 14155 - Clinical Investigation of medical Devices in Human Subjects
      - Good Clinical Practices with respect to their relationship to the surgical or catheter
      intervention and [Stark NJ. A New standard for medical device adverse event classification. J
      of Clinical Research Best Practices 2009; 5(12): 1-7].

      Secondary endpoints: pre-interventional data (patient characteristics, data from CIED
      interrogation); peri-interventional data (type of surgery/intervention, anesthesiology
      techniques, any AE), post-interventional data (data from post-interventional CIED
      interrogation, need for reprogramming / device revision).

      Subpopulations: cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, catheter ablation, ICD and mode of therapy
      inhibition, CRT, automatic features

      Inclusion criteria:

      patients with implanted CIED undergoing non-CIED related surgical or catheter-based
      procedure, peri-procedural CIED interrogation, age >18 years Exclusion criteria: no implanted
      CIED, no data from peri-procedural CIED interrogation available.

      Patient enrollment: retrospectively from the clinical records beginning from 2008, further
      on-going prospective inclusion Data acquisition: Data will be collected in CRF´s from the
      patient's history, the computer based clinical information system / clinical records and data
      records from CIED interrogations

      Sample size: For the observational study, there is no pre-specified sample size.

      Data from more than 500 patients undergoing > 700 interventions are expected.

      Data security: Study related data are collected by the study investigators in an anonymous
      clinic-internal data-base, that is password protected.

      All investigators have to provide valid GCP training.

      Risk estimation: the study is observational and descriptive with anonymized data
      collection/analysis and therefore adds no risk to the study population
    
  