
    
      The overall goal of the study is to contribute to improving the level of functioning and
      quality of life and mental health outcomes for people with severe and enduring mental ill
      health (SMI) (schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression) by adapting and upscaling the
      implementation of a community-based service delivery model in Montenegro. Effectiveness
      component of the trial: Multidisciplinary community mental health teams for people with SMI.
      The intervention condition offers flexible, assertive community treatment (FACT) in the
      community for people with SMI. FACT can intensify (e.g. provide more intensive treatment in
      the form of daily home visits, crisis care at home, more intensive evidence-based
      psycho-social and pharmacological treatments) or provide less intensive treatment depending
      on client need. It can also provide less intensive care during non-crisis periods, offering
      routine home treatment where a combination of psychological and pharmacological treatments
      (e.g. cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational interviewing, family-based interventions)
      are offered, as well as care processes (reviewing recovery and crisis/treatment plans, and
      the clients' Wellness Recovery Action Plan), and social care interventions (assistance in
      obtaining or maintaining employment, looking for reasonable accommodation options). Care
      offered in this project in the intervention condition will be provided by a multidisciplinary
      community mental health team (CMHT), consisting of a diverse set of professionals including
      psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses, and social workers, that deliver integrated medical and
      social care that are focused on (symptomatic-, functional- and personal-) recovery. CMHTs
      will provide home-based treatment inclusive of crisis resolution services and procedures for
      early recognition of sub-clinical psychosis and bipolar disorder, ACT, and intensive case
      management. Integrated care (i.e. health and social care interventions) will be provided to
      all clients. Furthermore, health and social care evidence-based interventions for severe
      mental illnesses will be employed during home treatment, such as family-based interventions,
      motivational interviewing, and cognitive behavioral therapies, combined with medication
      management and identifying employment (paid and unpaid options) and support in finding and
      maintaining this employment, (Wellness Recovery Action Plan (WRAP) recovery groups and
      housing opportunities. Comparison condition: Usual care Health care settings and their
      providers randomized to the control condition receive usual care.
    
  