
    
      Among plastic surgeons, the clinical practice of prescribing postoperative prophylactic
      antibiotics following postmastectomy breast reconstruction with tissue expanders ranges
      widely from no postoperative antibiotics, to 5-7 days post-op, to antibiotics until the
      drains are removed. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends a single
      preoperative antibiotic dose for clean and clean-contaminated procedures, even in the
      presence of a drain. With the CDC creating a national action plan to reduce unnecessary
      prophylactic antibiotics for clean non-contaminated cases by advocating use of only a single
      pre-operative dose of antibiotics (see:
      https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/pdf/national_action_plan_for_combating_antibotic-resistant
      _bacteria.pdf ) there is mounting pressure on the plastic surgery community to adopt this
      regimen of SSI prophylaxis. Because there are no definitive studies that provide sufficient
      or conclusive evidence to affect antibiotic practice patterns among plastic surgeons on a
      large-scale, plastic surgeons use a wide variety of protocols for their SSI prophylaxis,
      especially in implant-based breast reconstruction. Plastic surgeons have generally not
      adopted CDC guidelines because these recommendations were not based on studies in plastic
      surgery patients, and the use of foreign body implants underneath devitalized soft tissue can
      be associated with higher infection risks. Based on the literature and from self-reporting
      from ASPS membership, there is a wide range of prophylactic antibiotic use to prevent SSI
      from as little as one preoperative dose to many weeks of therapy; one week of post-operative
      antibiotics is the most common form. However, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
      recommends a single preoperative dose of antibiotics for clean cases, even in the presence of
      a drain. Prolonged antibiotic courses can lead to antibiotic complications and development of
      resistance.

      Definitive studies to determine an optimal therapeutic strategy to prevent SSI in
      implant-based plastic surgical procedures are lacking. This study will address a dilemma in
      common plastic surgical operation: the use of post-operative antibiotics in prosthesis-based
      breast reconstruction.

      The central hypothesis for this multi-institutional, prospective randomized control trial
      (RCT) is that a single pre-operative dose of intravenous antibiotics with intraoperative
      redosing (SPD) is no worse (noninferiority design) at preventing SSI in tissue expander-based
      breast reconstruction (TE-BR) than an additional week of post-operative antibiotic
      prophylaxis (WPO).

      This trial will evaluate the efficacy of single preoperative dose versus one-week antibiotic
      regimens in preventing surgical site infection after tissue expander breast reconstruction.
      The investigators will assess the rates of SSI from the SPD vs. the WPO groups. They will
      assess the type, duration and method (oral vs. intravenous) of subsequent antibiotic use for
      patients who develop SSIs in each group. The study will also compare the readmission and
      premature expander removal rates due to SSI and the adverse antibiotic side effects in the
      two groups.
    
  