
    
      Robust speech communication requires that listeners learn linguistically-relevant
      representations for stable language regularities, such as the speech sounds (phonemes) that
      convey meaning. In an increasingly multilingual society, as many as twenty percent of
      Americans accomplish this across multiple languages. Yet, second language acquisition is
      especially challenging among adult language learners, for whom learning typically involves
      explicit classroom instruction. Troublingly, research documents that instruction routinely
      results in a 'learning plateau' whereby language abilities stagnate or even atrophy despite
      continued instruction. There is a need to establish effective new approaches to nudge adult
      language learners off this plateau. This project integrates theoretical and methodological
      developments in auditory category learning with approaches to classroom-based L2 instruction.
      Specifically, incidental category learning (in which learners' attention is directed away
      from to-be-learned categories by an engaging videogame) taps into category learning systems
      distinct from those engaged in more explicit learning. Moreover, incidental learning of
      nonspeech sound categories leads to activation of putatively speech-selective cortex
      associated with speech categorization, suggesting potential representational cross-talk. This
      guides the central hypothesis of the project: incidental learning of nonspeech perceptual
      building block categories may provide a 'back door' through which to influence adult L2
      learners' speech acquisition and to move them off the classroom learning plateau. An
      intensive 8-week incidental training study with a 3-month retention interval will test the
      hypothesis (Aim 1). Comparison of incidental nonspeech training with explicit L2 speech
      training will assess whether this cognitive 'back door' may be more effective in promoting L2
      speech perception and production than explicit training with L2 speech and will determine the
      extent to which each interacts with classroom instruction in the L2 (Aim 2). Far transfer and
      retention of incidental category learning will be established across measures that extend
      beyond L2 categorization to speech production, word learning, and phonological representation
      (Aim 3). The results will reveal whether nonspeech, auditory categories sharing common
      perceptual dimensions with second language categories scaffold L2 acquisition, the degree to
      which explicit instruction may support or interfere with new auditory categories, whether
      incidental learning is retained after training, and whether learning gains transfer to
      support other language-learning tasks. In blending empirical, methodological, and theoretical
      advances from laboratory studies with explicit classroom learning it will be possible to
      determine the interplay between incidentally-acquired nonlinguistic perceptual building block
      categories and an emerging L2. This will advance important theoretical debates about the
      cross-talk between general auditory representations and speech categories and will provide a
      novel approach to L2 pedagogy.
    
  