
    
      Objectives

        1. To assess sleep quality during pregnancy

        2. To know prevalence of various sleep disorders during pregnancy including restless leg
           syndrome, symptomatic obstructive sleep apnea etc.

        3. To study the effect of sleep disorders on maternal and fetal outcome

        4. To study the relation of obstructive sleep apnea with pregnancy induced hypertension.

      Material & Methods

      Study Design: Longitudinal prospective case-control study

        -  Consecutive patients undergoing antenatal check up at the Antenatal Clinic at AIIMS
           hospital during will be evaluated using questionnaires for sleep quality. Preliminary
           screening question for sleep disturbance in pregnancy to all patients

        -  Questionnaires used: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (covers insomnia, RLS, snoring and
           sleep related breathing disorders); Epworth Sleepiness Score (for Excessive daytime
           sleepiness); Modified Wisconsin Score; Modified Berlin Questionnaires

        -  To now association between Obstructive sleep apnea and pregnancy induced hypertension
           patients who develop symptomatic OSA will be offered polysomnographic evaluation during
           the second/third trimester.

        -  An offer of similar services will be made to pregnant females who do not develop
           pregnancy induced hypertension at a similar gestational age.

      Case: patient with OSA

      Control: patients without OSA

        -  We proposed to determine that what proportion of the cases were exposed to sleep
           disorders and what proportion are not.

        -  We also planned to determine what proportion of controls is exposed and what proportion
           is not.

      Cases and controls would be matched for age ,parity, BMI,previous h/o pre-eclampsia in first
      trimester.

      Outcome parameters

        1. Prevalence of various sleep disorders in pregnancy

        2. Maternal outcome: Development of pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH), gestational
           diabetes mellitus, complicated pregnancy requiring admission, preterm delivery,
           ante-partum hemorrhage, delivery requiring intervention (Caesarian section,
           forceps/ventouse application)

        3. Fetal outcome: APGAR scores at 1 and 5 min, IUGR, IUD, low birth weight

      Sample Size:

      A sample of convenience of 200 patients (who respond to questionnaire) and satisfy inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be followed up prospectively to assess the effect of sleep
      disorders on pregnancy outcome.As per estimates from literature sample size for case control
      part would be 20 for cases and 40 controls.

      Investigation specifically related to projects:

        1. Using Somnomedic systems, GmbH polysomnography machine by trained staff nurses and
           technicians at:

             -  Obstetrics ward, AIIMS hospital

             -  Home based portable PSG in non admitted

        2. Ambulatory blood pressure by the Oscar 2™ system from SunTech Medical, USA. The Oscar 2
           is clinically validated to all three internationally recognized standards.

             -  British Hypertension Society1 (A/A)

             -  European Society of Hypertension International Protocol2

             -  AAMI SP103

           Patient comfort The Oscar 2 and the Orbit™ BP cuff make patient comfort a priority.

             -  The SunTech Medical, Inc. patented Orbit cuff uses an innovative stretch-sleeve
                design to maintain cuff placement and promote patient comfort.

             -  The Oscar 2 is a light, compact monitor that uses motion tolerant algorithms to
                reduce re-inflates and failed readings. The auto-intelligent inflation pressure
                also reduces measurement time, promoting patient comfort by controlling cuff
                inflation.

        3. Screening Polysomnography using Apnea linkTM PLUS

             -  A quick and easy sleep-screening tool designed to help identify more patients at
                risk for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

             -  A premium, compact device that can be used at home

      Additional Investigation Required

        -  Routine clinical antenatal examination

        -  Blood pressure measurement

        -  Blood parameters (done routinely in ANC)

             -  Fasting blood sugar

             -  Renal and hepatic function tests

             -  Hemoglobin levels/s ferritin

             -  Serum TSH levels

        -  Urine examination

             -  Routine and spot sample for protein.

        -  Sonography: To rule out twin pregnancy and molar gestation/IUGR/Anomalies.

        -  These investigations are routinely done in ante natal clinic at AIIMS.

      Data Analysis

        -  Data will be collected on a pre-designed proforma.

        -  Statistical analysis will be performed using STATA 11 for Windows software (intercooled
           version, Stata Corporation, Houston, TX, USA).

        -  After assessing for approximate normal distribution, all continuous variables will be
           summarized as mean ± SD or median (interquartile range).

        -  Categorical variables will be expressed as n (%).

        -  The cases and controls will be compared using unpaired t-test if the data was normally
           distributed and the Mann-Whitney U test if not.

        -  A p values of <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

        -  Confounding factors influencing pregnancy outcomes will be subject to multivariate
           analysis to determine significance.
    
  