
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While PEF has routinely been applied in the diagnosis and management of asthma, scientists
      were finding new applications for PEF as both a clinical and epidemiologic tool for following
      individuals with pulmonary diseases, studying the natural history of chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, and evaluating the impact of environmental exposures on lung function. Yet
      the standardization of the PEF measurement lagged behind its application.

      The little attention paid to the performance characteristics of the PEF maneuver contrasted
      sharply with the efforts to standardize measurement procedures for FEV1 and FVC. The American
      Thoracic Society devoted a great deal of attention to studying these measures and published
      guidelines for the standardization of their measurement. These guidelines included detailed
      protocols for calibrating equipment, administering the tests, determining reproducibility,
      and interpreting results.

      The research provided data on the optimal number of trials per test session, the difference
      between a PEF performed during a full forced expiratory effort and that resulting from a
      short blast, the impact of test supervision on test performance, and the reproducibility of
      the PEF measurement.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A baseline survey of ventilatory function was performed using spirometry. PEF was measured
      daily with a mini-Wright Peak Flow Meter over a period of several weeks in a study of 201
      normals (staff, faculty and graduate students at the University of Massachusetts Lowell).
      Serial PEF data were collected on a group of mild asthmatics identified in a local
      occupational medicine clinic. Finally, performance characteristics were examined in serial
      PEF data from two existing occupational cohort studies.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  