
    
      Women Veterans' numerical minority in VA healthcare settings has created logistical
      challenges to delivering gender-sensitive comprehensive services. These challenges only grew
      as more women Veterans enrolled in VA care. Access and quality lagged behind that of male
      Veterans, while gender sensitivity, including adequate attention to privacy/safety and
      awareness of women's military roles and experiences, were often lacking. On-site availability
      of gender-specific services had also not kept pace, with women Veterans more likely to be
      outsourced for gender-specific care than they were ten years previously. Further, while the
      proportion of VA facilities having women's health (WH) clinics had increased, prior research
      demonstrated that as many as 40% of them were not delivering comprehensive primary care
      services, instead focusing only on gender-specific exams. Lack of gender-sensitive,
      comprehensive care for women has also been associated with measurable decrements in women's
      ratings of VA access, continuity and coordination, as well as measures of technical quality.

      The investigators aimed to assess the effectiveness of evidence-based quality improvement
      (EBQI) methods for developing a WH PACT model using a cluster randomized controlled trial
      (cRCT) design (Aim #1); examine impacts of receipt of WH-PACT concordant care on women
      Veterans' outcomes (Aim #2); evaluate processes of EBQI-supported WH-PACT implementation (Aim
      #3); and develop implementation and evaluation tools for use in EBQI-supported WH-PACT model
      adaptation, implementation, sustainability and spread to additional VA facilities (Aim #4).

      EBQI is a systematic approach to developing a multi-level research-clinical partnership
      approach to engaging local organizational senior leaders and quality improvement teams in
      adapting and implementing new care models in the context of prior evidence, local practice
      context, and provider behavior change methods, with researchers providing technical support
      and practice facilitation. In a cluster randomized trial, the investigators evaluated WH-PACT
      model achievement using patient, provider and practice surveys. The investigators examined
      intermediate changes in provider, staff and team knowledge and attitudes. Using analyses of
      secondary administrative and performance data, the investigators also explored impacts of
      receipt of WH-PACT care on quality of chronic disease care and prevention, health status, and
      utilization. Using mixed methods, the investigators assessed pre-post EBQI practice context;
      documented WH-PACT implementation; and examined barriers/facilitators to EBQI-supported
      WH-PACT implementation through a combination of semi-structured interviews and formative
      progress narratives and administrative data review.
    
  