
    
      The University of Chicago Health Lab is working with service providers - Treatment
      Alternatives for Safe Communities (TASC) and Heartland Alliance Health (HAH) - and the Cook
      County Sheriff's Office (CCSO), to implement a randomized controlled trial of a Supportive
      Release Center (SRC) compared to usual care for persons leaving the Cook County Jail (CCJ)
      with mental health, substance use disorder, or acute health needs. The primary aim of this
      randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the impact of assignment to the SRC, compared with
      not being offered a placement at the SRC (and consequent usual care), on the number of
      arrests within one year of study enrollment among eligible men being discharged from CCJ.

      The recruitment strategy for the SRC intervention is integrated into the jail discharge
      process. Individuals are discharged from the CCJ in groups, such that they may wait several
      hours before being discharged. After being escorted to the discharge area, detained
      individuals are consented to participate in the SRC study and asked to take a survey designed
      to identify needs, vulnerabilities, and interest in receiving services. During consent,
      individuals are informed that their CCJ Booking ID will be used to acquire data from the
      CCSO, Chicago Police Department, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, and
      Illinois State Police to determine their history of arrest, time spent in jail, and instances
      of re-arrest following study enrollment. In conjunction with demographic information linked
      from CCSO, this ID can be used to track healthcare and social service utilization via
      databases administered by Cook County Health and Hospital System (CCHHS), the Centers for
      Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services,
      the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Chicago Fire Department, and collaborating
      service-providers (TASC and HAH).

      Eligibility for the SRC intervention requires survey responses indicating both (1)
      vulnerability, suggesting potential need for the SRC, and (2) interest in attending the SRC.
      Vulnerability that suggests potential need for the SRC is ascertained by four independent
      criteria: a response of "more than half the days" or "nearly every day" to questions (1) and
      (2) from either the PHQ-9 depression or Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)-7 modules, which
      refer to problems experienced "over the past 2 weeks" (PHQ: 1. "little interest or pleasure
      doing things", 2. "feeling down, depressed, and hopeless"; GAD: 1. "feeling nervous, anxious,
      or on edge", 2. "not being able to stop or control worrying"); two or more previous instances
      of incarceration over the past 12 months; history of substance use over the previous 12
      months, indicated by weekly or more than weekly consumption of i) more than five alcoholic
      drinks per day, or ii) prescription drugs for non-medical reasons, or iii) illegal drugs; or
      affirmative response to questions asking about previous diagnosis by a health professional
      for a mental health condition, existence of urgent needs for healthcare over the three weeks
      following discharge, or concern about personal safety during discharge from the jail. Two
      questions gauge respondent interest in attending the SRC: interest in having (i) a safe place
      to stay upon discharge or (ii) a place to go to receive connections with social services upon
      discharge. An individual who responds affirmatively to both "interest" questions is
      automatically eligible for the SRC; to be eligible with an affirmative response to only one
      "interest" question, the respondent must have at least one indicator of vulnerability.
      Individuals who do not respond affirmatively to either question about interest are not
      eligible for the SRC.

      Detainees who are eligible and interested in services are then randomized to treatment and
      control groups. Individuals who are randomized to treatment have individual meetings with
      TASC social workers in a private office close to the discharge area, where the SRC is
      explained and offered. TASC provides opportunities to interview and receive service-linkages
      in the CCJ office for all randomized individuals. In addition to individuals randomized to
      control, those randomized to treatment who choose not to visit the off-site SRC facility are
      offered linkages during their private interview with TASC.

      The SRC is located on the CCJ campus, one half mile from the point of CCJ discharge.
      Participants accepting the SRC treatment are transported from the CCJ exit to the facility in
      TASC vehicles. The facility has the capacity to provide an overnight stay, meal, and shower
      to twelve individuals per night and provides a private environment where TASC case-workers
      can meet with discharged individuals. This environment provides TASC staff an opportunity to
      conduct a more intensive needs-screening to identify appropriate service-linkages, including
      connection with organizations providing substance use treatment and mental health services.
      An advanced practice nurse is available at the SRC to address immediate medical needs and
      ensure continued access to necessary prescription medications. On pre-specified days HAH
      recruits from the SRC to populate a non-SRC study; individuals recruited from the SRC and
      individuals randomized to SRC control on days HAH is recruiting are excluded from the SRC
      study.

      Intention-to-treat (ITT) and treatment-on-treated (TOT) analyses will be conducted for
      specified outcomes. In addition to an ITT group indicator, all models include covariates for
      demographic information (age, race, Hispanic/Latino indicator) acquired from the CCSO, an
      indicator variable for whether the individual could qualify for SRC treatment based on that
      measure ("qualified" (1) vs. "not qualified" or "no response (0)), and an indicator for
      whether that measure was missing ("no response" (1) vs. "not qualified"or "qualified" (0))
      (i.e. PHQ/depression score, GAD anxiety score, previous mental health diagnosis, alcohol use,
      prescription drug use, illegal drug use, acute health needs, or concern for personal safety).
      Age (18-24, 25-35, 36-45, 46-55, over 55), race ("black", "white", "other", "unknown"), and
      ethnicity ("Hispanic/Latino", "not Hispanic/Latino", "unknown") are coded as categorical
      variables. All models will include an interaction term between age and ITT status. Arrest and
      hospitalization outcomes will be measured using data from the Illinois State Police and
      Illinois Department of Public Health acquired via probabilistic matching on demographic
      identifiers. As a robustness check for count outcomes, researchers will evaluate sensitivity
      of results to the inclusion of an offset representing the number of days individuals an
      individual is vulnerable to the outcome. Unexposed time (invulnerable to re-arrest or
      emergency department visit) is defined as time spent incarcerated or hospitalized.
    
  