
    
      Mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV can be caused either by perinatal transmission of
      HIV or by breastfeeding, a common practice in poorer regions of the world. HIV preventive
      vaccines are currently under investigation as potential solutions to worldwide MTCT of HIV.
      This study will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of an HIV-1 vaccine, ALVAC-HIV
      vCP1521, in infants born to HIV-1 infected mothers in Uganda. The vaccine is a preparation of
      a live attenuated recombinant canarypox virus, encoding HIV clades B and E envelope proteins.
      This study will be conducted at Mulago Hospital in Uganda.

      Mothers will enroll in this study during their third trimesters of pregnancy. During
      screening, mothers will undergo medical history assessment, a physical exam, and blood
      collection. After delivery and prior to infant enrollment, mothers will have another physical
      exam; mothers and their infants will be accompanied home by a home visitor who will document
      contact information.

      Infants will be followed for 24 months after birth. Infants will be randomly assigned to
      receive 4 injections of vaccine or placebo. Study injections will be given at the start of
      the study and at Weeks 4, 8, and 12. Infants will be observed for 1 hour after each vaccine
      administration to check for body temperature and local and systemic reactions. They will also
      be evaluated in the clinic the day after each immunization for any local or systemic
      reactions. Infants will be visited at home 2 days after vaccine administration by a trained
      study nurse who will assess reactogenicity. Blood will be collected at 9 selected times:
      study entry, Weeks 2, 6, 10, and 14, and Months 6, 12, 18, and 24. Sixteen study visits
      occurring over 2 years will include medical history assessment and physical exams. Childhood
      immunizations will be given to infants at study entry and at Weeks 6, 10, and 14 and Months 6
      and 12.
    
  