
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is associated with an increased risk for the
      development of type 2 diabetes and HCV infection itself may promote insulin resistance,
      irrespective of the severity of liver disease.

        -  In patients with HCV infection, an increase in fasting insulin levels is associated with
           the presence of serum HCV core, the severity of hepatic fibrosis and a decrease in
           expression of insulin receptor substrate (IRS) 1 and IRS2, central molecules of the
           insulin-signaling cascade. Down-regulation of IRS1 and IRS2 has also been observed in
           HCV core-transgenic mice livers and HCV core-transfected human hepatoma cells.

        -  High levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which acts by disturbing tyrosine
           phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1, may be associated with insulin
           resistance both in animal models and in HCV patients.

      Insulin resistance seems to be genotype specific and may play a role in fibrogenesis in
      chronic hepatitis C.

        -  In patients infected with genotype non-3, insulin resistance is associated with the
           degree of fibrosis, the rate of fibrosis progression and previous failed antiviral
           treatment.

        -  Insulin resistance, fibrosis, and genotype are independent predictors of the response to
           antiviral therapy in chronic hepatitis C patients treated with peginterferon plus
           ribavirin. A sustained virological response is achieved in 33% of patients with genotype
           1 and insulin resistance compared with 60% of genotype 1 patients without insulin
           resistance.

        -  Insulin resistance is associated with a 3-fold risk of failure to antiviral treatment in
           patients with genotype 1 In an "in vitro" model, increased levels of insulin may promote
           increased HCV replication.

      RATIONALE Decreased insulin resistance and reduced hyperinsulinemia may facilitate the
      efficacy of anti-viral drugs on HCV replication.

      INDICATION Genotype 1 Chronic HCV hepatitis (CHC) associated with insulin resistance (IR).

      OBJECTIVES To compare the efficacy and safety of Pegylated-Interferon and Ribavirin plus
      metformin to Pegylated-Interferon and Ribavirin for treatment of naïve patients with Genotype
      1 Chronic HCV infection and insulin resistance.
    
  