
    
      Introduction: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a chronic, progressive and disabling disease
      and can affect functional capacity due to the weakness of the respiratory muscles. The
      inspiratory muscle training (IMT) has improved exercise tolerance in other cardiopulmonary
      diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and heart failure. Objectives:
      Therefore, the objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of inspiratory muscle
      training on functional capacity in patients with OSA. Patients and Methods: A pilot study
      will be conducted to calculate the sample. Individuals of both genders, diagnosed with
      obstructive sleep apnea moderate or severe (measured by polysomnography) will be invited and
      the data collected in the Sleep Laboratory of the Pronto-Socorro Cardiológico de Pernambuco
      (PROCAPE), located in Recife- PE- BRAZIL. The study deals with a test-clinical randomized
      double-blind to be held in four groups: A) Patients with OSA and Obesity - intervention, B)
      Patients with OSA and Obesity - control, C) Patients with OSA eutrophic - intervention , D)
      Patients with OSA eutrophic - control. The intervention groups held inspiratory muscle
      training (IMT) and the load is equivalent to 40% of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP). The
      evaluations will be performed once a week during twelve weeks. Control groups will be
      submitted to a simulated training with load less than 10% of MIP (insufficient charge to
      train the muscles), during the same period as the intervention group. The guidelines for the
      training and weekly evaluations will be performed by the responsible for the researcher
      physiotherapist in Cardiopulmonary Physical Therapy Laboratory (LACAP- UFPE). After the
      training period, the groups will be reassessed by the evaluation tests of functional capacity
      (ADL-Glittre Test and Ergospirometry), inspiratory muscle strength (manometer) and lung
      function (spirometry) and then compared. Expected results: The interventional groups will
      improve their functional capacity.
    
  