
    
      This is a prospective two-arm randomized controlled single blinded study to be conducted at
      Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto. The study will be conducted in the operating
      rooms (OR) with patients as subjects, and OR nurses and scheduled anesthesiologists as
      participants.Following signed informed consent, patients will be randomized into two
      groups:(i) Control group (CPG, n=65): cricoid pressure applied by the OR nurse on the cricoid
      cartilage using finger palpation without ultrasonography and (ii) Ultrasound group (USG,
      n=65): cricoid pressure applied by the OR nurse on the cricoid cartilage after localization
      with US. The oesophagus of the patient participants in both groups will also be identified by
      US. A portable US machine will be present in the operating room for all patients in both
      groups.

      The anesthesiologist scheduled for the surgery is blinded to group allocation and will induce
      the patient with general anesthesia. The anesthesiologist will provide adequate oxygenation
      with 100% oxygen to reach an end-tidal oxygen ≥ 90% using mask ventilation. Thereafter, the
      scheduled anesthesiologist will step out of the operating room. Apneic oxygenation will be
      maintained using a nasal cannula with 100% oxygen at 5 litres/min. During apneic oxygenation,
      one of the research anesthesiologists will localize the cricoid cartilage using US (for
      patients in USG group). Prior to applying cricoid pressure, the nurse will be instructed to
      use an estimated pressure (of 30 Newtons) that causes discomfort when applied to his/her
      nasal bridge. The nurse will then apply an estimated 30 Newtons pressure on the cricoid
      cartilage localized by US for patients in the USG group or blindly without US for patients in
      CPG group.

      The anesthesiologist will then return to the operating room and perform a videolaryngoscopy
      to directly visualize up to three attempts to pass a lubricated 20F gastric tube at the upper
      outlet of the esophagus with (i) pressure directly on the cricoid cartilage and (ii) with
      pressure on the cricoid cartilage shifted to the left and right of the midline. Following
      removal of the gastric tube and videolaryngoscope, the trachea will be intubated using direct
      laryngoscopy with a McIntosh blade. Cricoid pressure will be released after the cuff of the
      endotracheal tube is inflated. Thereafter, the location of the CC (blindly without US) for
      patients in CPG group will be marked and compared to the location that will be identified
      with US.
    
  