
    
      The efficacy of anti-depressants or lithium reported in clinical trials differs from clinical
      experience. Various factors such as non-adherence to treatment and poor tolerability to
      medications have been related to treatment non-response or treatment failure in mood
      disorders (major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder). Premature discontinuation of
      treatment for mood disorders is common. The long treatments, the patients' beliefs about
      medications, the lack of knowledge about the medication/treatment purpose, benefits, dosage,
      and side effects and the relationship between patient and healthcare providers affect
      treatment continuation.

      Investigators are proposing a sequential explanatory mixed methods study to investigate a
      novel program for medication training in persons with mood disorders. The ultimate purpose of
      the program is to improve medication adherence in these persons. The primary component of the
      present study will be quantitative, i.e., a randomized controlled trial with 12 months of
      follow-up to examine the effect of one-on-one medication training, including the use of a
      checklist system, on medication adherence in patients with mood disorders. The training
      program will include education to improve patients' knowledge regarding their medication's
      purpose, dosage, benefits, and side effects. The program will also include tools like a
      checklist or alarm clock to remind patients of when and how to take their medication.
      Furthermore, the program will contain an interactive listening period where healthcare
      professionals involved in medication dispensing will listen to patients' concerns, questions
      and thoughts regarding their medications. To the best of the investigators' knowledge, no
      research has comprehensively examined whether one-on-one medication training, as described
      above, may improve medication adherence in patients with mood disorders.
    
  