
    
      Time 1: Pre-anesthetic consultation

      Recruitment is performed during the pre-anesthetic consultation, between D-90 and D-2 of the
      date of operation. The eligibility criteria will be checked and if the child is eligible to
      participate in the study, oral and written information about the study is given to the
      child's parents (or, failing that, to their legal representatives) by the anesthetist doctor.
      Minors will receive information adapted to their ability to understand. It can not be
      overridden by the refusal of the child or the revocation of his acceptance. The investigator
      will give the parents the consent form The parents then have a minimum of 48 hours to decide
      whether to participate in the study of their child.

      In all cases, an anesthesiologist doctor will be reachable (through the secretariat) at any
      time in case of additional questions during the reflection period.

      Time n ° 2: Pre-anesthetic visit

      If the parents and the child agree to participate in this study and after a new eligibility
      check, the consent signed by both parents will be collected the day before the intervention
      during the pre-anesthetic visit.

      The randomization will then be carried out and two groups will be created:

        -  A first group receiving 0.2 mg / kg of IV dexamethasone at the time of anesthetic
           induction

        -  A second group receiving the same volume of placebo (physiological saline)

      The anesthetist will send to the pharmacy, on a prescription, the results of the
      randomization (assignment code) the day before the procedure.

      The drugs in the study will be prepared by the pharmacy department of the University Hospital
      of Nancy at most 21 days in advance of the intervention. Indeed, a syringe for each
      randomization list (stratification on algebra level) will always be planned in advance and
      ready to be used for inclusion early in the morning (between 7:30 and 9:30).

      The packaging will be identical to guarantee the double blind. The pharmacy will send the
      drug to the operating room on the morning of the operation via a specific drug transport.

      On the morning of the operation, all patients included will receive a premedication with
      midazolam 0.3mg / kg per os 30 minutes max 10mg before surgery.

      The patient is then asleep (general anesthesia) according to the protocols in force (initial
      induction by inhaled sevoflurane and then peripheral venous route (VVP) and injection of
      sufentanil 0.1 gamma / kg and propofol 2-3mg / kg or VVP pose then IV anesthesia directly in
      the larger ones).

      Then a block of the lower limb with 0.3mL / kg of ropivacaine at the concentration of 2mg /
      mL, ultrasound guided with or without neurostimulation is performed.

      The patient then receives according to his group:

        -  either 0.2 mg / kg of IV dexamethasone at the time of anesthetic induction

        -  or the same volume of placebo (physiological saline) at the time of anesthetic
           induction.

      Maintenance of general anesthesia is done by sevoflurane with sufentanil reinjection at the
      discretion of the anesthesiologist.

      In the intraoperative period, the patient will receive a systematic injection of paracetamol
      15mg / kg IVL 30 minutes before the end of the surgical procedure.

      Once the operation is complete, the patient is transferred to the post-interventional
      surveillance room with awakening and evaluation of the pain (by EVA scale) and postoperative
      nausea (by questioning the child), noting the hours of statement. The existence of a motor
      block of the operated lower limb is also evaluated and recorded. Thereafter, the patient
      returns to conventional service with regular evaluation (every 4 hours) of pain and nausea /
      vomiting (every 4 hours).

      The pain intensity will be evaluated by a scale validated from the age of 6: evaluation by
      analogue verbal scale (EVA) giving a painful intensity over 100: 100/100 being the maximum
      intensity imaginable, 0/100 the absence of pain.

      The occurrence of postoperative nausea and vomiting will be assessed as follows: no nausea /
      vomiting, nausea without vomiting, nausea and vomiting.

      If the EVA is greater than 30 in the 24 hours postoperative: an injection of Nalbuphine 0.2mg
      / kg IVL or morphine 0.1mg / kg max 3mg every 4 to 6 hours will be performed; in the event of
      failure (persistence of an EVA> 30 to 30 mins), a new dose of paracetamol 15mg / kg may be
      administered again 6 hours after the first dose injected intraoperatively.

      In the event of nausea and / or postoperative vomiting, ondansetron 0.1mg / kg every 8h will
      be administered and then in case of failure at 30 minutes, droperidol 10 microgram / kg every
      8h.
    
  