
    
      Nasal allergen challenge (NAC) is a useful tool in the investigation of allergic rhinitis,
      including grass pollen-induced seasonal allergic rhinitis (hay fever). We have experience in
      using NAC to investigate the clinical and immunological effects of allergen exposure and in
      using NAC as a surrogate outcome to assess the efficacy of treatments for allergic rhinitis.
      The procedure is safe and well tolerated. In order for NAC to be a valid tool, it is
      essential that the allergen extracts used are standardised in terms of concentration and
      stability in solution. We have previously used an extract of Timothy Grass (Phleum pratense)
      pollen, Aquagen (ALK-Abello, Denmark). Aquagen is supplied as a dry powder, to be
      reconstituted prior to use by dissolving in an albumin-based diluent. Unfortunately, Aquagen
      production has been discontinued, but the identical allergen is now available as Timothy
      Grass lyophilisate tablet, Grazax (ALK-Abello), an approved and licensed product for
      treatment of severe seasonal allergic rhinitis. Grazax consists of purified, freeze-dried
      Timothy Grass pollen extract, plus only three excipients, gelatin (from fish), mannitol and
      sodium hydroxide. Preliminary investigations have shown that Grazax tablets can be dissolved
      in saline to produce identical concentrations of allergen to Aquagen, with the same stability
      profile in vitro. We anticipate therefore, that the clinical effect when used for nasal
      allergen challenges would be equivalent to the use of Aquagen for a given allergen
      concentration. In this study we intend to confirm that nasal symptoms produced during the NAC
      with either Aquagen or Grazax will be equivalent. We will recruit volunteers with grass
      pollen-induced hay fever to undergo NAC with each allergen source, sequentially. In an open,
      randomised-order, cross-over study. The primary outcome will be patient-reported nasal
      symptoms (according to a standardised scoring system) in the 60 minutes after each nasal
      challenge.
    
  