
    
      Cachexia is highly prevalent among cancer patients and has substantial impact on the Quality
      of Life (QoL) and the functional status of patients.Therefore, the main purpose of this study
      is to investigate whether a mainly home-based nutritional and exercise program including
      regular monitoring using an application on the smartphone is effective in improving QoL in
      patients with advanced lung or gastrointestinal tract cancer.

      The study desing is a randomized, two-arm and multicenter international trial and advanced
      lung or gastrointestinal cancer patients not eligible for curative treatment make up the
      patient population.

      Patients in the intervention group receive a nutrition and exercise program in combination
      with an electronic application for data collection and monitoring.

      The nutritional program comprises an extensive nutritional assessment and an individual
      nutritional recommendation. In addition, patients receive a whey protein supplement high in
      leucine and β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB) to support an optimal protein intake in
      combination with physical activity. The nutritional situation is reassessed at 2 -3 weeks.

      Exercise counselling includes at least two visits with an extensive first baseline
      assessment. On this basis, an individual training program for 12 weeks in a home-based
      setting is compiled, with mainly strength and endurance exercises. At week 2-3, the patient
      and the study physiotherapist have a follow-up meeting.

      The application Swiss NutriAct is mainly used for data collection (nutritional, exercise and
      QoL data). Since the study coordinator, dietician and physiotherapist can see the information
      entered by the intervention group patients, they can contact patients and offer help
      regarding the nutrition and exercise program, where deemed appropriate. Vice versa, patients
      can use the help button to contact the study team to ask questions regarding the nutrition
      and exercise program.

      Patients in the control group receive standard of care and a limited version of the
      application.

      Both arms will be assessed at baseline (0 weeks), after the 12 weeks intervention phase and
      at a follow up assessment after 24 weeks.
    
  