
    
      BACKGROUND:

      CRP, a marker of systemic inflammation, has been reported to be an independent predictor of
      cardiovascular disease in both women and men. Recently published data from cross-sectional
      analyses showed that CRP is inversely related to cardiorespiratory fitness, and that this
      association is independent of body mass index. Regular exercise may affect CRP levels, and
      can possibly be used as a means of reducing elevated CRP levels. Though there are a number of
      studies focusing on related topics, there are no published reports from randomized clinical
      trials on the effect of exercise training alone on CRP levels.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      An estimated 200 individuals will be randomly assigned to either a no exercise control group
      or an exercise group. Exercising individuals will participate in 3 or 4 training sessions
      each week for 4 months, and will progress to a total energy expenditure of 16 kcal [kg(-1),
      week(-1)], which is an exercise dose at the upper end of current public health
      recommendations for physical activity. The target exercise intensity will be 50-70% of
      baseline volume of oxygen consumed (V02 max). VO2 max is the maximal rate of oxygen
      consumption during exercise, and is a measurement of fitness. The primary outcome measure
      will be plasma CRP concentration. Secondary outcomes will be changes in variables that are
      potential mechanisms through which regular exercise might reduce CRP. These variables include
      visceral adiposity, the cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha
      (TNF-alpha), and heart rate variability as a measure of autonomic balance. Although the
      primary outcome is CRP level, this study will also contribute significantly to the limited
      body of literature examining the effect of exercise on the variables of visceral adiposity,
      cytokines, and heart rate variability.
    
  