
    
      Objective

      The binding of neurotransmitters and certain drugs to neuroreceptors in the brain is
      considered to modify cognition and behavior by activating certain receptor-coupled effector
      enzymes and initiating signal transduction cascades. One of these effector enzymes is
      phospholipase A2 (PLA2), which when activated will release arachidonic acid (AA) from
      phospholipids and initiate the AA cascade (Fitzpatrick and Soberman, 2001). AA and its
      eicosanoid metabolites have multiple biological actions. We have developed an imaging method
      to quantify and localize brain signal transduction involving PLA2 and AA in unanesthetized
      rats and monkeys, using quantitative autoradiography or positron emission tomography (PET),
      and radiolabeled AA. The aim of this protocol is to extend this method to humans with PET,
      when brain imaging AA signaling in two experimental conditions (dark and visual flash
      stimulation at a frequency of 3 Hz or 8Hz) in the same subject in the same PET session.
      Radioactive [1-11C]AA will be injected intravenously in each condition, and PET will be used
      to measure its incorporation coefficient k* in individual brain regions. Animal studies and
      modeling have shown that the incorporation coefficient is proportion to PLA2 activation and
      the release of AA from brain phospholipids (Rapoport, 2003). In addition, [15O]H20 will be
      injected in each condition to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Based on our prior
      studies in human subjects of rCBF during visual activation by flashing lights at different
      frequencies (Mentis et al., 1997; Mentis et al., 1998; Mentis et al., 1996), we hypothesize
      that statistically significant increments in rCBF and [11C]AA incorporation into brain will
      be increased during visual activation compared with the dark (unactivated) condition. These
      increments should be evident in primary visual cortex, association visual cortex, thalamus,
      and frontal cortex. If our hypothesis proves correct and our method to measure [11C]AA
      incorporation both during stimulation and in the dark proves feasible in the same subject in
      the PET session, we believe that the method could be applied generally in humans to examine
      brain PLA2-related signal transduction during physiological or pharmacological activation and
      in healthy aging (Giovacchini et al., In press) and disease, particularly Parkinson and
      Alzheimer disease (Hayakawa et al., 2001; Nariai et al., 1991).

      Study population

      We plan to study 30 normal volunteers, each of whom will be subjected two stimulation
      conditions in the same PET session, visual stimulation at a frequency of 3 or 8 Hz, or a dark
      condition (0 Hz).

      Design

      Each PET scan session will last approximately 3 hours. Each subject will receive a total of
      four [15O]H20 injections to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), and two [11C]AA
      infusions to measure incorporation k* for AA during a single PET scan session. He/she will
      have an arterial catheter and venous line inserted during the entire session, and one
      transmission scan at the beginning of the session. The order of the scans will be randomized.
      The order of 4 blood flow scans will be: Rest-Photic Activation-Photic Activation-Rest OR
      Photic Activation-Rest-Rest-Photic Activation. The order of two [C11]AA scans will be
      Rest-Photic Stimulation Or Photic Stimulation-Rest.

      Stimulation will be conducted via LED goggles at a flash frequency of 3 Hz and 8 Hz, evenly
      divided among the 30 subjects, and at 0 Hz (dark condition). Statistical parametric mapping
      and other statistical procedures will be used to identify brain regions in which k* for AA
      and/or rCBF is elevated at 3 Hz compared with the dark condition; at 8 Hz compared with the
      dark condition; and at 8 Hz compared with 3 Hz condition.
    
  