
    
      AKI is a common condition which carries significant morbidity and mortality and has no
      current treatment except supportive care.

      Cardiac surgery remains the standard of care for the revascularisation of the most severe
      coronary artery disease despite improvements in percutaneous coronary intervention. The
      nature of such surgery confers an ischaemic renal insult and it follows on that AKI is a
      relatively common complication. However, the reported incidence of AKI post cardiac surgery
      varies widely depending on the diagnostic criteria used. A recent retrospective analysis of
      4572 cardiac surgical patients at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh over a 5 year period
      showed that 12.4% developed AKI by AKIN criteria post operatively. This was associated with
      an increased risk of death and prolonged inpatient stay.

      Pre-clinical studies in murine models of ischaemia reperfusion injury (IRI) have demonstrated
      that the anti-inflammatory enzyme HO-1 is of interest as a potential target for therapeutic
      intervention. Heme arginate (HA) is a drug licensed for human use, as a treatment for acute
      porphyria. HA upregulates HO-1, and ameliorates IRI when given before injury in murine models
      of IRI. In Phase I clinical trials, HA has been shown to upregulate HO-1 and is well
      tolerated.

      This is a single-blinded randomised trial of Heme arginate (HA) in patients who are due to
      have cardiac surgery. The aim of the study is to investigate the efficacy of HA in HO-1
      upregulation and its safety in this patient cohort. This will inform a further clinical trial
      of HA as a preventative treatment for AKI in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Methods

      Eligible patients will be those planned for elective cardiac surgery, identified at their
      Cardiothoracic outpatient clinic assessment, aged 60 or above.

      HA (3mg/kg) upregulates HO-1 mRNA up to 2-fold at 24 hours post dose in healthy young
      volunteers. Power calculations based on an 80% power (at p<0.05) to detect at least 2 fold
      upregulation of HO-1 protein by western blot necessitate 2 groups of 10 (assuming standard
      deviation (SD) of ±1.5x). 20 patients will be recruited (10 per group).

      Patients who agree to participate will be invited up for a study visit to the Clinical
      Research Facility at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh (RIE). If consent is given,
      participants will be randomised to receive HA at a dose of either 1 or 3mg/kg (maximum
      250mg). Prior to the dose being given, routine observations (including blood pressure, pulse,
      respiratory rate, oxygen saturations and temperature) will be taken, and the trial team
      member will perform a routine examination of the cardiac and respiratory systems. An
      electrocardiogram (ecg) will be done for reference.

      Blood samples to assess HO-1 expression in circulating monocytes will be taken prior to the
      administration of the study drug, and at 24 hours post dose. Samples for routine blood tests
      including full blood count (FBC), urea and electrolytes (U&E), C-reactive protein (CRP),
      liver function tests (LFT), and ferritin will be taken alongside those for monocyte
      isolation, with a further set on day 7. Serum (and urine) will be frozen for batch analysis
      and monocytes will be isolated by in-house protocols. Routine blood tests will be processed
      at the biochemistry and haematology laboratories at the RIE as per their usual methods.

      Urine samples will be collected before the study drug is given, and at 24 hours and 7 days
      post dose. Urinalysis will be performed, and microalbuminuria and urinary biomarkers of
      tubular injury neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin(NGAL), interleukin 18(IL-18) &
      kidney injury molecule 1(KIM-1) will be quantified.

      Routine clinical observations will be carried out for 6 hours post dose, at which time the
      patient will be allowed home in the absence of any adverse events. A second study visit at
      the Clinical Research Facility will be scheduled for 24 hours post dose (day 1), with a third
      study visit on day 7.

      The second and third study visits will allow reporting of any adverse events, as well as an
      opportunity to perform routine observations and take further blood samples for HO-1 induction
      and in order to analyse safety.

      All patients will be genotyped for the short or long repeat HO-1 promoter polymorphism
      (either homozygous or heterozygous) though this has not been shown to affect HO-1 induction
      by HA in previous studies.

      The RIE cardiac surgery unit performs approximately 1000 cases per year, with just less than
      80% aged 60 or over from our analysis of 4572 patients. A conservative estimate for time to
      meet recruitment to the study is 3 months.
    
  