
    
      This study will examine the feasibility of using wearable sensors to monitor common gait
      parameters. A sensor system consisting of 8 wearable inertial measurement units (IMU) that
      include accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers will be examined. These sensors will be
      programmed to work in unison to monitor gait parameters. The wearable sensor suite will have
      the capability to collect and store gait parameter data. The size and weight of each sensor
      should be similar to a standard metal wrist watch. The sensor suite will monitor three gait
      parameters: gait speed, stride length, and torso motion. These gait parameters are important
      for monitoring and detection of mild traumatic brain injury and as well as other neurological
      and vestibular disorders.

      The wearable sensor suite will have the following design parameters:

        -  Devices must be able to both stream data real-time and record data onboard for later
           transfer to a computer.

        -  Data must be processed using a software analysis package such as MATLAB®

        -  Device must be no heavier than the size of a metal wrist watch

        -  Device must be easily put on and be easily operated by clinicians and users

        -  Device must have a battery life of greater than 4 hours The wearable sensor suite will
           then be validated using an eight camera Vicon infrared optical capture motion analysis
           system for comparison. Ten healthy volunteers will be asked to complete four different
           types of gait trials 5 times for each trial type while being monitored by the Vicon
           motion analysis system and the wearable sensor system.

      The types of gait trials will be the following:

        -  Walk down a 20 ft path at self-selected normal stride length and cadence

        -  Walk down a 20 ft path with increased stride length while decreasing gait speed

        -  Walk down a 20 ft path with increased stride length while increasing gait speed

        -  Walk down a 20 ft path with decreased stride length while decreasing gait speed

        -  Walk down a 20 ft path with decreased stride length while increasing gait speed
    
  