
    
      Justification of the study: The two main complications responsible for death among lung
      transplant patients are infection and rejection. In-hospital, 1-year and 5-year mortality is
      10%, 20%, and 50%, respectively. The main symptoms are dyspnea, fever, drop in oxygen
      saturation, drop in pulmonary function tests (FEV1). Investigators hypothesize that
      surveillance of FEV1 and of several physiologic parameters though connected devices could
      improve early diagnostic of complications, namely rejection and infection. Surveillance of
      these patients through connected devices could reduce both mortality and morbidity.

      Design of the study: Prospective, observational, monocentric study (Bichat-Hospital,
      Université Paris 7, France) Main objectives and main endpoint: the main objective is to
      describe the natural trend of six physiologic parameters (SpO2, heart rate, respiratory rate,
      cutaneous temperature, physical activity and quality of sleep) and of FEV1 in patients who
      have benefited from lung transplantation within one year) and to specifically assess the
      evolution of these parameters a few days before the occurrence of complications. The main
      criteria of judgment will be mean and standard deviation of these parameters five days before
      the occurrence of an event, defined by hospitalization for infection and/or graft rejection.

      Secondary objectives and secondary endpoints:

      The secondary objectives will be:

        -  To validate metrologic performances of the connected devices.

        -  To describe the modifications of the physiologic parameters within days before a drop of
           10% of FEV1

        -  To describe the modifications of the physiologic parameters before the occurrence of
           complications requiring anti-infective and/or anti reject therapies

        -  To evaluate the interval between modifications of physiologic parameters and the
           occurrence of infection and/or reject.

        -  To evaluate the acceptability for the patient and the compliance of connected devices.

      The secondary criteria of judgment will be:

        -  The agreement between physiologic parameters measured through the connected devices and
           those measured with usual method ("gold standard) during visits in the day-care center

        -  The mean and standard deviation of the physiologic parameters (including FEV1) recorded
           for each patient

        -  The effect of combined physiologic parameters to predict a 10% drop in FEV1, and/or the
           occurrence of infection and/or the occurrence of graft rejection within 5 days after
           measurement.

        -  The interval in days between substantial modifications of physiologic parameters and the
           occurrence of infection and/or graft rejection.

        -  The patient's satisfaction measured with a simple questionnaire.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Adult patients older than 18-years

        -  Mono or pulmonary transplantation whatever the cause, within the last 12 months

        -  Inform consent given

        -  Skill to use connected devices Exclusion criteria

        -  No exclusion criteria

      The devices and the App

      Each patient will receive a health kit with the following:

        -  An App with an electronic formulary allowing the implementation of relevant clinical
           items: dyspnea, cough, sputum characteristics

        -  A smartphone

        -  A connected spirometer

        -  Wearable devices to record the physiologic parameters.

      Duration of the study

      Inclusion period: 6 months, Duration of follow-up: 6 months Total duration of the study: 12
      months Statistical analysis The distributions of physiologic parameters will be described
      through mean+/- SD. The comparison of distribution of each physiologic parameter within five
      days before an event (infection/graft rejection) will allow to define regions in parameter's
      space associated with an increase in the risk of subsequent events occurrence. For these
      regions, sensitivity and specificity for predefined thresholds will be calculated. For each
      event, we will calculate the interval between the entry in a risk region and the occurrence
      of the event. The standard curve between values recorded through the connected devices and
      those recorded with the reference measures determined in the hospital will be evaluated with
      a Bland-Altman representation. The satisfaction questionnaire will be analyzed according to
      standard methods (distribution of each item, Cronbach alpha coefficient, factorial analyses.
    
  