
    
      Objectives

      To evaluate the effectiveness of the systematic application of the comprehensive care
      protocol in people who debut in DM2 and associated comorbidities, applied during 3 months in
      primary care, in terms of quality of life related to Health, weigh loss and Glycosylated
      hemoglobin (HbA1c) compared to people who receive normal practice.

      Secondary: To evaluate the effectiveness of the systematic application of the comprehensive
      care protocol of DM and associated comorbidities, during 3 months in primary care, in the
      parameters:

        -  Evolution of the specific biological parameters: TA, BMI, lipid profile, abdominal
           perimeter.

        -  Evolution of the consumption of drugs.

        -  Compliance with dietary recommendations.

        -  Increase in physical activity.

        -  Satisfaction / opinion of the participants. According to a questionnaire of user
           satisfaction of the ICS adapted to our study.

        -  Health frequentation in Primary Care Centers.

      Methods and Analysis Study Design: A quantitative quasi-experimental design, multicenter,
      one-year follow-up, comparing a group of patients with a recent DM2 debut (less than 5
      months) treated according to the comprehensive care protocol in DM2 with comorbidities, the
      intervention (IG), with a group of similar characteristics who receive the usual care (CG).
      The response variables will be evaluated before starting the care according to protocol,
      after (3 months) and at 6 and 12 months of initiating the intervention, in both groups.

      Scope of the study: It will be developed in 10 urban primary care health centers, in 5
      centers the intervention will be carried out and in 5 the controls will be selected. The
      allocation of a center as an intervention or comparison will be random. In the calculation of
      the sample the cluster effect attributable to this design has been considered.

      Subjects of the study: The study population will consist of patients attended in the selected
      Primary Care Centers with a new diagnosis of DM2 (less than 5 months from the debut) that
      present comorbidity with an other chronic cardiovascular condition (Hypertension,
      dyslipidemia and/or obesity). Will be excluded COPD and IC, because they are attended with a
      specific protocol of care.
    
  