
    
      Background:

      Hypertension is a major risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Evidence-based guidelines
      support the use of specific drugs for patients with specific comorbidities to maximize the
      decrease in cardiovascular risk; yet, many physicians do not follow these guidelines in
      choosing drug therapy.

      Objectives:

      The goal of this project was to evaluate methods of implementing clinical practice
      guidelines, using hypertension as a model. We hypothesized that providing patient-specific
      recommendations to clinicians at the time of clinic contact with hypertensive patients would
      substantially improve guideline concordance of drug therapy without adversely affecting
      (possibly improving) blood pressure control. Our long-term goal is to develop and evaluate
      methods of implementing clinical practice guidelines that build on current knowledge about
      the most effective approaches to changing clinician behavior, and to extend those methods to
      other cardiovascular diseases.

      Methods:

      This project, known as ATHENA, included two major components: (1) We conducted a randomized
      controlled trial of patient-specific recommendations about drug therapy for hypertension,
      delivered to primary care clinicians at the time of primary care clinic visits. The
      recommendations were based on VA Hypertension Guidelines. The trial included 36 clinicians
      and 4500 hypertensive patients enrolled in primary care clinics at VA Palo Alto Health Care
      System. We compared a general intervention to an individualized intervention. Both the
      general and the intervention groups of clinicians received extensive guideline education, as
      part of a VISN-mandated hypertension guideline implementation. Clinicians randomized to the
      individualized intervention received, in addition, computer-generated patient-specific
      recommendations about drug therapy of hypertension, delivered to the clinics with the
      encounter forms for each visit. (2) In the 2nd major component of the study, we collaborated
      with Stanford Medical Informatics to develop a hypertension decision support system (ATHENA
      DSS). ATHENA DSS combines detailed patient information from the VA electronic medical record
      (VistA) with hypertension guideline knowledge based on the VA and JNC 6 hypertension
      guidelines. A special feature of ATHENA DSS is that the knowledge in the system can be easily
      browsed and updated by clinician-managers, so that knowledge can be kept up to date with
      emerging clinical trial findings about best treatments. We developed an infrastructure to
      implement the system in a pop-up window in the CPRS-GUI in the primary care clinics at VA
      Palo Alto. We also conducted an offline test of the program logic by comparing the ATHENA DSS
      recommendations with those made by a physician for 100 randomly selected VA patients.

      Status:

      In the past year, we have completed the data collection and data analysis for the randomized
      trial, and testing for ATHENA DSS, and we are preparing manuscripts. A new project evaluating
      implementation of guidelines with ATHENA DSS at 3 VA medical centers began in October, 2000.
    
  