
    
      Parkinson s disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, affecting
      more than 1 million elderly Americans. The causes of PD are largely unknown, but may include
      both genetic and environmental factors. We thus propose a large study to investigate the
      roles of diet, lifestyle, genes and their potential interactions in PD etiology, using the
      NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study. The AARP cohort was established by investigators at NCI and
      recruited over half a million participants in 1995 and had prospectively collected detailed
      information on diet and lifestyle. At baseline, participants were 50 years or older and
      included 40% women. After more than 8 years of follow-up, we expect to confirm 1,208 incident
      PD cases with their neurologists. We will comprehensively examine the associations between
      diet and lifestyle and risk of PD, focusing on dietary antioxidants, fat, caffeine, dairy
      products, estrogen use, obesity, physical activity, and non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs). Further, we will collect saliva samples from PD patients and selected controls
      without PD for genetic analysis. These results will be used to explore the PD associations
      with several common genetic polymorphisms and, for the first time, their interactions with
      several promising diet or lifestyle exposures. Many of the specific aims are novel and
      important but have been rarely examined in previous investigations. The findings will improve
      our understanding of the complex relationships among diet, lifestyle, gene-environment
      interaction, and PD etiology and may potentially contribute to successful PD prevention
      strategies.

      Study Aims:

        1. Examine dietary factors that may increase or decrease PD risk.

        2. Examine lifestyle factors that may increase or decrease PD risk.

        3. Examine genetic polymorphisms in relation to PD risk and their interactions with diet

      and lifestyle on PD risk.

      Study Population: The NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study cohort.

      Design:

        1. Longitudinal study for the first two study aims

        2. Nested case-control study for the third study aim.

      Outcome Parameters: Physician confirmed PD diagnoses.
    
  