
    
      Experimental clinical study, with evaluation before and after intervention, for a determined
      period of two years for data collection and one year for analysis and publication of results.
      Included participants will be randomized and divided into a control group and an intervention
      group.

      People with sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis undergoing follow-up at the pulmonology
      outpatient clinic will be invited to participate in this study, with an estimated sample of
      60 participants, according to the following criteria:

        1. Inclusion: people diagnosed with treated pulmonary tuberculosis, with negative culture
           in induced sputum; with pulmonary function report (spirometry), chest X-ray and complete
           blood count with biochemistry updated in the last month, and in accordance with the
           Informed Consent Form.

        2. Exclusion: people with non-cooperative pulmonary tuberculosis, who present clinical
           instability and / or musculoskeletal injury that compromises pulmonary rehabilitation
           and limits the perception of physical capacity; with any comorbidities that may cause or
           accentuate dyspnea; with stable angina, severe arrhythmias and / or heart failure.

      Protocols:

        1. Anamnesis and medical record examination

           The anamnesis and examination of the medical records of the research participants will
           be carried out through outpatient scheduling for adequate availability of the medical
           records, by the main researcher. The evaluation will consist of searching for the
           following main information: a) complaint and history of the disease; b) time of
           diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis; c) medications used in the treatment; d) duration
           of use of medications for treatment; e) age of the participant; and f) gender of the
           participant.

        2. Physical examination

           The physical examination will consist of the analysis of the following data and
           respective instruments and collection procedures: a) Anthropometry - the bioimpedance
           equipment by tetrapolar technique (InBody 230® Bioscope - Seoul - Korea) will be used,
           with bare feet, with light clothing and will consist of the verification of the
           following data: body mass, body height and Body Mass Index (BMI); b) Systemic blood
           pressure - measured using an aneroid sphygmomanometer, analog with a smaller division of
           2 mmHg, Brand: Premium® (certified by INMETRO), applied to the left arm, associated with
           the auscultatory method for determining systolic systemic blood pressure (SBP) and
           systemic diastolic blood pressure (SBP); c) Partial oxygen saturation - measured using a
           portable pulse oximeter (model 9500; Nonin Medical Inc., Minneapolis, USA), with a
           sensor positioned on the 2nd finger of the right hand, the reading being determined
           after signal stabilization, obtaining the partial arterial percentage of saturated
           oxygen (SpO2); d) Heart rate (HR) - measured using a portable pulse oximeter (model
           9500; Nonin Medical Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA), applied to the index finger of the left
           hand, obtaining the number of heart beats in one minute (bpm); e) Respiratory frequency
           (RF) - measured by counting by observing the thoracoabdominal movement of the number of
           respiratory incursions in one minute (irpm); f) Pulmonary auscultation - verification of
           lung sounds using a stethoscope; g) Cardiac auscultation - verification of cardiac
           sounds through the use of a stethoscope.

        3. Complementary exams

           They comprise routine examinations performed on these participants during the phase
           preceding the research, for diagnosis and clinical treatment, therefore inserted only as
           procedures for analysis of the reports and classification.

           Simple chest X-rays, lateral and postero-anterior views, corresponding to the last month
           of clinical treatment and submitted to the classification of the National Tuberculosis
           Association (NTA) will be analyzed.

           The pulmonary function tests or spirometry will be analyzed in accordance with the
           Guidelines for Pulmonary Function Tests of the Brazilian Society of Pulmonology.

           The analysis of the complete blood count and blood biochemistry will consist of the
           observation between the normal values of the following items: hematocrit, total
           leukocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils, lipogram, glucose, glycated hemoglobin, albumin,
           urea, creatinine, liver enzymes and C reactive protein.

        4. Examination of mental status

           The Mini Mental State Examination (Mini-mental) will be applied, a test that allows a
           quick and objective assessment of the research participant's cognitive function.

        5. Quality of life assessment

           The Questionnaire of the Hospital Saint George on Respiratory Illness (SGRQ) will be
           applied, specific for assessing the quality of life in respiratory diseases that
           addresses the impacts of the disease on individuals in three areas or domains: symptoms,
           activity and psychosocial aspects. Another instrument used to assess quality of life is
           the Short-Form 36 (SF-36), a generic questionnaire, self-administered or applied by
           interview, consisting of 36 items that assess the domains: functional capacity, physical
           aspects, pain, condition general health, vitality, social aspects, emotional aspects and
           mental health.

        6. Functional assessment

           The perception of effort will be measured by presenting the Modified Dyspnea Scale
           (Borg). The Medical Research Council Classification for dyspnoea will also be applied.

           For the assessment of disabilities in instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs),
           the scale developed by Lawton and Brody (1969) will be applied. The frailty assessment
           will also be carried out on the research participants through the clinical frailty
           scale.

        7. Physical evaluation

      The six-minute walk test will be performed, a submaximal test used to assess the distance
      covered by the participant in six uninterrupted minutes, with monitoring of blood pressure,
      heart rate (HR), modified BORG scale and oxygen saturation (SpO2), in a 50-meter, flat
      corridor, with demarcated distances meter by meter, following the recommendations of the
      American Thoracic Society. The sit and stand test will also be applied five times, a
      functional test that reproduces an everyday activity that particularly depends on the
      strength of the muscles of the lower limbs and body balance.

      Static spirometry test will be applied to assess respiratory muscle strength. This method is
      performed by measuring the Maximum Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) and Maximum Expiratory Pressure
      (MEP).

      To assess peripheral muscle strength, isokinetic dynamometry of the lower limbs will be used.
      The equipment used will be the Biodex System® dynamometer. The participant will adopt the
      sitting posture on the device with an inclination of +/- 100 degrees (internal angle), with
      the motor axis aligned with the knee joint axis and stabilizations in the trunk, hip and
      thigh to avoid compensations related to the maximum effort. The lever arm will be positioned
      at the distal third of the tested leg (three centimeters proximal to the tibial malleolus).
      The execution speeds to be tested for quadriceps and hamstrings will be 75º / s and 240º / s
      (4 repetitions), in amplitudes of 100º - 0º, with a resting time of two minutes.

      Reassessments will be made after one, three and six months of intervention.

      Intervention protocol:

      Rehabilitation can be applied to the intervention group in two ways: in person or by home
      orientation. The face-to-face form will correspond to 5 weeks of intervention, 3 sessions per
      week, which should include: a) aerobic resistance training (performed with a bicycle or
      treadmill) of 30 minutes in total (five minutes of warm-up, 20 minutes of aerobic training) ,
      five minutes of cooling down); b) strengthening of peripheral muscles using 20-minute
      sessions of calisthenic exercises; and c) maintained active stretching (stretching), for 10
      minutes, for the main muscle groups. The minimum adherence to the training sessions is 80%
      and all sessions will be accompanied by a doctor from the institution for effective first aid
      if necessary.

      The home orientation intervention (telerehabilitation) will correspond to three months of
      daily activities, monitored twice a week in the first month and once a week in the second and
      third months, by telephone or video conference, and will follow an exercise protocol that
      includes: a) aerobic resistance training (walking, cycling, swimming or step exercises) for
      15 uninterrupted minutes; b) anaerobic training to strengthen the peripheral muscles
      (calisthenic exercises) for 15 minutes at intervals with breathing exercises; and c)
      maintained active stretching (stretching), for 10 minutes, for the main muscle groups.
    
  