
    
      Patients are randomly allocated 1:1 through a computer-generated program to either control or
      intervention.

      Control: All control patients will continue to receive the basic Electronic Medical Record
      (EMR)-linked Clinical Decision Support (CDS) tool for cardiovascular (CV) risk factor
      management. This CDS includes algorithmically derived identification of high CV risk patients
      and prioritized treatment suggestions for lipids, Blood Pressure (BP), glycemic control,
      weight, tobacco, and aspirin use based on distance from goal, current medications, labs,
      allergies, and safety considerations. The basic CDS does not include any information on
      medication adherence. Patients will receive basic CDS plus usual care.

      Intervention: For intervention patients, the basic CDS system for CV risk-factor control is
      enhanced to support a team-based care model that identifies risk of non-adherence, computes
      adherence information and incorporates it in the CDS, creates a registry to direct proactive
      pharmacist outreach, and coordinates action plans. To do this, the CDS Web service will
      combine EMR-identified medications with Epic Medication Adherence score (e-PDC) data.
      Algorithms will identify poor adherence using e-PDC scores available within the Epic EMR at
      patient encounters. When medication adherence issues are identified, alert messages will
      appear on the CDS tools for patients and providers. Patients with index visits will be
      followed-up for 6 months as they continue to receive CDS at subsequent encounters. At 6
      months, patient e-PDC as well as clinical outcomes will be reevaluated. Patients with
      persistent adherence issues identified are added to a registry that is used by the
      pharmacists to conduct outreach. Pharmacist outreach will be conducted primarily by phone,
      but in-person arrangements are also an option. Pharmacists conducting outreach will identify
      themselves to patients as part of the care team working with the primary care provider (PCP).
      Examples of specific action plans that may be recommended includes education, recommending
      lower cost alternative medications or combination medications, addressing side effects, using
      pill boxes, modifying pill-taking schedules and/or using reminder systems, or referrals to
      medication therapy management (MTM) services or health educators. Pharmacists will be guided
      by a script template for the phone outreach that walks them through the IMB intervention and
      data collection. The pharmacists involved will have full read/write access to the EMR in full
      compliance with HIPAA regulations. They can make medication changes through established care
      protocols and/or communicate with the prescriber through secure messaging or phone
      consultation. The date of the pharmacist outreach and actions that result from the IMB
      intervention will be documented in the EMR and incorporated into subsequent CDS tools and
      registries to reflect the new patient state.
    
  