
    
      Millions of Americans provide unpaid care for aging or ill family members and friends.
      Caregiving for an individual with cancer who is undergoing stem cell transplantation is
      particularly stressful. The stress of caregiving is associated with many disorders, including
      sleep disturbances, depression, and anxiety. Although there is good evidence that cancer
      caregivers experience high levels of stress and stress-related symptoms, few interventions
      studies have been explored to address this concern in this population.

      Stress reduction techniques are important skills for individuals to cope with the stress of
      cancer caregiving. Mindfulness techniques such as yoga and meditation reduce levels of stress
      and stress-related symptoms in caregivers. However, many caregivers are reluctant to take
      time away from the patient to attend to their own health and well-being. Few studies have
      explored yoga-based stress reduction interventions that can be performed at home or at the
      patient s bedside.

      Based upon our past research examining stress and stress-related symptoms in stem cell
      transplant caregivers, this study is designed to determine preliminary effectiveness of a
      yoga-based stress reduction intervention in reducing levels of stress in caregivers during
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). In addition, this study will
      explorefactors associated with change in caregiver stress and symptoms such as demographics,
      clinical variables, cardiometabolic and inflammatory markers, and health behaviors.

      This study will use a prospective randomized control group design to examine the effects of a
      six-week yoga-based stress reduction intervention on perceived stress in caregivers of
      allogeneic HSCT patients. Subjects will be accrued to this protocol if they are a caregiver
      of an individual undergoing allogeneic HSCT at the Clinical Center, NIH, are greater than or
      equal to 18 years old, able to read English, stand and sit unassisted, raise arms over head
      without pain, and able to comprehend the investigational nature of the study. A sample of at
      least 78 caregivers is needed to adequately evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention.

      All caregivers will attend the usual care group education provided at the Clinical Center for
      transplant caregivers. Caregivers randomized to the intervention group will be scheduled for
      one session with study personnel to receive a 20 minute audio file of gentle chair yoga poses
      and guided breath awareness, as well as instructions for performing them, and they will be
      asked to practice daily. Data, in the form of web-based questionnaires, as well as a physical
      assessment, demographic interview and blood work will be collected from all study
      participants at baseline (at or near the time of HSCT) and again at the end of the six-week
      intervention. There will be no long-term follow-up after the intervention period.
      Questionnaires include: Caregiver Reaction Assessment, Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile II,
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Freiburg Mindfulness Scale, PROMIS measures of anxiety,
      applied cognition, depression, positive affect and well-being, Multidimensional Fatigue
      Symptom Inventory-Short Form and NIH Toolbox measures of loneliness, self-efficacy, and
      perceived stress. Subjects will participate in an exit interview at the end of the study and
      the interventionist will complete a log, based on subject diaries, that tracks subject
      practice, and discrepancy between planned and actual session date and time. Quantitative
      analysis techniques will be used in this study.
    
  