
    
      Background:

        -  TIL transfer studies in patients with metastatic melanoma following lymphodepletion have
           resulted in 50 percent objective response rates with a 10-15 percent rate of complete
           responses. Despite these important clinical findings, adoptive cell transfer has not
           become widely available for patient treatment. Significant obstacles to this therapy are
           the need for invasive surgery and the inability of some patients to tolerate high dose
           aldesleukin. Further, the specific characteristics of the T cells that are responsible
           for the therapeutic effect of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) are unknown, thus,
           resulting in significant treatment variability.

        -  Pre-clinical and correlative clinical studies of adoptive immunotherapy have suggested
           putative favorable characteristics for transferred lymphocytes, such as, high avidity
           for the target antigen, limited in vitro stimulation, and high expression of CD27+.
           However, these characteristics have not been prospectively evaluated in human clinical
           trials.

        -  We have developed a novel non invasive T cell isolation strategy using the heteroclitic
           MART-1:26-35(27L) peptide for in vitro sensitization of human PBL and high throughput
           quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) screening to rapidly isolate antigen
           specific cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) + T cells from the cluster of
           differentiation 4 (CD4) + T cell depleted peripheral blood repertoire. These isolated T
           cells possess the above mentioned favorable characteristics and recognize the native
           MART-1:27-35 epitope, an abundantly expressed melanoma antigen presented by human
           leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A serotype group (HLA-A2) on the tumor surface.

        -  The current proposed transfer of these select MART-1:27-35 reactive lymphocytes in
           conjunction with a lymphodepleting preparative regimen with or without high dose
           aldesleukin would represent a novel therapeutic option for patients with advanced
           melanoma and provide a desperately needed option for patients who are not medically
           eligible for aldesleukin treatment.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether MART-1:27-35 reactive lymphocytes infused with or without the
           administration of high-dose aldesleukin may result in clinical tumor regression in
           patients with metastatic melanoma receiving a non-myeloablative lymphoid depleting
           preparative regimen.

        -  To evaluate the safety of the treatment in patients receiving the non-myeloablative
           conditioning regimen and cell transfer with or without the administration of high-dose
           aldesleukin

        -  To determine the survival in patients, of infused cells following the administration of
           the non-myeloablative regimen, using analysis of the sequence of the variable region of
           the T cell receptor or flow cytometry (fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS)).

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with refractory metastatic melanoma who are greater than or equal to 18 years of
      age, are HLA-A2+, who have MART-1:27-35 reactive peripheral blood lymphocytes available and
      are physically able to tolerate non-myeloablative chemotherapy. Patients must be refractory
      to prior high dose aldesleukin treatment if they are medically eligible to receive it.
      Patients who can tolerate high-dose aldesleukin will receive it with cell infusion; those who
      cannot tolerate high-dose aldesleukin due to medical comorbidities or refuse high-dose
      aldesleukin will receive cell infusion without aldesleukin.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day X 2 days intravenous (IV)), fludarabine (25
           mg/m^2/day IV X 5 days).

        -  Patients will receive intravenous adoptive transfer of MART-1:27-35 reactive peripheral
           blood lymphocytes (minimum 1 X 10^8 and up to a maximum of 3 X 10^11 lymphocytes)
           followed by high-dose intravenous (IV) aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg/dose every 8 hours for
           up to 15 doses) or no aldesleukin if they are not medically eligible to receive it.

        -  A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted 4-6 weeks after the last
           dose of aldesleukin in the aldesleukin arm and 4-6 weeks after the cell administration
           in the no aldesleukin arm. Patients will be enrolled into two cohorts. The cohort
           receiving high-dose aldesleukin will be conducted using a small optimal two-stage Phase
           II design, initially 19 patients will be enrolled, and if 4 or more of the first 19
           patients have a clinical response ((partial response ) PR or (complete response) CR),
           accrual will continue to 33 patients, targeting a 35 percent goal for objective
           response. For the cohort who will not receive aldesleukin, the study will be conducted
           as a Minimax two stage phase II trial. Initially 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled
           to this cohort, and if 1 or more the first 12 have a response, then accrual would
           continue until a total of 21 patients, targeting a 20 percent goal for objective
           response.
    
  