
    
      1. Purpose of the study Major objective: To evaluate the efficacy of traditional Chinese
           medicine (Tangbi prescription) in improving the clinical symptoms of patients with
           diabetic distal symmetric polyneuropathy.

           Secondary objective: To evaluate the effect of traditional Chinese medicine (Tangbi
           prescription) on nerve conduction velocity of patients with diabetic distal symmetric
           polyneuropathy.

        2. Experimental Measures and contrast A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and
           multi-centric clinical trial design was used on the basis of a co-regimen of
           mecobalamin. The patients in the study group were treated with Tangbi prescription (1
           dose / day, twice), and patients were treated with placebo (1 dose / day, twice) in the
           control group. Treatment was scheduled for 24 weeks. The sample size was determined to
           188 cases through statistics calculation.

           Sample size calculation basis: According to the preliminary study of Antang-tongbi
           prescription data, placebo group scale (Toronto TCSS scale) score difference is 3.45,
           while Tangbi prescription scale score was 4.14, and the public standard deviation s =
           1.33. The sample size is estimated by hypothesis test formula of measurement data: N = 2
           * [(Zα + Zβ) * δ / d] ^ 2 (pp. 112-113 of the third edition of Epidemiology) (n is the
           sample size and σ is the estimated standard deviation, d is two groups' continuous
           variable mean difference; Zα and Zβ are the corresponding standard normal differences;
           for Zα and Zβ values, see the Human Health Edition, Epidemiology, Third Edition, page
           73, Table 6.2). Supposing= 0.05, β = 0.10, according to one-sided check table, the
           quantile Zα = 1.64485, Zβ = 0.84162, and put them into the formula, and result was n =
           78.10. Therefore, each group needs 78 patients. Considering no more than 20% withdrawal
           rate, the total number of cases is 188, of 94 cases in each group.

        3. Bias analysis The evaluation index of this study is clinical symptoms, affected by many
           factors. Although there are many ways in the treatment of oral drugs, but the exact
           evidence of evidence-based medicine is not proved. Therefore, there is little factor
           impacting of the biases of the evaluation results, concluding the following aspects: (1)
           blood glucose levels. (2) existing treatment measures, (3) the conditions of EMG
           determination.

           These influencing factors are addressed as follows: (1) As for blood glucose levels
           factor, a randomized, double-blind study design approach was used to ensure consistency
           of the factor in the two groups. (2) subjects taking Methycobal can reduce the
           psychological effect of patients on the efficacy of curative effect and increase patient
           compliance. (3) Train EMG doctors consistently, and the EMG determination is fixed,
           which forms the SOP of this study.

        4. Research design 4.1 The design scheme A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and
           multi-centric clinical trial design was used on the basis of a co-regimen of
           mecobalamin. Subjects who met the inclusion criteria were randomly divided into two
           groups. The patients in the study group were treated with Antang-tongbi prescription,
           and the patients in the control group were treated with placebo. Treatment was scheduled
           for 24 weeks. The sample size was 188 cases.

           4.2 Research Period Medication cycle is 24 weeks. 4.3 curative effect evaluation
           criteria 4.3.1 Major evaluation indicators Changes in Clinical Symptoms and Signs in
           Distal Symmetrical Polyneuropathy patients.

           The clinical symptoms and signs of patients were recorded by Michigan Diabetic
           Neuropathy Score(MDNS), and the changes of Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score(MDNS) were
           compared between the two groups before and after medication.

           4.3.2 Secondary Evaluation Indicators

           ① nerve conduction velocity changes The changes in nerve conduction velocity of each
           nerve were compared before and after taking medicine.

           ② Clinical symptoms and signs change The clinical symptoms and signs of the patients
           were compared before and after taking the medicine.

           4.4 Curative effect observation indicators ① Nerve conduction velocity (every 6 months).

             -  MDNS scale (every 3 months). 4.5 Observational Indicators

                ① Background observation (0 weeks)

                  1. Demographic data: gender, age, height, weight and so on.

                  2. General clinical data: medical history, course of the disease, treatment
                     history, combined disease and medication.

             -  Diagnostic and monitoring indicators

                  1. Blood pressure, fasting blood glucose test (every 1 month).

                  2. Glycated hemoglobin, blood lipids (every 3 months). 4.6 Analysis of relevant
                     measures are based on bias analysis 4.7 Basic treatment ① Diabetes education;

             -  Diabetic diet;

                  -  Rational control of blood glucose: use oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin
                     injections to keep all patients blood glucose stable in the study. In
                     principle, the type and dose of hypoglycemic agents should maintain unchanged.
                     If fasting blood glucose fluctuates more than 20%, diabetes experts were
                     needed to find and remove the predisposing factors as soon as possible, and
                     adjust the dose and monitor blood glucose changes, so the blood glucose can be
                     smooth in 4 weeks. Adjusted dose of the drug needs to be detailed records in
                     the combined medication table.

                     ④ Taking Mecobalamin tablets (1 / time, 3 times / day). (Eisai (China)
                     Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) 4.8 Provisions for combined treatment

                       1. All Chinese herbal medicines with the same efficacy as the study drug
                          (including Chinese herbal medicines with similar therapeutic indications
                          and Chinese herbal medicines with similar efficacy) were banned during
                          the study period.

                       2. All combination therapy and treatment (treatment measure or treatment
                          medicine of other diseases) should be documented in the combined
                          medication table.

                  -  Besides Methycobal, drugs for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy
                     are prohibited, including α-lipoic acid, epalrestat, VitB12 and so on.
    
  