
    
      Pancreas is an important retroperitoneal organ with exocrine and endocrine functions.
      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal diseases among all cancer types. It moved
      from the fourth to the third leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States and
      is anticipated to become the second around 2020. It accounts for about 3% of all cancers in
      the United State and about 7% of all cancer deaths.

      The estimated number of PC cases in Egypt in 2013 was 2,226, and it is projected to increase
      and be 2,836 and 6,883 in 2020 and 2050 respectively. The overall age-adjusted PC mortality
      rate in Egypt was 1.47/100,000 population and analysis of the regional distribution showed
      significant variations in rates among provinces with Northern provinces having higher rates
      than Southern regions.

      The asymptomatic nature of early PC, the lack of sensitive and specific tools to diagnose
      early disease, and the lack of response to most forms of treatment all contribute to the high
      mortality rate of pancreatic cancer. This poor outcome could be largely due to the late
      diagnosis. The expression profiles of PC had been widely studied, revealing several molecular
      factors affecting various aspects of PC.

      Tumors of pancreas are divided into: Non-endocrine tumors which maybe benign or malignant and
      endocrine tumors.

      The diagnosis of PC is usually based on radiology [computed tomography (CT) and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI)] or invasive endoscopic techniques [ultrasound endoscopy-fine needle
      aspiration (EUS-FNA), endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and explorative
      laparoscopy. Imaging diagnosis method is a normal method for clinical tumor diagnosis. But
      due to the various defects of the image device, it is usually to combine several kinds of
      technologies for diagnosis. Moreover because of the low sensitivity and specificity, the
      methods are often used in the diagnosis of high risk groups, rather than early detection.
      Therefore, it is urgently needed to develop new methods for early diagnosis of cancer.

      An ideal diagnostic method for PC should definitively distinguish malignant lesions from
      benign lesions, provide precise tumor staging, and detect early-stage disease and
      preneo-plastic conditions. There are many challenges in the early detection of PC, including
      its asymptomatic nature, the lack of a characteristic radiological manifestation and the
      absence of specific molecules in body fluid. Therefore, convenient and highly sensitive
      diagnostic tests for screening PC are probably more important than tests with good
      specificity but moderate sensitivity.

      Various types of tumor markers are used for diagnosing PC. The tumor markers carbohydrate
      antigen19-9(CA 19-9) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) are the ones most closely tied toPC.
      But these proteins don't always go up when a person has pancreatic cancer, and even if they
      do, the cancer is often already advanced by the time this happens. Sometimes levels of these
      tumor markers can go up even when a person doesn't have pancreatic cancer. For these reasons,
      CA19-9 and CEA aren't used to screen for pancreatic cancer, although a doctor might still
      order these tests if a person has symptoms that might be from pancreatic cancer. These tests
      are more often used in people already diagnosed with pancreatic cancer to help tell if
      treatment is working or if the cancer is progressing.

      Although CA 19-9 is known as a pancreatic cancer biomarker, it is not commonly used for
      general screening, owing to its low sensitivity and specificity. In particular,
      false-negative results in the segment of the population with Lewis blood type A-B- and
      false-positive results in patients with obstructive jaundice limit the specificity of CA 19-9
      for PC. Therefore, development of novel diagnostic markers is required for the early
      detection of PC.

      CEMIP (KIAA1199), defined as cell migration inducing protein currently is located in
      chromosome 15q25.1, which appears in the nucleus and cytoplasm. It is a secreted protein
      (153KDa) rather than a transmembrane protein. Its mutation site was reported to cause hearing
      loss due to the folding change of protein structure, meanwhile the over-expression of CEMIP
      referred to dreadful invasion and uncontrolled proliferation of tumor with distant metastasis
      and limited survival opportunity of patients. Especially, over-expressed CEMIP also protected
      malignant tumor from strict microenvironment in hypoxia, low glucose and cracked barrier,
      leading to enhanced adaptability of tumor by stimulating the epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR), fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) pathway. CEMIP plays an important role in
      cytokine pathway and its over-expression in tumors provide a novel target for individual
      therapy. Targeting CEMIP would thereby dysregulate the cytokine pathway which would in turn,
      decide the growth and death of the vicious tumor cells.

      Increased expression of CEMIP has been reported in various cancers including: breast,
      colorectal and gastric. Several studies have investigated the role of CEMIP in pancreatic
      cancer. It has been reported to be associated with early detection, cancer cell migration,
      invasion, and poor prognosis. Suh., 2016 suggested that CEMIP may be useful for detecting
      pancreatic cancer at an early stage, while Koga., 2017 demonstrated its association with
      prognosis in PC.

      Primary screening using circulating biomarkers followed by confir¬mative diagnosis based on
      imaging and patho¬logic results might be the future strategy for diagnosing PC.
    
  