
    
      At the admission of patients to the orthopedic outpatient clinic, presence of low- energy
      fractures will be established based on the anamnesis, physical examination and radiological
      evaluation. Tests to obtain the baseline blood levels of vitamin D3 will be performed, and
      only children with vitamin D3 levels lower than 30ng/ml in the blood will be included in the
      study. The selected population will then be randomly assigned by an independent investigator
      to the three study groups, receiving daily for three months identical- looking soft gel
      capsules (1 capsule/patient/day) containing supplements of vitamin D3 2,000 IU, 90 mcg of
      vitamin K2 as menaquinone-7 combined with 2,000 IU D3, and olive oil-containing placebo
      capsules respectively. During the 3-month follow-up visits to the outpatient orthopedic
      clinic, the pediatric orthopedist will examine the patient, evaluate the X-ray, and determine
      the progress in bone union and the range of joint motion. The patients will visit the clinic
      on weeks 1,2,4,6,8, and 12. The compliance taking the supplements will be assessed by
      registering a pill count returned by a patient during the scheduled visit. The blood samples
      will be collected upon admission to the study, day 0, and after the 3-month regimen. The
      blood samples will be collected for evaluation of bone turnover markers and the status of
      vitamin K and vitamin D3. The primary evaluation endpoints will include: the dynamics of
      fracture healing, changes in levels of osteocalcin, and vitamin K and vitamin D3 levels
      against the placebo group. The bone fracture healing milestones will be based on bone union
      defined as the absence of pain and the presence of bridging callus in three of the four
      cortices seen on the front rear projection and lateral radiographic views of the bone.
      Delayed union is defined as incomplete consolidation at 90 Days
    
  