
    
      Compared to the general population, Indigenous people disproportionately suffer from higher
      rates of diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and chronic kidney disease (CKD), when compared to
      their non-Indigenous counterparts. However, rates of these morbidities are greatest for
      Indigenous individuals living in rural and remote areas, where social inequalities such as
      poverty and poor access to services - in particular reduced access to primary care and
      nephrology specialists - are the most the salient.

      If caught and treated early in its course, kidney failure is often preventable, especially
      for those at the highest risk of progression. However, CKD is often unrecognizable and
      asymptomatic until it is in its later stages, when the chances of preventing kidney failure
      are limited. Therefore, in order to administer targeted therapeutic interventions, early
      identification and stratification of those at highest risk of CKD are urgently needed.
      Screening programs using state of the art point-of-care testing equipment with blood and
      urine samples can test for CKD both quickly and accurately. While general population-based
      screening have not been found to be beneficial, targeted screening directed toward high-risk
      patients with diabetes and high blood pressure, or high-risk populations known to progress
      rapidly or have limited access to primary health care, are cost-effective. In particular,
      research has shown that the cost utility of one-off, point-of-care screening and treatment
      for CKD in rural and remote Indigenous communities is highly cost-effective when compared to
      usual care provided in these geographic areas.

      The goal of this project is to develop a platform that will enable the early diagnosis of
      Indigenous adults and children with CKD living in Indigenous communities across Canada, and
      lead to treatment and follow up care targeted to each individual's risk of kidney failure. By
      developing mobile mass screening and prevention initiatives in adults and children for the
      prevention of CKD and kidney failure, appropriate treatment and follow-up will continue, and
      rates of CKD progression will decline, with fewer patients reaching kidney failure requiring
      dialysis. In addition, this project will further demonstrate the benefits of front line
      surveillance, risk prediction and treatment, and lead to novel insights regarding prognosis,
      and the factors driving kidney disease in Indigenous communities, ultimately serving as the
      gold-standard model for delivery of kidney care across Canada.
    
  