
    
      Plantar fasciitis is the most common cause of foot complaints in the United States, making up
      11 to 15 percent of the foot symptoms requiring professional care among adults (Pfeffer et
      al., 1999; Cole et al., 2005). A 2004 publication found that there are approximately 1
      million patient visits per year to office-based physicians and hospital outpatient
      departments in the United States for plantar fasciitis (Riddle et al., 2004). This figure
      does not consider podiatric physicians visits, including these numbers would raise the
      overall physician visits related to plantar fasciitis considerably. The incidence of plantar
      fasciitis peaks in people between the ages of 40 to 60 years with no bias towards either sex
      (Taunton et al., 2002) The underlying condition that causes plantar fasciitis is a
      degenerative tissue condition that occurs near the site of origin of the plantar fascia at
      the medial tuberosity of the calcaneous (Buchbinder, 2004). In acute cases, plantar fasciitis
      is characterized by classical signs of inflammation including pain, swelling and loss of
      function. For more chronic conditions, however, inflammation is not the underlying tissue
      disruption. In fact, histology of chronic cases has shown no signs of inflammatory cell
      invasion into the affected area (Lemont et al., 2003). The tissue instead is characterized
      histological by infiltration with macrophages, lymphocytes, and plasma cells; tissue
      destruction; and repair involving immature vascularization and fibrosis (Lemont et al.,
      2003). The normal fascia tissue is replaced by an angiofibroblastic hyperplastic tissue which
      insuitates itself throughout the surrounding tissue creating a self-perpetuating cycle of
      degeneration (Lemont et al., 2003). In these chronic cases, the suffix 'itis' is a misnomer
      with plantar fasciosis being a more apt description of the underlying histology.

      Conservative treatments including stretching protocols and foot orthoses resolve many cases
      of plantar fasciitis, with reports for patients in orthopedic practices being around 80
      percent resolution (Cole et al., 2005; Wolgin et al., 1994; Martin et al., 1998; Davies et
      al., 1999). For more chronic cases, a number of non-surgical interventions are utilized
      including extracorperal shock wave therapy and corticosteroid injections (Cole et al., 2005;
      Speed et al., 2003; Acevedo, Beskin, 1998). The use of corticosteroids is particularly
      troubling as several studies have linked plantar fascial rupture to repeated local injections
      of a corticosteroid (Cole et al., 2005; Sellman, 1994; Leach et al., 1978; Acevedo, Beskin,
      1998).

      All of these methods are limited in their efficacy for cases of chronic plantar fasciitis due
      to the fact that none of them adequately addresses the full scope of the underlying tissue
      degeneration. This frequently leaves surgical intervention as the only viable option in these
      chronic cases.

      The goal of treatment for chronic plantar fasciitis should be to cease and ultimately reverse
      the degenerating tissue disruption that is at the root of the condition. The three steps
      critical to full repair of the effected tissue are:

        1. Enhancing the influx and proliferation of fibroblasts into the effected area. This will
           allow for a tissue bed that is extremely receptive to vascularization

        2. Promote angiogenesis to develop a mature vascular structure in the effected area

        3. With a mature vascularization, collagen deposition can then occur, resulting in the
           organization of fully mature tendon tissue

      The injection of platelet-rich-plasma (PRP) into the effected tissue addresses all three
      healing stages necessary to reverse the degenerative process. The individual cytokines
      present in the platelet α-granules have been shown to enhance fibroblast migration and
      proliferation, upregulate vascularization, and increases collagen deposition in a variety of
      in vitro and in vivo settings [Molloy 2004]. Autologous PRP contains concentrated white blood
      cells and platelets that are suspended in plasma. Since an acidic anticoagulant
      (Anticoagulant Citrate Dextrose Solution A) is used to allow for processing of the whole
      blood via centrifugation, the PRP must be buffered to increase the pH to normal physiologic
      levels prior for injection into the effected tissue. This is accomplished with the addition
      of an 8.4% sodium bicarbonate solution at a ratio 0.05cc of sodium bicarbonate solution to
      1cc of platelet concentrate. The resulting buffered platelet concentrate contains
      approximately 6 to 8 times concentration of platelets compared to baseline whole blood.

      The cytokines present in platelet α-granules have been shown to affect the three healing
      stages necessary to reverse a chronic plantar fasciitis condition (Molloy et al., 2003).
      Additionally, many of these cytokines have been seen to work in a dose dependent manner
      (Molloy et al., 2003). A PRP injection into the effected area of tissue would provide
      concentrated levels of cytokines that should result in a healing cascade that halts and
      ultimately reverses the underlying pathology of elbow tendinosis. This treatment concept
      directly addresses the existing condition and should prove to be a superior alternative to
      current conservative treatments for chronic plantar fasciitis.

      The objective of this clinical investigation is to compare the efficacy of autologous
      platelet concentrate injections with corticosteroid injection in patients suffering from
      plantar fasciitis with respect to pain and function.

      Primary question Does injection with autologous platelet concentrate results in a larger
      percentage of successfully treated patients after 6 month as injection corticosteroid
      injection?

      Secondary questions Does injection with autologous platelet concentrate has a larger pain
      reduction as injection of corticosteroid injection? (VAS) Does injection with autologous
      platelet concentrate has a larger improvement in function as corticosteroid injection?
      (AOFAS, WHOQol) Does injection with autologous platelet concentrate has a larger amount of
      satisfied patients as of corticosteroid injection? (WHOQol, satisfaction)
    
  