
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Establish the safety and dose-limiting toxicities of alemtuzumab in combination with
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP)
           chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed, stage II-IV aggressive peripheral T-cell
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Measure the pharmacokinetics of alemtuzumab using different subcutaneous doses and
           schedules to determine the dose with the highest achievable drug levels with acceptable
           toxicities worthy of further investigation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the efficacy of alemtuzumab in combination with CHOP chemotherapy using
           escalating doses and 2 different drug schedules, as defined by overall response rate,
           progression-free survival, and overall survival.

        -  Measure the effects of this regimen on T-cell reconstitution and cytomegalovirus
           reactivation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of alemtuzumab followed by an
      open-label, phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Patients
           also receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 OR on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of alemtuzumab until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy and alemtuzumab (at the MTD determined in
           phase I) as in phase I (on the most effective regimen).

      Patients undergo blood collection at baseline, periodically during study treatment, and after
      completion of study treatment for pharmacokinetics and other correlative studies. Samples are
      examined for presence of cytomegalovirus antigen and by flow cytometry for B- and T-cell
      quantification.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 84 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  