
    
      The major problem addressed in this study is to understand mechanisms underlying poor
      exercise capacity in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Prior research has found
      that CKD patients have an exaggerated increase in blood pressure during certain forms of
      exercise that could contribute to exercise dysfunction as well as cardiovascular disease.
      This study will test the mechanisms underlying this exaggerated blood pressure response, as
      well as the potential benefits of simple measures such as exercise training on a stationary
      bicycle, and treatment with 6R-BH4, a drug that is currently FDA-approved for the treatment
      of phenylketonuria, but has been shown to have beneficial effects on vascular health in
      patients with kidney disease. This study will also examine the effects of exercise with
      histidine and beta-alanine supplementation. Histidine and beta-alanine are two
      over-the-counter supplements commonly used to enhance sports performance in athletes.

      Prior to the intervention portion of this study, the researchers will measure how much the
      vein constricts in response to adrenaline in CKD patients versus controls. The study will
      also measure muscle pH, and muscle oxygenation during exercise in CKD patients and controls.

      The intervention portion of the study will test whether aerobic exercise training with and
      without 6R-BH4, or with and without histidine and beta-alanine supplementation might help
      muscle pH and adrenaline levels, vascular reactivity, muscle oxygenation, and the exaggerated
      blood pressure response during exercise in CKD patients. Participants will be randomized
      using a 2x2 factorial design to exercise training (ET) with 6R-BH4, ET with placebo,
      stretching (control condition to exercise) with 6R-BH4, and stretching with placebo.
      Participants will undergo exercise training on a stationary bicycle, or stretching exercises,
      3 times per week for 6-14 weeks (depending on availability of the participant).
    
  