
    
      -  In this study we are looking for the highest dose of Velcade that can be given to people
           safely when given with tacrolimus and methotrexate. Not everyone who participates in the
           study will receive the same amount of the study drug. The dose the participant will
           receive depends upon the number of subjects enrolled on the study and how well they have
           tolerated their doses of the drug.

        -  Before Transplant: In addition to the chemotherapy drugs, fludarabine and busulfex, for
           the participants non-myeloablative transplant, they will also start taking tacrolimus
           orally three days before their transplant.

        -  After Transplant Medication: Methotrexate; Intravenously on days 1, 3, 6 & 11 after
           transplant for a total of 4 doses. Tacrolimus; Continue taking orally once daily.
           Velcade: Intravenously on days 1, 4 & 7 after transplant, a total of 3 doses.
           Filgrastim: Subcutaneous injection daily starting the day after transplant and
           continuing until the participant blood counts have recovered.

        -  After Transplant Physical Exams & Tests: Participants will have physical exams and blood
           tests every week for 1 month. After 1 month, a none marrow biopsy will be performed to
           look for evidence of the donor's cells in the participants bone marrow.

        -  Following the 1 month period of time, participants will be seen every few weeks. Another
           bone marrow biopsy, as well as blood tests, will be taken 3-4 months after the
           transplant to review the disease status. At this point, participants will come into the
           clinic about every 3 months, or as determined by their physician for about one year.

        -  While the study ends at 12 months after transplant, we would like to keep track of the
           participants medical condition for the rest of their life.
    
  