
    
      The field of regenerative medicine and orthobiologics have raised the interests of many
      clinicians and members of the scientific community. Over the last 20 years there has been a
      great interest and growth in this field, a Scopus search for musculoskeletal and stem cells
      resulted in over 3000 documents, with more than a third being reviews. A PubMed search in the
      past 6 years resulted in 52 publications in the last 5 years.

      Unfortunately, the fragmentation of regenerative medicine has occured with many clinicians
      using generalized protocols resulting in little significant clinical improvement or
      short-term benefits that often fade over time.

      There is still a great deal of research which needs to be done to elucidate how best to
      utilize the various components of regenerative medicine as well as the pathophysiology of
      osteoarthritis.

      The ERIPTO study seeks to study a proposed protocol utilizing various components of
      regenerative medicine including platelet rich plasma (PRP), hyaluronic acid (HA), and human
      bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC).

      In trauma and normal wound healing collagen is often the initial activator of platelets with
      development of platelet monolayers over the exposed collagen surfaces as seen in
      post-traumatic joints. This is opposed to immediate proteolytic cleavage of platelets by
      thrombin with subsequent immediate release of stored growth factors. Investigations of gene
      expression within joints following mechanical injury to articular cartilage have been
      studied. In a shear versus impaction model investigators found an increase in the expression
      of collagen type 1 following trauma to the articular surface. This expression of collagen may
      act as an anchor for percutaneously injected PRP in post-traumatic joints to help facilitate
      steady secretion of growth factors.

      It is known that the average life span of a mesangial cell once delivered into a joint is
      around 30 days. Only 26% of transplanted cells survive within the joint. This time frame is
      contingent on providing a proper and hospitable environment for the cell to be injected into.
      In consideration of the catabolic micro-environment of osteoarthritis it is evident that an
      arthritic joint, many times, harbors a molecular milieu that is not suitable or beneficial to
      transplanted mesangial cells and native cells including chondrocytes, type 2 collagen, the
      extracellular matrix, synovium, as well as subchondral progenitor cells. It can also promote
      osteogenic differentiation of native cartilage and lead to the progression to end stage joint
      disease.

      Research is also coming to light regarding the inflammatory niche present in the environment
      at the time mesangial cells are transplanted and can hold a bearing in regards to trophic
      factors secreted by the mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as well as the immunomodulatory effects
      they possess. Toll like receptor stimulation on MSC polarization plays an important role in
      the development of a pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory MSC. Pro-inflammatory factors
      present in the milieu such as interferon (IFN) gamma or IFN alpha can influence the
      differentiation down the pro-inflammatory lineage of the MSC and help promote subsequent
      immune modulation to promote differentiation of the M1 (pro-inflammatory) macrophage,
      activation of CD8 T cells, as well as increased expression of pro-inflammatory chemokines
      such as CCL2, CXCL-9, and CXCL-10. [17] If a low level of iNOS is present that can
      subsequently lead to T cell activation and proliferation via cytokine-induced chemokines.
      Although this is largely true, expression of MSC induced IL-6 helped promote the
      differentiation to M2 (anti-inflammatory) lineage.

      Recent research has shed light upon a novel concept within post-traumatic and arthritic
      joints. This is the effect the inflammatory environment and reactive oxygen species can have
      on native tissue dysfunction, particularly growth factors such as the TGF-B superfamily along
      with BMP. In 2019 investigators researched native MSC dysfunction with dysfunctional TGF-B
      possibly as a result of the catabolic milieu in osteoarthritis. TGF-B-induced protein
      (TGF-Bi) has been seen as a growth factor expressed in MSCs native to joints as well as bone
      marrow. It has been found to play two roles in normal chondrogenic differentiation.

      In one role it stimulates proliferation and differentiation while in another role it inhibits
      mineralization and chondrocyte terminal differentiation. It is postulated that TGF-Bi in
      BM-MSCs helps regulate condensation of BM-MSCs in the early phase of chondrogenesis by
      bridging action between cells, collagens, and proteoglycans. In their study the investigators
      came to the conclusion this was achieved by modulation of adhesion molecules ITGB1, ITGB5,
      and NCAD. In their study the investigators were able to demonstrate the counterintuitive
      upregulation of TGF-Bi within the bone and articular cartilage of joints afflicted with OA,
      giving rise to the question of deregulation of native growth factors.

      The investigators postulated either this could be the result of TGF-Bi attempting to reverse
      calcific changes occurring in chondrocytes of severely arthritic regions of the knee and
      noted an increased concentration of such within osteophytes and areas of extensive damage.
      The investigators also suggested a dysregulation of TGF-B family of genes within OA and did
      note the regulatory role TGF-Bi plays on collagen X, a marker of chondrocyte hypertrophy.
      Evidence is also coming to light of multiple MSC niches which exist within joints that assist
      in maintaining cartilage integrity and helping heal microdefects within damaged cartilage.
      The investigators noted among the MSCs, TGF-Bi was down regulated within the infrapatellar
      fat pad and BM-MSCs from OA joints and noted that whether BM-MSCs efficiency to repair
      cartilage lesions in vivo warrants further investigation.

      The role of reactive oxygen species play in dysregulation of native BMP within
      musculoskeletal conditions has also been studied. The investigators discussed how low levels
      of ROS are required to maintain undifferentiated MSCs and how ROS (generated by NOX-2 and
      NOX-4) and BMP play crucial physiological roles in chondrogenesis. In a discussion regarding
      osteonecrosis and osteoarthritis the investigators note necrotic lesions lead to the
      increased production of free oxygen radical (O-, H202) with subsequent increased production
      of BMP-2, seen in necrotic lesions and damaged cartilage from OA patients. Increased H2O2
      levels, produced by either NOX activation or inflammation, induce NF-kB activation which
      enhances expression of BMP-2. BMP2 stimulates proteoglycan synthesis, induces
      vascularization, promotes endochondral osteogenesis and has anabolic effects on chondrocyte
      metabolism and function, and is considered a marker for OA severity. Dysregulation of this
      system can lead to oxidative stress and cell dysfunction which may contribute to various
      pathologies.

      Also, when considering MSCs capability to promote neocartilage formation, inflammation
      certainly plays a factor regarding its efficacy. Inflammatory factors such as TNF-alpha,
      IL-1B, and IL-6 hinder MSCs capability in promoting chondrogenesis by the production of
      excessive free radicals. The role of IL-1B in contributing to an inflammatory
      microenvironment has also been evaluated. These include cartilage degradation, induction of
      Ik-B alpha phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation of nuclear factor - kappa B
      (NF-kB), increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production (may also activate NF-kB),
      increased expression of ADAMTS-4 (inhibits gene expression of aggrecan and COMP) and reduced
      gene expression of anti-oxidant enzymes. The investigators discussed how elevated oxidative
      stress produced by these inflammatory cytokines inhibits the synthesis of cartilage matrix
      macromolecules (i.e. type 2 collagen and aggrecan), promotes the degradation of articular
      cartilage in arthritic joints, and inhibits native and implanted mesenchymal stem cell
      chondrogenesis.

      It is now known that PRP has various influences on MSCs when combined with MSC treatment
      including increased proliferation rate of chondrocytes, helping promote chondrogenic
      differentiation, RUN X 2 inhibition, trapping of NF-KB, and affecting an overall anabolic
      change in the microenvironment.

      It is now known that mesangial cells play an orchestrating role via paracrine related
      mechanisms in the expression of anabolic factors including expression of type 2 collagen,
      well documented anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory role, as well as studies demonstrating
      recruitment of native progenitor cells versus direct differentiation. This is at the heart of
      what transplanted MSCs do to help in the healing process. As previously mentioned, there is
      only a 26% survival rate for transplanted cells and there is significant push to find
      bio-engineering modalities to help support the survival of transplanted MSCs. Among the
      modalities include transplantation of MSCs with Hyaluronan derived matrices.

      Both CD44 and CD168 are involved in the regulation of growth factor signaling. Implanting MSC
      within an HA scaffold can help augment communication of MSCs within the joint
      microenvironment. The investigators also discuss the well documented pleiotropic effects of
      HA including anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive, anti-fibrotic, and
      chondroprotective effects. As mentioned above, with endogenous MSC dysfunction due to the
      presence of an inflammatory niche within osteoarthritic joints, there is an immunological
      response which also contributes to the arthritic milieu within joints. HA has demonstrated
      immunosuppressive qualities and have seen the decrease in the levels of activated T cells.
      There is also benefit in utilizing commercially available HA in helping normalize endogenous
      HA synthesis.

      With the proposed ERIPTO protocol there is a logical approach to achieve more longer lasting
      and clinically relevant results.
    
  