
    
      We will first test a biopsy of the tumor (that has already been done) to see if your tumor
      cells are EBV positive. If the patient is eligible, we will then take 60-70 ml (12-14
      teaspoons) of blood from them. We will use this blood to grow more of the T cells in the
      laboratory. We will first grow an EBV-infected cell line by infecting the blood with EBV
      virus. This line will then be irradiated so it cannot grow and used to stimulate the T cells.
      This stimulation will train the T cells to kill cells with EBV on their surface. We will then
      grow these EBV-specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV infected cells and a growth factor
      called Interleukin 2. Next, we will test the T cells to make sure that they kill the
      EBV-infected cells. If the number of T cells produced is low, we may need to obtain
      additional blood samples to make these cells.

      The cells (which are the patient's own T cells) will be injected into them over 10 minutes,
      after pretreatment with Tylenol and Benadryl. A total of two doses will be given two weeks
      apart. All of the Treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas
      Children's Hospital or the Methodist Hospital.

      We will follow the patient in the clinic after the injections. To learn more about the way
      the T cells are working and how long they last in the body, an extra 10-60 mls (2-12
      teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion and 3-4 days after the infusion (this
      is optional). Up to 40 ml (8 teaspoons) of blood will also be drawn at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks
      post-infusion, and then at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. The blood may be drawn from the patient's
      central line at the time of the regular blood tests. We will use this blood to look at the
      immune response to the patient's cancer. Over the course of the study, up to 29 tablespoons
      of blood will be drawn.

      Patients will also have repeat scans at 8 weeks after the first injections. If these show
      stable or improving disease they may (if the patient wishs) receive up to 6 extra doses of
      cells. These would be given every 1-3 months. If the patient has additional injections of
      cells after the first two infusions, we will take extra blood tests before each infusion, at
      the end of each infusion, 3-4 days after each infusion (day optional depending on patient
      preference), and at 1 and 2 weeks after each infusion. We will also do an extra scan between
      1 and 3 months after the last infusion. Follow up will then continue every 3 months and will
      continue until 12 months after the last infusion.
    
  