
    
      High blood pressure is a fundamental cause of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and a major cause
      of disability and death. Raised blood pressure accounts for as many as 10.4 million deaths
      per year globally. The prevalence of high blood pressure has increased from 87.0 million in
      1999-2000 to 108.2 million in 2015-2016. Of the 1.5 million worldwide annual deaths, 9.4% has
      been attributed to high blood pressure. Modifiable risk factors such as smoking, unhealthy
      diet and physical inactivity are shared and established risk factors for CVDs. Lifestyle
      changes such as smoking cessation, diet alteration including a reduction in dietary sodium
      intake and increased physical activity can improve health outcomes by decreasing or slowing
      complications associated with high blood pressure and other CVDs.

      Development and subsequent evaluation of effectiveness for any intervention targeting high
      blood pressure should include core components comprising baseline participant assessment,
      educational interventions for participants to acquire adequate knowledge about the etiology
      and risk factors of hypertension, and modification of lifestyle factors such as participating
      in regular physical activity, consuming a healthy diet and smoking cessation. Despite the
      high prevalence of high blood pressure in low-income and middle-income countries, there are
      relatively few data on intervention programs from low-income and middle-income countries
      (LMICs). Studies also report that a significant proportion of people with high blood pressure
      are undiagnosed or do not meet targets to control blood pressure both in developed and in
      LMICs. Among people with known high blood pressure, less than one-third of people are able to
      control their high blood pressure with appropriate treatment. Lifestyle modification programs
      have been shown to be effective in controlling blood pressure in LMICs.

      Bangladesh, a low-income country in South East Asia, is currently confronting an increasing
      burden of chronic diseases, including high blood pressure. Islam et al. conducted a
      cross-sectional study among adults age ≥30 years in a rural district in Bangladesh that
      reported the knowledge, attitudes and practice of diabetes and common eye diseases, and found
      overall knowledge was below average. The study also reported the prevalence and risk factors
      associated with known and undiagnosed diabetes, and self-reported known high blood pressure
      and newly diagnosed high blood pressure. The study identified that 40% of adults had high
      blood pressure, of which 82% were previously undiagnosed. Almost 60% of those with high blood
      pressure also had diabetes.

      Recently, a community-based cluster randomized controlled trial was conducted in rural
      communities in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. This multicomponent intervention program
      was conducted for 24 months in 2645 adults with hypertension defined as blood pressure
      greater than or equal to 140/90 mm Hg. The study reported a statistically significant mean
      reduction of systolic blood pressure of 5.2 mm Hg from the baseline mean blood pressure 146.7
      mm Hg compared to the usual care in which the reduction was 3.9 mm Hg. Relatively small
      reductions of 2 mm Hg in SBP and DBP have been reported to lower the risk of stroke by 14%
      and 17%, respectively, and the risk of coronary artery disease by 9% and 6%, respectively.
      The intervention program included home visits by government community health workers for
      blood-pressure monitoring and counselling and the training of physicians. A possible
      limitation of this intervention program maybe that home visits by trained community health
      workers for blood pressure monitoring and counselling may not be a sustainable and
      cost-saving approach due to the shortage of qualified workforce and the budget constraints in
      low- middle-income countries. Application of blended learning education programs to educate
      patients in managing blood pressure by changing lifestyle and participation in intervention
      programs as volunteers coordinated by volunteer leaders may be a sustainable approach for
      lowering blood pressure in the community setting. The goal of this pilot study is to compare
      a multicomponent intervention program to evaluate its effectiveness for lowering blood
      pressure among adults with high blood pressure in a rural district in Bangladesh.

      Health literacy is a complex and combined perception comprising a range of attributes
      including available resources of health-related information, and an individuals'
      intellectual, emotional, social and personal skills. Health literacy empowers people with
      skills to improve their health and well-being. Evidence indicates that deficits in health
      literacy are associated with poorer health outcomes and higher health-related costs at both
      individual and system levels. Improved health literacy had been reported to be associated
      with reductions in risk behaviours for chronic disease. However, an extended and often
      asymptomatic onset and a need for ongoing management, these conditions present people with a
      sharp and upward learning curve about risks, treatments and self-care. Self-care, especially
      in resource-limited settings, an essential dimension of treatment, depends on the ability of
      systems and providers to teach and patients to learn effective self-management skills. At the
      individual level, good health literacy is the foundation of successful management and
      prevention of chronic disease. Health literacy assessment can be used to improve community
      participation in health, health service planning, public health education, and policy
      development. In the past decade, much research on the impact of health literacy on health
      outcomes has been conducted across the globe; however, health literacy tools in rural areas
      of Bangladesh have not been developed or tested. The European Health Literacy Survey (HLS-
      Q12) questionnaire has been used to assess health literacy; however, its usefulness to
      measure health literacy in rural Bangladesh has not been investigated.
    
  