
    
      Primary Hypothesis:

      Radial artery grafts will have a higher graft patency rate at one year after coronary artery
      bypass graft surgery (CABG) compared to saphenous vein grafts.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Determine if there are any differences in clinical outcomes, cost and quality of life in
      patients receiving radial artery versus saphenous vein grafts.

      Intervention: 1) Saphenous vein graft. This is the standard conduit for coronary artery
      bypass grafting to all areas of the heart except the left anterior descending (LAD) artery.
      2) Radial artery. This is the experimental conduit. Preference should be given to harvesting
      from the non-dominant arm.

      Primary Outcomes: 1-year post CABG surgery patency rates

      Study Abstract:

      Although the radial artery was introduced as a potential conduit for coronary artery bypass
      grafting in the 1970s, enthusiasm for its use was limited by the technical difficulty of
      harvesting the vessel and problems with perioperative vascular spasm. In spite of this, some
      surgeons persisted based on their belief that arterial conduits would be better than vein
      grafts, in terms of long-term patency. With the development of new harvesting techniques and
      the introduction of calcium channel blockers to prevent vasospasm, the use of the radial
      artery graft has increased in recent years. This use of the radial artery as a conduit is not
      based on any long-term prospective data regarding its patency. However, because the VA has
      been a leader in defining the long-term efficacy/patency of saphenous vein and internal
      mammary grafts, it is appropriate for the VA to investigate radial artery grafts. In fact,
      the VA under its Cooperative Studies Program, is probably the only health care delivery
      system that has the ability to undertake this study.

      Study Design:

      The study is a prospective, randomized, unblinded clinical trial. The population consists of
      VA patients with coronary artery disease documented by coronary arteriography and who have
      agreed to undergo coronary artery bypass surgery. Medical conditions which could affect blood
      flow through the patient's arm are the main exclusion criteria. These include Raynaud's
      symptoms, positive Allen test, neurologic or musculoskeletal disease affecting the arm and
      patients with one arm.

      Patients who are eligible and agree to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to
      receive one radial artery graft or one saphenous vein graft to the following vessels: left
      anterior descending if internal mammary not used, circumflex, diagonal, and right coronary
      artery. The surgeon will determine the subject vessel preoperatively by selecting the vessel
      that is suitable for grafting.

      The stratification factors will be the participating hospital and which vessel is to be
      bypassed, left anterior descending versus all other vessels.

      History, physical examination, laboratory tests, and cardiac catheterization will be
      performed at baseline and at one year. Follow-up clinic visits will be at two weeks, three,
      six, and nine months post CABG. Coronary angiography will be performed one week and one year
      post surgery. Quality of life and hand/leg functional status will be assessed at baseline,
      three months, and one year. Cost measures will be captured.

      Biostatistical Considerations:

      For this trial, a sample size of 874 randomized patients will be required. This will provide
      90% power to detect a difference in one-year patency rates of 92% for the radial artery
      versus 83% for the saphenous vein and an expected one-year catheter completion rate of 65%.

      This is a five year study. There will be four years of patient accrual and one year of
      follow-up. Nine participating VA medical centers will be expected to randomize two patients
      per month.
    
  