
    
      It could be said that many dementia care and caregiver support interventions are too limited,
      focusing solely on psychosocial and behavioral concerns. These issues are important, but so
      too is the physical health of people with dementia -- especially because they are living
      longer and require more support with health care and activities of daily living. Just imagine
      the benefit of a physical health care intervention provided daily.

      Case in point: tooth brushing, flossing, and gum and denture care. Many people with dementia
      resist mouth care - almost 90% in nursing homes, in fact. As a result, only 16% have their
      teeth brushed regularly, putting them at risk for aspiration pneumonia when they inhale
      bacteria from their teeth, tongue, and gums. In 2013, the research team submitting this
      proposal developed one of the two existing dementia-focused mouth care programs for nursing
      homes -- Mouth Care Without a Battle (MCWB) -- which already has become a standard of nursing
      home care. MCWB changes caregivers' attitudes and behavior, improves oral health, and in a
      cluster randomized trial, MCWB provided by nursing assistants reduced pneumonia incidence by
      32 percent.

      The next frontier is to extend MCWB to assisted living (AL), the primary long-term
      residential care provider for persons with dementia. There are 30,200 AL communities across
      the country; 90% of their 835,200 residents have cognitive impairment and 42% have moderate
      or severe dementia (and on average, five untreated oral health conditions), meaning MCWB has
      the potential to improve the health and quality of life of more than 350,000 AL residents
      with dementia annually.

      There is a unique and timely opportunity to transform MCWB so it is optimally suitable for
      AL, given the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Special Care
      Dentistry Program offer of partnership. Consequently, the investigators propose this nested
      cohort cluster randomized trial that will apply the NIH Stage Model and principles of the
      Science of Behavior Change (SOBC) to lay the groundwork for a pragmatic trial and real-world
      implementation of MCWB for AL residents with dementia and their caregivers.

      The aims of the proposed project are to refine MCWB (NIH Stage I/Aim 1), and examine research
      efficacy (NIH Stage II/Aim 2) and real-world efficacy (NIH Stage III/Aim 3), focusing on
      structural, social, and interpersonal mechanisms as the SOBC target. Aims 2 and 3 will use
      separate samples of 24 AL communities across the state's ten regions. Within each region,
      one-half of AL communities will be randomized to treatment (MCWB) and one-half to control,
      and the oral hygiene of 360 residents with dementia will be assessed through eight months. In
      Aim 2, a research dental hygienist will train AL staff on MCWB and provide ongoing support;
      in Aim 3, this responsibility will be transferred to community public health dental
      hygienists working with the DHHS.

      Aim 1. Refine MCWB for implementation in assisted living (AL) communities.

        1. Identify stakeholder perspectives. Interview (1) the administrator, health care
           supervisor, and a personal care aide (PCA) from 20 AL communities across North Carolina
           who have already been trained in MCWB by community-based public health dental hygienists
           from the DHHS Special Care Dentistry Program, and (2) the dental hygienists who provided
           that training, to learn attitudes regarding MCWB as developed for nursing homes, the
           extent to which care has changed, and recommended modifications to MCWB for AL.

        2. Create a one-hour MCWB training video (web and digital versatile disc format) targeted
           to AL. Modifications include videorecording AL staff providing mouth care to residents
           with dementia, and interviews with residents and families; AL administrators,
           supervisors and PCAs; and dental hygienists.

      Aim 2. Evaluate research efficacy of the MCWB program, with training and support provided by
      an experienced research dental hygienist.

        1. Evaluate MCWB in terms of (1) the reach of the intervention; (2) effects on
           mediators/targets of change at the organizational and individual level; (3) outcomes
           (oral hygiene, pneumonia, hospitalizations); (4) associations between change at the
           organizational and individual level and outcomes, and also associations with
           characteristics of the AL community and staff; and (5) attitudes, barriers, and
           facilitators.

        2. Develop a coaching manual for community hygienists to provide training and support to AL
           staff, reflecting lessons-learned from analyses.

      Aim 3. Evaluate real-world efficacy of the MCWB program, transferring responsibility for
      training and support to community public health dental hygienists, thereby testing efficacy
      of a nationally generalizable model.

        1. Assess dental hygienists' (N=24) self-efficacy to provide training and support at
           baseline, 4, and 8 months.

        2. Evaluate MCWB as per Aim 2a, including examining associations with characteristics of
           the hygienists.

        3. Compare implementation and effectiveness outcomes between research and real-world
           efficacy.

        4. Refine the coaching manual for community dental hygienists to provide training and
           coaching, reflecting lessons-learned from analyses.

      By the conclusion of this project, MCWB will be ready for evaluation in a pragmatic trial of
      AL residents with dementia and the staff who provide their care.
    
  