
    
      HIV infection is associated with low HDL-cholesterol, an independent risk-factor for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). NNRTI-based HAART increases HDL-c, with nevirapine shown to
      increase production of its major apolipoprotein ApoA-I. In contrast, initiation of PI-based
      HAART leads to persistently low HDL-c despite a reduction in HIV RNA and immunologic
      recovery.

      HDL-c is formed through reverse cholesterol transport (RCT), the process where cholesterol is
      transferred from intracellular pools to circulating lipoproteins which are then eliminated by
      the liver. Accumulation of intracellular cholesterol in cells such as macrophages and their
      precursor (circulating monocytes) has been implicated in atherogenesis.

      In vitro data suggests the HIV protein Nef directly interferes with cellular proteins
      involved in RCT such as ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) in monocyte-derived
      macrophages. ABCA1 expression is controlled by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
      gamma (PPARG) and the intracellular cholesterol sensor sterol regulatory element binding
      protein 2 (SREBP2). In adipose tissue it is known that PI treatment downregulates SREBP and
      PPARG expression.

      Preliminary work in the investigators lab has reproduced these findings in monocytes in
      untreated HIV infection in vivo and demonstrated relationships between gene expression for
      ABCA1, SREBP2, monocyte intracellular cholesterol and circulating lipoproteins. These early
      data suggest that defects in RCT determine intracellular cholesterol levels in HIV-infected
      subjects whereas increased LDL-c is a greater determinant of intracellular cholesterol in HIV
      negative subjects. This suggests a potentially pivotal role for RCT abnormalities in low
      HDL-c, increased intracellular cholesterol and atherogenesis in HIV infection.

      The investigator's aim to examine the impact of initiation of ART with either PI or NNRTI on
      RCT in circulating monocytes in vivo and how this impact correlates with changes in amount
      and size of circulating HDL-c.
    
  