
    
      Short course antiretroviral regimens such as AZT (Thai regimen), or nevirapine (Uganda HIVNET
      012 regimen) given to HIV-infected women in pregnancy can reduce in utero and intrapartum
      transmission to their child by 40-50%. However, these gains are threatened by the continued
      transmission of HIV through breast milk of poor HIV-infected women in Africa who have no
      realistic choice but to breastfeed. A recent study from Durban compared for the first time,
      Mother-to-child transmission of HIV (MTCT) rates in each of the 3 feeding groups viz.
      exclusive breastfeeding (EBF), mixed breastfeeding (MBF) and formula feeding. The results of
      this study showed that at 3 months the MTCT in EBF mothers was similar to that in mothers
      giving only formula feeds, and the MTCT in EBF mothers was significantly lower than in those
      MBF (14.6% vs. 24.1%). This suggested that EBF may carry no additional risk of MTCT of HIV1
      over formula feeding. A prospective study is required to verify these findings.

      We propose a cohort study of HIV-infected mothers and their infants, to examine the risk of
      post-natal transmission of HIV in relation to infant feeding practices after mothers receive
      intensive breastfeeding counselling and support to practise EBF until about 6 months of age
      (the optimal duration for EBF).

      The hypothesis being tested is: Exclusive breastfeeding by HIV-infected women carries no
      additional risk of post-natal transmission of HIV than exclusive formula feeding.

      The primary objectives of the study are to determine the effect of infant feeding practices
      on HIV infection rates of infants at 6 and 22 weeks of age, and secondly to to determine the
      infant survival rate at 24 months of age according to feeding practices and HIV status.

      Secondary objectives are:

      i) To determine the HIV infection rate of infants as measured of a sample collected within 72
      hours of birth; ii) To determine the HIV transmission incidence attributable to the duration
      of different feeding practices; iii) To determine the cumulative incidence of vertical
      transmission in EBF, MBF and EFF infants; iv) To describe risk factors, other than feeding
      practice, for post-natal transmission of HIV, including maternal and infant morbidity and
      breast health; v) To assess the determinants of transmission in MBF adjusting for exposure
      factors e.g. type and age of introduction of other food/milk; vi) To describe the morbidity
      and growth of infants in relation to feeding practices and HIV status; and vii) To describe
      adherence rates to EBF following a breastfeeding support intervention.

      HIV infected women will be counselled according to the WHO/UNICEF/UNAIDS infant feeding
      guidelines. All HIV-infected women and a random sub-sample of HIV-uninfected women will be
      recruited antenatally. Those who choose to breastfeed will be visited frequently at home by a
      team of breastfeeding counsellors before and after delivery to promote and support EBF.
      HIV-infected mothers who choose not to breastfeed will be supported in their choice by
      clinic-based staff. An independent team of field monitors will collect data weekly on feeding
      practices and morbidity of all infants at home visits. Blood samples will be collected by
      finger/heel prick and stored on filter paper prior to qualitative and quantitative estimation
      of HIV viral content to determine the timing of transmission.
    
  