
    
      Up to 60 patients with chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection who were previously treated
      with standard doses of peginterferon and ribavirin (1000 to 1200 mg daily) but who did not
      have a virological response (non-responders: n=35) or who relapsed after therapy (relapsers:
      n = 25) will be re-treated using peginterferon and higher doses of ribavirin (2000 to 2400 mg
      daily). After medical evaluation, documentation of eligibility and written informed consent,
      patients will be started on therapy with standard doses of peginterferon alfa-2a (180 micro g
      per week) and twice the standard dose of ribavirin (2000 mg daily for patients less than 75
      kg; 2400 mg daily for patients greater than or equal to 75 kg). Viral kinetics will be
      evaluated on the basis of changes in HCV RNA levels during the first 24 weeks of therapy with
      blood sampling done on days 0, 1, and 2 and weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24. Patients
      who fail to decrease levels of HCV RNA by more than 2 log(10) IU/ml by week 12 will be
      considered non-responders and therapy will stop. Similarly, patients who do not become HCV
      RNA negative (less than 10 IU) by week 24 will also be considered non-responders and therapy
      will be discontinued. Patients who do become HCV RNA negative during the first 24 weeks of
      therapy will continue for 48 weeks and be followed for at least 24 weeks thereafter. The
      primary end-point of this study will be a sustained virological response (SVR), which is
      defined by the absence of detectable HCV RNA in serum on treatment and for at least 24 weeks
      after stopping therapy. The SVR rate for re-treatment using conventional doses of
      peginterferon and ribavirin is expected to be less than 5 percent. The estimated rate of SVR
      using peginterferon with high doses of ribavirin is 50 percent for patients with a previous
      relapse and 25 percent for those with a previous non-response. A sample size of 35 patients
      would be needed to achieve statistical significance based upon these estimates of response
      rates for non-responders and 25 patients for relapsers. If none of the first ten
      non-responder patients treated in this protocol achieve an SVR, no more non-responder
      patients will be enrolled and this part of the study will be terminated early. Patients also
      will be monitored closely for side effects of therapy, the major one for ribavirin being
      anemia. Patients who develop anemia will be treated with darbepoietin to maintain a
      hemoglobin level above 10 gm percent. This pilot study is expected to demonstrate whether use
      of high doses of ribavirin is an option for patients who fail to have an adequate response to
      conventional doses of peginterferon and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C.
    
  