
    
      This is a single site prospective cohort study that will compare ultrasound elastography to
      traditional ultrasound parameters in bone marrow transplant patients who are at risk for
      development of SOS.

        -  Primary objective: compare sensitivity and specificity of traditional ultrasound
           parameters and ultrasound elastography of the liver for detecting SOS in BMT patients.

        -  Secondary objectives: 1. compare sensitivity and specificity of traditional ultrasound
           parameters and ultrasound elastography of the liver for classifying SOS in BMT patients.
           2. compare sensitivity and specificity of traditional ultrasound parameters and
           ultrasound elastography of the liver for predicting death in BMT patients with SOS
           (defined as death within 100 days of transplant).

        -  The validity and reliability of the primary and secondary measures when available. The
           validity of the measures will be determined by comparing to clinical gold standards of
           the diagnosis and classification of SOS

      Data Collection Procedures

        -  Candidates for the study will be identified by the Hematology Oncology service when they
           are admitted for bone marrow transplant.

        -  A member of the study team will consent that patient and/or their parents once the
           patient has been identified.

        -  If the patient consents to the study, an initial limited abdominal ultrasound with
           Doppler and shear wave elastography will be performed less than one month prior to bone
           marrow transplant. Demographic and clinical variables will be collected from the chart
           at the time of initial ultrasound and after date of discharge. Lab value variables will
           be collected at the time of the initial ultrasound and during all subsequent
           ultrasounds. Only lab values that have changed since the prior ultrasound will be
           recorded.

        -  Multiple shear wave elastography measurements of the liver will be obtained during any
           post-transplant clinical abdominal ultrasound Data Analyses We will perform two-sided
           t-tests and nonparametric tests for categorical and continuous data, respectively.
           Additionally, we will perform a multivariate regression to determine which variables are
           significantly correlated to death and calculate an odds ratio for each of these
           variables. If a patient is missing any imaging or clinical data, then this patient will
           be excluded from those parts of the data analysis, but the rest of their data will still
           be included in the study.
    
  