
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of subjects with daratumumab, bortezomib, and
      dexamethasone (DVd) treatment followed by daratumumab, ixazomib, and dexamethasone (DId)
      treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) as assessed by International Myeloma Working Group
      Criteria (IMWG).

      II. To evaluate time to response (TTR). III. To evaluate time to progression (TTP). IV. To
      evaluate duration of response (DOR). V. To evaluate overall survival (OS). VI. To evaluate
      the safety and tolerability. VII. To evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) rate. VIII. To
      evaluate quality of life (QoL) using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication
      (TSMQ-9) and European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) patient reported questionnaires.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate biomarkers of response to treatment and mechanisms of resistance with
      pretreatment and post-treatment bone marrow and blood samples with deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing and immune profiling by flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) over 3.5-6.5 hours on days 1, 8, and 15,
      bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11, and dexamethasone IV over 15 minutes
      on days 1, 8, and 15 and orally (PO) on days 2, 4, 5, 9, 11, 12, and 16. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive daratumumab IV over 3.5 hours on days 1 and 15 of cycles 4-7 and day 1
      of subsequent cycles, ixazomib PO on days 1, 8, and 15, and dexamethasone IV over 15 minutes
      or PO once weekly. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 30 days and then periodically for up
      to 24 months.
    
  