
    
      Everyone with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) who is able to exercise should be
      offered pulmonary rehabilitation (PR). Participants will be invited to take part in the study
      after being referred for PR by members of Queen Alexandra Hospital (QAH), Portsmouth
      Hospitals NHS Trust clinical team. They will be given a PIS for the patient to contact the
      study team to arrange an appointment, or alternatively if verbal consent is obtained the
      research team will contact the patient to arrange an assessment appointment. Potential
      participants will also be identified from databases from selected GP who meet the protocol
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. These potential participants will be sent a study
      participation invitation letter and asked to contact the respiratory research team at QAH to
      arrange an assessment appointment.

      If a participant decides they would like to take part and contacts the respiratory research
      team or have been contacted by the team, an initial appointment will be arranged. This will
      take part at the participants home, GP surgery or Queen Alexandra Hospital depending on the
      patients choice. After obtaining consent, suitability for inclusion onto pulmonary
      rehabilitation will be assessed. A full medical history (including confirmation of diagnosis,
      COPD severity, smoking history, medications and current activity) along with blood pressure
      will be taken to assess for any exclusion criteria. The timed "Up and Go" Test will also be
      performed to assess safety of mobility and exercising. This is to ensure it is safe for the
      participant to exercise independently. If a participant does not meet the inclusion criteria,
      they will be referred back to their GP with the reason they were not suitable for PR. It is
      explained to the participant that they can withdraw from the study at any point and that this
      will not affect their care. If a participant decides they do not wish to be included onto the
      study they will be referred to the conventional NHS PR programme. If a participant is
      suitable for PR and is willing to participate, further screening is undertaken. This can take
      place immediately if this initial appointment is carried out at QAH, or a further appointment
      will be arranged at QAH will be arranged.

      The next stage of the assessment (this may be a further appointment (visit 2) if the initial
      assessment was not carried out a QAH) will take place at Queen Alexandra Hospital where the
      space is available to carry out the assessments. Transport can be provided to this venue if
      required. Consent will first be obtained and participants will then complete the first of two
      walking test for 6 minutes to measure how far they can walk, known as the six-minute walking
      test . Oxygen levels will be measured using a probe that fits on the finger and if
      significant oxygen desaturation is noted, the participant will be withdrawn from the study
      and referred onto the local oxygen assessment centre. The participant will be asked to fill
      out four health- related questionnaires and they will then repeat the six minute walking test
      and the best of the two tests will be recorded.

      If the participant is suitable to undertake a PR programme they will then be randomised to
      either receive the online PR 'my PR', or the conventional face-to-face PR. Randomisation will
      be undertaken by an online randomisation system hosted by my mhealth.

      Participants randomised to receive the conventional PR will be given 12 visit dates (twice a
      week for six weeks) at the PR venue where the face-to-face sessions will take place. This
      attendance length and frequency is standard for PR. The components of the PR programme will
      include an exercise programme, including a warm-up and cool- down programme. Education
      sessions will also be provided and includes anatomy of the lungs and what is COPD, anxiety
      and depression, claiming benefits, self management, managing breathlessness, medications and
      treatments, managing exacerbations of COPD and chest infections, clearing sputum and the
      Active Cycle of Breathing Technique, nutrition, pacing, smoking cessation and advice on
      travel with COPD. Participants on the face to face arm will also be instructed to carry out
      the pulmonary rehabilitation exercises an additional three times a week at home. An exercise
      leaflet used in the PR classes will be given to be filled out at home.

      Those randomised to receive the online programme will be loaned a computer/tablet for the
      six-week duration, given log-in details and a password, and instructions to begin the
      programme at home. A further visit to these participants home may need to be arranged to
      ensure that the Internet connection is suitable. If the internet connection is unsuitable,
      the participant will be withdrawn from the study and referred to the NHS PR. The online
      programme mirrors the conventional face-to-face PR programme and the exercise and educational
      components are given by means of instructional videos. Participants will be instructed to
      exercise five times a week. Participants in the online arm will receive during the PR course
      telephone contact to record any adverse or serious adverse events. They will be contacted
      twice during the first 2 weeks, then weekly for the remaining 5 weeks.

      After completing the 6- week online PR or the 6- week conventional PR, participants will have
      their final visit arranged which will take place at the Queen Alexandra Hospital. The pre-PR
      measurements including the two 6-minute walking tests and quality of life questionnaires will
      be repeated, and results collected. These measurements will be statistically analysed for
      comparison between the two arms of the study to ensure the online PR is not inferior to
      face-to-face PR.
    
  