
    
      Non-invasive imaging of pulmonary function is expected to provide critical insights that are
      needed to spur progress in characterizing and treating chronic pulmonary diseases. The
      current primary diagnostic measure is pulmonary function testing (PFT), which was introduced
      in the mid-19th century, yet remains the standard of care today. PFTs have the advantage of
      being non-invasive and widely available, but suffer from poor sensitivity and high
      variability. Thus, PFTs are ineffective in assessing therapeutic response or disease
      progression on reasonable time scales, given the frequent heterogeneity of disease and the
      lung's compensatory mechanisms.

      It has long been appreciated that improving sensitivity requires assessing the lungs
      regionally. To this end, methods, such as computed tomography (CT), provide insights into
      lung structure, but lung function must be inferred. However, of greater concern is the high
      radiation dose associated with CT, which precludes frequent longitudinal follow-up imaging.
      Alternatively, regional imaging of both ventilation and perfusion is possible using nuclear
      medicine techniques such as planar scintigraphy, single photon computed tomography (SPECT),
      or positron emission tomography (PET). However, as with CT imaging, all these modalities
      expose the subject to ionizing radiation and cannot be applied serially without a compelling
      clinical need. Moreover, these nuclear imaging modalities suffer from poor spatial and
      temporal resolution.

      The key role for HP 129Xe MRI is that it can enable non-invasive high-resolution imaging of
      all aspects of pulmonary structure and function. We have recently shown HP 129Xe MRI to
      visualize pulmonary ventilation with high resolution, as well as the ability to show
      abnormalities of the alveolar microstructure that are associated with the emphysema phenotype
      of COPD. We have also demonstrated the fundamentally new capability to directly visualize the
      uptake of 129Xe into the pulmonary capillary blood and tissues, which can provide an even
      more complete picture of pulmonary function by supplying regional gas exchange information.

      Xenon is a noble gas that is not chemically altered by the body. A small fraction of the
      inhaled Xe is absorbed into the blood stream and has documented anesthetic effects at
      moderate concentrations. The levels of gas used in this protocol are within the previously
      derived safe limits for both animals and humans. The stable isotope 129Xe can be
      hyperpolarized, which is a means to enhance its gross MRI signal by a factor of ∼100,000.
      Such signal enhancement makes it possible to image the inhaled gas with high spatial and
      temporal resolution. Moreover, the properties of 129Xe enable images to be acquired with
      multiple forms of contrast including ventilation, lung microstructure, and regional gas
      exchange. Because 129Xe MRI uses no ionizing radiation, and only an inhaled gas contrast
      agent, it has the potential to be used in longitudinal studies to test the effects of therapy
      or monitor progression of disease noninvasively.
    
  