
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most common cause of death in Singapore, accounting for
      ~34% of deaths. This means 1 in every 3 deaths in Singapore is due to heart disease or
      stroke. Ischemic heart disease is the leading cause of mortality and accounts for 17% of all
      deaths attributable to life-style related risk-factors. The total burden of this disease is
      likely to increase given the aging population and the increase in prevalence of obesity and
      predisposing conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia.

      A number of modifiable environmental and patient specific factors increase the chance of
      developing coronary artery disease. These include smoking, high blood cholesterol, physical
      inactivity, diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity. Following myocardial infarction, acute
      coronary syndromes, surgical and percutaneous interventions, cardiac rehabilitation has
      provided an avenue for reducing future cardiovascular risks in patients by positively
      influencing these factors. The eventual goal of the program is to engage patients with
      permanent behavioural and life-style changes. There is strong evidence for the effectiveness
      of cardiac rehabilitation which is given a Class 1 recommendation from the American/European
      Cardiology guidelines, particularly for post-myocardial infarction patients. Several studies
      and meta-analyses have demonstrated a significant reduction in mortality and morbidity.

      Despite the clear benefits of cardiac rehabilitation programs, the uptake of these programs
      has been poor due to various patient and system factors. Cardiac rehabilitation programs are
      traditionally carried out in hospitals and health centres under the direct personal
      supervision of mentoring clinicians. Patient barriers, such as time constraints and distance
      from treatment centres lead to poor uptake of programs among eligible patients. To overcome
      these barriers, home-based care models have been proposed as a viable alternative to
      hospital-based cardiac rehabilitation programs even in the 1980s. The current state of mobile
      phone communication and technology provides not only the capacity but an especially
      attractive media option to support home-based cardiac rehabilitation programs.

      This study aims to investigate a smartphone-based cardiac rehabilitation program for patients
      recovering from myocardial infarction. The program focuses on providing patient centric
      self-monitoring platform enabling patients to take control and be actively involved in their
      medical care. The program ("Kardia") is a 6-week rehabilitation program enabling patients to
      track their blood pressure, physical activity and medicine compliance through a mobile
      application. Each patient in the intervention arm is provided with a blood pressure monitor
      and activity tracker. The data from these devices would be automatically synced by a mobile
      application and uploaded to a confidential web portal which is only accessible by physician
      care-givers. The application also provides educational content/tasks, appropriate reminders
      for taking medications and daily goals on activity targets set by the care provider. This
      would help to engage the patients to enable behavioural change and improve compliance to
      mediation and activity recommendations.

      In Changi General Hospital, the uptake of cardiac rehabilitation among eligible patients is
      less than 20%. This study hopes to target the remaining 80% of patients who have refused the
      traditional cardiac rehabilitation program. It will be the first time that a smartphone based
      home cardiac rehabilitation program would be offered in Singapore. If shown to be safe and
      feasible, "Kardia" will help to improve patient outcomes in short to medium term. In
      addition, it may empower the patients to take a more active role in their medical care and
      promote long lasting behavioural changes in the long term. There will also be a significant
      operation impact if "Kardia" can be rolled out as an alternative care model to the
      traditional centre-based cardiac rehabilitation program, enabling greater patient access to
      "cardiac rehabilitation". This is also in line with national initiatives to promote an active
      and healthy lifestyle, i.e. National Steps Challenge by the Health Promotion Board.

      The project is a randomized controlled study of smartphone based cardiac rehabilitation
      program compared to routine care in patients who did not sign up for traditional
      hospital-based cardiac rehabilitation. 50 patients who are randomized to the intervention
      group (mHealth) will be enabled with remote monitoring devices (Blood Pressure and wearable
      vital signs monitor, Biovotion) and "Kardia" mobile application, for home-based
      rehabilitation program followed by review in the outpatient Cardiology clinics. The control
      group (50 patients) will just be monitored at fixed intervals in the outpatient Cardiology
      clinics.

      Patients will be advised to commence the exercise program 2 weeks after the myocardial
      infarction

      Time Exercise Intensity Exercise Frequency/Duration Patient actions Week 1 light 3x/week; 10
      minutes Exercise diary Week 2 light 3x/week; 20 minutes Week 3 light 3x/week; 30 minutes Week
      4 moderate 3x/week; 15 minutes Week 5 moderate 3x/week; 30 minutes Week 6 moderate 4x/week;
      30 minutes Week 7 moderate 5x/week; 30 minutes Week 8 moderate 5x/week; 30 minutes
    
  