
    
      Group 1 - 200 patients with OSAS based on sleep study will be recruited from the sleep clinic
      (OSAS group) Group 2 - 100 patients diagnosed with dizziness will be recruited from the ENT
      clinic (Dizziness group).

      Group 3 - 100 patients with no dizziness and no evidence for OSAS will be recruited from both
      the sleep clinic and the ENT clinic (controls).

      Informed consents will be completed by all participants. All participants will undergo
      thorough physical examination with particular attention to the vestibular system, otoscopy,
      examination of the pharynx including with a flexible endoscope (that is part of the standard
      ENT examination). The examiner will photo-document the nasopharynx as needed.

      Demographics and complete medical history will be recorded for each participant.

      All participants will complete the following validated questionnaires:

        1. Berlin questionnaire for OSAS

        2. Epworth sleepiness scale

        3. Dizziness Handicap Inventory - Hebrew version (DHI-H)

        4. Eustachian tube dysfunction questionnaire Subjects from Group 1 that will have positive
           dizziness/eustachian dysfunction will be referred for the ENT clinic for further
           evaluation. Participants with dizziness will be treated, if indicated, based on their
           diagnosis and according to clinical guidelines with symptoms relievers in the acute
           phase (medications such sulpiride; fluids, metoclopramide) , physiotherapy and thiazide
           diuretics for chronic conditions.

      Patients from Group 2 that will have a positive Berlin questionnaire will undergo ambulatory
      sleep study with WatchPAT (Itamar Medical, Israel). The Berlin questionnaire consists of 10
      items divided into 3 categories (category 1: items 1-5, category 2: items 6-9, category 3:
      item 10). A positive Berlin question (high risk for OSA) is when 2 out of the 3 categories
      are positive.

      A patient will be diagnosed with OSAS if the Apnea-Hypopnea Index in the sleep study will be
      greater than 5 per hour of sleep. Patients with moderate-severe OSA (AHI greater than 15 per
      hour of sleep) will be treated with CPAP.

      Patients from Group 3 with positive Berlin questionnaire will be referred for a sleep study
      as indicated in the clinical setting.

      Risk factors associated with OSAS will be recorded: Age, gender, smoking, BMI, neck
      circumference. In addition, comorbidities associated with OSAS will be recorded such as
      hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease and stroke.

      The investigators expect 15% of the patients referred to the sleep study to be diagnosed with
      OSAS.

      In order to assess the effect of treatment of OSAS on dizziness -patients with dizziness and
      diagnosis of moderate severe OSAS (AHI >15) who will be treated with CPAP will be asked to
      complete the 4 validated questionnaires 3 months following initiation of treatment with CPAP.
      CPAP use of 80% or more of total sleep time (T.S.T) will be considered as full compliance.
      60-80% of T.S.T- partial compliance. <60% - no compliance.
    
  