
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Healthy People 2010 Objectives address the importance of smoking cessation during
      pregnancy and the importance of reducing ETS exposure among children and adults. This study
      will use a new combination of existing technologies to maximize the appropriateness of
      prenatal and postpartum education concerning ETS exposure in an innovative, inexpensive, and
      widely applicable approach. The use of tailored DVDs is practical, feasible, and inexpensive
      enough to be attractive to clinics serving low-income and minority women. A large number of
      video segments will be produced utilizing live actors, animation, and word slates. About 10
      segments will be computer-selected for the videos for each woman based on her responses to
      four self-assessments. No studies to date have included multiple doses of tailored video
      education, or used DVDs in this way.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This two-arm randomized study is designed to develop and evaluate the efficacy of five
      tailored DVDs in reducing exposure to ETS among low-income pregnant/postpartum women. The
      overall purposes of the study are 1) to develop an innovative intervention (tailored
      "take-home" DVDs) to help pregnant women maximize their pregnancy outcome and their new
      infant's health through reduction in exposure to ETS and 2) to study the feasibility and
      efficacy of this intervention compared with a usual care group. This innovative technology
      will be field tested in collaboration with six prenatal clinics that serve primarily
      low-income, African American, Latina, and minority women to address two specific aims.
      Specific aim 1: To test the efficacy of tailored video (TV) versus usual care (UC) approaches
      in terms of reducing the ETS exposure among fetuses of nonsmoking, low-income women during
      pregnancy (assessed at 34 weeks gestation using saliva cotinine concentration and ETS
      self-report) and among infants (as measured by saliva cotinine concentration and mothers'
      self-reports at 6 months postpartum). Specific aim 2: To test the efficacy of TV versus UC
      approaches in terms of reducing the exposure of the fetuses of low-income, smoking women to
      tobacco smoke during pregnancy (assessed at 34 weeks gestation using saliva cotinine
      concentrations of the pregnant women and smoking and ETS self-reports) and to their infants
      (as measured by saliva cotinine concentration from the infant at 6 months postpartum and
      self-reports of infant exposure by the new mothers). Because of the lack of data on reducing
      ETS exposure amongst low-income and minority women, intensive formative and extensive process
      evaluation components are included.
    
  