
    
      Prolardii is a synbiotic (prebiotic and probiotic) formulation including 4 strains of living
      lyophilized lactic bacteria (Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, Bifidobacterium lactis B94,
      Lactobacillus casei 5773 and Lactobacillus acidophilus LA3), a yeast (Saccharomyces
      boulardii), a fructo-oligosaccharide (Actilight) and a dry extract of Inula helenium, a plant
      that can contribute to the intestinal comfort.

      Taking into account the international literature, we made the assumption that the combination
      of probiotics and prebiotics into the same synbiotic product could improve the prevention of
      antibiotic-associated diarrhea and could also attenuate the intestinal symptoms related to
      the use of antibiotics. According to our knowledge this association has never been tested in
      a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study.

      The study will be double-blind, parallel-group, randomized, multicentre and
      placebo-controlled. A total of 220 patients being prescribed broad-spectrum antibiotics by
      general practitioners will be included in the study and randomized (1:1) into a Prolardii arm
      (2 capsules per day for 12 to 15 days) and a placebo arm (2 capsules per day for 12 to 15
      days). There will be two medical visits (baseline visit and end-of-treatment visit) and one
      follow-up phone call (4 weeks after the end of treatment). During the treatment, the patients
      will filled in a diary card on a daily basis. They will record the number of bowel movements,
      the quality of the stools, the solicited symptoms (flatulence, bloating, abdominal
      pain/cramps, nausea and vomiting), their quality of life and the use of concomitant
      medications.

      The data will be collected in an electronic case report form. The sample size calculation was
      based on the following assumptions: an attack rate in the placebo group situated in a range
      between 20% and 25%, an efficacy of Prolardii of about 60%, a randomization ratio 1:1 between
      the placebo and the active treatment group, a power of 80% and a Type I error value of 5%.
      Taking into account these assumptions a total of at least 30 diarrhoea cases should be
      reached all together in the two treatment groups, in order to ensure a sufficient power.

      The primary endpoint will be the overall frequency of diarrhea in the two treatment groups.
      Acute diarrhea will be defined as the presence of three or more abnormally loose or watery
      stools per day.
    
  