
    
      Lymphoma is the 6th cancer in terms of incidence in France where approximately 11,000 new
      cases are diagnosed each year. Most types of lymphomas occur at all ages with a predominance
      in elderly subjects.

      With the continuous improvement of the diagnostic techniques and the treatments, the
      prognosis of lymphomas is constantly improving. However, 20-40% of patients relapse most
      often within 2 or 3 years after the end of treatment.

      The current standard follow up includes a clinical examination and a biological check-up
      every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years and an imaging every 6 months.
      However, the interest of this systematic surveillance by imaging is controversial.

      The use of new information and communication technologies, can improve the clinical follow-up
      of patients. To date, access to the Internet and portable technologies is sufficiently broad
      and democratized to envisage the use of this type of remote surveillance in the field of
      health. In particular to facilitate the dissemination of information between the patient and
      the physician. It is thus possible to imagine using this flow of information to generate
      alerts.

      Strengthening the clinical follow-up in this indication, in which routine imaging has not
      demonstrated their interest, in particular by the implementation of remote monitoring
      completed by the patient, may present an advantage in terms of effectiveness and precocity of
      care. In this pathology, up to 40% of patients relapse early (within 2 to 3 years), in the
      vast majority of cases symptomatically (less than 2% asymptomatic relapse discovered by
      imaging). Finally the CT scan every 6-month , which generates radiation costs and exposures
      for a relatively low benefit, is performed in symptomatic patients since several weeks.

      In addition, strengthened clinical follow-up may improve the early detection of relapses and
      also improve surveillance of all significant clinical complications commonly seen in patients
      with severe disease (sepsis, thromboembolism, late iatrogenics, etc.). If a benefit in
      survival is to be expected, it will most likely be due to the early detection of relapses and
      better control of recidivism through early treatment and management and the early
      implementation of appropriate supportive care, if only by the management of depressive
      symptoms, or the management of iatrogenic or other complications.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the interest of a web-mediated follow up using a score
      based on the dynamics and the association of clinical and biological signs to alert the
      physician of a possible recurrence of the patients treated for a lymphoma in complete or
      partial response.
    
  