
    
      Poor medication adherence is prevalent, difficult to manage, and diminishes the health
      benefits of pharmacotherapies. Elderly patients with coronary risk factors frequently require
      treatment with multiple medications which places them at increased risk for medication
      nonadherence. Effective strategies to improve adherence in the elderly are lacking, and
      improved health outcomes in this population have not been demonstrated.

      Objective: We tested the efficacy of a comprehensive pharmacy care program including patient
      education and an adherence aid (medications custom-packaged in blister packs) to improve
      medication adherence and its associated effects on blood pressure and low density lipoprotein
      cholesterol.

      This is a Multi-phase, prospective observational and randomized controlled trial. We enrolled
      community-based patients aged ≥ 65 years old taking ≥ 4 chronic medications per day.

      Intervention: After a 2-month run-in phase during which baseline medication adherence (via
      pill counts), blood pressure, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were measured,
      participants entered a 6-month intervention phase during which standardized medication
      education and regular follow-up by a clinical pharmacist was provided and medications were
      dispensed in daily, time-specific blister packs. Following the intervention phase,
      participants were randomized to continued pharmacy care/blister packs versus usual care
      (return to their original method of medication administration) for an additional 6 months.

      Main Outcome Measures: The primary endpoint of the observation phase was the change in the
      proportion of pills taken compared to baseline; secondary endpoints were the associated
      changes in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and blood pressure. The primary endpoint of
      the randomized trial was the between-group comparison of medication persistence analyzed
      according to intention to treat.
    
  