
    
      α-synuclein is a small protein of 140 amino acids that is highly expressed in the brain. It's
      function remains poorly understood.10 Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative
      diseases associated with the abnormal accumulation of α-synuclein within cytoplasmic
      inclusions in neurons or oligodendroglia. These α-synuclein containing cytoplasmic aggregates
      occur throughout the brain, producing cell death and specific motor, autonomic and cognitive
      dysfunction in four phenotypically distinct synucleinopathies. When α-synuclein deposition
      occurs in neurons it aggregates into Lewy bodies, producing Parkinson disease (PD), dementia
      with Lewy bodies (DLB) or pure autonomic failure (PAF). Whereas in multiple system atrophy
      (MSA) neuronal death probably occurs as a consequence of α-synuclein aggregation in
      oligodendroglia.

      A characteristic feature of the synucleinopathies is that they can all begin with varying
      degrees of autonomic dysfunction as the sole clinical feature - implying an initial diagnosis
      of isolated (pure) autonomic failure 11. After a variable period of time, but usually less
      than 5 years, only a small number of patients remain with a pure autonomic failure phenotype,
      but careful follow-up is lacking 11. Most patients develop cognitive or motor abnormalities
      (or both) and the patient is then diagnosed with PD, DLB or MSA.

      This stepwise clinical progression suggests that the neurodegenerative process can in rare
      cases remain confined to autonomic neurons12, but more frequently spreads to affect
      additional areas of the central nervous system (CNS). This unique feature of the
      synucleinopathies poses diagnostic challenges and potential therapeutic opportunities.

      The challenges are first, to determine whether PAF is a distinct disease or is always a
      prodromal phase of PD, DLB or MSA and second, to discover biomarkers that predict spread to
      motor and cognitive neurons. Such biomarkers would allow testing of disease-modifying
      strategies to delay or stop the neurodegenerative process in the pre-motor or pre-dementia
      phase. Aim 2 will focus on defining the natural history of MSA, the most aggressive of the
      synucleinopathies. This prospective observational study will establish disease-specific
      milestones for use in future clinical trials.

      Obstacles to identifying biomarkers predicting further CNS involvement are that most medical
      centers only see patients with synucleinopathies when they already have developed motor and
      cognitive involvement, and that PAF and MSA are rare disorders. In this context the Autonomic
      Disorders Consortium (ADC) within the Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network (RDCRN) of the
      National Institutes of Health (NIH) was created with the objective of providing a better
      understanding of the variability, progression, and natural history of neurodegenerative
      synucleinopathies. Continuing this observational study, and increasing its power by including
      additional academic centers from the U.S., South America, and Europe, will allow us to define
      the natural history of these diseases and establish the sensitivity and specificity of the
      proposed biomarkers.
    
  