
    
      Lung cancer was a major cause of cancer-related death worldwide. According to statistical
      data from Ministry of Health and Welfare, the incidence of lung cancer related death was 25.5
      per 100,000 population. According to NCCN guideline, the standard treatment for patients with
      resectable disease is anatomic resection and mediastinal lymph node dissection. The current
      prognostic system, TNM system, was based of patho-histologic characteristics and this system
      provide the most important information about disease-free and overall survival for
      corresponding disease severity. According to investigators previous studies, investigators've
      identified risk factors for all lung cancer patients with resectable disease and poor
      prognostic factors in different TNM stage. Investigators could utilized factors that designed
      for all patients as an initial survey and further subgroup patients into high or low risk for
      relapse in subsequent stratification that utilized grading system in different TMN stage. If
      investigators could identified high risk patients, more aggressive treatment and follow up
      program may decreased risk of disease relapse and prolong patient survival.

      From literature review, circulating tumor cell was demonstrated its possible role in disease
      relapse. It was rare nit could be identified in all lung cancer patients. In addition,
      circulating tumor cell usual aggregate to form circulating tumor micro-emboli and caused
      distant metastases. Therefore, circulating tumor cell could play a role in detect disease
      relapse and appropriate treatment could be given more earlier and further prolong patients'
      survival. However, the detail clinical significance of circulating tumor still remain
      unknown. The aim of this study was evaluate the clinical significance, including present
      timing, numbers, and correlation to disease relapse, of circulating tumor cell in lung cancer
      patients. Investigators want to clarify the clinical significance between circulating tumor
      cell and clinical presentation of lung cancer in order to establish new prediction model and
      improve lung cancer patients' survival.
    
  