
    
      In this pilot study (R34), we will explore the feasibility, acceptance and sustainability of
      a treatment engagement and retention strategy that combines the Historical Trauma and
      Unresolved Grief Tribal Best Practice (HTUG) and Group Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT).
      HTUG is designed to engage and retain American Indian (AI) adults in treatment by focusing on
      grief resolution related to AI collective massive group trauma across generations. The model
      has potential for engaging AIs in empirically supported or evidence based treatments (EBTs)
      through the acknowledgment of the negative effects of colonialism on well-being and reducing
      the stigma of mental health problems. This study will test HTUG's potential to engage AIs in
      IPT, an EBT that may be particularly well suited for treating depression and related mental
      disorders in this population. IPT has demonstrated efficacy for treatment of depression and
      grief in diverse populations, and promising results to date with PTSD; however, to our
      knowledge, IPT has not been studied with AIs.

      The specific aims for this proposal are:

        1. Manualize, field test, and refine a combined group HTUG/IPT intervention model and
           related clinician training and research protocols. Under Aim 1, we will: a) develop
           HTUG/IPT model and initial manual, b) refine IPT for use with AIs, c) solicit AI
           Advisory Panel (AP) member and clinician review of models, d) prepare pilot measures, e)
           prepare HTUG/IPT training materials, and f) recruit and train providers.

        2. Conduct a pilot randomized trial of HTUG/IPT compared to IPT Only at two sites
           (Albuquerque, New Mexico and Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, South Dakota) to further
           refine the manual and protocols, and assess the feasibility and acceptability of our
           procedures for conducting a subsequent large-scale clinical trial. Under Aim 2, we will
           conduct the randomized trial in two waves; we will: a) recruit participants, b)
           implement interventions and collect data, c) analyze data, and d) develop "products" -
           the finalized HTUG/IPT manual, an R01 proposal, conference presentations and
           manuscripts, and the final manual and data report to the two clinics.

      Upon completion of these aims, we will have piloted methods and established the feasibility
      and acceptance of the HTUG/IPT intervention model, which will provide foundational data for
      an R01 to test strategies for improving engagement and retention of AIs in EBTs. What is
      learned in the proposed program of research could have significant promise for reducing
      disparities in mental health treatment and disease burden across AI populations and in
      culturally unique, disadvantaged and poorly served populations in general. Improving
      engagement and retention in culturally relevant EBTs among AIs is of great practical
      importance given the rates of lifetime prevalence of mental health disorders (ranging from
      35% to 54%), the fact that mental health care for AIs is severely underfunded, and the
      reality that treatment research with AIs is sorely lacking.

      Two sites are participating in this project in two different Indian Health Service (IHS)
      Areas: Southwest urban and Northern Plains reservation outpatient behavioral health clinics.
      These include First Nations Community HealthSource in the Albuquerque Area in New Mexico and
      Oglala Lakota College/Kyle Health Center on the Pine Ridge Reservation in the Aberdeen Area
      in South Dakota. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the IPT Only treatment or
      the combined HTUG/IPT group; both will be 12 two hour sessions of group intervention. We
      anticipate that the HTUG/IPT group will show increased positive response to the intervention
      as measured on a number of scales for depression, grief, and interpersonal functioning as
      well as satisfaction with the model. We will use the results to design a more in-depth
      randomized clinical trial (R01) at additional tribal sites.
    
  