
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess preliminary efficacy (as determined by the rate of complete response [CR] or CR
      with incomplete blood count recovery [CRi]) of two or three dose levels of CPX-351 in
      patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) at high risk for induction
      mortality, defined as 30-50% predicted risk of death by day 60, and to select the most
      promising dose level for further efficacy testing.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To confirm the rate of dose limiting toxicities, including induction mortality (at day 60)
      for two different sub-maximum tolerated dose (MTD) dose levels (50 and 75 U/m^2).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the effect of CPX-351 on immune response, as determined by the effect on
      recovery of functional pathogen-specific and leukemia-specific immune responses and the
      recovery and function of natural killer (NK) cells.

      II. To investigate the role of troponin-T as an early marker for CPX-351-induced
      cardiotoxicity.

      III. To investigate ex vivo the cytotoxicity of combination of Pim-1 proto-oncogene,
      serine/threonine kinase (Pim) kinase inhibitor(s) and CPX-351 on circulating leukemia cells.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. After safety is established for both dose
      levels, and escalation is deemed feasible, an additional arm will be studied at the standard
      dose level.

      ARM I: Patients receive lower-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 intravenously
      (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 of a 28-day course. Patients with persistent disease
      may receive a second course with treatment on days 1 and 3.

      ARM II: Patients receive intermediate-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 IV over
      90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Patients with persistent disease may receive a second course
      with treatment on days 1 and 3.

      ARM III: Patients receive standard-dose liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin CPX-351 IV over 90
      minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Patients with persistent disease may receive a second course
      with treatment on days 1 and 3.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients achieving CR receive liposomal cytarabine-daunorubicin
      CPX-351 on days 1 and 3. Treatment may repeat every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for as long as the
      study doctor thinks it is needed, every 2-3 months for up to 1 year, and every 3-4 months for
      up to 1 year.
    
  