
    
      Central Venous Catheter:

      If you choose to take part in this study, the chemotherapy, some of the other drugs in this
      study, and the stem cell transplant and immune cells will be given by vein through your
      central venous catheter (CVC). A CVC is a sterile flexible tube and needle that will be
      placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Blood samples will also be
      drawn through your CVC. The CVC will remain in your body during treatment. Your doctor will
      explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate
      consent form.

      Study Drug Administration:

      The days before you receive your stem cells are called minus days, such as Day -2, Day -1.
      The day you receive the stem cells is called Day 0. The days after you receive the stem cells
      are called plus days, such as Day +1, Day +2.

      On Day -7, you will receive gemcitabine by vein over about 40-180 minutes.

      On Day -6, you will be admitted to the hospital and given fluids by vein to hydrate you.

      On Days -5 and -4, you will receive fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes.

      On Days -4 and -3, you will receive thymoglobulin, if you are receiving a transplant from a
      matched unrelated donor (not a blood relative), a mismatched related donor (a blood relative,
      but not a full match), you will also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG)

      On Days -3 and -2, you will receive fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes and melphalan
      over about 30 minutes.

      On Day -1, you will "rest" (not receive chemotherapy).

      On Day 0, you will receive the donor's stem cells and immune cells by vein. The infusion will
      last anywhere from about 30 minutes to several hours. You may be given other standard drugs
      to help lower the risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for more information
      about how the drugs are given and their risks. All participants are expected to need blood
      transfusions as part of this treatment.

      Beginning on Day -2, tacrolimus will be given by vein over 24 hours to help lower the risk of
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This will be changed to pills once you can tolerate
      swallowing pills. If no active cancer is detected and there is no GVHD, you will then swallow
      1 or more tacrolimus pills a day for only about 3-4 months, instead of the usual period of 6
      months. This is done to boost the donor immune system against the cancer.

      Starting 1 week after the transplant (Day +7), you will receive filgrastim (G-CSF) as an
      injection under the skin 1 time each day until your blood cell levels return to normal.
      Filgrastim is designed to make white blood cells grow, which may help to fight infections.

      On Days +1, +3, +6, and +11, you will receive methotrexate by vein to decrease the risk of
      GVHD.

      If you have persistent but stable (not "growing") disease after transplant, you will have
      your immunosuppressive medications (tacrolimus, corticosteroids) stopped even before 4
      months. If there is no response, you will receive an infusion of additional cells from your
      donor.

      Study Visits:

      About 30 days before receiving the stem cells, you will have computed tomography (CT) and/or
      positron emission tomography (PET) scans to check the status of the disease.

      About every day until discharge, and then at least weekly:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      About 100 days after the transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Part of the blood sample
           may be used for chimerism analysis (determination of donor or recipient cells), if
           needed.

        -  At any point that your doctor thinks they are needed, you will have a bone marrow
           aspiration, chest x-rays, and CT and/or PET scans to check the status of the disease. To
           collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or other site is numbed with
           anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.

      About 6 months, 1 year, then annually after the transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Part of the blood sample
           may be used for chimerism analysis (determination of donor or recipient cells), if
           needed. Part of the blood will be used to check your thyroid function once a year.

        -  At any point that your doctor thinks they are needed, you will have a bone marrow
           aspiration, chest x-rays, and CT and/or PET scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You may have lung function tests, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  About 6 months after the transplant, you may have a biopsy, if your doctor thinks it is
           needed.

        -  About once a year, you will have an eye exam.

      The above tests/procedures may be repeated more often, if you doctor thinks it is needed.

      The study staff will also stay in contact with your local doctor to find out if the disease
      comes back and to check how you are doing.

      Length of Treatment:

      You will be on study for about 3 years. After 1 year, there is no study specific testing you
      will be required to complete. Your transplant doctor will perform routine standard of care
      follow-up that all patients receiving allogeneic stem cell transplantation receive.

      You may be removed from the study early if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest, if
      the disease gets worse or comes back, if intolerable side effects occur, if you have graft
      failure (the transplanted cells do not grow), or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      If for any reason you want to leave the study early, you must talk to the study doctor. It
      may be life-threatening to leave the study after you have started to receive the study drugs
      but before you receive the stem cell transplant because your blood cell counts will be
      dangerously low.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are FDA-approved and
      commercially available. Up to 70 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at MD Anderson.
    
  