
    
      TAP-HC-DM is a feasibility randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving various pieces of
      intervention and their interactions to form a complex adaptive system. The purpose of the
      trial is to assess the effectiveness of the intervention not only through evaluating patient
      outcomes, but also through understanding the process of implementation and its fidelity to
      core elements.

      The trial will be conducted within the McMaster Family Health Team (MFHT) in Hamilton,
      Ontario. The MFHT consists of two sites, with approximately 30,000 patients, as well as 30
      family physicians, 70 family medicine residents, 10 nurse practitioners and other healthcare
      professionals.

      Initial lists of potential participants will be created using an algorithm based on the
      inclusion criteria that will be run on the clinics' electronic medical records systems, with
      manual chart audits completed afterwards on an as-needed basis. The family physicians will
      then be asked to vet this list for further exclusion criteria. Patients from the list will
      then be sent a package including an invite letter from their family physician and a consent
      form.

      Participants who have consented, will receive a welcome call from volunteers who will then
      provide detailed description of the program and expectations. The clients will then be
      invited to sign up for McMaster Personal Health Record (PHR) and asked to complete the
      modules (Diabetes, Hypertension, Sleep, Exercise, Nutrition, Medications, PHR) on the Healthy
      Lifestyle app. After completion of the modules, participants will receive a report and
      suggested tip sheets based on their responses. Volunteers as health connectors will connect
      with clients weekly, providing motivation, education, tech support, and community
      connections. The healthcare teams at the clinics will also receive the report and will triage
      it in their weekly huddles. Any follow-up recommended by the clinics will be communicated to
      volunteers who will then work with clients on the given recommendations, or directly to
      patients.
    
  