
    
      More than 5 million Americans have heart failure, a number that is expected to increase 25%
      by the year 2030. Fifty percent of individuals diagnosed with heart failure die within 5
      years of diagnosis. Of those patients who currently have heart failure, 5-10% have Stage D
      disease, requiring specialized interventions such as chronic inotropic support, mechanical
      circulatory support, or transplantation. Transplantation is considered curative for heart
      failure, but only about 2,200 heart transplants take place each year. Due to the imbalance
      between donors and possible recipients, a large number of patients remain who could benefit
      from transplantation that will never receive a heart. Many patients receive left ventricular
      assist devices (LVADs) to support their failing hearts, increasing their chances of survival
      while they wait to undergo transplantation.

      It has been shown that up to 19% of patients show durable echocardiographic recovery (as
      measured by left ventricular ejection fraction >40%) after ventricular unloading with an
      LVAD. Recovery mediated by unloading with the LVAD causes several changes at the molecular
      level. However, the mechanisms underlying recovery at the cellular level, also known as
      reverse remodeling, are only recently being studied. Thus, the window of opportunity to
      develop adjuvant treatments to enhance recovery is just now opening.

      Interestingly, patients that experience durable echocardiographic recovery have higher
      circulating levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Inhibition of inflammatory cytokines, such
      as with the use of receptor antagonists for inflammation-associated cytokines like Anakinra,
      has also been shown to reduce adverse myocardial remodeling after ischemic events and to
      increase exercise activity in patients with systolic heart failure. This study proposes the
      exogenous administration of Anakinra to end-stage heart failure patients supported with LVADs
      in an effort to increase both the number of patients who experience recovery and the
      magnitude of recovery.

      While this is a small trial aimed primarily at demonstrating biologic efficacy of Anakinra,
      clinical efficacy in this study is also investigated. Encouraging results in this pilot study
      may prompt the creation of a randomized, controlled trial designed to demonstrate efficacy
      from a functional clinical standpoint.
    
  