
    
      Background:

      The number of hospital emergency admissions has dramatically increased in England, by 42%,
      over the last 12 years.Qualitative research published between 1990 and 2006 on the patient
      experience within the emergency department showed that most patients arrived at the A&E with
      the perception that their injury or condition was serious or life threatening and this
      perception was often accompanied by physical pain. The situation is one in which patients
      feel vulnerable, anxious, stressed and fearful.

      In the UK, nearly a quarter of the people arriving at A&E are over 65 years, older patients
      represent a demographic group whose emergency admissions have seen a particularly sharp rise
      over the last 12 years, especially patients aged 85 years or older. This entails hospital
      staff having to deal in the emergency situation with patients presenting with much more
      complex needs associated with co-morbidities and often with less external support than
      younger people

      Older patients are more prone to feel disorientated in A&E. This can be due to a high
      percentage of them presenting with dementia, delirium, delirium superimposed on dementia or
      other CSD (Cognitive Spectrum Disorders), and they are also at higher risk of developing
      delirium while in the emergency department. Delirium is a common medical problem that is
      characterised by changes in cognitive function. When delirium occurs, people are confused.
      Its onset is quite sudden, but it usually lasts only for a few days. However, if not
      addressed delirium can become a serious complication which can lead to longer length of stay
      in hospital and higher mortality. Stress is one of the common triggers for delirium and there
      is also some evidence that longer and particularly stressful A&E experiences are associated
      with the risk of older patients developing delirium over the following hours .

      There have been a few published studies exploring the experiences of A&E from the specific
      point of view of older patients which report that most of them believe that their symptoms
      pose a serious threat to their life or to the control they exert over their lives and that
      the attitudes of nurses in A&E are often perceived as indifferent and inattentive, thus
      causing a feeling of exclusion and disappointment. Empathy and compassion are perceived by
      patients to be the most significant elements of good care in A&E .

      Compassionate Care is not a new concern for the NHS but following high profile failings
      government policies such as the Compassionate Care in the NHS have been introduced, further
      emphasising the importance of humanised care . Recent literature has explored different
      perspectives, from the poor experiences of care by older people living with frailty which,
      has been uncovered by the Francis Report, to the challenges experienced by nurses expected to
      deliver compassionate care, who often struggle to align the reality of practice to their
      ideals .

      Cornwell and Goodrich, in a study exploring patients' experiences state: "the presence or
      absence of compassion often marks the lasting and vivid memories patients and family members
      retain about the overall experience of care in hospital". This is valid also for patients who
      are temporarily confused and/or live with dementia. Projects like the "Dementia diaries"
      project, show that people can not only be aware of how they are treated and how they feel
      even in the middle of an extremely confused state, but they can also be able to recall this.
      Patient satisfaction should be considered a goal in itself; however, the literature also
      suggests that patients receiving clear and compassionate communication are more likely to
      disclose their symptoms enabling greater understanding of their situation and more accurate
      diagnoses.

      The evidence from the paragraphs above indicates that an investment in targeted compassionate
      communication for older people in A&E could make their care more effective, with the
      potential to reduce complications and make healthcare delivery more economically sustainable
      for the NHS alongside giving patients and their families a better experience.

      The awareness of the high incidence of stress in A&E, and of the importance of compassionate
      care for older people has driven the development of a specific Intentional Compassionate
      Communication Intervention (ICCI) within the A&E of a district hospital. The ICCI comprises
      proactive communication-focused support to older people. It involves a specific member of
      support staff taking responsibility for the ICCI to meet older patients' psychological needs
      and relieve their anxieties through talking to them, sharing information with them and
      reassuring them when in A&E.

      The member of the staff who delivers the ICCI has been a volunteer in the hospital for 6
      years and is now a non-clinical member of the Dementia Care Team.

      The delivery of the intervention gives priority to support older people who are in A&E alone
      and to those of them who appear to be cognitively impaired. The aim is to provide patients
      who may feel disorientated additional support in order to reduce the anxiety associated with
      being in A&E. Using effective communication skills the member of staff demonstrates
      compassion and empathy to the older patients whilst they are in a busy A&E department.
      Activities may include talking to them, gently re-orientating them if confused, by asking
      simple questions while using a friendly and reassuring tone of voice, offering a glass of
      water or a cup of tea, maybe a blanket. The member of staff can also try to reassure patients
      by enquiring with other staff about the outcome of an examination or about the next step into
      the patient's hospital stay when it happens to be too busy or staff is under too much
      pressure to be able to communicate with patients promptly and efficiently.

      She also holds many hands, because of pain or because of fear. She purposefully uses a sense
      of humor to prompt a smile or a quick laugh. If words are not helpful (because the cognitive
      impairment is too severe, for example) she might play some music using an I-pad or bringing
      some soft toys for patients to cuddle. What lays at the basis of this intervention is the
      meeting between two human beings whereas one of them is in pain (psychological and often also
      physical) and the other one somehow "feels" that pain and has a genuine wish to relieve it.
      The ICCI is totally person-centered and does not rely on any particular technique, rather it
      is exclusively based on a shared, deeply human drive.

      A 2017 systematic review of literature by Sonic et al. highlighted that most recent studies
      of patient experiences at A&E are quantitative and use methods such as surveys or interviews,
      concentrating on judgments of patients after their A&E visit. A few qualitative studies have
      been carried out. Baraff et al. in 1992 showed that patients are very concerned about losing
      autonomy and independence, and Olthuis et al. in 2014 showed that during the A&E stay
      patients not only have to deal with their disorder, its consequences, and the situation they
      are in, but they are also continuously troubled by all kinds of matters. They found that it
      is a struggle for them to admit that something is wrong with them, to trust the health care
      professionals, to endure waiting periods, to have a blood sample taken, to undress, to deal
      with their relatives and reassure them, and even to get something to drink or eat.

      Despite this, we still do not know very much about disorientated patients experiences in A&E.
      Considering the above, and that there are studies focusing on the lived experience of older
      patients in A&E but currently no published studies that focus on the experience of
      Intentional Compassionate Care Interventions (ICCI) within A&E, improved understanding of the
      lived experience of patients with regards to the provision of ICCI within A&E would be of
      great value in nursing; particularly considering that the experience of older people in A&E
      is often characterized by discomfort, fear, and pain, and can trigger disorientation and
      confusion. Moreover, people with Dementia or other cognitive impairments have a unique
      contribution to make in research. Hearing their voices can help people see the A&E experience
      from their point of view, contributing to fight the assumptions and the stigma often
      associated with such a diagnosis.

      Clinical Data:

      In the UK, nearly a quarter of the people arriving at A&E are over 65 years and older
      patients represent a demographic group whose emergency admissions have seen a particularly
      sharp rise over the last 12 years . The experience of older people in the A&E is often
      characterised by discomfort and anxiety. Stressful experiences may represent a possible
      trigger for delirium, a common and significant complication between older hospital patients
      which can affect the following course of recovery and the overall hospital length of stay.
      There is some evidence that longer and particularly stressful A&E experiences are associated
      with the risk of older patients developing delirium over the following hours.

      Compassionate care seems to reduce patient anxiety and studies conducted in A&E show that
      empathy and compassion are the most significant elements of good care for older patients in
      A&E.

      Rationale:

      The results of the research will contribute to a deeper understanding of older potentially
      disoriented patients' lived experiences of being in A&E and receiving an A&E based ICCI. This
      study could impact upon NHS consideration of possible new roles in A&E that are responsible
      for ICCI and how to make older patients' care more effective and sustainable, and give this
      patient group a better experience and outcome. Including people living with dementia or
      experiencing other cognitive disorders in the study is not only a way to improve their care,
      but also a way of valuing their contribution to society.

      Risks/Benefits:

      During the study participants will have the opportunity to reflect on their experience of
      being in A&E, on their emotional needs and if and how these were met during their period in
      A&E. Reflecting and acknowledging our need for human connection and meaningful interactions
      raises our awareness and this can translate into a benefit for these participants.

      The recruitment of patient participants for interview may include those living with dementia
      or other cognitive impairments and it is recognised that they represent a vulnerable
      population. However, only those who have been identified as being able to give informed
      consent by a registered health care professional member of the Dementia Care Team, will be
      invited to participate to the study.

      The researcher will remain sensitive to any sign of distress during the interview and suspend
      or stop their participation if indicated. Taking extra-care when interacting with vulnerable
      people is essential, however, excluding patients living with dementia from participation in
      research interviews could represent a form of discrimination, as their voice would seldom be
      heard in research and by the services they use. Lack of capacity can make people with
      dementia particularly vulnerable to discrimination and this is also valid for their
      participation to research. Under the Mental Capacity Act a person is presumed to be able to
      make their own decisions "unless all practical steps to help them to make a decision have
      been taken without success".

      Study Objectives:

      1-To gather rich, evocative accounts of older patients aged 65 years and over -who may have
      felt disorientated in the Accident and Emergency department (A&E) of a district hospital and
      who received an Intentional Compassionate Communication Intervention (ICCI) about their
      personal experience of the A&E;

      Study Endpoint:

      The end point will be the completion of the qualitative analysis of transcripts from
      patients' interviews when enough rich data to answer the research questions have been
      collected.

      Study Design:

      This is a qualitative study whose aim is to explore the lived experience of a sample of older
      patients (65 years and over) who may have felt disoriented in the A&E of a district hospital
      and who received an ICCI.

      Using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA), in-depth interviews will be carried out
      with up to 15 patients and the data created from the transcripts will be analysed
      thematically.
    
  