
    
      Patients older than 18 years old undergoing CA for cardiac arrest discharged alive from
      hospital will be included from January 1, 2018 to May 31, 2020.

      The investigators exclude all the patients who died during the in-hospital stay and patients
      who had VF immediately rescucitated by electric cardioversion including only unconscious
      patients at admission in the cath lab. Patients were also excluded if they did not receive
      active in-hospital treatment after cardiac arrest based on either a
      do-not-attempt-resuscitation order, end-stage malignancy preceding the arrest, or had minimal
      chances of meaningful survival (defined as not witnessed cardiac arrest with asystole,
      lengthy resuscitation, or advanced age).

      Patient characteristics, modalities of cardiac arrest and intra-hospital progress were
      collected using DxCare software.

      Cardiac and neurological status will be collected at 1 year follow-up either by using
      consultation report or by a phone call If available, an initial evaluation is done at 3
      months.

      Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) will be used to assess the neurological functional status
      Primary end point is the rate of patients with severe neurological sequelae at one year
      follow-up defined as CPC category ≥ 3.

      Secondary ends points will evaluate the survival rate, NYHA functional class,
      rehospitalization and quality of life at 1 year.

      Quality of life at one year is recorded using the QOLIBRI (Quality of Life after Brain
      Injury) which is a novel health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) instrument specifically
      developed for traumatic brain injury (TBI) (2). It provides a profile of HRQoL in six domains
      together with an overall score. The questionnaire is completed by asking questions by phone
      to patients available at 1 year follow-up.

      The inclusion of 96 patients will make possible to highlight a frequency of severe
      neurological sequelae of 10 percent with a precision of 5 percent (width of the confidence
      interval) and considering an alpha risk of 5 percent.

      Considering that our active patient file include 150 cardiac arrests per year, of which 50
      are discharged alive per year, the inclusion of 96 patients discharged alive from hospital
      over a 2-year period seems to be realistic.
    
  