
    
      1. Background:

           Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the leading cause of disability and death in
           Singapore, and consume substantial healthcare resources. Uncontrolled hypertension
           confers the highest attributable risk of CVD. About one in four adults suffer from
           hypertension in Singapore, 50% of them have uncontrolled blood pressure (BP), and
           management is especially sub-optimal among those with concomitant diabetes or
           dyslipidemia. Evidence suggests that well structured programs of care delivery are
           effective in lowering BP and preventing CVD. However, there is lack of empirical data on
           such strategies in Singapore.

           The findings of the pilot will inform the design of a larger cluster randomized trial in
           eight polyclinics in Singapore. If proven effective in the main study, the information
           will be valuable in convincing the policy-makers to upscale strategies for enhancing
           management of hypertension and cardiovascular health within the primary health
           infrastructure of Singapore, and possibly neighbouring Southeast Asian countries.

        2. Aims:

           Specific aim 1: To explore logistics for delivery of provider training in intervention
           algorithm and motivational counselling while maintaining optimal efficiency of ongoing
           clinical work at the polyclinics.

           Specific aim 2: To establish recruitment of participants in the intervention and usual
           care groups, and uptake of each component of the multicomponent intervention.

           Specific aim 3: To establish mechanism for capture and retrieval of the relevant clinic
           visit data (physician and nurses records, pharmacy and laboratory including costs) at
           the polyclinic, and telephone follow-ups, hospitalization and related costs.

           Specific aim 4: To explore impact of intervention vs usual care on change in BP in the
           short term.

           Specific aim 5: Identify appropriate methods for capturing potential adverse events and
           safety endpoints related to intervention.

        3. Study Design: It is a non-randomized community intervention trial designed to test
           feasibility of structured multi-component intervention in polyclinic setting.

        4. Setting: The study involves two polyclinics in Singapore. One delivers intervention and
           one delivers usual care.

        5. Study population: The polyclinics have a system in place such that all patients with
           hypertension get a "panel" of fasting blood and urine tests at subsidized cost at the
           time of initial diagnosis and then annually. The individuals visiting polyclinic for
           their initial (or annual) panel of laboratory tests marked as "hypertension panel" will
           be screened for eligibility and recruited if eligible. One hundred patients (50 per
           polyclinic) will be recruited and followed for 3 months.

        6. Intervention: Orientation training sessions will be organized for all physicians, nurse
           practitioners (NP) and nurses in the polyclinic assigned the intervention which is
           comprised of 3 components

             1. Structured treatment algorithm with fixed dose antihypertensives for high risk
                patients: The training curriculum including treatment algorithm has been prepared
                by a team of nephrologists, cardiologists and pharmacologists in consultation with
                primary care physicians and Clinical Cardiovascular Work Group, using the case
                method, aiming for global cardiovascular risk reduction.

             2. Motivational conversation by NPs and nurses for high risk patients at baseline:
                Separate training sessions will be conducted for NP and nurses. NP and nurses will
                receive training on motivational conversation techniques and communication
                strategies from a trainer skilled in communication in health care. These nurse and
                nurse practitioners will provide motivational conversation sessions to high CVD
                risk patients at baseline.

             3. Structured follow-up over telephone and in Clinics: NPs and nurses in intervention
                polyclinic will be proactive in follow-up of their patients for self-monitoring of
                BP and providing advice for adherence to treatment every 4 weeks for the duration
                of the project (3 months). A communication checklist for the follow-up will be
                incorporated to the existing follow-up system. Information on adverse events will
                be obtained and action plan will be communicated with patients (discontinue the
                suspected drug and arrange visit to clinic, as appropriate).

        7. Usual Care: The health providers in the polyclinic with usual care will continue their
           existing practices.

        8. Outcomes assessment: Final outcome assessment will take place three months after
           baseline. The outcomes assessors will also call the patients over telephone for outcomes
           assessment at week 6 after baseline. Information on self-monitoring of BP, recommended
           life style change, self-care, and medication use (including herbal and traditional
           Chinese) will be collected.

           The outcome assessors will also extract process outcomes measures from the general
           practitioner (GP) and nurses' notes. These will include number and duration of contact
           with the patient (whether in person or by phone), changes in prescribed medication and
           dose, and reporting of any adverse events from medications.

        9. Sample size calculation: Sample size was calculated using Stata version 12. A sample
           size of 90 (45 in each group) achieves 80% power to detect 5 mmHg difference in systolic
           BP change from baseline to end of follow-up in intervention group compared to usual care
           group, with an estimated standard deviation (SD) of 9.5, significance level of 0.05
           using a two-sided two-sample t-test. Assuming that there could be 10% drop out rate, we
           plan to take the total sample size of 100 subjects. At least 152 eligible subjects (72
           in each group) would be necessary to attain at least 66% recruitment rate.
    
  