
    
      Hypotheses:

      The number of pregnancies in Denmark complicated by spina bifida in the child is constant,
      but the number of births in Denmark complicated by spina bifida in the child has declined,
      likely because the mother in most cases chooses to terminate the pregnancy in case of the
      diagnosis of severe spina bifida at the 19 week ultrasound scan.

      Denmark is the only country in the world with a registered decline in the number of newborns
      with severe spina bifida.

      Purpose:

        1. Investigate the incidence of pregnancies complicated by prenatal diagnosis of spina
           bifida in Denmark from 2008 and on, as well as the pregnancy outcome in these cases
           (including termination of pregnancy).

        2. In cooperation with international partners compare data from Denmark and Sweden (partner
           in Sweden: Eleonor Tiblad, MD, Ph.D, Center for Fetal Medicine, Karolinska University
           Hospital) and if possible also Saudi Arabia (partner in the Saudi Arabia collaboration:
           Marianne Juhler, MD, DMSc, Professor, Rigshospitalet, Denmark and Daniele Rigamonti, MD,
           professor, Chief of Staff, Department of Neurosurgery, John Hopkins University Hospital
           Aramco Health Care, Baltimore, USA)

      Methods:

      Regarding 1): Extraction of data from the Danish Fetal Database ("FØTOdatabasen") which
      includes information of all 60.000 pregnancies in Denmark annually.

      Regarding 2): Data comparable to those collected in this study are expected to be delivered
      from collaborative partners in Sweden and Saudi Arabia. Comparison analysis of the data from
      our collaborative partners in Sweden and Saudi Arabia in order to discover differences in
      spina bifida pregnancy management on an international level.

      Data from Saudi Arabia and Sweden:

      The investigators will ask their partners in Sweden and Saudi Arabia to provide
      institutional, regional or national data comparable to those obtained in Denmark. Data from
      each pregnancy will then be compared on the following parameters:

        -  Prenatal diagnosis of spina bifida/MMC (ICD10: Q050-059)

        -  Pregnancy outcome: live birth, stillbirth, intrauterine death, spontaneous abortion,
           termination of pregnancy, fetal reduction in twin pregnancies

        -  Gestational age at outcome

        -  Epidemiological details of the cohort offered prenatal diagnostics (population based,
           institution based, population size

        -  Consultation guidelines and possibilities when spina bifida is diagnosed prenatally

      The Danish Fetal Database:

      FØTOdatabasen is a national fetal medicine database. The database includes information on
      maternal characteristics: age, parity, BMI, ethnicity, smoking status, Diabetes status (from
      2014), and on the pregnancy: mode of conception, result of first trimester risk assessment
      for chromosomal anomalies, biometric data, ICD10-codes for any prenatally diagnosed
      malformation. FØTOdatabasen receives this information automatically on a daily basis from all
      birth departments' prenatal database (Astraia), and links data regarding each pregnancy with
      postnatal outcome from the Danish Cytogenetic Registry, the National Patient Registry and the
      National Birth Registry. FØTOdatabasen includes >95% of all pregnancies in Denmark with due
      date from 1. January 2008 and onwards. The data completeness is high, with missing data <1%
      for pregnancy outcome, <1% for smoking status, and <3% for mode of conception.

      The database thereby provides a unique possibility to analyze population based data from
      approximately 55.0000 pregnancies annually with prenatal diagnosis and postnatal outcome. On
      an international level FØTOdatabasen thereby provides unique data to analyze pregnancies with
      spina bifida in a population and the pregnancy outcome, including live born children,
      intrauterine deaths and spontaneous as well as termination of pregnancy. Hereby it can be
      estimated how many incidences of spina bifida are isolated or associated with other
      malformations.
    
  