
    
      At the beginning of the study, subjects will be randomized to two different groups. One group
      will receive iron every day for the next 4 months or so (up until their Glenn surgery); the
      other group will not receive any iron. Those in the iron treatment arm of the study will
      receive iron education at discharge from their first stage surgery (Norwood or BTS surgery)
      and will be given vials of iron to take home. A patient will receive a set amount of iron
      (dose will be 3 mg/kg) once a day. Weekly follow-up phone calls will be conducted by study
      personnel to re-calculate dose of iron for parents (based on weight) as well as check on the
      status of the research subject.

      Group II will not receive iron but will be a participant in the study and follow the course
      of the non-iron randomized patients.

      Blood samples will also be drawn at the same time as standard of care labs at two time points
      during the course of the study for both groups of patients. Blood for iron study labs will be
      drawn at 72 hours prior to discharge from the first stage surgery and at the pre-Glenn
      screening. A reticulocyte count test will also be done at the pre-Glenn screening. These lab
      tests look at the number of red blood cells in the body, the type of red blood cells, their
      ability to carry oxygen and the iron status of the research subject. Additionally, data will
      be collected on the CBC count, subject's age, weight, pulse oximetry, surgical history,
      transfusion history, iron levels and therapy, and hematological indices (Hgb, Hct, MCV, RDW,
      RBC count, and reticulocyte count), as well as peripheral blood smear. Feeding history will
      be carefully documented. Descriptive demographic data and underlying diagnosis will be
      collected, along with all the above variables defined.

      The hemoglobin and iron levels at the time of pre-Glenn labs will be compared to those at the
      start of the study. The importance of iron therapy will be examined.

      Iron is a readily available medicine for both the prevention and treatment of anemia. If this
      simple cost-effective medicine can decrease the prevalence of anemia in these infants, it may
      result in more oxygen to the body's tissues and areas, less stress on the single pumping
      chamber of the heart and it may also improve their overall growth and development.

        1. Primary Aim - To achieve a higher hemoglobin level at time of second stage surgery
           (Glenn procedure).

        2. Secondary Aims - To obtain the following outcomes:

             1. Increased ferritin levels

             2. Decreased interval blood transfusions

             3. Normal MCV (red cell volume) and RDW (red cell distribution)
    
  