
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy is a frequent and occasionally refractory complication of cirrhosis
      and is associated with impaired quality of life. Its severity may not correlate with other
      parameters of liver dysfunction. Although multiple pathogenic mechanisms for the condition
      have been proposed, most include the participation of bacterial toxins, especially ammonia,
      produced in the gastrointestinal tract. Treatment options for hepatic encephalopathy at this
      time are limited to lactulose and neomycin. Lactulose is frequently poorly tolerated, and
      many patients are non-compliant with its use. In patients with renal insufficiency in whom
      hepatic encephalopathy is frequently problematic, use of neomycin is contraindicated due to
      ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity.

      Autonomic dysfunction is common in patients with cirrhosis and could contribute to the
      development of hepatic encephalopathy by impairment of intestinal motility, leading to
      bacterial overgrowth and colonic inertia.

      The following questions will be addressed:

      A. Is impaired intestinal transit and bacterial overgrowth associated with the presence and
      severity of hepatic encephalopathy?

      50 patients will undergo a detailed clinical evaluation for severity of liver disease,
      hepatic encephalopathy and assessment of intestinal transit and bacterial overgrowth with
      radiographic marker study and breath test analysis. Multivariate analysis will then be
      performed to determine the relationship of intestinal transit and evidence of bacterial
      overgrowth with the presence and severity of hepatic encephalopathy.

      B. Does treatment with rifaximin improve bacterial overgrowth and hepatic encephalopathy?

      20 patients from the above population with significant encephalopathy will be randomized to
      receive either rifaximin or placebo. Post-treatment evaluation for severity of hepatic
      encephalopathy and breath test analysis for bacterial overgrowth will then be performed. The
      effect of treatment on changes in hepatic encephalopathy and bacterial overgrowth and the
      relationship between changes in bacterial overgrowth and severity of hepatic encephalopathy
      will also be assessed.

      Phase A Endpoints: Degree of bacterial overgrowth and its correlation with the grade of
      hepatic encephalopathy (if present).

      Phase B Endpoints: To demonstrate improvement in degree of HE with treatment of Rifaximin

      Efficacy Endpoints The primary efficacy endpoint for Phase B of the study will be the change
      from baseline in the proportion of patients with no HE, minimal HE (no symptoms, abnormal
      psychometric testing), mild persistent HE (mild symptoms), and persistent Stage II HE
      (presence of asterixis, history of hospitalization for spontaneous Stage III or IV HE).

      Secondary efficacy endpoints for Phase B will be the following:

      To demonstrate improvement in intestinal transit time for patients (based on Lactulose
      Hydrogen Breath Test) To demonstrate improvement in bacterial overgrowth, improved insomnia,
      flatulence, and quality of life.

      To demonstrate that rifaximin improved patients' symptoms of insomnia, flatulence, and
      quality of life measure with the degree of bacterial overload and the impaired intestinal
      transit time.
    
  