
    
      This is a dose escalation study to evaluate Omacetaxine when given in combination with a
      standard induction regimen of "7+3" (cytarabine for Days 1-7 and Idarubicin for Days 1-3) in
      patients with newly diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Omacetaxine will be given
      subcutaneously Q12 hours on Days 1-7. The optimally safe and active dose (OD) will be
      determined using the EffTox design. EffTox is a Bayesian adaptive design that seeks to
      determine the optimal dose for further study in Phase II by considering a trade-off between
      efficacy and toxicity. The EffTox design begins by treating a cohort of three patients at
      dose level 1. These patients' efficacy and toxicity outcomes are used to update the posterior
      distributions for the probability of efficacy and toxicity and identify acceptable dose
      levels. The study terminates if no dose levels are acceptable. Otherwise, the acceptable
      doses are ranked using the Euclidean distance from (1.0, 0.0) and the next cohort is treated
      at the dose with the minimum distance under the restriction that we may only escalate or
      deescalate by one dose level at a time (e.g., the second cohort can only escalate to dose
      level 2 or deescalate to dose level -1). The second cohort is treated at the dose with the
      minimum distance and posterior distributions, and the list of acceptable doses and distances
      are updated as before. This process continues until at least 20 subjects are enrolled in the
      study. The dose with the minimum distance at study completion is considered the optimal dose
      for further investigation. If none of the dose levels are acceptable at study completion, an
      optimal dose level will not be identified and the drug does not warrant further
      investigation.

      Post induction therapy will consist of standard cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy or
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation based on pretreatment risk assessment.
    
  