
    
      Enrolment is expected to occur over 24 months with total study duration of approximately 30
      months. Five (5) subjects will be enrolled into each dose cohort. The dose cohorts will be
      studied in a sequential fashion, starting with the lowest doses and escalating to the highest
      doses. It is anticipated that each subject's involvement with the study will be 3.5 months.
      In addition, eight (8) subjects will be included in the highest dose cohort to collect
      pharmacokinetic plasma samples.

      Subject enrollment and dosing within each dose cohort will be staged such that the next
      subsequent subject will not be dosed until the previous subject has been successfully
      discharged from the hospital after the angioplasty attempt. At a minimum there will be 3 days
      in between each subject dosing to ensure product safety.

      There will be no advancement to the higher dose cohort until all 5 subjects have been
      discharged from the hospital and a safety review is conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB) on the cardiac safety measures and the treatment deemed safe to proceed to the
      next dosing level.

      A total of 28 male and / or female subjects suffering from CAD with a CTO will be enrolled
      into the study at three sites (Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and St. Michael's Hospital,
      Toronto, Ontario, and and Laval Hospital Research Centre, Quebec City, Quebec,Canada). All
      subjects will have had one or more previous failed angioplasty attempt(s) of the occluded
      artery. Subjects who have signed an Informed Consent Form (ICF) and meeting all inclusion
      criteria and having none of the exclusion criteria at Visit 1 (Screening) will be included in
      the study. All potentially enrollable subjects at Sunnybrook will be reviewed by either of
      two cardiologist not involved in the study to discuss the available options for the subject
      and to approve enrollment decisions. Eligible subjects that agree to participate will be
      treated in a two part procedure. On Day0 using standard angioplasty techniques to access the
      specified occluded coronary artery, Collagenase (MZ-004) will be directly injected into the
      occluded artery through a microcatheter that has been positioned immediately adjacent to or
      into the proximal cap of the occlusion. The catheters and arterial sheath will then be
      removed and the subject will be monitored overnight on the ward. The following day (Day1),
      the subject will be brought back to the catheterization laboratory and undergo an angioplasty
      using standard angioplasty techniques. Routine post-procedural management will then be
      followed. The subject will be discharged on Day2 in the absence of any cardiac complications
      (such as elevated cardiac enzymes or large pericardial effusion as judged by the Investigator
      and determined by echocardiography). Prior to the angioplasty procedure on Day1 and again on
      Day2 prior to discharge, the subject will undergo an echocardiogram to determine the presence
      and severity of a pericardial effusion. A moderate or large pericardial effusion or any sign
      of tamponade on Day1 will be a contraindication to performing the procedure, and the subject
      will be terminated from the study. A telephone follow-up will be performed 30 days post Day1
      in all subjects who have signed an ICF and been enrolled in the study. At 3 months, subjects
      will undergo an outpatient coronary Computer Tomography (CT) angiogram to ensure there are no
      delayed effects on the treated vessel (e.g. aneurysm formation), the myocardium or the
      pericardium.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of acute intracoronary doses
      of collagenase (MZ-004) in symptomatic subjects with coronary CTO.

      The secondary objective is to obtain preliminary efficacy information of guidewire crossing
      with increasing doses of intracoronary collagenase in subjects with previously failed at
      least one previous attempt in coronary CTO.
    
  