
    
      Parastomal hernia is a relatively common and troublesome complication in patients with a
      stoma. The exact incidence is not known and depending on definitions and if a bulging is a
      hernia or not, as well as when after the operation the examination is performed, the
      incidence varies between 0-48%. A parastomal hernia may give the patient difficulties with
      appliance and leakage. From an economical point of view a stoma that requires special kinds
      of appliances is expensive. Theoretically, strengthening of the abdominal wall with a mesh at
      the the primary operation would reduce the risk for parastomal hernia. Recently presented
      data suggest that a mesh at the primary operation really does reduce the risk to develop a
      parastomal hernia. No negative side effects with the use of a mesh have been reported in
      these studies. All earlier studies have involved relatively small numbers of patients and
      short times of observation, and therefore under-dimensioned concerning potential negative
      late side-effects. Complications seen in other studies where mesh has been used in surgery of
      the bowel include fistulas and infections among others. To understand if mesh at the primary
      operation, in a safe way, reduces the risk for developing parastomal hernia compared to
      conventional surgery, is important to perform this new prospective randomised multicenter
      trial.

      Specific aim:

      To compare patients with colostomies with or without mesh at the primary operation. Primary
      endpoint is the incidence of parastomal hernia requiring surgery.

      All patients at participating centers scheduled for permanent colostomy, after signing
      informed consent and meeting inclusion criteria, will be randomised to formation of a stoma
      with or without mesh.

      If the inclusion criteria is fulfilled and informed consent is signed, the patient is
      randomised preoperatively.
    
  