
    
      The objective is to determine if utilizing the PAI score as a single measure for goal setting
      is superior to monitoring steps / distance, calories burned, and / or time in aerobic
      activity in achieving improvements in health.

      Study participants will have enrolled in Corporate Wellness Program at Memorial health System
      (MHS), and have met the inclusion criteria and consented.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the groups. Members from the same household
      will be assigned to the same group together.

      All devices will be linked, via smart phone, to a fitness tracker app that is imbedded in the
      MHS medical record, and has a patient access portal accessible to the patient via website or
      app on a smart phone or tablet.

      The intervention device will also link to a smart phone app developed by PAI that displays
      PAI score to the participant as well as other data, to allow tracking.

      Participants will be asked to wear their devices on at least two nights during the first
      week, and daily while awake, except when bathing for the next 12 weeks.

      Participants, having enrolled in the wellness program, will already, as a part of that study,
      have agreed to have data collected at baseline and yearly thereafter, including BMI, blood
      pressure, resting pulse, lipid panel, hemoglobin A1c, health risk assessment survey,
      absenteeism and health claims data at baseline and yearly thereafter. If not collected within
      60 days, a new set of data will be collected to serve as baseline for this study.
      Specifically for this study this data collection (including lab analysis) will also be
      repeated at 12 weeks and 6 months. All blood draws will be done at any MHS lab, by qualified
      phlebotomists, according to standard hospital policy.

      The control group will be asked to work toward a goal of at least 10,000 steps a day, which
      can be seen on their device, as well as on the accompanying app.

      The intervention group will be encouraged to work up to and maintain the highest PAI score
      possible, with at least 100 being the ideal. PAI will provide weekly summary data on
      participants that will allow additional evaluation correlating level of physical activity /
      PAI score with participant results. This data will be reported with a participant code. PAI
      will provide a master code linking the participant code to an email address for correlation
      of all data for analysis. This master code will be maintained on an encrypted device.
    
  