
    
      We conducted a pilot study among 30 volunteers from the Division of Cancer Epidemiology and
      Genetics (DCEG) in order to: (1) select the urine pH strip that most closely correlates with
      urine pH measured by pH meter for the New England Bladder Cancer Study, (2) calibrate the
      urine pH strip that was used for the Spanish Bladder Cancer Study against pH measured by a pH
      meter, and (3) compare the DNA yields from buccal cells obtained from two different methods:
      mouthwash vs toothbrush-rinse method. At the time of enrollment, study participants were
      asked to provide information on age, gender, height, weight, consumption of antacids and
      calcium supplements, and whether they ate, drank or brushed their teeth in the last hour
      previous to the buccal cells sample collection. In addition, they measured their urine pH
      with four different pH strips twice a day (early morning and before dinner) for a week and
      record the measurements in a diary. During the same week, they were asked to collect two spot
      urine samples each day from Monday to Thursday (early morning and before dinner), and one
      more on Friday morning, and bring them into work in a cooler. Also, they were asked to
      collect a continuous 24-hour urine sample during one of the three first days of the week.
      Urine samples were picked up by lab personnel from BioReliance, and pH was measured at their
      laboratory with the four pH strips again and with a pH meter. Buccal cells sample collection
      was completed during the first and the last day of the urine sample collection period. The
      first day, study participants were asked to provide a water rinse sample after brushing the
      inside of their cheeks with a toothbrush, and a week later they were asked to provide a mouth
      wash sample consisting of two consecutive rinses with Scope mouthwash. All samples and
      questionnaire data was unlinked from personal identifiers after the sample collection was
      completed. Participants were compensated with $100 for the inconvenience of participating in
      this complex study and for their time. Information collected from this pilot study has been
      used to prepare manuscripts, as well as select and optimize the sample collection protocols
      in the New England Bladder Cancer Study.
    
  