
    
      MVA-BN®-HER2 is a candidate breast cancer immunotherapy product comprised of a highly
      attenuated non-replicating vaccinia virus, MVA-BN®, engineered to encode a modified form of
      the Her-2 protein.

      MVA-BN® is a well-characterized, clonal strain of modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) being
      developed as a smallpox vaccine, suitable for use in high-risk (e.g., immunocompromised)
      individuals. MVA-BN®-derived vectors encoding heterologous antigens are being developed for
      use as vaccines for infectious diseases such as HIV, and for the treatment of cancer. A large
      database exists from safety evaluations in animals and in humans for MVA-BN®, and
      MVA-BN®-derived vectors.

      Her-2 is overexpressed in 20-30% of human breast cancers. It is an oncogene/growth factor
      receptor critical for malignant phenotype of Her-2 expressing tumors. It is an immunogenic
      target, and immune responses to this protein have been shown to mediate potent anti-tumor
      activity in multiple animal models. Means to stimulate anti-Her-2 reactivity are now being
      studied clinically. Sponsor, collaborators, and others have used both Protein and DNA vaccine
      forms of Her-2, and a safety database is developed and no significant adverse events have
      resulted from Her-2 directed vaccination.

      MVA-BN®-HER2 encodes a modified form of the Her-2 protein, hereinafter referred to as HER2.
      HER2 contains the extracellular domain of Her-2 but lacks the intracellular, cell signaling
      domain. In addition, HER2 includes two universal T-cell epitopes from tetanus toxin to
      facilitate the stimulation of an immune response to Her-2, a self-protein.

      The current trial, BNIT-BR-002, will evaluate the safety and biological activity of a fixed
      dose of MVA-BN®-HER2, with and without Herceptin, following 1st- or 2nd-line chemotherapy in
      patients with metastatic breast cancers which overexpress Her-2.

      Patients will receive 3 subcutaneous vaccinations at 3 week intervals and have tumor followed
      by CT/MRI imaging and blood drawn for immune function analysis.
    
  