
    
      This is a 2-part, phase II study to assess the effects of Givinostat on muscle histologic
      parameters and on clinical parameters in ambulant children with DMD.

      The safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of Givinostat will also be assessed.

      Approximately 20 children were to be enrolled in the study as follows: the first 4 children
      were to be treated at a low dose level of givinostat (25 mg twice daily [BID] in children who
      weighed 20 kg to 49 kg and 37.5 mg BID in children who weighed ≥ 50 kg).

      If none of the stopping criteria were met after 2 weeks of treatment at the low dose, the
      review team was to determine the escalated dose level (ie, intermediate dose level) to be
      used for the treatment of an additional 8 children who were to be treated at the intermediate
      dose. The 4 children previously treated at the low dose level were also switched to the
      intermediate dose level.

      If none of the stopping criteria were met after 2 weeks of treatment at the intermediate
      dose, the review team was to determine the subsequent escalated dose level to be used for the
      treatment of an additional 8 children who were to be treated at the high dose. All children
      treated at the intermediate dose level were to be switched to the high dose level.

      Once all 20 children enrolled during Part 1 of the study had been treated for at least 2
      weeks, the review team was to determine the recommended dose (RD) to be used in Part 2 based
      on the safety and tolerability profile observed and on the pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses. All
      the children enrolled were switched to the RD level (37.5 mg BID), which was administered for
      the subsequent 12 months of the study (Part 2).

      At the end of Part 2 of the study, parents were asked to consent and patients to assent to
      continuing their participation in the Extension to receive the study treatment at least until
      the final analysis was performed (Part 3-Extensions; after 52 months of treatment). The
      patients received givinostat at the same ongoing dose, during the last visit planned at 12
      months, and were treated for additional 40 months (Extensions 1, 2, and 3 up to month 52).
    
  