
    
      OBJECTIVES

      General Purpose Identify the percentage of pregnant women with spinal postural pains in
      antenatal services in the city of Paulinia and evaluate the effectiveness of the Classical
      Yoga exercises for the lumbar and posterior pelvic pains in the group of women who will do
      the exercises, as well as developments pain intensity in patients with and without exercise.

      Specific Objectives

        -  Identify the percentage of pregnant women with postural pains in the spine.

        -  Measure the intensity of pain and at the beginning and end of intervention in both
           groups.

        -  Measure the intensity of pain and at the beginning and end of each exercise session.

        -  To compare the evolution of pain - lower back and posterior pelvic pain - in the group
           with and without exercise.

        -  To compare the evolution of pain - lower back and posterior pelvic pain - in the group
           with Yoga exercises.

      ASSUMPTIONS

        -  Half of pregnant women report symptoms of postural pains in the spine.

        -  A significantly higher percentage of pregnant women who will do the Yoga exercises
           during pregnancy report improvement in pain intensity - low back and / or posterior
           pelvic pain - compared with the control group.

        -  A significantly higher percentage of pregnant women present pain intensity increased at
           the beginning compared to the end of the session.

        -  A significantly higher percentage of pregnant women report a decrease in intensity of
           back pain and posterior pelvic pain when compared to the control group.

        -  A significantly higher percentage of pregnant women report improvement in low back pain
           over the posterior pelvic pain in the group with Yoga exercises.

      SUBJECTS AND METHODS:

      Design Identification of the percentage of pregnant women with postural pains in the spine in
      health units and clinical trial, prospective, randomized and controlled.

      Sample Size To calculate the sample size was calculated as the average change in pain
      intensity referred to the global active stretching group at the end of the first and eighth
      week of treatment. The mean and standard deviation of the intensity of pain at the end of the
      first week was 4.88 SD 3.056 and at the end of the eighth week 0.85 SD 1.875 (Martins & PINTO
      E SILVA, 2005 b) The assumption is that the effect of treatment with yoga is similar to that
      found with the global active stretching.

      Considering a significance level of 5%, a test power of 80%, based on the mean difference
      reported and adopting the paired t-test, the smallest sample size required is n = 7 women in
      each group.

      However, for purposes of research and publication is suggested to adopt an "n" greater than
      30 women per group.
    
  