
    
      The stroke or brain attack is one of the main health problems in developed countries. It is
      the third cause for death and the main cause of disability in adults. Cerebral infarction
      makes up 80 % of all the types of strokes.

      After a stroke, different evolutions and outcomes can be observed, and there are several
      factors that may influence the outcome, such as age, cognitive impairment, and psycho-social
      factors. The most important prognostic factors for acute ischemic stroke are the volume of
      the cerebral infarction and the severity of the baseline neurological deficit.

      In recent years, stroke has been considered a real medical emergency, and for this reason
      several clinical trials have been conducted to find effective therapies. Among
      pharmacological therapies, there are two possible ways to treat ischemic strokes: treatments
      directed to recanalize the occluded artery, such as thrombolysis, and the neuroprotective
      drugs.

      None of the neuroprotective drugs have attained the international approval for this
      indication. Among the reasons for the failures obtained with the different drugs tested, we
      must highlight the problems derived from the toxicity of the drugs and from the evaluation
      criteria, as well as the therapeutic window used.

      To evaluate a drug in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, one must be very careful when
      defining the schedule of the clinical trial, and which variable or variables may be
      considered as primary endpoints. Several endpoints have been used in the different clinical
      trials developed, although the most used are those referring to the functional status and the
      degree of disability of the patients, normally set at 3 months after the stroke.

      After the onset of an ischemic stroke in the brain, there is a cascade of events that are
      responsible for neuronal disruption, neuronal membrane breakdown and/or neuronal apoptosis,
      specifically in the penumbra area. Therapies acting by blocking the ischemic cascade, at
      least partially, and/or stabilizing neuronal membranes are believed to be beneficial
      protecting the brain from the progressive effects of ischemia. Among the neuroprotective
      drugs, there is a new class of drugs, of which the main representative is citicoline.
      Citicoline monosodium is an exogenous form of CDP-Choline, which is essential for the
      biosynthesis of membrane phospholipids. The mechanisms of action of citicoline include the
      stimulation of the biosynthesis of phospholipids of the neuronal membrane, the inhibition of
      the activity of some phospholipases, the restoration of some enzymatic activities bound to
      neuronal membranes, and the elevation of brain levels of some catecholamines.

      The previous clinical trials performed with citicoline were no conclusive, with some positive
      results. In all these studies, citicoline was found to have a similar safety profile as
      compared with placebo.

      The variety of outcomes and results of the different trials made it difficult to arrive at a
      consensus on the efficacy of the drug. That is the reason why a Pooling Data Analysis using
      updated individual patient data was done, with the main objective to determine the effects of
      citicoline on the improvement, functional and neurological, of patients with acute ischemic
      stroke treated with different doses of citicoline for 6 weeks and with a follow-up period of
      6 weeks. The results obtained in this Pooling Data Analysis showed that the odds ratio of
      achieving a complete recovery was 33 % higher in citicoline-treated patients than in
      placebo-treated patients, with the best response obtained with the dose of 2000 mg/d/6 weeks.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the effects on recovery at 3 months of
      oral citicoline 2000 mg/d/6 weeks, after 6 weeks of treatment and 6 weeks of follow-up, in
      patients with moderate-to-severe acute ischemic strokes (baseline NIHSS equal or higher than
      8) in comparison with placebo.
    
  