
    
      PROBLEM STATEMENT

      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a clinical condition characterized by troublesome
      symptoms and medical complications as a result of reflux of gastric contents into the
      esophagus. GERD is diagnosed in 4% of primary care outpatient visits and the disease
      prevalence in Latin-America reaches 12-31%. Nocturnal symptoms have been found in 74% of
      patients with GERD and are a cause of significant quality of life impairment, when compared
      with general population and patients with GERD and daytime-only symptoms. Sleep interference
      secondary to nocturnal retrosternal burning has been associated to lower work productivity,
      even in patients being treated with proton pump inhibitors (PPI). Due to several
      physiological factors such as lack of conscious perception of symptoms, reduced salivation
      and a lower frequency of nocturnal swallowing, a significantly longer acid exposure overnight
      has been associated to the emergence of complications like esophagitis, more extra-esophageal
      symptoms and other illnesses such as asthma.

      As a low-cost non pharmacological anti-reflux treatment for GERD, head of bed elevation (HBE)
      is nowadays a moderate-strength recommendation with low level of evidence. Clinical impact of
      this measure in patients with night-time symptoms remains unknown, due to inconsistent
      results and methodological limitations among different clinical trials; most of which were
      performed before the widespread use of proton pump inhibitors in clinical practice. Evidence
      from several non-randomized studies suggest that HBE could reduce esophageal acid exposure
      time and could decrease GERD symptoms; however, another study found no significant
      differences in those same outcomes. On the other hand, all randomized controlled clinical
      trials published this far show inconsistent results. A study published before widely accepted
      clinical use of PPI, revealed significant clinical and endoscopic improvement with HBE in
      patients with GERD and grade C-D esophagitis, when compared to controls. In contrast, a
      multi-centre clinical trial found no difference in symptom score or antacid use among groups
      allocated to HBE and control group. All cited studies have methodological limitations and
      heterogeneity in outcome assessments, which makes difficult conducting a meta-analysis with
      these data. No published studies evaluating impact of HBE in quality of life or work
      productivity were found.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

      Sample size was estimated based on the hypothesis that HBE would produce a difference of at
      least 10% in RDQ and SF-36 scores. Effect size (Cohen d) was calculated as 0,49, keeping in
      mind an RDQ mean and standard deviation of 3,3±1,0 previously found in Spanish population
      with symptomatic GERD. An SF-36 mean and standard deviation of 56,9±20,3 reported in Italian
      population in medical therapy with PPI were also taken into account. The minimally important
      difference selection was chosen based on the assumption that any difference smaller than 10%
      would have no clinical relevance. Based on this data, 14 patients per group would yield a
      power greater than 80% for detection of a minimally important difference as large as or
      larger than 0,6 points in RDQ questionnaire (range: 1 to 6) and 10 points in SF-36
      questionnaire (range: 0 to 100), when using a paired t test. For a complementary analysis of
      this trial, by using a McNemar test, effect size was recalculated based on published clinical
      trial data from pre-omeprazole era, according to which 58,8% and 28,6% of patients assigned
      to placebo improved gastroesophageal reflux symptoms with and without 20 cm HBE,
      respectively. Based on this data, and maintaining a statistical power of 80%, required sample
      size was adjusted to a total of 34 patients. G*Power 3.1.9.2 software (Universität
      Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany). Finally, estimated sample size was incremented by 20% to
      avoid that eventual losses of follow-up may alter study power. Therefore, final sample size
      was 42 patients, 21 patients per group.

      DESIGN AND CARVING OF WOODEN PRISMS

      84 prisms of withered pine tree wood with dimensions 20x18x18 cm were carved from 9 logs of
      300x20x20 cm at Aserrío San Ignacio Ltda. production plant, located in Soacha, Cundinamarca.
      Given it is an industrial process of chainsaw cutting and wood planing, a quality control was
      implemented consisting of verification of prism stability while lying on the floor, and the
      mean height in millimeters of every prism will also be measured and registered. Unsteady
      products or those with atypical mean heights, defined as a height either exceeding percentile
      75 + 1,5 times interquartile range or below percentile 25 - 1,5 times interquartile range,
      will be discarded and not used during the study. After exclusion of defective prisms,42
      groups of wooden prism pairs according to mean height in millimeters were formed and every
      group was given a random digit generated by computer. Afterwards, every random digit of prism
      groups was sequentially assigned to a consecutive HBE-allocated patient number, in such a way
      that every consecutive patient number (among those allocated to HBE) will be linked randomly
      to a preset known prism height. This additional randomization procedure involving prisms
      according to their mean height, is planned due to the impossibility to guarantee that prism
      height will be identical with a precision of ±1 mm, keeping in mind that products will be cut
      with chainsaw and will be planed as part of an industrial process. After quality control
      process, mean prism height was found to be a non-normal distributed variable (W:0,908; critic
      W: 0,979; p: 0,000000), and after applying predetermined exclusion rules for atypical data, 2
      pairs of wooden prisms were discarded.

      RANDOMIZATION

      A random binomial number list (zeroes and ones) will be generated with the statistical
      software STATA SE 13.0 for Windows and the list will be used for allocation of 42 patients
      between intervention and control groups in a 1:1 proportion. Each one of the 42 pairs of
      wooden prisms will be marked with a consecutive number coming from an HBE-allocated patient
      and the prisms will be stored keeping the marked number out of reach from the sight of the
      researcher in charge of patient recruiting.

      Patients that meet the inclusion criteria, have no exclusion criteria and who give written
      informed consent, will be assigned a consecutive number during their outpatient visit
      according to their order of inclusion in the trial. These participants will be randomized to
      either HBE or control group in the moment that a member of the research team verifies, among
      the stored prisms, the existence of a prism pair marked with the same number as the
      consecutive number assigned to the patient. In the case that this pair does exist, then the
      patient will take home that pair of wooden prisms and use them during the first period of the
      trial according to spoken and written instructions to be given at that moment. On the
      contrary, if a pair of wooden prisms marked with the same consecutive number as the patient,
      does not exist, then it will be understood that the study participant has been allocated to
      control group during the first period of the trial. The member of the research team who
      verifies the storehouse of wooden prisms will not be in charge of confirming inclusion and
      exclusion criteria and will not assign consecutive numbers to patients during outpatient
      visits.

      ALLOCATION CONCEALMENT

      The researcher in charge of confirming inclusion and exclusion criteria, fulfilling the Basic
      Data Formulary and providing the patient with the Informed Consent Format, will not be aware
      of the allocation sequence order until these 3 documents have been applied to the participant
      and a consecutive number has been generated according to their order of inclusion in the
      trial. After that, a member of the research team in the prism storehouse will verify the
      existence of a prism pair marked with the same number as the consecutive number assigned to
      the patient, and only in that point allocation status of the participant will be known.

      CROSS-OVER

      After allocation has been completed, patients in the intervention group will receive a pair
      of numbered wooden prisms with dimensions 20x18x18 cm along with written instructions about
      the correct use of the intervention. The patient must sleep with HBE during 6 weeks and both
      RDQ and SF-36 questionnaires will be applied again at the end of this first period while the
      participant is still sleeping with HBE. Afterwards, a washout 2 week period follows in which
      the participant sleeping with HBE will stop using it and will return the pair of wooden
      prisms to the researchers. After washout period has ended and both RDQ and SF-36
      questionnaires have been applied again, patients allocated to the control group during the
      first period of the study will receive a random pair of prisms and will be instructed to use
      the prisms for sleeping with HBE during a second period of 6 weeks. Meanwhile, participants
      initially allocated to the HBE group will be followed as a control group in this second
      period of the study.

      FOLLOW-UP

      After participant allocation, telephonic follow up will be made during both periods of the
      trial with a frequency that is dependent on the intervention group of the patient in that
      period. Participants in the HBE group will be called weekly for 2 weeks, and then will be
      called biweekly for a month, until each period of 6 weeks has ended. In contrast, patients in
      the control group will be called every three weeks along each period. With the purpose of
      verifying both HBE adherence and correct use of wooden prisms, every participant will be
      asked to send a photograph of the bed head legs during the follow-up telephone call. The
      photograph will be received by the researcher via e-mail or smart-phone and will be encoded
      and saved in a hard disk. At the end of the first period, RDQ and SF-36 questionnaires will
      be applied and researchers will store the returned prisms during washout period. When washout
      period has ended, RDQ and SF-36 questionnaires will be applied again in order to be sure of
      the absence of any carry-over effect in the group initially allocated to HBE. Finally at week
      14, RDQ, SF-36 and Patient Preference questionnaires will be administered to complete study
      ending outcome assessments.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS PLAN

      Quantitative and qualitative variables collected with Basic Data Format, RDQ, SF-36 and
      Patient Preference questionnaires will be typed in a Microsoft Excel 2007 database.
      Intervention groups will be masked with an alphabetical code provided by an independent
      collaborator who will not be involved with data analysis or report writing. For statistical
      processing, database will be imported into STATA SE 13.0 for Windows and descriptive
      statistics will be generated for each variable. Statistically significant differences will be
      searched for categorical data using the Chi-square test and normality will be tested for
      numerical continuous variables using the Shapiro-Wilk test. For normally distributed
      continuous variables, statistically significant differences will be searched for by using
      unpaired Student's t test. Alternatively, for not normally distributed variables a Wilcoxon
      signed rank test will be applied. For complementary processing of primary outcome and
      secondary outcome quality of life, score difference between periods will be transformed into
      a binomial variable and a McNemar test will be applied. Differences with one-tail p<0,05 will
      be accepted as statistically significant. Subgroup analysis will explore differences
      stratified according to age group, sex, ethnic group, BMI, comorbidities, cups of coffee per
      day, pharmacological adherence, and length and severity of symptoms.
    
  