
    
      Topical fluoride varnish (TFV) with 5% sodium fluoride in its content has proven effective in
      preventing caries among children and adolescents. Its reduction in DMFT is well supported by
      Cochrane reviews and clinical trials. However, its effect in preventing pit and fissure
      caries in primary dentition has not been assessed.

      Pit and fissure sealants have been a recommended procedure in preventing caries development
      in permanent molars. Multiple systematic reviews and clinical trials have concluded that
      fissure sealants are significantly more effective than topical fluoride varnishes in
      preventing occlusal caries in permanent molars. However, a recent Cochrane review suggested
      that there was still insufficient evidence to determine superiority of resin or glass ionomer
      fissure sealants over topical fluoride varnishes for occlusal caries prevention, due to the
      lack of reliable results and low quality of evidence.

      Also, most studies were conducted on permanent first molars among school children, whom
      cooperation and moisture control can be easily achieved. However, application of fissure
      sealants, especially resin-based sealant, in very young children can be a technique-sensitive
      procedure. Compared with a mean treatment time of less than 3 minutes for varnish
      application, application of resin-based sealants required over 15 minutes. Moisture control
      is also of paramount importance for the retention and success of resin-based sealants, which
      may be difficult among young preschool children.

      Glass-ionomer sealants can chemically bond to enamel and are more tolerable to inadequate
      moisture control. As its application requires less clinical steps, glass-ionomer sealant is
      comparatively more acceptable to younger patients and can be used in outreach settings with a
      large number of participants. The fluoride releasing ability is also beneficial in preventing
      caries especially at adjacent tooth surfaces. However, its retention rate is significantly
      lower than that of resin-based sealants, its success rate in preventing fissure caries in
      very young patients is still unknown.
    
  