
    
      Adenotonsillectomy is one of the most common ambulatory surgical procedures performed to
      children. Tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy have a high incidence of postoperative pain.
      There is still debate about the optimal analgesia for this common surgical procedure.
      Different methods have been described and used to reduce pain including. The main goal of the
      preventive analgesia is the pain relief with minimum side effects. The role of local
      anesthetic infiltration in the reduction of postadenotonsillectomy pain is still
      controversial. Blockage of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) activation and interception of
      nociceptive in put are important factors to achieve the reduction in subsequent pain.
      Ketamine hydrochloride is an NMDA receptor antagonist. The blockage of the NMDA channel and
      analgesic properties are both at subanesthetic doses for the ketamine. Ketamine also prevents
      central sensitization of nociceptors. Previous studies described the analgesic effect of
      intravenous application or peritonsillar infiltration of ketamine intraoperatively in
      children after tonsillectomy. Tramadol is another analgesic and a synthetic opioid of the
      aminocyclohexanol group which is a central opioid agonist with less respiratory depression
      compared to morphine. We knew that tramadol has both systemic and local anesthetic effect on
      peripheral nerves from human and animal studies.

      The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the University. The consents will be taken
      from all parents. Patients will be randomized from seald envelope into tramadol, ketamine or
      control (serum physiologic) to receive the preincisional peritonsillar infiltration before
      the surgery. There will de 36 patients in each group. The study drug is supplied of a liquid
      identical in color and volume. All surgeons, anesthesiologists, nurses, patients and parents
      will be blinded to study group until the end of the study All children will receive a
      premedication including midazolam hydrochloride (0.5 mg/kg; maximum dose, 20 mg) followed by
      a standard general inhalational anesthetic (50% O2-N2O and 8% sevoflurane). Children also
      received 0.1 mg/kg of fentanyl citrate and 0.2 mg/kg mivacurium intravenously. After the
      intubation maintenance anesthesia will be keep with nitrous oxide (50%) in oxygen and
      sevoflurane. All patients will receive the peritonsillar injection of the study drug before
      the excision of the anesthesia. Tramadol group will receive 2 mg/kg (2 ml), ketamine group
      0.5 mg/kg (2cc), control group 2 ml of serum physiologic. All infiltrations will be through
      the peritonsillar fossa. For each tonsil 1 ml will be applied to upper pole, lower pole and
      between the upper and lower pole with 25-G needle. After the infiltration surgeons will wait
      3 min for tonsillectomy. The same standard blunt dissection will be performed to all children
      by the same surgeon. During the operation heart rate oxygen saturation, average blood
      pressure, respiration rates will be recorded in every 5 min. Operation, anesthesia times will
      also be recorded. Postoperatively pain, nausea, vomiting, sedation scores, the existence of
      dysphagia, bleeding were recorded at 2, 6, 12, 24 h postoperatively. Children's pain scores
      will be measured by using Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).If the pain score is greater than 5,
      Ibuprofen will be given to children. Pains with the request for analgesic requirements, the
      time of analgesia requirement, patient satisfaction will be also recorded.

      Data analysis will be performed by using SPSS for Windows. The relationship between
      categorical variables will be test by Chi-square test and Anova test will be performed to
      compare groups according to continuous variables. Also LSD test will be used to detect
      subgroup differences. p Values higher than 0.05 will be considered as significant. Mean and
      standard deviations and percentages will be given as descriptive statistics.
    
  