
    
      Manual ventilation is the most widely used during induction of anesthesia because of
      unsupported theoretical advantages in clinical trials as a test of airway patency and
      adequate ventilation and lung expansion. Additionally, in developing countries until recently
      lacked sufficient ventilation from supplying controlled fans with different modes that could
      be used during induction of anesthesia. However, case reports in pediatric and adult patients
      not intubated, note that manual ventilation could be related to increased frequency of
      gastric insufflation and predispose to regurgitation and aspiration, impaired ventilation,
      respiratory failure, reduced cardiac output and rupture or visceral ischemia. To date, no
      controlled clinical trials have to corroborate or not these experiences.

      Gastric insufflation may appear as a result of manual ventilation or mechanical. In
      connection with the first because it does not allow volume control currents, the time of
      insufflation or inspiratory pressures, which determine the maximum peak inspiratory pressure,
      which is directly proportional to the incidence of this complication. Meanwhile, mechanical
      ventilation is associated with gastric insufflation when pressures exceed certain limits peak
      airway. vonGoedecke et al, in a clinical trial of mechanical ventilation (pressure control)
      against the manual in healthy adults during induction of anesthesia and whose outcome was
      ventilatory variables, they found that mechanical ventilation was associated with lower peak
      inspiratory pressures lower airway and peak inspiratory flow rates and tidal volumes and
      minute lower. They recommend mechanical ventilation during induction of anesthesia as the
      safe technique.

      To make ventilation safer in an unprotected airway, can be considered two strategies:
      limiting the tidal volume or peak inspiratory pressure limit. Seet and colleagues compared in
      healthy adults two mechanical ventilation strategies in addition to the manual technique
      during induction considering a composite endpoint of ventilatory variables and gastric
      insufflation in a clinical trial. They found that pressure-controlled ventilation was
      associated with lower peak inspiratory pressure and gastric insufflation less than the other
      two methods, which suggest that this technique is safer and should be the method of choice
      for ventilation during apnea patients induction.

      Several studies have shown the clinical significance of gastric insufflation during induction
      of anesthesia in 2009, Paal and colleagues presented the results of two studies in animals:
      one with them in cardiac arrest and another spontaneous circulation, in the first there was a
      abdominal compartment syndrome leading to hemodynamic compromise, respiratory, metabolic, and
      finally multi-organ, in animals with spontaneous circulation, the effects were even worse
      because there was a reduction in survival and in some gastric insufflation was considered as
      the cause of heart failure . The authors conclude that gastric insufflation alone can cause
      heart failure and multiple organ failure occurs much faster the more critical is the patient.
      , In addition to substantial mechanical cardiopulmonary effects, insufflation of the stomach
      is a complex problem that can cause regurgitation, aspiration, pneumonia and death. Increases
      abdominal pressure, elevates the diaphragm, restricts lung movement and thus reduce the
      compliance of the respiratory system. A reduction in respiratory system compliance may direct
      further ventilation volume into the stomach when the airway is not protected, thus inducing a
      vicious circle with each breath, increasing the insufflation of the stomach and decreasing
      lung ventilation. Added to this the fact that the anesthetic drugs reduce the lower
      esophageal sphincter pressure and more than 90% of cases in children suction produced in the
      induction of anesthesia, needless to emphasize the importance of controlling this adverse
      effect. Control of gastric insufflation by the above would be particularly useful in patients
      with comorbidities that predispose to regurgitation or cardiac arrest patients.

      Children are at greater risk of gastric insufflation during induction of anesthesia because
      of anatomical and physiological characteristics inherent in the conduct of the respiratory
      system that promote airway obstruction and the passage of air into the stomach: proportional
      size of the head and tongue, short neck, small chin, among others. This is compounded by the
      use of a ventilation without control of parameters such tidal volume, inspiratory time and
      peak inspiratory pressure, as well as reduction of the lower esophageal sphincter pressure
      caused by anesthetics and airway devices. It is likely that this increased risk of gastric
      insufflation is the explanation for the increased incidence of aspiration and respiratory
      complications found in some studies, particularly during anesthetic induction.

      The work of von GoedeckeSeet and are pioneers in this new form of induction of anesthesia
      with ventilation for the patient safer and more comfortable for the anesthesiologist, using
      more developed fans that bring new anesthesia machines and allow to get the most out of
      ventilatory modes that are built. However, lacking adequate methodological designs jobs to
      validate these techniques in different populations, and one of them is the pediatric
      population, the characteristics mentioned above would suggest that one of the most favored by
      this method. Therefore, this paper seeks to establish whether the pressure-controlled
      ventilation during induction of anesthesia reduces the incidence of gastric insufflation
      compared with manual ventilation of children aged 1 month to 14 years.
    
  