
    
      The study design is a prospective, single-masked intraindividually comparing randomized
      controlled trial, conducted at the Department of Clinical Sciences / Ophthalmology, Umeå
      University Hospital, Umeå, Sweden. The study includes healthy men and women with low grade
      myopia, aged between 18-35 years and involves 25 participants with a myopia of -0.50 to -2.5
      diopters (D) and astigmatism of ≤0.75D. All participants are treated with phototherapeutic
      intrastromal corneal collagen cross-linking (PiXL) without epithelial debridement (epi-on),
      after topical riboflavin. Both eyes are treated and randomized to receive ultraviolet (UV)
      light according to PiXL Protocol A in one eye and PiXL Protocol B in the other, which is
      masked to the participant. Throughout the treatment, humidified oxygen is continuously
      delivered around the eye using an oxygen mask to achieve an oxygen concentration of ≥95
      percentage. Prior to inclusion all participants are informed about the procedures and provide
      oral and written informed consent.

      At baseline, each eye is examined with slit-lamp microscopy, subjective refraction,
      determination of uncorrected (UCVA), low contrast visual acuity at 2.5 percentage and 10
      percentage contrast and best corrected (BSCVA) visual acuities using the LogMAR fast protocol
      and intraocular pressure (IOP) using Goldmann applanation tonometry. Under standardized,
      mesopic light conditions each eye is evaluated by keratometry readings, central corneal
      thickness and after treatment also the depth of demarcation lines, extracted from Schemipflug
      camera measurements, Pentacam HR® (Oculus, Inc. Lynnwood, WA). Central corneal endothelial
      photographs are taken with the Topcon SP-2000P specular microscope (Topcon Europe B.V.,
      Capelle a/d Ijssel, the Netherlands), from which the corneal endothelial cell count is
      manually calculated from a cluster of 25 cells from each photograph. Total ocular wavefront
      is measured with iTrace (Tracey Technologies, Inc.).

      All the above mentioned examinations are reassessed at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment.
      At 1 day and 1 week after treatment, solely UCVA, Auto refractor measurements, slit-lamp
      examination and a subjective comparison of discomfort and visual performance in each eye are
      evaluated.
    
  