
    
      Children often present to pediatricians and pediatric endocrinologists because of abnormal
      body growth, including both childhood growth failure and, less commonly, overgrowth.
      Sometimes the cause is evident, for example, growth hormone deficiency for growth failure and
      growth hormone excess for overgrowth. In other children, the etiology remains unknown despite
      extensive evaluation, resulting in the unhelpful diagnosis of severe idiopathic short stature
      or tall stature. These conditions are quite heterogeneous, including children with isolated
      growth disorders and others who also have other abnormalities such as developmental delay or
      a constellation of congenital anomalies (syndromic growth disorders). Some cases of severe
      growth disorders have a polygenic inheritance while others appear to be inherited as a
      monogenic trait recessive, dominant or X-linked. Because of recent advances in DNA sequencing
      technology, it is now feasible to sequence the exome (portion of the genome that encodes gene
      exons) in families with monogenic disorders and thereby determine the underlying molecular
      etiology.

      We therefore propose a study to identify novel genetic causes of idiopathic growth disorders
      using whole-exome sequencing. The primary goal of this study is to identify novel causes of
      childhood growth disorders in order to improve clinical diagnosis, to provide a more precise
      characterization of associated medical problems, prognosis, and response to treatment based
      on etiology, and to gain new insights into the regulation of human growth, which may
      eventually lead to new therapeutic approaches.

      Subjects will include children and adults with a clearly recognizable phenotype that includes
      either short stature or tall stature and a pedigree that strongly suggests a monogenic
      inheritance. Both syndromic and non-syndromic growth disorders and both proportionate and
      disproportionate growth disorders will be included. Affected and unaffected family members
      (who have informative meiotic inheritance relationships to the proband or index case) will
      also be studied because of their importance for this genetic approach. The phenotype will be
      characterized by medical history, physical exam, body measurements, and laboratory
      evaluation. Blood and saliva samples will be collected for whole-exome sequencing and single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array analysis. Candidate sequence variants will typically be
      verified by Sanger sequencing.
    
  