
    
      Cardiac surgery patients are typically at higher risk of receiving blood transfusions during
      surgery than patients presenting for most other surgical procedures. Acute normovolemic
      hemodilution (ANH) is a method of blood conservation used to reduce the amount of donor blood
      transfused. It involves removing blood from appropriate patients immediately after the
      induction of anesthesia, replacing the volume lost with colloids (e.g. 5% albumin), then
      storing and returning this blood to the patient at the completion of the surgical procedures.
      By reducing the patient's hematocrit during surgery, the blood that is shed during the
      procedure has a lower red blood cell volume and therefore fewer red blood cells are lost
      during major blood loss. In addition, the autologous stored blood contains coagulation
      factors that are spared and returned following the procedure. This process is already
      performed here and at other institutions as a potential means of reducing transfusions in
      high risk patients. However, in spite of multiple publications, the actual value of this
      procedure is unclear, in part because many of the published studies in cardiac surgical
      patients failed to establish firm protocol- specific guidelines for either returning
      harvested blood to the patient or for using banked blood, or because it is unclear whether
      these guidelines were actually followed during surgery (rather than left to the discretion of
      anesthesiologists and surgeons).

      The primary goal of this pilot study is to implement rigorous transfusion protocols for both
      ANH and routine transfusion practice and to examine compliant and noncompliant transfusion
      rates in both the ANH and control groups, evaluating reasons for violation of the transfusion
      protocol if applicable and to determine the feasibility of performing a larger study on ANH.
      Secondary goals for this pilot study include gathering data on transfusion rates in ANH
      versus control patients to determine the sample size for a larger, definitive study in which
      the primary goal would be to evaluate the effectiveness of ANH in reducing transfusion of
      banked blood units during cardiac surgery as compared to control patients in which ANH is not
      used. Secondary endpoints of a larger study would also include evaluating coagulation status
      in patients undergoing ANH versus control patients.
    
  