
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile and optimal dose of AZD2171 (cediranib) (15mg or 20mg or
      30mg) in combination with temozolomide and radiation in patients with newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma (Phase Ib) II. To determine median progression-free survival of patients with
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma treated with AZD2171 in combination with temozolomide and
      radiation (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the radiographic response proportion in newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients
      with measurable disease. (Phase II) II. To determine the median overall survival. (Phase II)
      III. To determine the "vascular normalization" window in newly diagnosed glioblastoma
      patients by the application of serial, non-invasive, MRI parameters. (Phase II) IV. To
      measure the glucose metabolism changes in a subset of newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients
      by performing FDG PET studies. (Phase II) V. Measurement of circulating endothelial and
      progenitor cells and plasma levels of VEGF-A; VEGF-B; VEGF-C; VEGF-D; sVEGFR1, sVEGFR2, bFGF,
      PlGF, PDGF-AA; PDGF-AB; PDGF-BB; SDF1α; tumstatin; thrombospondin-1; interleukin-8; collagen
      IV sICAM1, sVCAM1 as markers for response to AZD2171 in newly diagnosed glioblastoma
      patients. (Phase II) VI. Correlation of treatment outcomes with pre-AZD2171 tumor specimens
      with respect to cell proliferation, apoptosis, microvascular density (MVD), basement membrane
      and pericyte coverage, angiopoietin-1 and -2 expression to determine whether these
      immunohistochemical analyses can be predictive of the response to AZD2171. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of cediranib followed by a phase II study.

      Patients begin study treatment within 21-42 days after craniotomy or 14-21 days after
      stereotactic biopsy.

      PHASE Ib:

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients receive cediranib orally (PO) once daily and oral temozolomide
      once daily for 6 weeks. Within 2-6 hours of dosing, patients undergo concurrent
      intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily, 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Cediranib
      monotherapy: Patients receive cediranib PO once daily for 4 weeks (weeks 7-10). Cediranib and
      temozolomide monthly therapy: Patients receive cediranib PO once daily for 24 weeks (weeks
      11-34) and temozolomide once daily, 5 days a week in weeks 11, 15, 19, 23, 27, and 31.
      Cediranib monotherapy: Patients receive a fixed-dose of cediranib once daily for 24 weeks
      (weeks 35-58).

      PHASE II:

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients receive cediranib PO at the recommended phase II dose determined
      in phase Ib, temozolomide PO, and undergo concurrent IMRT as in phase Ib (weeks 1-6).
      Cediranib monotherapy: Patients receive cediranib PO (at the recommended phase II dose
      determined in phase Ib) once daily for 4 weeks (weeks 7-10). Cediranib and temozolomide
      monthly therapy: Patients receive cediranib PO (at the recommended phase II dose determined
      in phase Ib) once daily for 24 weeks (weeks 11-34) and temozolomide once daily, 5 days a week
      in weeks 11, 15, 19, 23, 27, and 31. Cediranib monotherapy: Patients receive a fixed-dose of
      cediranib once daily for 24 weeks (weeks 35-58).

      Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection at baseline and periodically during study.
      Blood samples are measured for tumstatin, as well as other well established biomarkers,
      including VEGF-A, -D, sVEGFR1, sVEGFR2, sICAM1, sVCAM1, PlGF, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB,
      thrombospondin-1, and IL-8 by electrochemiluminescence detection. Circulating endothelial
      cell (CEC) assays are evaluated to assess the kinetics of CECs and progenitor cells prior to
      and during antiangiogenic therapy with cediranib and chemoradiotherapy. Urine samples are
      collected for proteomic analyses to evaluate serial change of growth factors such as VEGF and
      PlGF and of matrix metalloproteinases in response to treatment with cediranib. Archival tumor
      tissue is collected for analysis of tumor microvascular density, basement membrane and
      pericyte coverage, angiopoietin-1 and -2 expression, tumor cell proliferation, and apoptosis
      by immunostaining methods and immunoenzyme techniques.

      Patients also undergo dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE)-MRI and T2-weighted or
      perfusion-weighted MRI at baseline and periodically during study to monitor antiangiogenic
      effect on tumor vasculature through parameters reflecting both tumor perfusion and
      permeability; and diffusion tensor imaging to measure degree of water diffusion and
      fractional anisotropy. A subset of patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission
      tomography (FDG-PET) periodically to monitor antiangiogenic effects on glucose utilization.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.
    
  