
    
      Chronic, non-cancer pain may result from injury or illness, such as rheumatoid arthritis or
      osteoarthritis, which causes suffering and a reduction in the quality of life. Opioids, such
      as fentanyl, are beneficial as potent pain-relieving drugs in patients with continuous pain.
      This is an open-label, prospective study to assess the degree of pain control provided by
      treatment with fentanyl administered through the skin via adhesive patches ("transdermal
      system") for 28 days in patients with rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis of the hip or
      knee, whose pain is inadequately controlled by other medications. During the first week of
      treatment, a prophylactic anti-nausea and vomiting agent will be given to patients to control
      these symptoms that can occur during opioid therapy. After 28 days, patients who do not
      respond adequately to treatment will be tapered off by gradually reducing the dose of
      fentanyl. Assessment of effectiveness will include a rating of pain control (excellent, good,
      moderate, poor, very poor), Pain Assessment Questionnaire, Quality of Life Questionnaire
      (SF-36), Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), recording of the usage of any additional
      pain-relieving medications, and an evaluation of the anti-nausea and vomiting treatment.
      Safety evaluations include incidence of adverse events, and physical examinations. The study
      hypothesis is that patients with rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis of the hip or knee
      whose pain is not adequately controlled by other medications will show an improvement in pain
      control after 28 days of treatment with the fentanyl transdermal system. Fentanyl transdermal
      patches to deliver from 25 micrograms/hr to 100 micrograms/hr, changed every 3 days, for 28
      days; doses may be adjusted for adequate pain control, Anti-nausea tablets (Metoclopramide,
      10 mg, 3 times/day) during first week. Paracetamol tablets (500mg) to supplement pain
      control.
    
  