
    
      Liver Transplant Liver transplantation (LT) is a life-saving procedure for patients with
      end-stage liver disease. Despite continuous advancement in technology, it remains a high-risk
      operation. The building-up of an oxygen debt during LT can lead to an increased risk of poor
      postoperative outcomes (1, 2). Furthermore, patients with acute liver failure or end-stage
      liver disease are prone to hepatic encephalopathy, which can lead to disturbance of
      auto-regulation in the brain, which may eventually cause cerebral hypoxia and ischaemia.
      Irresversible metabolic disturbances can impair cerebral auto-regulation, causing poor
      neurological outcomes after LT (3). The prevalence of encephalopathy, delirium and stroke in
      transplant recipients is 12-40% (3). Hypotheses for these conditions include prolonged stay
      in the intensive care unit (ICU) (so-called "ICU psychosis"), the use of Tacrolimus (4),
      rapid correction of hyponatraemia (5) and impaired cerebral auto-regulation (3), but no
      definite conclusion can be made most of the time. Among these hypotheses, impairment of
      cerebral auto-regulation has never been documented in large clinical trials for Chinese
      patients in LT.

      Cerebral oximetry (Near infra-red spectroscopy, NIRS) There is no "gold standard" for
      measuring cerebral auto-regulation. Monitoring of the brain oxygenation, such as direct
      tissue O2 tension and jugular bulb O2 saturation, has been used as a surrogate of
      auto-regulation but it is invasive. Transcranial laser Doppler (TCD) of the middle cerebral
      artery has been validated in healthy volunteers as well as real patients as a good
      measurement of cerebral blood flow (6, 7). Similarly, near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), a
      non-invasive and continuous method, can also monitor the regional cerebral oxygenation
      (rScO2) and is increasingly used in cardiac surgery. A previous report has validated the use
      of NIRS when compared to TCD, as the latter requires a trained technician to monitor and
      supervise. NIRS provides a timely, real-time, inexpensive, easily measurable alternative to
      TCD, and thus should have a great potential for clinical usage in LT. Similar to other
      non-invasive oximetry (e.g. pulse oximetry), measurement can be done through adhesive tapes
      over bilateral forehead and connected to the machine (INVOS™ 5100C Cerebral/Somatic Oximeter
      by Covidien). This system is the ONLY cerebral/somatic oximetry system with FDA cleared
      improved outcome claims (8). Plachky et al. showed that 50% of patients demonstrated a
      decline in cerebral oxygen saturation when clamping of the vessles during LT and it had
      positive correlation with the postoperative cerebral disrubances (9). Nonetheless, the
      clinical application for patients undergoing LT is scarce and its application is novel. The
      use of this technology may potenitally be limited by the presence of high levels of bilirubin
      acting as a chromophore interferring with its data acquistion. However, in a pilot study of 9
      patients who underwent LT investigators using this technology were able to demonstrate that 3
      out of 9 patients had either transient or persistent impaired auto regulation throughout the
      operation. This in turn was associated with higher Model of End-Stage Disease Score (MELD)
      >15 (p=0.015), more postoperative seizures and stroke (P<0.0001) (3). A recent systematic
      review (10) of 901 Caucasians from 24 publications showing a decrease in NIRS (>15% relative
      to baseline) could have impaired postoperative cognitive function (28 versus 26; MMSE) and
      reduced LOS (14 versus 23 days) in open surgery. In the field of LT, impaired cerebral
      autoregulation (25%), cerebral deoxygenation in the anhepatic phase (36%) and cerebral
      hyperoxygenation with reperfusion of the grafted liver (14%) were identified by NIRS and
      could lead to adverse neurological outcome such as seizures, transient hemiparesis and
      stroke. Nonetheless, no large prospective randomized trial and no Chinese cohort were
      included.

      References

        1. Shoemaker WC, Appel PL, Kram HB. Role of oxygen debt in the development of organ failure
           sepsis, and death in high-risk surgical patients. Chest. 1992;102(1):208-15.

        2. Shoemaker WC, Appel PL, Kram HB. Hemodynamic and oxygen transport responses in survivors
           and nonsurvivors of high-risk surgery. Critical care medicine. 1993;21(7):977-90.

        3. Lescot T, Karvellas CJ, Chaudhury P, Tchervenkov J, Paraskevas S, Barkun J, et al.
           Postoperative delirium in the intensive care unit predicts worse outcomes in liver
           transplant recipients. Can J Gastroenterol. 2013;27(4):207-12.

        4. DiMartini AF, Trzepacz PT, Pajer KA, Faett D, Fung J. Neuropsychiatric side effects of
           FK506 vs. cyclosporine A. First-week postoperative findings. Psychosomatics.
           1997;38(6):565-9.

        5. Lee J, Kim DK, Lee JW, Oh KH, Oh YK, Na KY, et al. Rapid Correction Rate of Hyponatremia
           as an Independent Risk Factor for Neurological Complication Following Liver
           Transplantation. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2013;229(2):97-105.

        6. Lang EW, Mehdorn HM, Dorsch NW, Czosnyka M. Continuous monitoring of cerebrovascular
           autoregulation: a validation study. Journal of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry.
           2002;72(5):583-6.

        7. Ono M, Zheng Y, Joshi B, Sigl JC, Hogue CW. Validation of a stand-alone near-infrared
           spectroscopy system for monitoring cerebral autoregulation during cardiac surgery.
           Anesthesia and analgesia. 2013;116(1):198-204.

        8. Murkin JM, Adams SJ, Novick RJ, Quantz M, Bainbridge D, Iglesias I, et al. Monitoring
           brain oxygen saturation during coronary bypass surgery: a randomized, prospective study.
           Anesthesia and analgesia. 2007;104(1):51-8.

        9. Plachky J, Hofer S, Volkmann M, Martin E, Bardenheuer HJ, Weigand MA. Regional cerebral
           oxygen saturation is a sensitive marker of cerebral hypoperfusion during orthotopic
           liver transplantation. Anesth Analg. 2004;99(2):344-9.

       10. Sorensen H, Grocott HP, Secher NH. Near infrared spectroscopy for frontal lobe
           oxygenation during non-vascular abdominal surgery. Clin Physiol Funct Imaging.
           2016;36(6):427-35.
    
  