
    
      Total knee replacement is a prevalent orthopedic elective surgery in the Western world. After
      surgery, especially in the first two weeks, patients suffer from high degrees of pain that
      may lead to delayed recovery, increased risk to chronic pain and pain comorbidities, and may
      harm the knee function. In purpose to alleviate the pain, most patients tend to passive
      coping strategies which include the use of high levels of analgesics, including steroids,
      which may have accompanying side effects.

      Aerobic activity is found to have a beneficial effect on pain threshold and pain tolerance in
      healthy subjects and in chronic pain syndromes. Researches indicate that single bout of
      aerobic effort increase pain threshold and pain tolerance and decrease pain severity for
      15-30 minutes. Until now, the effect of a one-time aerobic effort has not been tested on
      subjects suffering from acute pain following surgical intervention.

      This trail will examine the immediate effect of single aerobic effort on clinical and
      experimental pain, active knee range of motion and function among people with acute pain
      after total knee replacement.

      40 subjects undergoing total knee replacement at the medical Center for Galilee as a result
      of Osteoarthritis in one of they knee, will be recruited to the study. The study will take
      place during the hospitalization in the 5th and 6th days after surgery. In those 2 days the
      subjects will participate in two meetings: in one session, the participants will be asked to
      perform active pedaling for 20 minutes in their upper limbs of a pulse that will be
      calculated approximately 60% of their maximum predictive pulse. in the second meeting the
      participants will perform passive training with their upper limbs for the same duration. The
      order of interventions will be randomly determined. Before and after the intervention, it
      will be examined by pain measures (pressure pain threshold, spontaneous pain perception and
      arousal pain by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scale), at rest, in a
      sitting-standing-sitting transfers, while carrying an equal weight on both feet and while
      walking. the active range of motion of the operated knee, and functional measures - 10 Meters
      walk Test and Timed Up and Go test.
    
  