
    
      Patients and Methods:

      Admitted ventilated patients who are greater than 18 years old and fulfilled the Berlin's
      diagnostic criteria of moderate to severe ARDS will be selected to enter our study. The
      exclusion criteria include (1) patients with metallic materials in the body (including wire,
      pin or implanted electrical devices etc.); (2) patients with cutaneous diseases which
      prohibited the application of electrode leads to attached the body; (3) severe chronic
      obstructive pulmonary diseases; (4) hemodynamically unstable; (5) proved barotrauma
      (including pneumothorax or pneumomediastinum etc.); (6) pregnancy; (7) diseases characterized
      with increased intracranial pressure; (8) patients or family who refused the informed
      consent. All patients who fulfilled the diagnosis of ARDS will receive standard care of low
      tidal volume ventilator therapy. The tidal volume 6 ml/Kg will be used. The investigators
      expect to enroll at least 20 analyzable cases. Sedation and paralysis are usually used in
      moderate to severe ARDS patients and daily interruption of sedation and paralysis is a
      standard practice. The investigators will perform recording during daily interruption of
      sedation and paralysis, up to 60 minutes period will be recorded during the interruption
      period. Recording will be done at least once for registered case and could be repeated in
      case of unsatisfactory signals.

      Instrumentation In all patients, air flow will be measured using a pneumotachograph (Hamilton
      AG, or Hans Rudolf) connected to a differential pressure transducer (MP 45, Validyne Corp.,
      Northridge, CA). The flow sensor will be placed between the endotracheal tube and the Y-piece
      of the ventilator. Tidal volume will be obtained by integrating the flow signal. Airway
      pressure and esophageal pressure will be measured using differential pressure transducers
      (P300D, Validyne Corp., Northridge, CA.). An appropriate esophageal pressure signal will be
      confirmed according to the standard guideline[27]. All signals are sampled and digitalized at
      200 Hz and data are stored in a data acquisition system (MP150, Acqknowledgement, Biopac,
      Goleta, CA).

      Measurements:

      Electrical impedance tomography:

      The investigators use a commercial EIT monitor (PulmoVista 500, Drager Medical GmbH, Lubeck,
      Germany). An electrode belt with 16 equally spaced electrodes will be placed around the
      patient's thorax at the 4th to 5th intercostal space. Impedance data will be acquired by
      applying adjacent alternate current injection (50 KHz) and measuring the voltage difference
      between the adjacent leads and a finite element method-based, linearized Newton-Raphson
      reconstruction algorithm is used to construct the impedance data. The PulmoVista 500 monitor
      displays functional EIT images, i.e. relative impedance changes including tidal ventilation
      and end-expiratory lung impedance (EELI) changes. During the study phases, EIT data will be
      registered at 20-40 Hz and low-pass filtered (35 per minute) and stored for offline analysis.

      The individual impedance recording (10 minutes per segment) will be linked into a single file
      and impedance calculation will thus be done off-line. The investigators will subdivide the
      impedance recordings into ventral to dorsal parts. The investigators define the presence of
      pendelluft as the presence of opposite impedance change (△Z) between dependent and
      independent zones during a breathing effort. The breath could occur in inspiration phase,
      expiratory phase or in transition. Estimation of volume of pendelluft will be determined by
      the integrated volume and corresponding impedance change.

      Respiratory mechanics:

      The investigators will record the peak and plateau airway pressure, total PEEP, flow and the
      esophageal pressure. Transpulmonary pressure (PL) will be calculated as the difference
      between Paw and Pes calculate the transpulmonary pressure.

      Study protocol The investigators target at moderate to severe ARDS patients who are already
      under deep sedation with neuromuscular blockade. As daily interruption of sedatives and
      muscle relaxant are routinely performed in our ICU, we will record the respiratory mechanics
      and EIT data for about one hour which should include both controlled and spontaneous
      breathing period.
    
  