
    
      The study is a randomized, prospective single center study to assess the utility and efficacy
      of cardiac rehabilitation in patients with AF. All participants will receive the same medical
      care and standard baseline education which includes an hour long one on one session with a
      nutritionist.

      Participants will also receive the guide book, Lifestyle Guide to Healing the Heart, at their
      baseline visit as part of their education

      After obtaining informed consent to participate in the study and signing a consent form to
      participate in the Phase 3 cardiac rehabilitation program, participants will undergo a
      baseline assessment of their functional status using the functional capacity NuStep test. The
      NuStep test will be conducted at the Valley Hospital at baseline and after 8 weeks using the
      NuStep TRS 4000 machine - a stationary bike machine that also engages one's arms by pushing
      and pulling arm handles. Participants will sit in the NuStep machine and bike on level 4 (a
      low to moderate level) for 6 minutes, if possible. However, participants will be encouraged
      to step as quickly as possible during this time period. Participants will be asked about any
      discomfort before, during and after the test. The participant's METS are calculated directly
      by the machine based on the watts while exercising.

      The degree of improvement of the participant's METS over the course of the 8-week program
      will produce a greater understanding of the effect of a structured cardiac rehabilitation
      program on cardiorespiratory fitness.

      Following this baseline assessment, participants will then be randomized to undergo usual
      care or an 8-week (24-session) Phase 3 cardiac rehabilitation program at the Valley Health
      System Center for Health & Wellness in Mahwah. Eight weeks later, participants will undergo
      repeat assessment of functional status.

      In addition, participants will be administered the Atrial Fibrillation Effect on
      Quality-of-life (AFEQT) survey at baseline, 6-months and 12-months later.

      Patients will also undergo a 1-week Zio XT Holter monitor at the same time points (baseline,
      6-months and 12-months). The Zio XT Holter monitor is a small, discreet comfortable patch
      that sticks on a participant's chest to test for any arrhythmias, such as AF duration and
      burden. The Zio XT Holter monitor will be available through commercial (HIPAA-compliant)
      remote monitoring portals and will not be stored locally in Valley Health System. However, in
      the future this may change and the Zio XT Holter monitor data will be stored as part of the
      participant's electronic medical record.
    
  