
    
      Interstitial cystitis (IC) is a chronic bladder condition that includes symptoms of bladder
      or pelvic pain as well as irritative voiding symptoms (urgency, frequency, nocturia,
      dysuria). The syndrome is usually diagnosed clinically after ruling out any possible
      infectious or neoplastic causes. Due to the lack of standardized diagnostic criteria, the
      reported prevalence of IC in the United States varies widely from 35 to 24,000 per 100,000
      persons1,2. Regardless, there is no doubt that IC is a source of much distress and profoundly
      affects quality of life. IC patients have been reported to have lower quality of life than
      dialysis patients. They are 6 times more likely than the general population to cut down on
      work time owing to health problems and have higher reported incidences of depression, chronic
      pain, anxiety and overall mental health2,

      The exact pathophysiology or etiology of IC is not completely understood but there have been
      much advancement in knowledge. The etiology is most likely multifactorial and studies have
      shown a role for epithelial dysfunction, inflammatory events as well as neurological
      dysfunction [Figure 1]. An initiating event such as infection, trauma, or autoimmune disorder
      leads to dysfunctional urothelium4. Activation and upregulation of sensory nerves occurs,
      leading to mast cell activation and release of histamine and other mediators5,6. This, in
      turn, leads to a cycle of symptoms for the IC patient.

      Due to the multifactorial nature of its pathogenesis, IC treatment is complicated and
      involves multimodal treatments that target different factors. Tricyclic antidepressants
      control the regulation and activation of the nerves7. Antihistamines target mast cell
      activation8 while heparinoids such as pentosan polysulfate sodium (PPS) or heparin targets
      the dysfunction epithelium. Heparin is one of the most commonly used intravesical agent for
      the treatment of IC. It has been found to be effective is almost 50% of patients9. While
      heparinoid therapy enhances the barrier effect of the disrupted urothelium, it does not
      directly target the sensory nerves of the bladder. Hence, it may take more than 2 years of
      treatment for severely affected patients to feel any symptomatic relief10. Furthermore, once
      symptomatic relief is achieved, it is not sustained for very long11. Urologists aimed to
      develop therapy that would directly affect the sensory nerves of the bladder and provide
      immediate symptomatic relief.

      The use of intravesical lidocaine in severe IC was first reported in Sweden in 1989. Asklin
      et al., reported on one patient who received repeated intravesical instillations of lidocaine
      and achieved much relief13. Success with the treatment was subsequently reported for another
      patient in 199214. Surprisingly, there have been very few studies on the clinical efficacy of
      intravesical lidocaine in IC patients since then. To date, all studies involving intravesical
      lidocaine lack randomization or a control group. It is difficult to determine the influence
      of any existing placebo effect of intravesical instillations.

      One such study was conducted in 2005 by Parsons et al., which tested the efficacy of heparin
      combined with intravesical lidocaine in 47 newly diagnosed IC patients. 75% of patients
      reported significant improvement in symptoms after just one instillation with symptomatic
      relief lasting at least 4 hours. Significant improvement in symptoms was reported in 94% of
      patients who received a second instillation using a higher concentration of lidocaine. Of 20
      patients who received a course of 6 instillations over 2 weeks, 80% reported sustained
      relief15.

      Welk and Telchman looked specifically at dyspareunia response to intravesical lidocaine in 23
      IC patients. 57% reported resolution of dyspareunia. They also found a significant difference
      in response rate between patients with bladder tenderness and patients with multiple tender
      locations on vaginal exam (85% versus 29% respectively)16.

      Urodynamic studies performed in IC patients generally demonstrate normal cystometry, although
      IC patients have characteristic reductions in bladder capacity secondary to pain and
      hypersensitivity to bladder dilation3. In a recent retrospective study, Srinivasan et al
      observed that a statistically significant difference was appreciable when comparing pre and
      post lidocaine UDS evaluation in bladder capacity, maximum flow rate, and first strong
      sensation to void. 12 The impact of alkalinized lidocaine on UDS parameters, however, remains
      elusive and deserving of a well designed randomized control trial.
    
  