
    
      AIM: To pilot a trial assessing the safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) of perioperative IV
      L-carnitine administration in these patients. To this end, a pilot clinical trial is
      proposed. Infants with VSD or AVSD undergoing complete repair will receive L-carnitine, in
      one of 3 doses (25, 50, or 100 mg/kg, IV), just prior to CPB, and again 2 hr after CPB.
      Serial blood samples will be obtained to determine free, total, and acylcarnitine levels, and
      plasma markers of mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, and bioavailable NO. Adverse
      events will be sought, and clinical outcomes will be assessed.

      Study design: The inclusion and exclusion criteria are as described in Aim 3A except only
      infants with VSD or AVSD will be enrolled (no TOF). The safety profile of L-carnitine is
      outstanding, with no reports of toxicity from overdose reported113. In fact, the only adverse
      reactions reported are transient nausea and vomiting, and less commonly gastritis. However,
      although rare, seizures have been reported to occur in patients receiving L-carnitine.
      Therefore, the major adverse events that will be monitored include evidence of seizure
      activity and GI bleeding. As per routine, any patient suspected of having seizures is
      monitored with continuous EEG. Dosing is not well studied in children, particularly
      critically ill children67, 114-116117. In addition, the effect of CPB on L-carnitine
      clearance in children is not known. Therefore, a major goal of this sub-aim is to establish a
      pharmacokinetic profile of L-carnitine in this patient population undergoing surgery with
      CPB, in order to move forward with a larger randomized trial powered for efficacy in
      prevention of increased PVR post-bypass in at-risk infants. Plasma concentration profiles
      after IV bolus dosing in adults were described by a two-compartmental model67, 113, 114, 118.
      Usual pediatric dosing is not well delineated, but recommendations include a 50 mg/kg bolus
      followed by an infusion of 50mg/kg/day, that can be increased to 300 mg/kg/day113, 119.
      Therefore, we will begin at a lower dose (25 mg/kg), and escalate the dose after each group
      of 5. No intra-patient escalation will be allowed and the dose will not be escalated until
      all patients in the current dose level have been followed to hospital discharge or 30 days
      post-op and the safety and PK data have been analyzed. The DSMB will approve all dose
      escalations. The dosing goal will be to achieve normal or supra-normal free carnitine levels
      (~50 μmol/L) and low AC levels (~3 μmol/L) just before and for 24 hrs after CPB; the period
      with the greatest risk of pulmonary vascular morbidity.
    
  