
    
      The research process was carried out in the Department Of Conservative Dentistry and
      Endodontics, Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences, Rohtak. Patients with through and
      through periradicular lesions diagnosed radiographically and clinically were be included in
      the study.

      INCLUSION CRIETERIA :-

        1. Patients of age 16 years and above with a clinical & radiographic diagnosis of through
           and through periradicular lesion.

        2. Negative response to vitality test with radiographic evidence of periapical
           rediolucencies.

        3. Failed previous root canal treatment with purulent discharge and radiographic evidence
           of periapical pathology.

        4. Failed previous surgery with persistent bony lesion.

        5. Recurrent episode of purulent discharge and adequate final restoration with no clinical
           evidence of coronal leakage.

      EXCLUSION CRIETERIA :-

        1. Unrestorable tooth

        2. Fractured /perforated roots

        3. Serious medical illness (uncontrolled/poorly controlled diabetes, unstable or life
           threatening conditions or requiring antibiotic prophylaxis)

        4. Smokers

        5. Pregnant females and lactating mothers

        6. Grade 3 mobile teeth

        7. The need for antibiotic prophylaxis prior to dental care

      Baseline parameters --

      Endodontic evaluation - Pulp sensibility testing was performed with a combination of heat
      test (heated gutta-percha), cold test (Endo-Frost, Coltene Whale dent) and electric pulp test
      (Digitestz D626D, Parkell electronics, New York). Teeth not responding to both thermal and
      electric test were considered non vital.

      Radiographic evaluation - Radiographs with paralleling cone technique was taken at baseline
      and at subsequent appointments at standardized exposure parameters (70kvp, 3.5mAs, and 0.2
      seconds).

      Clinical Periodontal Evaluation - The following clinical parameters were evaluated at
      baseline and at subsequent follow up appointments in the test tooth and the contra lateral
      normal tooth in the same patient.

        1. Bleeding on probing - The presence or absence of bleeding following pocket probing were
           recorded at 6 sites per tooth - mesiobuccal, buccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual,
           midlingual, distolingual. This assessment was done in full mouth.

        2. Probing pocket depth (PPD) - Probing depth was measured as the distance from the
           gingival margin to the base of the clinical pocket. The probing depth measurements was
           assessed using a calibrated manual periodontal Williams 0 probe. The probe was inserted
           with a firm, gentle pressure to the bottom of the pocket and maintained parallel to the
           vertical axis of the tooth. Measurements were noted at 6 sites per tooth- mesiobuccal,
           midbuccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual, midlingual, distolingual. Measurements will be
           rounded to the nearest whole millimeter.

        3. Clinical Attachment Level (CAL) - Clinical Attachment Level was measured as the distance
           between the base of the clinical pocket and a fixed point on the crown, the
           cementoenamel junction (CEJ). Measurements were made at 6 sites per tooth- mesiobuccal,
           midbuccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual, midlingual, distolingual using wiliiams 0 probe.
           Measurements were rounded to the nearest whole millimeter. The mean CAL over all
           examined surfaces were calculated.

        4. Gingival marginal level/position from CEJ was measured.Radiographic examination was
           performed at 0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months by using Rinn ( XCP instruments, Elgin, IL )
           paralleling technique digitized by using Kodak RVG 6000 ( Kodak Digital Radiographic
           System, Pt Husada Intra Care, Banten, Indonesia ).

      SAMPLE SIZE

      A total number of 15 patients in each group were selected. Sample size was determined by
      calculating the difference of success rate between the previous studies of GTR procedures.

        1. Test Group: 15 Non vital teeth having through and through periradicular lesion diagnosed
           clinically and radiographically first treated with conventional endodontic treatment.
           After follow up of one month if no improvement found clinically and radiographically
           then apical surgery was carried out using guided tissue regeneration in patients.

        2. Control Group: 15 Non vital teeth having through and through periradicular lesion
           diagnosed clinically and radiographically first treated with conventional endodontic
           treatment. After follow up of one month if no improvement found clinically and
           radiographically then apical Surgery was carried out without using guided tissue
           regeneration.

      RANDOMIZATION

      Patients were randomly allocated by computer program [ Random Allocation Software
      (http://www.msaghaei.com/Softwares/dnld/RA.zip) ] into two group. Group I=Collagen membrane
      group (MG), group II=Control group (CG).

      SURGICAL TECHNIQUE:

      With the exception of incisions, flap elevation and suturing, all surgical procedures was
      performed under operating microscope in an operating room under 8x to 16x magnification.

      The full thickness (mucoperiosteal flap) was reflected under aseptic condition by the
      following technique

        1. Preoperative mouth rinse with 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthwash was used.

        2. Local anaesthesia with lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:80,000 was achieved.

        3. Buccal intrasulcular incision was given up to the alveolar crest including one tooth
           mesial to the lesion & two teeth distal to the lesion, using no.15 blade on handle.

        4. Mesial and distal vertical releasing incision were given.

        5. Full thickness flap was gently reflected towards the apical area by periosteal elevator.
           The flap was frequently irrigated with sterile saline to prevent dehydration of
           periosteal surface.

        6. After complete elevation of the flap, debridement (periradicular curettage -enucleation)
           of the bony lesion was performed. For additional hemostasis during surgery, cotton
           pellets soaked in 0.1% epinephrine was applied topically as required.

        7. A 2-3mm root tip with a 0ยบ to 10ยบ bevel angle was sectioned with cylindrical surgical
           carbide burs at high speed with sterile water coolant.

        8. Root end preparations extending 3mm into the canal space along the long axis of the root
           was made by using a piezoelectric ultrasonic system with double angled Retrotips coated
           with Diamond abrasives.

        9. Isthmuses, fins, and other significant anatomic irregularities were identified in high
           magnification and was treated with the ultrasonic instruments. Then the resected root
           surfaces was stained with methylene blue and were inspected with micromirrors under high
           magnification of 24x to examine the cleanliness of the root end preparation and detect
           any other overlooked anatomic details.

       10. Root end filling were with mineral trioxide aggregrate (MTA). The adaptation of the
           filling material to the canal apical walls was confirmed with the aid of an operating
           microscope at high magnification.

       11. After MTA retrofilling in the test group Collagen membrane was applied on buccal side
           and in the control group nothing was apllied and flap will be closed with 4-0 reverse
           cutting black silk suture.

      RESORBABLE COLLAGEN MEMBRANE:

      Bioabsorbable membranes are composed of a wide variety of materials including collagen,
      polylactic acid, polyurethane, polyglactin 910, acellular dermal matrix, dura mater,
      chitosan, periosteum, and calcium sulfate. The most common material is collagen, which can be
      modified through various collagen cross-linking processing techniques to vary the resorption
      rate.

      Numerous studies have shown bioabsorbable membranes to be effective at promoting regeneration
      in both endodontic and periodontal defects. Because alveolar bone and the periodontal
      ligament contain collagen, using a collagen membrane might impart some additional advantages
      for GTR purposes by augmenting its native properties.

      Collagen facilitates hemostasis and therefore wound stability by promoting platelet
      aggregation in addition to promoting fibroblast migration, which could accelerate wound
      closure. After inspecting the root end filled teeth with microscope and radiographically the
      defect will be covered with resorbable collage membrane.

      Postoperative instructions:

      Care must be taken not to over compress the area. patient should rinse with an appropriate
      antimicrobial agent of the clinician's choice (chlorhexidine glucoanate) twice daily for two
      weeks. patient should avoid brushing the area for 2 weeks from the surgery date, avoid
      flossing for 4 weeks from surgery date. following the first 2 weeks from surgery for the next
      3 weeks it is recommended to brush the area only with soft brush.

      Post - Operative Follow-Up:

      Clinical and radiographic examinations were performed every 3, 6 and 12 months by assessing
      the same parameters as baseline except that PD, CAL, and GMP were not measured until 12
      months. Routine examination procedure was used to evaluate any evidence of signs and/or
      symptoms.

      Radiographic evaluations:

      Jig radiographs will be taken at 3, 6 and 12th month of follow up. Radiographic healing will
      be assessed by the criteria as below.

        1. Complete healing, defined by re-establishment of the lamina dura

        2. Incomplete healing (scar tissue)

        3. Uncertain healing

        4. Unsatisfactory healing (failure)

      Processing Of Data:

      Inter and intra observation of data will be analyzed by distribution of data. Categorical
      data will be analyzed by chi square test. Regression analysis will be done to observe any
      association between independent and dependent variables. Interobserver/intraobserver
      reliability with cohen kappa analysis.
    
  