
    
      A minimum of 40 patients, 20 Sympathectomy Prior to Bypass (group 1) and 20 Bypass Prior to
      Sympathectomy (group 2), will be recruited for this study. This study will enroll
      participants in a 1:1 randomized study design. Participants will serve as their own controls.
      A consecutive series of patients will be randomized to either Group 1 or 2. Randomization
      will occur through 40 sealed, opaque sequentially numbered envelopes containing the
      randomization. Those that qualify and sign consent will be randomized 24hrs prior to surgery.
      The randomization envelopes will be stored in a locked filing cabinet within the clinical
      research coordinators office. The subject will know what treatment arm they are in prior to
      surgery.

      Patients will be randomized to Group 1 or 2. If patients are randomized to Group 1, patients
      will receive sympathectomy prior to bypass during the surgical procedure (see below). If
      patients are randomized to Group 2, they will received bypass prior to sympathectomy during
      the surgical procedure (see below). Patients in both groups will be in the study for the next
      12 months. Normal clinical practice will not change. Patients in both groups will be examined
      before surgery. If they provide consent to participate, demographical data, comorbidities,
      the number and severity of digital ulcerations, and baseline outcome measures for the
      Michigan Hand Outcome Questionnaire, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand and the
      Visual Analogue Scale for Pain will be collected.

      Patients in both groups will return to the office for routine follow-up at 2 weeks for wound
      care. The next study visit will occur at 6 weeks. At that time, outcome measures will be
      again administered and data collected. In accordance with standard clinical practice, the
      patients will return to the office for examination again at 6 months and 1 year. At these
      times, the primary clinical outcomes will be collected as well as the patient reported
      outcomes.

      These are normal visits, not outside the scope of routine clinical practice. Intraoperative
      ICG is also within the scope of routine clinical practice. The dose of ICG and the number of
      times that it is administered to subjects is the same as in standard of care.

      ICG is administered by means of peripheral or central intravenous access, is excreted
      exclusively by the liver into the bile, and is not associated with risk for nephrotoxicity.
      The laser diode array utilized by the SPY System emits a near-infrared wavelength that does
      not require the use of protective eyewear or other safety equipment. The investigators will
      be using a concentration of 2.5mg/cc. 12.5mg will be administered at each injection of ICG.
      Complete washout of the ICG occurs after 15 minutes, plenty of time considering the interval
      surgery that must occur. As per the protocol, ICG will be administered 3 times during the
      surgery. The patients will receive a total of 37.5mg of ICG, well below the recommended
      threshold of 2mg/kg. Of note, No significant toxic effects have been observed in humans with
      the high dose of 5 mg/kg of body weight.
    
  