
    
      Although percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs) are an established therapeutic approach
      in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), it is still unclear which the best
      antithrombotic therapy to be applied periprocedurally is. The EPISTENT trial has shown that
      adding abciximab (a glycoprotein [GP] IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitor) to the therapy with
      ticlopidine plus aspirin significantly reduces the incidence of ischemic complications
      (death, myocardial infarction or reinterventions) after coronary stent implantation.
      Ticlopidine also reduces procedural complications but has a delayed onset of action after
      coronary stenting and has been replaced by clopidogrel, which provides similar efficacy and
      is associated with fewer side effects. Experimental studies have shown that a 600 mg loading
      dose of clopidogrel is safe and acts rapidly leading to a maximal inhibition of platelet
      aggregation within 2 hours after administration. In the ISAR-REACT trial, a 600 mg loading
      dose of clopidogrel was well tolerated, and associated with such a low frequency of early
      complications that the use of abciximab offered no clinically measurable benefit at 30 days.
      Although patients with ACS have frequently been treated with a "cooling-off" strategy for >48
      hours before undergoing PCI, the ISAR-COOL trial demonstrated that patients undergoing PCI
      within 6-12 hours of presentation with an ACS actually suffer a lower rate of ischemic
      complications than those for whom an invasive approach is delayed. However, patients with ACS
      represent a higher risk subset and may need a more potent antithrombotic regimen
      periprocedurally. Therefore, the results of ISAR REACT, which was performed in low and
      intermediate risk patients, should not be generalized to high risk patients.

      Comparison:

      All patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes who will undergo coronary
      angiography willing to participate in the trial will receive a loading dose of 600 mg
      clopidogrel at least 2 hours prior to the procedure. Eligible patients who do not meet the
      exclusion criteria in whom angiography reveals that PCI is planned will be randomized to
      receive either abciximab plus low-dose heparin, 70 units/kg, or high dose heparin (140
      units/kg) plus placebo.
    
  