
    
      Today, one third of the population suffers from anxiety and 20% of French people suffer from
      chronic pain. Many health situations or pathologies lead to difficult or painful care. The
      impact of drug solutions to relieve patients is often limited and more and more scientific
      studies are demonstrating the benefits of virtual reality to reduce pain, anxiety and
      addictions.

      In 2011, following an experience of close to patient, a person created "l'Effet Papillon", a
      social enterprise that aims to create a concrete social impact in the lives of people with
      cancer, in situations of fragility or isolation and those who accompany them. Since 2011 the
      social enterprise has supported nearly 3,000 patients and today, the Butterfly Effect is a
      real partner of health actors by adopting a holistic approach to wellness in the face of
      disease and fragility.

      Taking full advantage of the benefits of virtual reality that, used in medical settings, can
      reduce pain and anxiety, Bliss is a 3D Interactive application designed to meet the needs of
      escape and relaxation of people in isolation and / or or stress.

      Bliss has been developed for and with patients in partnership with physicians, researchers
      and experts in virtual reality for therapeutic purposes.

      Bliss offer a new tool for relaxation and well-being that relaxes and distracts users from
      moments of stress or anxiety.

      The management of hematological malignancies justifies the completion of a complete
      assessment before the start of treatment. This assessment includes imaging tests (computed
      tomography, position emission tomography, cavitary scintigraphy), biology and very often an
      exploration of the bone marrow by anterior or posterior iliac biopsy. Pains related to the
      disease (node compression, invasion of solid organs) are taken care of at the diagnosis and
      often relieved by the start of the specific treatment.

      However, pain related to medical procedure is often overlooked and can lead to psychological
      trauma in some patients who may refuse to repeat these essential actions to assess the
      response to treatment. Anxiety contributes to pain and various relaxation techniques have
      already proven their effectiveness.

      During the osteo-medullary biopsy the patient will lie on his stomach with his hands
      positioned under the head. This position is the one recommended by the French Society of
      Hematology for an osteo-medullary biopsy.

      The osteo-medullary biopsy remains independent of the object of the study and will be carried
      out according to the national recommendations.

      For patients randomized to the "Standard" arm, the treatment will be the same as that
      proposed outside the study (a gas mixture composed of 50% Nitrous Oxide, 50% Oxygen + 1
      bottle of xylocaine® 20 mL at the concentration of 10 mg / mL).

      For randomized patients in the "Virtual Reality" arm, the VR session should begin 5 minutes
      before the start of the procedure (+ 1 bottle of Xylocaine® 20 mL at a concentration of 10 mg
      / mL). The VR session will last between 15 and 30 minutes depending on the speed programmed.
      The patient can continue the session if the gesture ends before the end of the virtual
      reality program.

      The goal of the protocol is to reduce the pain and anxiety associated with medical procedure
      by using virtual reality with a helmet proposed at the time of the gesture.
    
  