
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is an important public health problem; In recent years better health
      outcomes have been achieved with the incorporation of synthetic and biological disease
      modifying drugs. However, problems of variability in response are reported, leading to
      ineffectiveness and adverse reactions in 30-40% of patients. In this sense, Pharmacogenomics,
      through the study of genetic variants of proteins involved in the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of drugs, becomes a way to maximize the efficacy and safety of
      pharmacotherapy.

      This work aims to give an overview of the pharmacogenomics of rheumatoid arthritis and the
      possibility of using genetic tools to support the pharmacotherapeutic decision in the
      clinical consultation, in order to improve the response to treatment of this disease.

      The relevance of this study is to provide the possibility of applying the candidate genes
      selected for their biological importance, either in the kinetics or by their relation in the
      pharmacological action, in the identification of individuals at risk of adverse effects or
      With probability of being resistant to the treatment. Therefore, it is expected that the
      information generated will be able to be used in daily clinical practice, contributing to
      identify the best therapeutic option (greater effectiveness and safety) in patients with
      rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, it is expected that this type of information will
      contribute to optimize the costs of care in this disease, which is classified in Colombia as
      a high cost pathology, in which medicines can reach up to 86% of the total cost.

      Overall, individuals respond differently to drug therapy and no medication is 100% effective
      in all patients, which may be due to an alteration in the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of drugs associated with conditions Genetic-environmental. In this context,
      the study of candidate pharmacogenomic genes has been most successful in identifying and
      explaining variation in pharmacological response, compared to candidate gene investigations
      of the disease. Therefore, this work should contribute to the choice of the best therapeutic
      option in patients with RA in Colombia and, thus, to strengthen the country's health sector.
    
  