
    
      Some studies have reported that low frequency repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in
      patients with ischemic stroke generates left modulation of cortical excitability by
      facilitating, and promoting functional reorganization and facilitate the language production.

      Stroke is a major public health problem, one-third of patients do not survive the first year
      after the vascular event, cause of severe disability and also is the third leading cause of
      death worldwide. Two-thirds of the survivors have neurologic deficits including aphasia (19%)
      generating functional disability, compromise on their daily living activities, and impact on
      the quality of life (93% of patients with aphasia after stroke compared with 50% of those
      survive without aphasia). Aphasia is an additional risk factor for depression (prevalence
      5-63%), and also interfering with the functional and cognitive recovery, increasing the risk
      of mortality.

      Generally the treatment of aphasia is based on speech therapy and drug therapy oriented
      comorbidities such as depression or anxiety. However, it has studied different interventions
      in an effort to improve the speech recovery of aphasia, as Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
      (TMS), which facilitates recovery by stimulating contralesional and lesional regions. Most
      studies have been based on the transcallosal disinhibition theory, which consist on blocking
      homotopic regions through low frequency stimulation in the right posterior GFI (triangular
      portion) to produce a GFI disinhibition from right to left and facilitate neuroplasticity
      brain process.

      EMT technique is based on the principle of electromagnetic induction, proposed by Michael
      Faraday (1831), in which posits that magnetic field depends on the stimulation time,
      generating an electric field that eventually causes neuronal excitability.The strength of the
      electric current produced in the coil between 5-10 Ka (Kiloamperes), while the strength of
      the induced magnetic field is about 1 to 2 Tesla, and the cortical area to stimulated is
      about 3 cm² and 2 cm depth. The magnetic field generated may have sufficient magnitude and
      density to depolarize cortical neurons tract, directly through axonal cone or indirectly
      through interneurons. When TMS pulses are applied repeatedly, which is known as repetitive
      TMS (r-TMS) produce modulation of the cortical excitability, increasing or decreasing,
      depending on the stimulation parameters. Those effects may persist beyond the train
      stimulation; defined as repetitive series of regular pulses.

      Fundamental mechanisms of EMT, are not yet fully understood, because due inter-session and
      inter-subject variability have been observed in the modulation of induced excitability. The
      EMT-r may also induce changes in hormonal and neurotransmitter systems, such as, serotonin,
      dopamine, NMDA receptors, taurine, aspartate, serine axis and can regulate the expression of
      some genes; cfos, c-jung, which are important for synaptic plasticity. It has been studied
      several possible mechanisms involved in the functional regulation exerted by the EMT-r, such
      as synaptic plasticity, which is the most explored one, changes in excitability of neuronal
      networks, activation of feedback loops and metaplasticity, understood plasticity as synaptic
      plasticity. However, although but not yet, been established whether the source of the
      clinical benefit of any scheme of stimulation is a direct or indirect result of the
      modulation of the excitability, is believed to be associated with neuromodulators release and
      growth factors such as neurotrophic factor derived from the brain, which play an important
      role in the mechanism of EMT.
    
  