
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of second-line chemotherapy with or without
           bevacizumab in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have received first-line
           chemotherapy with bevacizumab.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the overall survival, response rate, and safety profile of second-line
           chemotherapy of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To conduct pharmacogenomics assessment of candidate variants in the VEGF gene and
           evaluate their association with progression-free survival and other study outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center, ECOG performance status (0 vs 1-2), disease-free interval from the last
      administration of first-line chemotherapy for metastatic disease (≤ 3 months vs > 3 months),
      and type of second-line chemotherapy (irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and
      fluorouracil [FOLFIRI] vs oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil [mFOLFOX-6]).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive either irinotecan hydrochloride over 1 hour or oxaliplatin over
           1 hour on day 1. Patients also receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and
           fluorouracil IV over 46 hours continuously beginning on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive combination chemotherapy as in arm I and bevacizumab IV on day
           1.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 2 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Existing formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissue samples are assessed for
      pharmacogenomics and markers predictive of response, resistance to, or toxicity from
      bevacizumab. Samples are analyzed via RT-PCR, array comparative genomic hybridization,
      fluorescence in situ hybridization, sequencing of candidate genes, and immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year.
    
  