
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare celecoxib vs placebo, in terms of decreasing the incidence of adenomatous polyps
           of the colon and rectum, in patients with resected stage I adenocarcinoma of the colon.

      Secondary

        -  Compare disease-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on self-reported symptoms and health-related
           quality of life of these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the benefits of celecoxib in patients with primary tumors or polyps that express
           cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) with those that do not express COX-2.

        -  Compare the expression of signaling targets such as serine/threonine AKT, extracellular
           signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2), and endoplasmic reticulum Ca+2- ATPases in the index
           tumor and polyps.

        -  Determine the toxicity and safety of celecoxib in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to gender, tumor stage (T1 vs T2), age (≤ 49 vs 50 to 59 vs ≥ 60
      years), and current aspirin use (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily for 3 years.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily for 3 years. In both arms, treatment
           continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or the diagnosis of invasive colon
           cancer, carcinoma in situ of the colon or rectum, or a non-colon primary cancer.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 42 months.

      Patients are followed at 6 months and at 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,200 patients (600 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 2.5 years.
    
  