
    
      Concept of collecting cervical cancer screening smear in home through self-sampling is new
      both for target population and medical professionals. Self-sampling increases screening
      attendance and could be an alternative to recruit more women to cervical cancer screening in
      Norway. As there are is an implementation ongoing to switch from cytology based screening to
      HPV based screening in Norway, a reliable self-sampling method for HPV testing should be
      available. Furthermore, detection of HPV from self-sampled specimen requires laboratory
      capacity and expertise to comply with quality assurance demands such as internal quality
      control, external quality assessment and quality improvement. National studies are crucial to
      obtain knowledge and build expertize among health care providers. This study aims to show
      non-inferior sensitivity of hrHPV testing on self-sampled vs. clinician-sampled specimens to
      detect high-grade cervical lesions and cancer (CIN2+). Additionally we will;

        -  Evaluate overall and hrHPV type specific concordance between self-taken and
           physician-taken samples.

        -  Evaluate participants views on feasibility and acceptability of self-sampling
           (questionnaire)

        -  Compare participants screening history with the questionnaire to evaluate the reason for
           not participating in the national screening program (if that is the case).

        -  Biobank biological material collected from self-sample, physician taken samples, blood
           and urine, for future analysis on HPV-related diseases and cancer.

      Study participants will be recruited from the colposcopy referrals and cancer care units from
      three different hospitals. Patients with CIN 2 or CIN 3 lesions (n=200) will be recruited
      from Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål and Østfold Hospital Trust, while cancer patients
      (n=50) will be recruited from Radiumhospital.
    
  