
    
      To answer the research question, "Could a patient-driven approach that improves decision
      making and informs postoperative expectations have more effectiveness than the current
      surgeon-directed preoperative conversation?" the investigators will conduct a multi-site
      randomized controlled trial of the question prompt list intervention (QPL) for high risk
      surgery that will:

        1. Compare the effectiveness of the intervention relative to usual care on the extent of
           patient engagement in decision-making for high risk surgery. (Aim 1)

        2. Compare the effectiveness of the intervention relative to usual care on treatment choice
           and on psychological well-being and post-treatment regret for patients and family
           members. (Aim 2)

        3. Compare the effectiveness of the intervention relative to usual care on interpersonal
           and intrapersonal conflict relating to treatment decisions and subsequent treatments
           received. (Aim 3)

      The overall goals of the study are to help patients and families:

        1. make treatment decisions aligned with their values and goals;

        2. anticipate and make sense of postoperative outcomes; and

        3. experience less postoperative conflict about treatment of serious complications.

      Enrolled surgeons will be grouped based on self-report of their clinic practices. "Visit 1
      Surgeons" typically have a treatment decision making conversation with patients at their
      initial new patient consult. For enrolled patients of these surgeons, we will audio-record
      their first consult visit. "Visit 2 Surgeons" typically do not have treatment decision making
      discussions at the initial visit- this discussion is generally delayed until a follow up
      appointment, after additional testing or review of medical records. The return/second visit
      of enrolled patients under the care of Visit 2 Surgeons will be recorded.

      When a surgeon is in the usual care arm, patients will receive the current standard for
      surgical decision-making. Once an enrolled surgeon has crossed into the intervention arm, the
      research team will mail the QPL intervention to all of the surgeon's new consult patients
      (for Visit 1 Surgeons) or returning/2nd consult patients (for Visit 2 Surgeons) about a week
      prior to their scheduled consultation, regardless of study eligibility. The QPL intervention
      includes the QPL intervention brochure, plus a letter from the surgeon encouraging its use
      during the upcoming office visit. Eligible patients will be identified by clinic staff and
      interested patients will be approached once they arrive in clinic (they will not receive
      information about the study prior to their clinic appointment because this information could
      interfere with the QPL intervention).

      Patients in the usual care arm will receive the current standard for surgical
      decision-making. The investigators have observed that usual care includes informed consent
      and a surgeon-directed deliberative phase in which surgeons present their own evaluation of
      the trade-offs and goals of the proposed intervention. Although this deliberation occurs in
      front of patients and families, assumptions about the value of specific outcomes are
      surgeon-generated and not specifically linked to patient preferences. For these reasons, the
      investigators believe comparing the intervention to usual care is suitable. In addition,
      question prompt lists are currently available online and are not distributed by the surgeon.
      Patients can obtain and use the lists if they so choose on their own (although most do not).
      Additionally, question prompt lists have been shown to be safe and effective in previous
      studies in similar but not identical clinical situations.

      Surgeons will be randomly assigned within each site to change from usual care to the QPL
      intervention at different study wave time points. Prior to study start the investigators will
      conduct step-wise randomization using a computer-generated randomization schedule to
      determine the crossover wave timing among surgeons. Surgeon cross-over from usual care to
      intervention will occur in one direction only and each within-site change will occur once
      every four months. Surgical clinics will be contacted one month prior to intervention
      implementation to confirm and execute implementation processes and to start mailing the QPL
      intervention to patients with office visits scheduled on or after the first day of
      intervention transition. A 2-week hiatus in data collection at the start of the cross over
      will be instituted in the transition clinics to ensure patients in the intervention group
      have had the opportunity to receive the intervention mailing. Surgeons who have crossed over
      to the intervention group will be notified when the QPL intervention has been implemented in
      their clinic and will be encouraged with bi-weekly email or text reminders to support patient
      use of the question list during clinical encounters with patients discussing surgical
      treatment options.

      For patients in both the usual care and intervention arms: Surgeons who perform high risk
      operations and have agreed to participate will help to identify new or returning patients
      (depending on their previously reported practice pattern) coming to an outpatient visit to
      discuss a major surgical procedure. If a patient consents to the study, study staff will
      audio record one conversation (T0) between the attending surgeon and patient and accompanying
      family member. Study staff will meet with the patient prior to starting the audio recording
      to obtain consent. If there is a family member present at the appointment and he or she would
      like to participate in study activities, study staff will obtain consent from them as well.
      If a resident/surgical trainee or additional family members and caretakers are present, study
      staff will obtain verbal permission to audio record the resident and all others present.
      Study staff will wait until the surgeon enters the room and then turn on the digital audio
      recorder. Once the audio recorder has been turned on, the research team member will leave the
      room and return once the meeting between the patient and surgeon is complete to terminate and
      collect the audio recording.

      Study staff will conduct follow-up phone calls to administer surveys to the patient and
      family member (if they have enrolled) within 12-72 hours of the patient's audio-recorded
      treatment decision-making visit (T1). After the visit with the surgeon, the patient's
      treatment plan will be determined by chart review and confirmed with the surgeon or clinic
      nurse. Administration of the second and third surveys (T2 and T3) will be linked to the
      patient's treatment plan. For patients who are scheduled for surgery, surveys will be
      administered via telephone to the patient and family member 1-2 (T2) weeks after surgery and
      6-8 (T3) weeks after surgery. Based on previous study in this patient population and clinical
      setting, the median time between the patient's preoperative visit with the surgeon and
      surgery is 31 days. If the patient is unable to participate in study activities, enrolled
      family members will still be asked to complete study activities. Patients who did not have a
      family member enroll along with them and who are unable to participate in study activities
      post-operatively will be considered lost to follow up. For patients who have non-operative
      treatment; e.g., medical treatment (chemotherapy, pulmonary rehab) or observation (active
      surveillance, no surgical procedure scheduled), study staff will administer surveys between 6
      and 8 weeks (T2) and again between 12 and 14 (T3) weeks after the patient's audio-recorded
      treatment decision-making visit with the surgeon. This will roughly approximate the time
      frame for study activities for patients who have surgery. Patients and family members will
      also be allowed to complete follow up surveys (T2 and T3) by web survey or mail, if they
      prefer, though phone surveys will likely be the primary data collection method, based on
      prior research.

      Some patients of Visit 1 Surgeons will need additional testing (CT scan, PET scan, stress
      test) before a treatment decision can be made. These patients and their family members will
      complete the initial study activities (audio recording of the initial visit with a surgeon
      (T0) and survey at 12-72 hours (T1)). Study staff will not audio record a second (return)
      visit with the surgeon or repeat the post visit survey (T1). The second and third surveys
      will be linked to the treatment decision after this second interaction with the surgeon: T2:
      1-2 weeks postoperatively and T3: 6-8 weeks postoperatively, or T2: 6-8 and T3:12-14 weeks
      after the second interaction with the surgeon for those who have non-operative treatment. In
      some cases surgeons will telephone the patient after additional testing to develop a
      treatment plan. Study staff will not audio record this interaction. Study staff will use
      careful chart review and communication with the surgeon and/or his/her clinical staff for
      these patients to accurately target the timing of subsequent study activities. After the
      final survey is completed study staff will use chart abstraction to identify and record
      treatments received and postoperative complications.

      Study staff will use chart review immediately after the patient meets with the surgeon (T0)
      and again after the final survey (T3) has been completed to record clinical data, treatments
      received and outcomes of treatment. Study staff will also screen charts of enrolled patients
      weekly in order to confirm treatment plan which may be unclear at the time of their
      audio-recorded treatment decision-making visit and is critically important to timing of
      subsequent data collection. Data collected will be limited to clinical information pertaining
      to surgical care from audio-recorded treatment decision-making visit through to
      administration of the final survey (T3).

      To investigate Aim 3, the investigators will use a qualitative study design to compare
      interpersonal and intrapersonal conflict between study arms as it relates to the phenomenon
      of surgical buy in-when the surgeon believes that the patient has agreed to the operative
      procedure as well as all possible postoperative care. Conflict between surgeons and patients
      and/or family members about additional invasive procedures occurs in the uncommon setting of
      serious postoperative complications but may be affected by the QPL intervention, which
      includes questions about "What happens if things go wrong?" and specific question prompts
      about advance directives. Thus, investigators will use stratified purposeful sampling to
      identify a subset of patients who have experienced serious postoperative complications in
      each study arm, as determined by chart review. Serious complications include prolonged
      hospitalization (more than 8 days postoperatively), prolonged length of stay in intensive
      care (greater than 3 days), prolonged mechanical ventilation, myocardial infarction, major
      cerebrovascular accident, new onset dialysis or death. Study staff will use chart review at
      T3 (12-14 weeks, roughly 6 weeks after surgery) to identify patients who have had serious
      complications and ask them and/or their family members to participate in a face-to-face
      qualitative interview. The investigators are planning for 3-7 interviews at each study site
      and anticipate no more than 10 at each site. Not all patients who consent to Aims 1 and 2 of
      the study will participate in Aim 3.

      For patients and family members who agree to be interviewed, a trained Qualitative
      Interviewer will conduct the interview. The interviewer will meet the patient and family
      member at a convenient and private location of their choosing for an in-person interview.
      Patients and family members will have the choice to conduct the interview jointly or
      separately. Study investigators have employed this technique in previous studies and
      successfully interviewed study participants and family members in their homes or at the
      medical center in a private room at the time of a follow up medical appointment. Interviews
      will generally not be conducted over the telephone as this limits the ability of the
      interviewer to respond to non-verbal cues. Interviews will last up to one hour.
    
  