
    
      Patient selection and study preparations

      Potentially eligible hemodialysis patients, not fitting the exclusion criteria, will provide
      written informed consent and will be evaluated for the diagnosis of hypertension. If patients
      are treated with antihypertensive therapy, a brief-wash out from medications period will take
      place and home BP will be monitored up to a maximum of 4 weeks. During this period BP
      ≥160/110 mmHg will be a threshold for further medication withdrawal.

      Hypertension diagnosis will be based on mean BP values ≥135/85 mmHg with home BP monitoring
      the days after the mid and last dialysis of the week for 2 consecutive weeks using a
      validated self-inflating automatic oscillometric device (cuff with bladder size encircling at
      least 80% of arm circumference and covering two thirds of arm length). Every patient will be
      asked to conduct both morning and evening BP measurements at the level of brachial artery
      after 5 min of rest and with two measurements per occasion taken 2 min apart according to the
      European Society of Hypertension 2013 guidelines. The mean of the last measurements would be
      used.

      Study period

      A total number of 70 eligible patients undergoing hemodialysis in the Hemodialysis Unit of
      the Department of Nephrology, Hippokration Hospital, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki,
      Greece and in affiliated Hemodialysis Units in Northern Greece, as well in the Hemodialysis
      Units of the Department of Nephrology University Clinical Centre Maribor, Slovenia will
      participate in the study. In all potentially eligible patients full medical history, as well
      as demographic characteristics and drug treatment will be recorded, followed by a detailed
      physical examination. Patients that meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be
      randomized with a ratio of 1:1 into two equal groups consisting of 35 patients. In the
      intervention group a specific treatment strategy for dry-weight reduction will be applied
      guided by lung ultrasound, whereas in the control group standard-of-care treatment will be
      applied guided by conventional clinical criteria. Blood samples for hematological and
      biochemical laboratory tests will be collected at baseline prior to a mid-week dialysis
      session; these tests will correspond to the routine monthly laboratory tests of the patients.

      In the intervention group UF regimen and dry-weight will be guided by the number of
      pre-dialysis US-B lines measured by lung ultrasound prior to a mid-week dialysis session. In
      patients who will be included in both the main study (LUST) and the present sub-study (i.e.
      additional inclusion criteria of LUST study: history of myocardial infarction with or without
      ST elevation or unstable angina, acute coronary syndrome documented by ECG recordings and
      cardiac troponins or stable angina pectoris with documented coronary artery disease by prior
      coronary angiography or ECG or dyspnea class III-IV NYHA), a total number of ≥15 US-B lines
      indicates moderate to severe lung congestion; UF will be intensified in these patients. They
      will undergo dry-weight reduction less than 0.2 kg/session (0.6 kg/week) with a maximum UF
      rate ≤10 ml/kg/h, so that episodes of hemodynamic instability and hypotension are minimized.
      If needed longer and/or additional dialysis sessions will be applied to a maximum of 5
      hours/session or 4 sessions/week. US-B lines measurements will be repeated at least once a
      week (before and after a mid-week dialysis session) until the treatment goal is achieved (<15
      US-B lines) over a period of 8 weeks. Thereafter, lung ultrasound will be conducted once a
      month. In patients without pulmonary congestion at pre-dialysis baseline (<15 US-B lines), no
      UF intensification will be applied and US-B lines will be measured on a weekly basis.
      Patients in the intervention group with <15 US-B lines at baseline who will develop clinical
      signs of pulmonary congestion and/or ≥15 US-B lines at any time will be treated according to
      those with lung congestion at baseline. In patients who will be included only in the present
      sub-study, and are expected to have hypertension with better cardiac function and, possibly,
      less degree of lung congestion compared to the typical subjects of the main LUST study, UF
      will be intensified on the basis of a total number of ≥5 US-B lines which indicates mild to
      moderate lung congestion. These patients will also undergo careful dry-weight reduction less
      than 0.2 kg/session (0.6 kg/week) with a maximum UF rate ≤10 ml/kg/h, so that episodes of
      hemodynamic instability and hypotension are minimized. If needed longer and/or additional
      dialysis sessions will be applied to a maximum of 5 hours/session or 4 sessions/week. US-B
      lines measurements will be repeated at least once a week (before and after a mid-week
      dialysis session) until the treatment goal is achieved (<5 US-B lines) over a period of 8
      weeks. Thereafter, lung ultrasound will be conducted once a month. In patients without
      pulmonary congestion at pre-dialysis baseline (<5 US-B lines), no UF intensification will be
      applied and US-B lines will be measured on a weekly basis. Patients in the intervention group
      with <5 US-B lines at baseline who will develop clinical signs of pulmonary congestion and/or
      ≥5 US-B lines at any time will be treated according to those with lung congestion at
      baseline.

      Reduction of post-dialysis weight with UF intensification to achieve treatment goal will be
      pursued for 8 weeks. During this period BP should be maintained in levels <160/110 mmHg. If
      BP exceeds these levels, per protocol drug therapy will be initiated. As a first step,
      carvedilol per os will be administered on a starting dose of 3.125 mg b.i.d. up to a maximum
      tolerated dose (≤25 mg b.i.d.) until BP levels are <160/110 mmHg or until patient experiences
      signs of bradycardia (HR <60 bpm) or other adverse effects. As a second step of drug therapy,
      irbesartan will be initiated on a starting dose of 75 mg daily up to maximum tolerated dose
      (≤300 mg daily) until BP levels are <160/110 mmHg or any adverse effects are presented.
      Finally, amlodipine on a starting dose of 5 mg daily up to maximum tolerated dose (≤10 mg
      daily) will be administered on failure of the two previous steps to achieve BP levels
      <160/110 mmHg. If BP is still not controlled at goal, any antihypertensive class can be added
      according to treating physician's choice.

      In the control group follow-up, dry-weight and UF regimen will be guided only by conventional
      clinical and laboratory criteria. Blood pressure and blood pressure changes over time, pedal
      edema, presence or absence of dyspnea, body weight gain between dialysis and hemodynamic
      instability during dialysis session will be some of the clinical criteria that will determine
      possible post-dialysis weight adjustments in these patients. The use of lung ultrasound to
      estimate lung congestion will not be allowed in these patients. A threshold of BP 160/110
      mmHg will be set for the first 8 weeks of the study. If BP exceeds these levels, per protocol
      drug therapy will be initiated as mentioned in the intervention group.

      After 8 weeks of treatment, per protocol drug therapy will be performed in patients from both
      study groups, aiming at maintaining Home BP levels <135/85 mmHg.

      The primary and secondary measurements of the study will be carried in prespecified
      time-points that are listed below:

      Study-Point 1:

      Participants in the study will be asked to come to their dialysis unit 30 min before the
      start of the first or second dialysis of the week. A Mobil-O-Graph monitor with a cuff of
      appropriate size will be fitted to and BP will be recorded for 48 hours. The device will be
      programmed to collect data every 20 minutes, except for 23:00 to 07:00 (data collection every
      30 minutes). An ABPM would be considered successful if >80% of recordings are valid with no
      more than two non-consecutive day hours (07.00-23.00 hours) with fewer than two valid
      measurements, and no more than one night hour (23.00-07.00 hours without valid recording,
      according to standard recommendations for ABPM. Patients with unsuccessful 24-hour ABPM will
      repeat the measurement a week later.

      Participants in the study will further come to the echocardiography unit on the first or the
      second interdialytic day of the week (Tuesday or Thursday for patients on M-W-F schedule and
      Wednesday or Friday for patients on T-T-S schedule) exactly 24 hours after the scheduled
      starting time of the previous dialysis session. All study participants will undergo an
      echocardiography study, as well as US-B lines measurement with lung ultrasound. Body
      composition would be estimated with the use of Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis. PWV and AIx
      recordings with the Sphygmocor device would be taken. The results from this echocardiographic
      study and 48-hour ABPM will be used as the baseline reference..

      Following echocardiographic assessment, patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio in the
      intervention and control arms with permuted blocks of 4 subjects, using a computer-generated
      randomization schedule stratified by sex and center.

      Participants in the study will be asked to come to their dialysis unit one hour earlier than
      their second (Wednesday or Thursday) or the third (Friday or Saturday) dialysis session of
      the week is scheduled, following at least a 8-hour fast and without having received their
      morning medication. The ABPM device will be removed and checked for completeness. Patients
      with unsuccessful 48-hour ABPM will repeat the measurement and all further evaluations a week
      later. Body weight will be measured with the use of validated electronic weighting scales.
      Height will be also evaluated for the BMI calculation. Office blood pressure measurements
      will be acquired after 5 min of rest (sitting posture) with the use of a validated
      oscillometric device or standard mercury sphygmomanometer at the level of brachial artery in
      the contralateral arm of the side where vascular access is located. Venous blood specimens
      will be collected for routine hematological and biochemical laboratory testing, as mentioned
      before. A lung ultrasound will be conducted in all study participants in the intervention
      group using the GE VScan lung ultrasound device, 15 minutes before hemodialysis session
      initiation. With patient in a lying posture pre-dialysis US-B lines will be measured in both
      lungs, while the transducer is placed vertically from the second up to the fifth intercostal
      space consecutively, along the parasternal, the mid-clavear, the anterior axillary and the
      mid axillary lines. All measurements will be performed in a quiet room with controlled air
      temperature (approximately 22 ° C) The sum of the US-B lines produces a score (US-B lines
      score) and UF regimen will be guided accordingly. In patients who will be include in both the
      main LUST study and the present sub-study with ≥15 US-B lines and in patients who will be
      included only in this sub-study with ≥5 US-B lines, UF will be intensified and dry-weight
      will be reduced according to the value of US-B lines score over a period of 8 weeks (Figure
      2). Thresholds in dry-weight reduction and UF rates will be applied and if needed longer
      and/or additional dialysis sessions will be conducted as mentioned before. In the control arm
      standard-of-care treatment will be applied guided by conventional clinical criteria.

      Afterwards all study participants from both arms will undergo their scheduled dialysis
      session.

      Over the period of the first 8 weeks of the study US-B lines measurements with lung
      ultrasound will be repeated at least once a week (before and after a mid-week dialysis
      session) in all patients in the active arm. During this period per protocol drug therapy will
      be initiated if BP exceeds a threshold of home BP 160/110 mmHg.

      Study Point 2:

      Two months (8 weeks) after baseline all patients will be subjected again in the examinations
      described at Study Point 1 (i.e. 48-hour ABPM, echocardiography, bioimpedance analysis and
      pulse wave tonometry) exactly in the same manner with regards to the scheduled hemodialysis
      sessions.

      If treatment goal is achieved during this post-dialysis US-B lines measurement, lung
      ultrasounds will be conducted once a month from this point on. Patients in the intervention
      group who have achieved the treatment goal of post-dialysis US-B lines score at previous
      evaluations and who will develop clinical signs of pulmonary congestion and/or ≥15 or ≥5 US-B
      lines according to the patients' stratification at any time will be treated according to
      those with lung congestion at baseline. A threshold of Home BP <135/85 mmHg will be set after
      this point and when needed the same per protocol drug therapy will be performed in patients
      from both study groups.

      Study Point 3:

      One year after their first evaluation all patients will undergo all examinations described in
      baseline, with a similar order.
    
  