
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate safety profile of pembrolizumab in combination with PRRT, transarterial
      embolization, and radioembolization.

      II. To evaluate the best observed overall response rate (ORR) in lesion(s) not targeted for
      liver-directed therapy (abscopal effect) to pembrolizumab plus liver-directed therapy
      according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for patients with
      metastatic well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (WD-NETs).

      III. To evaluate the best observed ORR to pembrolizumab plus peptide receptor radionuclide
      therapy (PRRT) according to RECIST 1.1 for patients with metastatic grade 2 and 3 WD-NET
      (Ki-67 > 10%).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate duration of response (DOR) in patients receiving pembrolizumab in combination
      with liver-directed therapies or PRRT.

      II. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) in subjects treated with pembrolizumab in
      combination with liver-directed therapies or PRRT.

      III. Best observed radiographic ORR per modified RECIST (mRECIST) in lesions targeted for
      liver-directed therapy.

      IV. Duration of response in lesions targeted for liver-directed therapy by mRECIST.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare ORR, DOR, and PFS based on immune-related (ir)RECIST with the same measures
      assessed by RECIST 1.1.

      II. To correlate clinical outcomes (ORR, DOR, PFS) with baseline immune cell infiltration and
      PD-L1 staining in cycle 1 and cycle 5 tumor biopsies.

      III. To assess the level of PD-L1 expression in tumor tissue prior to liver-directed therapy
      (prior to PRRT) and 5 weeks following liver-directed therapy (following PRRT).

      IV. To compare pre-treatment and on-treatment PD-L1 expression in tumor tissue in patients
      with documented partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) response to patients with
      stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) response.

      V. To assess T cell infiltration on the pre-177Lu-DOTATATE (pre-PRRT) and on the on-treatment
      tumor tissue biopsies.

      VI. To use immunohistochemistry to assess the change in the ratio of tumor infiltrating CD8
      and regulatory T cell (Treg) cells (CD8/Treg) over time.

      VII. To correlate pre-treatment and on-treatment CD8/Treg ratio in patients with documented
      PR or CR response to patients with SD or PD response.

      VIII. To assess baseline circulating T cell receptor (TCR) repertories and changes in TCR
      repertories with treatment, and correlate baseline and turnover of repertories to clinical
      outcomes.

      IX. To analyze the relationship between baseline tumor proliferative index (as measured by
      Ki67) and response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. PRRT using 177Lu-DOTATATE(Lutathera®) will be offered to patients with
      somatostatin receptor positive (SSTR+) tumors with Ki-67 index > 20% (well-differentiated
      grade 3). Patients may have any number of liver and/or extrahepatic lesions with liver
      parenchyma replacement by tumor < 75%. 200±20 millicurie (mCi) of 177Lu-DOTATATE will be
      administered intravenously per treatment on outpatient basis. Patients will receive a total
      of four treatments of 177Lu-DOTATATE, administered every 8±1 weeks

      GROUP I (PRRT): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with somatostatin receptor positive tumors with Ki-67 index >
      20% (well-differentiated grade 3) and any number of liver and/or extrahepatic lesions, who
      have < 75% liver parenchyma replacement by tumors, receive lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate (Lu-177
      DOTATATE) IV over 30 minutes on day 2. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for up to 4 cycles.
      Patients who achieve progressive or stable disease response after cycle 4 may receive an
      additional 4 cycles of pembrolizumab and lutetium Lu-177 DOTATATE in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II (TRANSARTERIAL EMBOLIZATION [TAE]): Patients receive pembrolizumab as in Group I.
      Patients with any number of liver lesions, largest being no larger than 5 cm, who have < 75%
      liver parenchyma replacement by tumors, undergo TAE over 2-3 hours, 3-7 days following the
      first dose of pembrolizumab.

      GROUP III (RADIOEMBOLIZATION [RE]): Patients receive pembrolizumab as in Group I. Patients
      with any number of liver lesions, largest measuring more than 5 cm, who have < 75% liver
      parenchyma replacement by tumors, undergo yttrium-90 microsphere RE 3-15 days following the
      first dose of pembrolizumab.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3-6
      months thereafter.
    
  