
    
      Although the potential negative impact of prostate cancer on sexual and urological function
      is well documented there is no evidence based and standardized rehabilitation offer available
      for Danish couples affected by prostate cancer. This study proposal is based on a thorough
      literature review on PC treatment and late effects and interventions targeting sexual and
      urological late effects and a qualitative study including interviews with 6 couples affected
      by PC. The literature review showed that; medical treatment is effective for the treatment of
      erectile dysfunction, psychosocial intervention may ease sexual problems secondary to
      operation for prostate cancer and sexual counseling may improve compliance with medical
      treatment of erectile dysfunction. In regard to treatment of urological dysfunction studies
      showed that the effect of pelvic floor muscle training is enhanced by follow-up instructions
      by physiotherapist. Our interview study among patients operated for prostate cancer and their
      partners indicated a general need and demand for professional help to discuss the changed
      sexual life. Also studies have shown that health professionals find it difficult to discuss
      sexual problems with the patients. Medical treatment for erectile dysfunction is prescribed
      to patients operated for prostate cancer, however the treatment is not offered systematically
      in all hospitals and furthermore the drugs are sold on the internet.In view of this knowledge
      we determine that there is a need for studies which include patients systematically offered
      medical treatment for erectile dysfunction and further is offered sexual counseling and thus
      focusing on: i) treatment of physical, psychological and social aspects of sexual dysfunction
      ii) improvement of compliance with the medical treatment for erectile dysfunction and iii)
      reducing barriers among patients and health professionals for resolving sexual problems
      secondary to operation for prostate cancer.

      The purpose of the PROCAN study is in a randomized design to test the effect of a theory
      based intervention on sexual and urological dysfunctions secondary to operation for prostate
      cancer. The PROCAN intervention consists of: i) Digital Video Disc (DVD) instruction in
      pelvic floor muscle training ii) group instructions in pelvic floor muscle training by
      physiotherapist including up to three individually follow-up and ii) up to six couple
      sessions performed by a sexual nurse counselor. The intervention is based on social and
      cognitive behavioral techniques and techniques derived from sexual therapy and counseling
      with a psycho-educational approach, in which sexuality is defined as a multidimensional
      construct involving biological, psychological and social aspects. The intervention is
      documented and developed in collaboration with urologists, physiotherapists and sexologists.
      The investigators will enroll patients and partners from the Urological Department
      Rigshospitalet and randomize 160 couples. Patients and partners will be randomized (1:1) to
      standard care plus the PROCAN intervention and to standard care (control Group). The
      investigators hypothesize that the PROCAN intervention will:

        -  Improve urological and sexual functioning among prostate cancer patients and sexual
           function and satisfaction among patients and female partners

        -  Improve the dyadic adjustment and the overall quality of life in prostate cancer
           patients and their partners

        -  Reduce the prevalence of depression and anxiety in patients and their partners
    
  