
    
      Peripheral venous cannulation is among the most common procedures performed in clinical
      settings and is a prerequisite for fluid resuscitation, administration of medications, and
      diagnostic testing [1,2]. In the United States, approximately 300 million peripheral
      intravenous catheters (PIV) are inserted annually [1], and more than 25% of all visits to the
      emergency department require intravenous catheters for parenteral fluid administration [3].
      Providers in the emergency department have become adept at establishing peripheral venous
      access, but it is estimated that PIV insertion fails for 6 million patients annually [1].

      Many factors are thought to be associated with difficult venous access, which is typically
      defined to be at least two failed attempts at establishing intravenous access [3].
      Intravenous drug abuse, obesity, multiple hospitalizations, and chronic medical problems
      including diabetes, sickle cell disease, end-stage renal disease, and cancer are predisposing
      factors for difficult venous access [2-5]. Prior studies have reported prevalence of
      difficult venous access ranging from 8% to 23% [2-5]. Failure to establish peripheral venous
      access in the emergency department is a costly problem, leading to delays in diagnostics and
      treatment and requiring alternative sites for vascular access such as external jugular,
      intraosseous, or central venous access [3]. These alternative methods can lead to higher
      complications rates, decrease patient satisfaction, and increase utilization of nursing and
      physician time [6]. Central venous catheterization, which is often used when traditional
      venous cannulation methods fail, has an overall complication rate of 15%, and complications
      include arterial puncture, pneumothorax, deep vein thrombosis, and infection [7,8]. These
      complications pose a significant financial burden to the healthcare system, as the cost
      associated with a single central venous catheter related infection in 2002 was estimated to
      be $34,508 to $56,000 and the median payout for claims resulting from central venous catheter
      related injuries was $100,7502.

      In the past few decades, ultrasound guidance has greatly improved the process of localizing
      vessels for cannulation, especially in patients with abnormal vascular anatomy or difficult
      venous access, thereby providing many benefits over landmark-based techniques. Ultrasound
      guided venous cannulation dates back to 1984, when Legler and Nugent showed that the single
      pass success rate for internal jugular (IJ) cannulation could be improved to 77.3% using
      Doppler ultrasound versus 28.6% for the traditional landmark-based approach [9]. Since the
      report of real-time ultrasonographic guidance of IJ catheter placement by Yonei et al. in
      1986 [10], ultrasound guided central venous cannulation has repeatedly been shown to increase
      success rates, decrease complication rates, and improve patient satisfaction [1,2,11-15].
      Based on the advantages offered by ultrasound guidance, the Agency for Healthcare Research
      and Quality now recommends real-time ultrasonographic guidance for all central venous access
      [13,16].

      The ultrasound-guided approach was adapted for peripheral venous access in the emergency
      department by Keyes et al. in an uncontrolled study that demonstrated a 91% success rate for
      ultrasound-guided cannulation of brachial and basilica veins [17]. A subsequent controlled
      study validated a higher success rate in the ultrasonographic (97%) versus control (33%)
      group in patients identified to have difficult PIV access and also showed that the
      ultrasonographic group required less time to successful cannulation, fewer percutaneous
      punctures, and resulted in greater patient satisfaction than the traditional landmark-based
      approach [13]. Furthermore, ultrasound-guidance for peripheral venous cannulation has been
      shown to prevent the need for central venous catheterization in 85% of patients with
      difficult venous access [2] and used 40% fewer kits per patient than landmark-guided
      placement of catheters [11,18]. In a healthcare climate that is increasingly focused on
      outcomes and cost-effectiveness, ultrasound-guided peripheral venous cannulation has become
      not only a viable but often the preferred method in patients with difficult venous access.

      Nevertheless, studies to date on ultrasound-guided peripheral venous cannulation have
      revealed some shortcomings. Conventional IV catheters placed under ultrasound guidance have
      been prone to premature failure with failure rates of 8% [7,17] in the first hours after
      placement and 47% in the first 24 hours, most commonly due to infiltration [7]. These failure
      rates are significantly higher compared with 2% at 24 hours and 10% at day 4, which has been
      reported for standard peripheral IV catheters [7,19]. Moreover, while overall success rates
      range from 90% to 100% with multiple attempts [2,7,13,20], first attempt success rate has
      been less impressive, ranging from 46% to 71% [13,20]. Our study will assess whether the
      AccuCath catheter with its integrated guidewire can address these shortcomings and
      demonstrate superiority over conventional PIV catheters across clinical outcomes relevant to
      the emergency department setting.

      While catheters with guidewires have long been used when placing central and arterial lines,
      they have largely been absent from PIV placement. The AccuCath catheter is differentiated
      from a conventional IV catheter in two principal ways. The catheter material consists of
      polyether block amide, which is a thermoplastic elastomer with softness and flexibility
      designed to decrease vessel wall irritation and mechanical phlebitis [21]. In addition, the
      integrated guidewire facilitates catheter insertion and limits vessel damage [21]. A
      prospective, randomized, controlled study has shown a first attempt success rate of 89% for a
      catheter with guidewire versus 47% for conventional IV along with lower complication rates of
      8% for the cathether with guidewire and 52% for conventional IVs [21]. This study was
      performed in an inpatient setting on patients receiving elective, non-emergent PIVs [21].

      Our study will be important in determining whether AccuCath's superior first attempt success
      rate and lower complication rate can be replicated in emergent PIVs in the emergency
      department setting. These improvements could translate to cost savings from decreased
      utilization of physician and nursing time, fewer number of PIV catheters used, higher patient
      satisfaction from fewer percutaneous punctures, and less complications from infiltration and
      phlebitis.

      The objectives of the study are to:

        1. In patients who fail traditional non-ultrasound IV catheter placement, compare
           ultrasound-guided cannulation of AccuCath catheters versus ultrasound-guided cannulation
           of conventional IV catheters in ED patients across the following clinical parameters:
           first attempt success rate, procedure time from the point of first percutaneous puncture
           to successful cannulation, total number of percutaneous punctures required for
           successful cannulation, and total number of IV catheters required for successful
           cannulation.

        2. Assess patient and provider satisfaction with each catheter system on a 5-point Likert
           scale.

        3. Check for clinical and demographic differences between patient groups that were
           successfully cannulated on first attempt versus those that required multiple attempts.

      We hypothesize that:

        1. Ultrasound-guided cannulation of AccuCath IV catheters will demonstrate a higher first
           attempt success rate, require less procedure time, require fewer percutaneous punctures,
           and utilize fewer catheters than ultrasound-guided cannulation of conventional IV
           catheters in ED patients.

        2. Patients and providers will be more satisfied with AccuCath IV catheters versus
           conventional IV catheters in the ED setting.

        3. There will be no statistically significant clinical and demographic differences between
           patient groups that are successfully cannulated on first attempt versus those that
           required multiple attempts.
    
  