
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      * To assess the feasibility of delivering a Quitline based smoking cessation intervention to
      cancer patients in an outpatient setting. To achieve this, we will deliver the intervention
      to cancer patients in the surgery, radiation and medical oncology departments of
      participating Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) sites. Following the intervention,
      we will assess participant, CRA (Clinical Research Associate) Counselor and Quitline staff
      ratings of acceptability, resources required to deliver the intervention, protocol fidelity,
      and participant recruitment, retention and adherence.

      Secondary

        -  To obtain a preliminary estimate of the quit rate (as defined by 7-day point-prevalence
           abstinence) in intervention and control groups. To accomplish this aim, following the
           intervention we will collect confirmed smoking status data for intervention and control
           subjects. We will also obtain a preliminary estimate of the treatment effect (difference
           in quit rates between the two groups) and the standard deviation to better determine the
           sample size for a future trial.

        -  To evaluate primary patient reported outcomes, including quality of life (quantified by
           the FACT-G and for lung cancer patients only the FACT-L other concerns questions and the
           EORTC QLQ LC13), perceived life stress (quantified by the Perceived Stress Scale), and
           depression (quantified by the CESD-10), in cancer patients in the intervention and
           control groups.

        -  To refine the recruitment and intervention protocols using data collected from
           participants, Clinical Research Associate (CRA) Counselor, and Quitline staff to
           increase acceptability and improve retention in future trials.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified according to time since
      diagnosis (< 3 months vs ≥ 3 months), treatment status (ongoing vs completed), and cigarette
      smoking (≤ 10 per day vs ≥ 11 per day). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention): Participants receive a letter from their physician advising them
           to quit smoking, and undergo a 15-30-minute smoking-cessation counseling session by a
           trained research staff. During the counseling session, participants are educated and
           motivated about the importance of quitting smoking, and cancer-specific quitting issues
           such as managing the stressors associated with cancer diagnosis and treatment. They are
           also told to expect a call from the Quitline in 2-3 days and receive a fact sheet about
           benefits of smoking cessation for cancer patients. Participants receive 8 weeks of
           nicotine replacement patches and up to 5 proactive telephone calls over a 12-week
           period. Calls are scheduled at convenient times for the participants and at
           relapse-sensitive intervals including; an initial planning and assessment call, a quit
           date call, a follow-up call 7 days after the participant's quit date, and 2 additional
           calls at 2-3-week intervals. Participants are also encouraged to utilize the Quit for
           Life Web Coach, an interactive web program application that guides them to build online
           quit plans, set quit dates, and track their progress toward quitting. Participants also
           learn behavioral tips and coping skills by interacting with others in topic-based
           discussion forums and community support programs.

        -  Arm II (standard of care): Participants receive a letter from their physician advising
           them to quit smoking, the importance of quitting smoking for cancer patients, and a copy
           of the National Cancer Institute's "Clearing the Air" smoking cessation booklet.
           Participants also receive standard of care from their oncology and other treatment
           providers which may or may not include nicotine replacement therapy.

      Participants on the intervention arm complete the Smoking Assessment, Smoking Cessation
      Self-Efficacy, the Brief Smoking Consequences, the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Lung Cancer (FACT-L), the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire LC-13, the Perceived Stress Scale, the Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Short Depression Scale (CESD-10 Depression), and the Follow up Smoking
      Assessment questionnaires at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 weeks.

      Participants, on the intervention arm, undergo saliva sample collection at baseline and at 12
      and 24 weeks for cotinine level analysis.
    
  