
    
      A retrospective case-control study of all patients who had a CT pulmonary angiogram (CTPA) at
      NHS Grampian between 3rd March and 20th June 2020 will be conducted.

      CTPA reports and test results of Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) for
      COVID-19 will be reviewed via electronic medical records.

      Patients with no COVID-19 RT-PCR test done within 7 days of the CTPA or the same clinical
      episode will be excluded. Patients who had repeat CTPAs, who are already known to have a PE,
      and who had CTPAs which are considered to be radiologically inadequate will be excluded.

      Patients will be categorised into cases (positive PE) and controls (negative PE).

      CTPA images of cases will be reviewed to collect further data about severity, distribution
      and right heart strain.

      Patients' exposure status will also be determined (positive or negative for COVID- 19
      infection).

      The primary outcome is the number of pulmonary embolism cases related to COVID19.

      The secondary outcomes are the severity, distribution of pulmonary embolism as determined by
      calculated Qanadli score. Presence of right heart strain.

      Further data for the multivariate analysis will be obtained from the patient's electronic
      medical record. Specifically, we will collect data on risk factors for COVID-19 infection and
      PE to correct for confounding.

      Statistical data analysis by various hypothesis tests and multivariate logistic regression
      will be conducted to determine the odds ratio of developing a PE, given positive COVID-19
      infection.

      Patients with a positive PE will have their scans reviewed to quantitatively assess their
      clot burden and degree of right heart strain. The former will be done by calculating a
      Qanadil score. The latter will be done my measuring the right ventricle- left ventricle
      ratio. This will allow for a comparison between COVID-19 infected and non-infected patients
      with PE.
    
  