
    
      In this global epidemic of diabetes and obesity, more than 60% of affected people will come
      from Asia with the most rapid increase in the young to middle aged group. This rapid increase
      in young onset diabetes will have major implications on health care costs, quality of life
      and societal productivity. Despite the amassing body of evidence supporting the highly
      preventable nature of diabetes and associated complications, there are multiple barriers in
      the implementation of quality diabetes care. Apart from issues relating to health care
      systems and reimbursement, the silent nature of diabetes and associated complications as well
      as the complex nature of care protocols which requires frequent evaluation of clinical and
      laboratory parameters and the need for diabetes patients to adhere to long term medications
      and self care are important factors.

      Diabetes is a prototype of chronic diseases covering the full spectrum of health promotion,
      disease prevention, management and rehabilitation. To achieve these inter-dependent goals,
      multiple levels of expertise and support are needed to preserve health, prevent complications
      and enhance quality of life. A successful diabetes care program depends on informed decisions
      of motivated care providers and diabetes patients who require periodic comprehensive
      assessments for risk stratification and individualized management which include education,
      assessments, feedback and technologies.

      According to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) global guidelines (www.idf.org),
      standard diabetes care include the delivery of culturally sensitive care, cultivation of
      relationship between care providers and diabetes patients, offer of annual surveillance, goal
      setting on care plans and targets, adherence to protocol, provision of access to
      patient-centred care using a multidisciplinary team, establishment of a registry for recall,
      provision of telephone contact and patient support group and a quality assurance and
      improvement program. Comprehensive care includes all components of standard of care together
      with access of diabetes patients to their own data and decision support.

      To achieve this ambitious goal, delivery of chronic care must be integrated with effective
      self management on a long term basis. People with diabetes need to acquire knowledge, skills
      and attitudes to exercise self discipline on food choices, physical activity, self monitoring
      and management of negative emotions. To this end, experts have identified 6 key resources and
      support for self management including 1) individualized assessment, 2) collaborative goal
      setting, 3) skills enhancement, 4) follow-up and support, 5) access to resources, and 6)
      continuity of quality clinical care.

      However, most studies which use cognitive and psychological strategies to effect behavioral
      changes have reported high rates of relapse despite initial success, often due to negative
      external or social influences. Thus, to enhance self management, there is a need to take into
      consideration both internal needs (assessment of individual needs, learning skills and goal
      setting) and external support (e.g. families, organizations, neighborhoods, and communities)
      to encourage and reinforce the use of learned skills to sustain positive behavior and self
      management on a long term basis. Adding to these emerging concepts in behavioral medicine is
      equifinality, i.e. diverse approaches may achieve similar end. Thus, a multi-component
      program offering a broad range of intervention approaches may tailor the pluralistic needs of
      people with diabetes or chronic disease.

      Aims of the Study:

        1. To quantify the impacts of peer support on self management skills, quality of life (QOL)
           and cognitive-psychological-behavioral parameter.

        2. To quantify effects of various components of self management skills and cognitive-
           psychological-behavioral parameters on metabolic control, care processes and QOL.

        3. To examine the user acceptability (including health care team and diabetes patients) and
           cost effectiveness of this multi-component system in improving diabetes care in the
           community..
    
  