
    
      In this clinical trial study, a total of 57 patients with residual esotropia (31 females and
      26 males) who were candidate for lateral rectus resection will be included and randomized
      into plication (n=27) and resection (n=30) groups.

      An informed consent will be obtained from all patients or their parents after explanation of
      the two techniques and their possible advantages and disadvantages. The study protocol will
      be approved by the Ethics Committee of Ophthalmic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University
      of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran and it adheres to tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki.

      The inclusion criteria will be the presence of residual esotropia ≥15pd after uni- or
      bilateral medial rectus recession. Subjects with a history of prematurity, intellectual
      disability, lack of central fixation (nystagmus, eccentric fixation, retinopathy of
      prematurity), extraocular muscle palsy, systemic, ocular, and neurological disorders, or
      follow- up less than three months will be excluded from this study. The surgeon who performed
      surgeries will not be masked, while the personnel who conducted data gathering and
      postoperative examinations will be blind to the group assignments.

      Visual and Ocular Examinations Comprehensive ophthalmic examination including cyclorefraction
      (45 minutes after installation of one drop tropicamide 1% and cyclopentolate 1%), best
      corrected visual acuity (BCVA), extraocular muscle motility (version and duction from -4 to
      +4) will be performed, the ocular deviation will be measured at both far (6m) and near (33cm)
      distances using an alternate prism cover test or Krimsky method. A- or V- ocular pattern will
      be also determined if the difference of deviation was more than 10 or 15pd at 30 degrees
      between superior and inferior of primary position, respectively. Stereopsis will be measured
      using a Titmus test. According to the patients' response, stereopsis was also classified in
      to three groups of central (≤100 sec/arc), peripheral (100 to 3000 sec/arc) and suppression
      (≥3000). Ocular anterior and posterior segments will be examined using slit lamp and indirect
      ophthalmoscopy. Eligible patients will be randomly divided to lateral rectus plication (case)
      and lateral rectus resection (control) groups and the amount of operation will be according
      to the Park's table in the both groups. In patients with residual esotropia less than 20pd,
      unilateral lateral rectus recession and in patients with residual esotropia more than 20pd,
      bilateral lateral rectus recession will be considered. All examinations will be repeated at
      one, three and six month follow-ups. Surgical success rate will be considered in patients
      with a postoperative deviation ≤10pd.
    
  