
    
      Aquaculture has the potential to take the pressure off wild fish stocks whilst meeting the
      dietary needs of the population for omega 3 fatty acids and other key nutrients such as
      vitamin D. The industry is working hard to improve sustainability - between 1995 and 2006 it
      has been estimated that the input to output ratios for salmon improved from 7.5 to 4.9 and
      trout from 6.0 to 3.4- but there is a need to do more. Reductions in fish stocks and catch
      quotas, in addition to sustainability considerations, mean that farmed fish may have to be
      raised on vegetable oils for example but this may reduce the omega 3 content and may affect
      the content of other nutrients. Fish are an important component of the diet and there is a
      need to understand the effect of pressures from sustainability on methods of production and
      the health giving properties of fish. We have now been commissioned by the Scottish
      Government's Rural and Environment Science and Analytical Services Division (RESAS) to do
      research on the health effects of Scottish farmed fish fed different feeding regimes in the
      Scottish population, and assess how differential effects in measured health outcomes could be
      related to fish composition.

      Consumption of fish or omega-3- fatty acids from fish reduces coronary heart disease
      mortality, the leading cause of death in developed nations. The precise way in which fish
      provides benefit is not fully understood. This is important as fish and fish oils consist of
      a complex mixture of fatty acids and micronutrients that could individually, or collectively,
      be responsible for the beneficial effects. Aquaculture in Scotland is playing an increasingly
      important role in the provision of fish for human consumption, but issues with sustainability
      are requiring aquaculture to replace traditional fish oil and meal in formulated fish diets
      by oil from more sustainable sources, which may affect the levels of beneficial omega-3 fatty
      acids (EPA and DHA) and other components in fish. We will investigate the health effects of
      consuming two portions oily fish (Scottish farmed salmon) per week (current UK
      recommendation) using fish raised on different feeding regimes.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The health effects of consuming two portions oily fish (Scottish farmed salmon) per week
      (current UK recommendation) will be different for fish raised on different feeding regimes,
      primarily in terms of improving the omega-3 index.

      OBJECTIVE

      The main objective of this proposed study is to determine 1) whether the health benefits of
      consuming two portions of Scottish farmed salmon per week that have been fed a diet high in
      fish oil and fish meal significantly outweigh the health benefits of consuming two portions
      of Scottish farmed salmon per week that have been fed a diet with more sustainable levels of
      fish meal and fish oil, and 2) whether the difference in health benefits could justify the
      use of less sustainable dietary regimes for farmed fish.
    
  