
    
      Primary anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructions with bone-patellar tendon-bone
      (BPTB) autografts have recently been found to have a lower risk of revision compared with
      hamstring tendon autografts, and BPTB has again become our graft of choice. Interference
      screws have been the standard method for fixing the femoral side of a BPTB graft; however
      problems such as damage of the graft and failure due to nonparallel screw placement have been
      reported. Cortical fixation using a suspensory system has been used for soft-tissue graft
      fixation for several years, and a corresponding device, the Endobutton CL BTB Fixation System
      (Smith & Nephew, Inc., Andover, MA, USA), has become available for fixation of
      bone-tendon-bone grafts. The clinical results after fixation with the Endobutton CL BTB have
      been described as promising; however, no randomized controlled trials comparing these two
      fixation methods have been conducted, and there is no published data that confirms that the
      bone block heals in the tunnel with the newer method.

      In this randomized controlled trial, patients undergoing primary ACL reconstruction will be
      randomized into either an Endobutton group or an interference screw group. The primary aim of
      the study is to compare these two fixation methods, assessed by patient reported outcomes,
      laxity, range of motion and muscle strength. Knee related quality of life 2 years after
      surgery is the primary outcome, measured by the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score
      (KOOS) subscale "knee related Quality of life (QOL)". Other aims are to see if there is any
      difference in the integration of the bone block in the femoral tunnel assessed by CT scan, in
      the risk of developing osteoarthritis assessed by radiographs, or in the risk of a
      postoperative complication or revision. The patients will be followed up 6 weeks, 6 months, 2
      years and 10 years after surgery. CT scan will be performed after 6 months, and radiographs
      after 2 years and 10 years. In addition details of the rehabilitation will be recorded.
      Patients undergoing a revision will be followed up but excluded from further comparisons in
      the study.

      Our hypothesis is that there is no difference in the outcome after primary ACL reconstruction
      with BPTB autografts using the Endobutton CL BTB or metal interference screw for femoral
      fixation, both with a metal interference screw for the tibial fixation.
    
  