
    
      63 4- to 7-year-olds who have not yet begun 1st grade, who are monolingual speakers of
      English, and who have SLI will participate. Note that we may recruit extra participants to
      allow for attrition. We will adopt a Randomized Controlled Trial design, randomly assigning
      participants into three intervention conditions: science only (the control arm), science +
      vocabulary supports, and science + grammar supports. Pre- and post-measures will reveal the
      extent of learning in each condition and comparisons between conditions will reveal whether
      the grammar and vocabulary supports improved learning.

      We hypothesize that the language and learning of science are integrally related. Therefore,
      we will use evidenced-based language interventions to improve the children's science-relevant
      language skills, with the prediction that this will cascade into changes in the acquisition
      of science concepts and practices:

        1. Children in the science + language intervention conditions will show greater gains in
           taught science concepts across the 6-week intervention period than children in the
           control arm.

        2. Children in the science + language intervention conditions will show greater gains from
           pretest to posttest on measures of generalized science concepts and practice than
           children in the control arm.

        3. Children who demonstrate the greatest improvement in the use of the language targets
           will also demonstrate the greatest improvements in taught concepts, generalized
           concepts, and generalized practice knowledge.

        4. Children will benefit from language supports directed at vocabulary as well as those
           directed at grammar, but these supports may differently benefit the science learning
           process.

      First we will document that the language supported interventions resulted in improved
      language abilities by comparing performance on probes of grammar and vocabulary at posttest
      to pretest performance. We expect significant improvements in vocabulary knowledge for the
      vocabulary intervention condition as compared to the other two conditions, and significant
      improvements in use of complement clauses for the grammar intervention condition as compared
      to the other two conditions. Next, we will test the predictions associated with our specific
      aims via a series of logistic mixed models. Mixed models are appropriate for designs with
      unbalanced cell sizes due to missing data (due to non-response and dropout). There will be
      one model for targeted science concept outcomes with condition (control arm, science +
      vocabulary, science + grammar) and time as independent variables (Predictions 1 and 4). There
      will also be one model each for generalized concepts and generalized practice outcomes with
      condition (control arm, science + vocabulary, science + grammar) and time (pretest and
      posttest) as independent variables (Predictions 2 and 4). Within-subject correlation will be
      accounted for with random subject intercepts. Additional random effects (including random
      item intercepts or random condition slopes by item) will be determined by selecting the model
      with the best model fit (lowest AIC value). In each of the models, it is further expected
      that amount of improvement in grammar and vocabulary are mediators between the outcome and
      the other factors (Prediction 3). To assess this prediction, we will include performance on
      the language probes as covariates. We expect that performance on the language probes after
      instruction will be a significant predictor of science learning, and that including
      performance on the language probes as a covariate will reduce or eliminate the effect of
      condition because language performance will be the main factor predicting science
      performance.
    
  