
    
      The functional impact of impairment to UL following a stroke is critical given the close
      association between residual strength at the affected UL and performance in activity
      post-stroke. Exercise is a key element to recovery, even in chronic stroke survivors.
      However, the response to exercise is quite variable between individuals, reflecting the fact
      exercise intervention is often based on stroke survivors' clinical score as opposed to their
      potential for recovery. Accordingly, clients with comparable clinical presentations will
      often receive a similar intervention, even though they may exhibit very different potential
      for recovery. Hence, using a suitable prognostic tool of post-stroke recovery to
      individualize interventions based on individual potential for recovery is essential. One such
      tool is non-invasive transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS elicits motor evoked
      potentials (MEP), which in turn provide a measure to conveniently assess the integrity of the
      corticospinal pathway. MEP is currently recognized as a good prognosis for post-stroke
      potential recovery. Another factor that can improve response to exercise is by modulating the
      excitability of sensorimotor circuits in the brain by the use of transcranial Direct-Current
      Stimulation (tDCS). Studies have shown that priming the motor cortex with tDCS before or
      during an intervention can promote motor recovery in stroke patients.

      Goals: 1) To assess if an MEP amplitude stratification, used to guide exercise prescription,
      can optimize UL function in chronic stroke survivors; 2) To evaluate whether adding tDCS to a
      more individualized exercise intervention can further improve UL function.

      Methods: Participants will be stratified based on their MEPs amplitudes at the affected hand.
      Within each stratum, participants will be further randomized into two tDCS groups: tDCS real
      and tDCS sham. The strength training program will target the affected upper limb and will
      last 4 weeks (3 times/week).The tDCS will be applied to an anodal montage during each
      training session (12 sessions; 2 mA) for 20 minutes (tDCS real group) or 30 seconds (tDCS
      sham group).
    
  