
    
      After standard chemotherapy and surgery for the localized disease, pulmonary metastases of
      bone and soft tissue sarcoma occurs in up to 40% of cases and still remain challenging
      without satisfactory regimen. Apatinib is a oral kinase inhibitor of receptor tyrosine
      targeting VEGFR2. Previous studies indicated that Apatinib, as well as other VEGFR inhibitor,
      showed a preliminary activity with a 4 month progression free rate (PFR) ranging from 40~60%
      in advanced bone and soft tissue sarcoma after multi-line chemotherapy failure. However, the
      great inter-individual variability of the agents suggests a lack of predictive biomarker in
      its clinical use. Furthermore, up to 10~30% of patients may encounter pneumothorax, a
      potentially life-threatening consequence. Other common debilitating adverse effects (AEs)
      include surgical wound complication, hand foot skin reaction, etc.

      Our preliminary data suggests that rs2071559_VEGFR2 604A>G polymorphism is associated
      pulmonary tumor cavitation (predisposes one to pneumothorax), hair depigmentation, superior
      efficacy and less likelihood of extra-pulmonary lesion. Therefore, the investigators aim to
      explored the efficacy of apatinib monotherapy for advanced bone and soft tissue sarcoma in
      VEGFR-2 (KDR) 604A>G positive population. We aim to validate our results in both
      retrospective as well as prospective fashion. First, retrospective data of another 20~25
      patients will be analysed for VEGFR2 604A>G polymorphism status as an independent validation.
      Then, We design a prospective single-arm, open-label, biomarker-driven phase II clinical
      trial as follows: With all comers(biomarker positive and negative) allowed to be enrolled,
      only VEGFR-2 (KDR) 604A>G polymorphism positive will be measured for the primary objective. A
      total of 30 patients with biomarker positive is needed according to the statistical design.

      The primary objective is to validate the PFR of Apatinib in this population ≥ 70% at 4
      months, against the null hypothesis of PFR ≤ 50% as in the general sarcoma patients.
    
  