
    
      Clubfoot is the most common birth defect affecting 1 in every 750 live births, that is about
      200,000 babies each year globally (80% mainly in developing countries). An estimated average
      1 million children are currently living with untreated clubfoot. In India every 10 minutes a
      child is born with clubfoot i.e. over 50,000 children are born with this deformity every year
      (1 per 500 birth). The Ponseti Method is now recognized as the accepted standard for the
      medical treatment of clubfoot. The Ponseti Method is ideally suited for the developing world
      in that it is inexpensive, non-surgical and the casting component can be completed by trained
      medical and paramedical personnel. Clubfoot causes the feet of the affected individual to
      point downward and inward. Left untreated, clubfoot causes a permanent physical disability,
      preventing the individual from walking normally and limiting his or her mobility. Decreased
      ambulation can lead to the inability to perform daily tasks, such as going to school, leading
      to increased dependency and a negative economic impact on the family. Furthermore, deformity
      caused by neglected clubfoot can lead to limited social integration and stigma for both the
      individual and the family.

      The gold standard of clubfoot treatment is the Ponseti method, which consists of 6-8 weeks of
      serial castings followed by a percutaneous Tendo Achilles tenotomy in the majority of cases.
      The casting is followed by the use of a foot abduction brace (FAB) for approximately 4 years.
      The goal of the treatment is to correct the deformity so that the patient has a functional,
      painless, plantigrade foot with full mobility without the need for orthotics. The 6-8 weeks
      of serial casting corrects the clubfoot deformity while the use of the FAB after casting
      prevents the deformity from reoccurring and is required for successful treatment.
      Noncompliance of FAB use increases the risk of relapse 17-fold.

      Currently, the Steenbeek Foot Abduction Brace (SFAB), a version of the Denis Browne splint,
      is the only low-cost FAB available. The SFAB is made by hand by artisans, limiting its
      large-scale production. Furthermore, it can be challenging to put on a child due to the shoes
      being attached to the bar and lacking a strap in addition to laces, potentially leading to
      noncompliance.

      The more recently developed MiracleFeet Foot Abduction Brace (mFAB) is made of injection
      molded plastic, making it easy to mass produce, and includes removable shoes with a strap to
      hold the heel in place, claiming to be more comfortable and easier to use, leading to
      improved compliance.

      The MiracleFeet Foot Abduction Brace (mFAB) is a Denis Browne Splint used for the treatment
      of clubfoot. Use of the Denis Browne Split is standard in clubfoot treatment and the mFAB
      complies with the standards for foot abduction braces for clubfoot:

        -  Adjustable to 65 and 45 degrees to accommodate unilateral and bilateral clubfoot

        -  10 degrees dorsiflexion

      The mFAB was designed with the following additional features, based on requests from parents
      and providers:

        -  Large window to view the heel, ensuring it lays flat in the shoe

        -  Dorsal strap to secure the heel, allowing the shoe to be tied with two hands

        -  Removable shoes so that the shoes may be applied and then clipped into the bar

        -  A flat bottom

        -  The bar is made of strong injection-modeled plastic, in order to be reused

        -  The shoes are meant to be worn only by 1 child and then discarded

      The mFAB shoes are made of canvas and polyester and the bar and shoe plates are made of
      ortholite and T90 and are manufactured using the injected-molded plastic process in Batavia,
      Illinois, USA.

      The mFAB has been tested in Nicaragua, Brazil, South Africa and the Philippines and is
      currently in use in 10 countries. Both braces meet the specifications as detailed by the
      Ponseti method and the same bracing protocol is used for both.

      This study will compare treatment outcomes and compliance using the two brace designs, SFAB
      and mFAB. We will compare the number and time of recurrences, as well as the reported
      compliance and actual compliance, which will be measured by novel sensors. Few studies exist
      that compare brace types or actual versus reported compliance and FABs with sensors are a
      novel technology. Of the literature that exists, FAB use was show to decline significantly
      during the first 3 months and actual wear is less than reported wear.
    
  