
    
      Background: When faced with the challenges of advanced cancer, women must advocate (or stand
      up) for their needs and priorities. However, there are no interventions to promote
      self-advocacy among female patients with advanced cancer. Preliminary work has developed a
      theoretically-based, psychometrically-strong measure of self-advocacy (the Female
      Self-Advocacy in Cancer Survivorship (FSACS) Scale) and demonstrated correlations with
      symptom burden and healthcare utilization. Serious games offer a novel mechanism by which to
      deliver interactive, engaging health education that links users' choices to consequences so
      that users learn a desired skill. The fully-automated Strong Together self-advocacy serious
      game may allow women with advanced cancer to learn self-advocacy skills and therefore improve
      their health outcomes.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The purpose of this pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to
      evaluate the feasibility, acceptably, and preliminary efficacy of the Strong Together serious
      game.

      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the 3-month Strong Together
      intervention.

        -  Benchmark 1: At least 75% of participants will engage in at least 8 out of the 12
           serious game sessions.

        -  Benchmark 2: At least 80% of participants will find the intervention acceptable based on
           ratings of perceived satisfaction and ease of use, as well as feedback from qualitative
           exit interviews.

      Specific Aim 2: To explore the differences in self-advocacy and symptom burden between groups
      over time.

      • Research Question: Do patients who receive the intervention report improved self-advocacy
      and lower symptom burden compared to those assigned to enhanced care as usual?

      Study Design: This pilot RCT will recruit (N=84) women from cancer clinics at the University
      of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Eligibility criteria include: female; age ≥ 18 years; diagnosis
      of Stage III or IV gynecological or Stage IV breast cancer within the past 3 months; 6-month
      prognosis; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group score of 0-1; and ability to read and write in
      English. Measures will be collected at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. Randomization (2:1)
      will occur to the 3-month Strong Together intervention group or the enhanced care as usual
      group. Feasibility will be assessed by calculating percentages of the intervention's dosage,
      engagement, recruitment, retention, and data completion. Acceptability will be assessed
      through exit interviews and an acceptability scale. Preliminary efficacy will be measured by
      exploring differences in self-advocacy and symptom burden scores and calculating point and
      interval estimates between the groups at 3 and 6 months.

      Cancer Relevance: This study represents a unique opportunity to address the lack of
      self-advocacy interventions, reduce the risks of women with low self-advocacy, and guide an
      adequately-powered RCT to educate women with advanced cancer to self-advocate.
    
  