
    
      Chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) and pneumonia are leading causes of death in United
      States and worldwide. COPD, which is also a significant source of disability, is increasing
      in prevalence. Approximately 14 million adults have asthma, which leads to approximately 12
      million missed work days per year in the United States. In adults, COPD and asthma often
      coexist. Treatment options for COPD are limited, and prevalence of vitamin D deficiency is
      high. COPD lung disease (COPD, asthma, airflow obstruction), and most COPD additional
      co-morbidities responsible for COPD progression (e.g., respiratory infections/pneumonia,
      muscle weakness, cardiac failure) may benefit from vitamin D supplementation therapy, but
      this requires rigorous testing. Marine omega-3 fatty acids work through different pathways
      from vitamin D to affect inflammation. Observational studies and clinical trials suggest that
      consumption of fish and/or fish oil may protect against COPD, asthma or pneumonia, but the
      data are not consistent. Thus, there is a compelling need for a clinical trial to evaluate
      the potential benefits or risks of vitamin D and fish oil supplementation on COPD and asthma
      exacerbations, airflow obstruction and decline of lung function, and risk of pneumonia.

      The primary outcomes of interest in Lung VITAL are COPD exacerbations; airflow obstruction
      and decline of pulmonary function; and pneumonia. Asthma exacerbations and asthma control are
      secondary outcomes. A tertiary goal is to assess whether the effects of the interventions
      differ by baseline dietary intake or baseline blood levels of the nutrients.

      Depending on the primary outcome, Lung VITAL will be conducted among all participants in
      VITAL (NCT 01169259), or in subsets of the VITAL population who were followed by detailed
      respiratory questionnaire and/or lung function testing.
    
  