
    
      Endometriosis is defined as the presence of endometriotic tissue outside the uterus. Its
      pathophysiology is still misunderstood today, but more and more work on this pathology are
      published. The clinical presentation is generally characterized by the existence of cyclical
      pelvic pain, with dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, dysuria, dyschezia.

      But, there are a wide variety of symptoms, with different painful sites and different types
      of pain.

      The estimated prevalence of endometriosis is about 10% in women. But the impact of this
      disease on quality of life and its economic impact is estimated considerable. In a US study,
      the direct costs associated with endometriosis were estimated at US $ 2.801 per woman. Some
      studies have focused also to quantify work absenteeism associated with endometriosis.

      The etiology of endometriosis is based on the migration of endometrial fragments reaching the
      pelvis via the tubes and establishing themselves on other sites, thus creating non cyclical
      uterine pain. Catamenial pace of pain is suggestive of the diagnosis, but with time, the pain
      tends to be chronic rather than cyclical. The standard diagnosis is based on visualization
      and histological examination of the lesions.

      The wide variety of symptoms of endometriosis often leads to wandering and medical diagnostic
      delay. A better understanding of this disease by the medical community would allow better
      management of these patients. Currently, endometriosis remains a misunderstood disease by
      rheumatologists. However, the initial presentation may mimic rheumatologic symptoms; thus,
      rheumatologists may face this disease.

      The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence and characteristics of
      manifestations of endometriosis in a cohort of patients with a recent diagnosis of
      endometriosis established. Secondly, it may well be possible to establish a list of symptoms
      and signs suggestive of endometriosis for the rheumatologist, allowing to contact a
      specialized consultant gynecologist some patients "by mistake" in rheumatology.

      Main objective / secondary:

      Observational study rheumatological manifestations associated with endometriosis: prevalence
      and characteristics of rheumatological manifestations associated with endometriosis, via a
      self-administered questionnaire.

      Methodology :

      Design: Prospective, observational Time study: 3 to 6 months

      Acquisition of data:

        -  Self-administered questionnaire (in PJ)

        -  Supports state and annex: FIU PJ, Excel grid of data collection.

        -  Statistical analysis Saint Joseph

        -  Clarify data anonymisation: not anonymisation, but confidentiality.

      Development of the study:

      - Describe how the study:

      Patients consultant in gynecology in the service of Doctor Sauvanet, for whom a diagnosis of
      endometriosis has been established (clinical history and imaging tests confirming the
      diagnosis) will be offered to meet a self-administered questionnaire during their
      consultation. This will be delivered by the gynecologist in the consultation, with the
      consent sheet. If the patient agrees, the self-administered questionnaire must be completed
      in the consultation box or in the waiting room, and handed to the gynecologist or the
      secretary of the consultation.

      Data will be collected and analyzed.

      - Expected duration of patient recruitment: 3 months
    
  