
    
      Laparotomy is a surgical procedure where an incision is made through the abdominal wall in
      order to gain access to the peritoneal cavity. Midline laparotomy incisions were the main
      type of abdominal access However, there were complications associated with laparotomy such as
      incisional hernia, post-operative pain, surgical site infection and burst abdomen. The
      anterior abdominal wall consists of skin, fascia, subcutaneous fat, external oblique
      aponeurosis, internal oblique muscles, transversus abdominis and rectus muscles. The rectus
      abdominis muscles is covered by rectus sheath, formed by aponeurosis of the internal oblique
      muscles except posterior layer from the arcuate line downwards. The sheath contains the ends
      of the lower six thoracic nerves (T7-T12) with first lumbar nerve The skin and parietal
      peritoneum are supplied by T7- T12 and L1 nerve. Hence, breaching of the peritoneum, giving
      rise to post-operative laparotomy pain. It is reported that approximately 60% of patients who
      underwent laparotomy do complain of post-operative pain.

      Techniques of abdominal wall closure has been constantly revised in order to develop an ideal
      suture technique to minimise wound complications. One of the most significant changes in
      abdominal closure technique was the introduction of mass closure technique, known as 'long
      stitch' (LS). This conventional mass closure, uses a suture-to-wound length ratio (SL:WL) of
      4:1, achieved by the use of continuous sutures at one centimetre from rectus edge with
      inter-suture distance of one centimetre. Studies have shown LS caused compression of tissues
      enclosed in the mass stitch, leading to tissue ischaemia and necrosis. 'Short stitch' (SS)
      was introduced in 1980s where it was reported to result in lower rate of incisional hernia
      and surgical site infection. It has a SL:WL of more than four, achieved by placing the suture
      five millimetres from rectus edge with inter-suture distance of five millimetre as well. It
      incorporates only the linea alba, which may reduce tension and post-operative pain.

      Effective post-operative pain management is an important aspect in surgical patient care.
      Studies has indicate that approximately 40% of post-operative patients reported inadequate
      pain relief despite therapeutic intervention. Inadequate pain control is associated with
      complications such as atelectasis, prolonged immobilization and hospital stay, thromboembolic
      event, cardiac morbidity, insomnia, ileus and poor wound healing. The Visual Analog Scale
      (VAS) of pain is commonly used as measures of pain score or intensity in clinical trials. A
      more objective way to evaluate the post-operative pain is to assess the usage of
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) over a period of time. The commonly used PCA drug for
      post-operative patient is morphine. As SS relies on less tension and proper distribution of
      force along the fascial plane, it is possible that it might reduce post-operative pain as
      compared to LS technique. It can be assessed using total usage of analgesia (intravenous
      infusion or PCA), with correlation to the respective visual-analogue scales (VAS) or numeric
      rating scales (NRS) at that particular time. There is no study that evaluate post-operative
      pain difference between SS and LS technique.

      This is a prospective, multi-centered, double-blind randomized controlled trial to look into
      comparison of post-operative pain after elective laparotomy: short versus long stitch
      technique of closure in two tertiary hospitals. The study started in January 2017 and
      completed in November 2018. Patient who fulfilled the criteria of recruitment were included
      into this study.

      In order to detect difference of 30% of PCA morphine usage, 86 patients are required. Both
      group of patients will received equal pre-operative analgesia, antibiotics and induction
      again. Patients will be randomized into LS and SS group. Once the aim of the surgery is
      achieved, the operating surgeon will open the sealed enveloped, which contain the group and
      technique of suture used. Postoperatively patient will be receiving oral paracetamol and
      taught on PCA morphine usage. PCA morphine usage and VAS score will be assessed by medical
      officer that are blinded to the treatment. Primary outcome is PCA morphine usage 24 hours
      post-surgery. Secondary outcome are presence of surgical site infection and length of
      hospital stay. Patients will subsequently be discharged by the surgeon in charge based on the
      discharge criteria. Patients will be follow-up in outpatient clinic on same interval.
      Presence of adverse events or complications will be documented.
    
  