
    
      Hepatitis C (HCV) remains the most common chronic infection in the United States with about 3
      million people chronically infected. The majority of these patients in the U.S. have genotype
      1 HCV infection, which has been the most difficult genotype to treat with the traditional
      regimen of pegylated-interferon (P-IFN) and ribavirin, leading to sustained virologic
      response (SVR) in less than 50% of cases. HCV is also an established risk factor for chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and unfortunately the treatment is
      even less successful in these patients mainly limited by increased medication toxicity.

      In spring of 2011, the FDA approved two new direct acting antivirals (DAA) for the treatment
      of chronic genotype 1 HCV, boceprevir and telaprevir, to be used in combination with Peg-IFN
      and ribavirin. This 'triple therapy' approach has significantly increased the response rate
      (increased SVR rates to about 80% in those patients who had never been previously treated)
      representing a significant advance in the field. In addition, several response-guided therapy
      approaches were tested to determine if treatment duration could be shortened based upon the
      virologic response on treatment.

      To date, there have been no studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of triple therapy in
      patients with ESRD. However, a single dose pharmacokinetic study of boceprevir in subjects
      with ESRD on hemodialysis demonstrated that the mean maximum concentration achieved by
      boceprevir (Cmax) and bioavailability (AUC) were comparable in patients with ESRD and in
      healthy subjects. Mean t½, median Tmax and mean apparent oral total clearance (CL/F) values
      were also similar in healthy subjects and patients with ESRD. Boceprevir exposure was also
      similar on dialysis and non-dialysis days. These data suggest that boceprevir does not need
      to be adjusted in patients with ESRD on dialysis, and that it is not removed by hemodialysis.
      To date, there are no studies of telaprevir in ESRD patients.

      The investigators therefore aim to study the safety and efficacy of triple therapy using
      boceprevir in combination with P-IFN and ribavirin in patients with stage 5 CKD (defined as
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 15 mL.min.1.73m2 on permanent hemodialysis for stage 5).
      In addition, given the significant toxicity of treatment in this particular patient
      population, the investigators aim to study the efficacy of response guided therapy in those
      patients who are eligible for response-guided therapy based on prior studies (treatment naïve
      patients, and well documented history of relapse with prior treatment with P-IFN and
      ribavirin).
    
  