
    
      Anti TNF-alpha agents such as Infliximab are efficient and safe in treating pediatric
      IBD-patients. However maintaining the remission and therapeutic response is still a challenge
      for the practitioner. In addition to a relevant number of primary non-responding patients
      individual clearance and immunogenic effects lead to secondary loss of response in a
      significant number of patients. So far these patients are clinically managed by decrease of
      the infusion interval or increasing the dose. Besides an increased risk for potential side
      effect a high number of patients need to switch treatment to other biologicals despite
      interventions. Improved strategies are needed to avoid primary and secondary therapeutic
      failure, and a promising lead seems to be the individualized therapy.

      Especially in pediatric IDB-patients with faster turnover of anti-TNF based on a higher
      metabolism rate new ways of adapting the dose and maintaining therapeutic serum levels are
      necessary. In this context the role of IFX-trough levels is not fully clear. Previous studies
      have shown that serum IFX trough levels correlate inversely with the turnover rate and
      directly to therapeutic response. Thus it is highly desirable to keep trough levels in
      therapeutic window. In adult patients recent studies have shown advantages in using
      IFX-trough levels for therapy optimization, leading to better disease control in short and
      long term. However there is until now no clear evidence that shows benefits for an
      IFX-target-level approach during the maintenance of therapy.

      An early therapy optimization from the beginning on with rapid control of mucosal
      inflammation seems to set the pathway for sustained therapy response and disease remission.

      We assume a clear benefit for an individualized, IFX-trough-level guided therapy optimization
      for pediatric IDB-patients and intend to clarify the role of Infliximab trough levels in this
      planned trial.
    
  