
    
      Research and practice efforts in asthma continue to overlook one of the most vulnerable
      subgroups of Americans, minority women. Women of color, especially African Americans, bear a
      significantly disproportionate burden of asthma among adults. However, no rigorous trial of
      an intervention to assist them with their particular challenges can be located. The proposed
      randomized controlled trial will evaluate an innovative intervention in 420 African American
      women with asthma. It will be the first to address both specific cultural factors affecting
      asthma and the influence of female sex and gender on control. It will use a highly tailored,
      telephone counseling approach designed to foster partnership with the clinician, resolution
      of specific asthma management problems, and identification of important contributing
      influences often misunderstood or ignored by women themselves as well as the health care
      system. It will attend closely to the role of allergy in asthma management as patients in the
      African American population have been shown to be at greater risk for allergic asthma.

      Data will be collected at baseline, 12, and 24 months by telephone interview and from medical
      records. The hypotheses of the research are that women in the intervention group when
      compared to the control group will:

        -  Use emergency department services for asthma less frequently and need urgent care in a
           physician's office less often;

        -  Be hospitalized for asthma less frequently.

        -  Experience fewer symptoms of asthma;

        -  Have higher levels of asthma-related quality of life

      The intervention aims to reduce the burden of asthma as carried by a large subgroup of the
      adult population. It employs state of the art asthma management strategies and creative means
      to reach and help patients at high risk of asthma exacerbations and health care use.
    
  