
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) occurs after experiencing a traumatic event or events.
      PTSD is a public health problem that causes a great deal of suffering. This study will
      examine whether two six to eight-hour long sessions of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine
      (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy scheduled three to five weeks apart are safe, and whether
      combining a fully therapeutic dose of MDMA with psychotherapy, compared with a low ("active
      placebo") dose of MDMA, will reduce PTSD symptoms, with symptoms measured four times, twice
      during the study, and during two follow-up assessments six and twelve months after the second
      experimental session. People who received the active placebo dose of MDMA can then take part
      in an "open label" study continuation, with the participant receiving a fully active dose of
      MDMA on two more six to eight hour-long psychotherapy sessions. Open-label means that the
      participants and the researchers know that the participant will receive the fully active dose
      of MDMA. People who receive the full dose of MDMA, and anyone who received low-dose MDMA and
      does not undergo the open-label study continuation will have PTSD symptoms measured six and
      twelve months after the second fully active or low dose MDMA session. People who take part in
      the open label study continuation have their PTSD symptoms checked six and 12 months after
      the second open label MDMA-assisted session.

      MDMA is a substance that has unique effects that make it well suited to intensive
      psychotherapy. MDMA may belong to a new class of drugs, called entactogens, that produce
      feelings of closeness to others, empathy, well being, and insightfulness. Currently, MDMA is
      scheduled in the US and Israel, and doctors and therapists cannot give it to people outside
      of research studies like this one. Anecdotal reports of therapy conducted before MDMA was
      made illegal suggest that MDMA-assisted psychotherapy may benefit people with PTSD, and there
      is an ongoing placebo-controlled study of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in people with crime or
      war-related PTSD occurring in the US.

      This study will look at MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in 12 individuals aged 18 years or older
      diagnosed with PTSD that arose out of war or terrorism-related trauma, with PTSD symptoms not
      improving after trying at least one treatment. Eight of 12 participants will be assigned to
      receive the full dose of MDMA, and four will be assigned to receive a low or "active placebo"
      dose of MDMA during each of two experimental sessions. People will be assigned to full or
      low-dose MDMA "by chance," as by flipping a coin. The fully active dose consists of an
      initial dose of 125 mg MDMA and a supplemental dose of 62.5 mg given 2 to 2.5 hours later.
      The active placebo dose consists of an initial dose of 25 mg MDMA and a supplemental dose of
      12.5 mg.

      The study will last approximately four months, and will include two sixty minute long
      introductory psychotherapy sessions, two active placebo or fully active dose MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy sessions, a sixty to ninety minute long psychotherapy session 24 hours after
      each experimental session, and one to two hour-long psychotherapy sessions occurring weekly
      between the first and second experimental session, and between the second experimental
      session and the end of the study.

      PTSD symptoms will be measured at the start of the study and eight weeks (two months) after
      the second experimental session. PTSD symptoms are assessed six and twelve months after the
      second experimental session in people who do not take part in the open-label study
      continuation. People who take part in the open-label study continuation will have their PTSD
      symptoms measured six and twelve months after the second MDMA-assisted psychotherapy session.
    
  