
    
      Pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with a high risk of harm related to
      medical care (adverse safety events). These events may occur outside the purview of the
      medical system, and hence, are under-recognized. Health information technology (IT) can
      enhance the detection of such events, and coordinated care can prevent their adverse
      consequences. Study design: 6-month randomized trial of coordinated care/home telehealth
      (CCHT) vs usual care in CKD patients. Intervention: Veterans Administration (VA) CCHT with a
      guideline-based CKD DMP, augmented laboratory monitoring, and decision support from the VA
      Renal Inter-disciplinary Safety clinic (RISC). Study population: Veterans with Stage III-V
      CKD (no expected dialysis within 6 months), age ≥ 60 years old, and diabetes (n = 65 per
      arm). Study Site: Baltimore VA Medical Center (BVAMC), VA Geriatrics Research, Education and
      Clinical Center (GRECC), and RISC. Specific Aim 1: Compare detection of adverse safety events
      in CKD patients assigned to CCHT vs usual care. Specific Aim 2: Compare the frequency of
      urgent health service use and participant satisfaction with CCHT vs usual care group. Study
      Measurements: Vital sign and clinical measurements (daily BP, weight, and finger stick
      glucose), laboratory values, and patient- reported safety events obtained per CCHT protocol
      vs patient-reported safety events, laboratory values, and assessment at a mid-study safety
      clinic visit in usual care protocol. Emergency department (ED) visits, hospitalization, renal
      progression, incidence of ESRD, and death will be measured in both groups along with patient
      satisfaction. Outcomes: Aim 1: Counts of a diverse set of adverse safety events including
      hypoglycemia, hypotension, volume loss (by weight change), hyperkalemia, acute kidney injury
      (AKI), and patient-reported safety incidents. Aim 2: ED visits, hospitalization, and other
      adverse outcomes including renal function loss, ESRD, and death. Analytic plans: Adjusted
      rates of events tracked in Aim 1 and 2 and expressed as counts per month will be compared in
      CCHT vs usual care group with multivariate models as indicated. Expected findings: CCHT will
      increase the detection of adverse safety events but reduce urgent health resource utilization
      and adverse outcomes. Public Health Relevance: Home telemonitoring of CKD patients in
      conjunction with coordinated care and decision support can increase the detection of adverse
      safety events that occur outside the traditional health care system and offer new
      opportunities to reduce their associated poor outcomes on a platform that allows ready
      dissemination across a national health network.
    
  