
    
      Hypofractionated radiotherapy is being adopted as standard practice for intermediate risk
      prostate cancer patients. The objective of this project is to retrospectively validate
      whether reducing the Planning Target Volume (PTV), a margin placed around the prostate to
      account for movement and variability in patient placement, will have reduced acute rectal
      toxicity. The project will focus on patients with intermediate risk prostate cancer treated
      with hypofractionated Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT) from multiple institutions. The
      investigators intend to prospectively demonstrate that patients planned and treated with the
      reduced margin, along with using advanced image-guidance and consistent bladder and rectum
      preparation will have reduced acute rectal toxicity.

      The project consists of two phases: phase one is a retrospective planning study and phase two
      is a prospective pilot clinical trial.

      Phase one aims to validate the benefits of the proposed decrease in PTV margin by assessing
      whether the investigators can continue to deliver the intended radiation dose to the prostate
      while further sparing the rectum. This will be accomplished by evaluating the daily delivered
      dose on Cone-Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT), a daily scan performed during treatment that
      determines the location of the prostate and rectum. Using these CBCT scans, the investigators
      can reconstruct the radiation dose delivered to any organs of interest which was affected by
      their relative positions each day. There are two parts in this phase one retrospective
      planning study. Part one will focus on 30 intermediate risk prostate cancer cases already
      treated with hypofractionation (60 Gy in 20 fractions) using the standard PTV margins from
      all three participating institutions. All 30 cases will then be re-planned using the reduced
      PTV margin and dose reconstruction will be performed on daily CBCT to confirm adequate target
      coverage of the prostate. Part two aims to demonstrate that the reduced PTV margin can help
      enable hypofractionation. Thirty cases that were originally intended to receive a
      hypofractionated regimen of 60 Gy in 20 fractions but had to either switch to a standard
      fractionation treatment of 78 Gy in 39 fractions (a regimen used when 60Gy in 20 fractions is
      not achievable), or where there had to be compromised target coverage of the prostate, due to
      Organs at Risk (OAR) receiving unacceptable doses of radiation, will be selected. These cases
      will be re-planned with the validated smaller PTV margin to illustrate that they would now be
      eligible to receive hypofractionation due to the reduced dose to OARs.

      Phase two aims to demonstrate that patients treated with the reduced PTV margin will have
      reduced acute rectal toxicity as evaluated by the Cancer Care Ontario (CCO) Expanded Prostate
      Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP) Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaire.
      Two groups of patients will be accrued: one group of 25 patients will be planned and treated
      with the current standard PTV margin as the control group, while the second group of 25
      patients will be planned and treated with the reduced PTV margin validated from the phase one
      retrospective study. A comparison of rectal toxicity scores between these two groups will
      then be carried out using the EPIC-CP questionnaire.
    
  