
    
      Participants randomized to the intervention arm will receive (1) a home visit by an exercise
      specialist and (2) a 20-week telephone-delivered weight loss program, modeled on the VA's
      Telephone Lifestyle Coaching Program (MOVE!TLC). All participants (both the coached arm and
      self-directed arm) will be mailed a MOVE-LEAP packet [containing eating and physical activity
      logs, information on how to set weight loss goals, suggestions for physical
      activity/exercise, dietary guides, etc.), a MOVE-LEAP handout booklet, calories counting
      book, a pedometer, exercise digital versatile disc (DVD), and a flip-booklet with exercises
      ("Exercise Guide for Persons with Limb Loss"). A bathroom scale will be provided for
      participants who do not already own one.

      Participants in the coached arm will receive a home visit by an exercise specialist. This
      visit will occur 1-3 weeks after randomization. The exercise specialist will assess the
      participant's capabilities and interest regarding physical activity as well as his/her home
      environment for physical activity. Since each participant may have different physical
      capabilities and limitations, the type and intensity of physical activity will be tailored to
      each participant's preferences and their home and neighborhood/community environment and
      resources. If the participant is interested in performing physical activity outside their
      home, study staff will provide them with information about community resources for physical
      activities.

      Participants in the coached arm will receive 11 calls by a study health coach. During the
      phone calls (weekly initially and then every other week), the health coach will review
      progress and help the participant to set "SMART" goals (Specific, Measurable, Attainable,
      Relevant and Time-limited) and will use motivational interviewing techniques to help the
      participant achieve those goals. Motivational interviewing is a style of counseling meant to
      increase participant engagement through strategic use of open-ended questions, reflective
      listening and positive affirmations. The study staff will review the participant's progress
      on his or her goals and help him or her problem solve to resolve challenges and modify goals
      as needed. During each session, the coach will discuss an educational topic relating to
      weight loss. Written materials on each topic are included the booklet.
    
  