
    
      Patients with locally advanced high Gleason grade prostate cancer often have local and
      metastatic disease progression. To improve on these outcomes, therapy needs to be directed at
      controlling the androgen sensitive and insensitive prostate cancer cells in the primary and
      metastatic sites. This therapeutic challenge has further prompted the use of combined
      modality approaches incorporating chemotherapy and hormonal therapy with radiation aimed at
      the intrinsically resistant cells and the micrometastatic disease that are both androgen
      sensitive and resistant. High likelihood of occult metastatic disease and existence of
      intrinsically castration resistant cells are the main rationales for early institution of
      androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and chemotherapy in prostate cancer.

      The rationale for combining chemotherapeutic agents with ADT and radiotherapy in high risk
      prostate cancer patients is based on that chemotherapy can enhance radiotherapy and is also
      an effective therapy for metastatic castrate resistant disease. Prior studies with weekly
      docetaxel with ADT and intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) were safe and feasible
      however cabazitaxel is more potent mitotic inhibitor which may further enhance the outcomes
      of patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.

      Men with locally advanced high risk prostate cancer represent a group of patients for whom
      cure is potentially achievable utilizing a multimodality approach. More aggressive treatment
      upfront with chemotherapy and ADT would improve the long term disease control. We hypothesize
      that Cabazitaxel may be added to radiation therapy safely, and we anticipate that this novel
      approach will improve disease control and eventually improve survival for locally advanced
      prostate cancer patients.

      The safety of the combination of Cabazitaxel with radiation will be established after this
      study. Potential efficacy will be determined in the future phase II/III trials. Hypofraction
      radiation treatment with shorter duration maybe possible if combined with chemotherapy
      modality.
    
  