
    
      Gemcitabine and cisplatin are drugs that are used in the treatment of many types of cancer.
      Each acts to kill cancer cells throughout the body.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, pelvic exam, blood tests
      (about 2-3 teaspoons), a chest x-ray, and a CT scan or MRI. Women able to have children must
      have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      On Day 1 and Day 8, you will receive gemcitabine chemotherapy through a small tube placed in
      a vein over 1 hour. This will be followed by cisplatin chemotherapy given by vein over 1
      hour. Before chemotherapy is given, you will receive medications to prevent nausea. You will
      not receive any therapy on Day 15. One course of therapy is 3 weeks long.

      Routine blood tests (about 1 teaspoon) will be done weekly during treatment and before each
      course of therapy (every 3 weeks). A complete checkup, including a history and physical exam,
      pelvic exam, and routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons) will also be done before each
      course of therapy and a month after treatment ends. CT or MRI scans will be repeated every 2
      to 3 cycles and at the end of treatment. Participants who have a partial or complete response
      (the tumor shrinks by more than 50% or disappears completely) will have the CT or MRI
      repeated at least 4 weeks later to confirm the response.

      You may continue to receive treatment as long as your disease remains stable or improves.
      Participants who experience significant side effects may be allowed to drop to a lower dose
      if their disease is not worse. If the disease gets worse or if intolerable side effects
      occur, you will be taken off study.

      When you are taken off the study, a complete medical history and physical exam will be
      performed. Routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be performed. Any side effects will
      be monitored until they go away.

      This is an investigational study. Both of the study drugs are FDA approved and commercially
      available, though their use together in this study is investigational. Up to 35 patients will
      take part in this study. Patients will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson, St. Lukes Episcopal
      Hospital and The Woman's Hospital of Texas.
    
  