
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic respiratory disease characterized
      by incomplete reversible airflow limitation, small airway obstruction and alveolar structural
      damage. About 3 million patients die from COPD every year around the world. The prevalence of
      COPD in Chinese people over the age of 40 is as high as 12 % and has risen by 50 % in the
      past nine years.

      Acute exacerbation is the leading cause of death in patients with COPD , and accounts for a
      majority of expenditure of COPD management. The colonization of potential pathogenic bacteria
      in the lower respiratory tract is an important cause of the acute exacerbation especially in
      patients with moderate and severe COPD.

      Some clinical studies show that aerosol inhaled antibiotics is promising in reducing acute
      exacerbation, but these exploratory studies have some defects so that they can't back up for
      the clinical application of aerosol inhaled antibiotics. Amikacin, a kind of aminoglycosides,
      is sensitive to the common pathogens of acute exacerbation of COPD in China. Therefore it is
      necessary to carry out a clinical trial to verify its efficacy and safety in pathogen
      decolonization and prevention of acute exacerbation.

      In addition, owing to bacterial resistance and insufficient antibiotics concentration in
      lower respiratory tract, developing new antibacterial materials is necessary. Oral probiotics
      is an another way to regulate the bacterial load and inflammatory response in lower
      respiratory tract, which has been proven to effectively prevent acute exacerbation in cystic
      fibrosis and childhood asthma. Likewise, airway bacterial burden and inflammation are two
      main mechanisms of acute exacerbation in COPD. Hence, considering its convenience and safety
      of oral probiotics, we perform a trial to make clinical evaluation for it.

      What's more, influenza and streptococcus pneumoniae vaccines are separately recommended for
      patients with COPD in the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease(GOLD),
      but there have been no studies on the effects of combined vaccination on bacterial
      decolonization in lower respiratory tract or on the prevention of acute exacerbation.

      Effects of these above methods on the decolonization of potential pathogenic bacteria in
      lower respiratory tract and the inflammatory reaction are not clear. Therefore, we plan to
      perform a multi-center, randomized, controlled trial to study the efficacy and safety of oral
      probiotics, aerosol inhaled amikacin or combined vaccination to decolonize bacteria in lower
      respiratory tract and prevent acute exacerbation of COPD.
    
  