
    
      Aim: The focus of this Proof-of-Concept feasibility study investigates the potential of
      commercially available virtual reality (VR) games and equipment for therapeutic use for upper
      limb rehabilitation; considering in particular the role of motivation and engagement when
      using the system to support adherence to therapy protocols.

      Rationale - Effective rehabilitation requires appropriate dosage and intensity and be
      meaningful to daily life, but traditional therapeutic modalities struggle to achieve optimum
      input and gains following successful intensive intervention programmes are often not
      maintained. Commercial VR products are designed with high level gaming methods to engage
      participants in the games. Commercial VR products therefore offer potential as therapeutic
      adjuncts to gain appropriate practice of sufficient intensity and duration but may need some
      adjustments. Adjustments in this instance refer to changing the speed at which the game plays
      and which combinations of devices compliant with European Union standards (CE) can be
      connected.

      The Investigators will evaluate whether young people with Cerebral Palsy (CP) or Acquired
      Brain injury (ABI) can be engaged in VR games for upper-limb movement using VR systems,
      potential for therapeutic benefit and also consider clinical feasibility in relation to
      utility, particularly in respect to the costs involved (i.e. labour, training, workplace
      set-up). The Co-Production Group (C-PG) group identified a 2-Phase study in order to assess
      for any modifiable alterations and prepare training manual prior to a short feasibility
      trial. This clinical trial is designed as an Action Research study in two Phases:

      Phase 1 of the study. Participants will engage in a 2-hour workshop to test out the VR system
      and games in order to gather responses to the game speeds and devices (including method of
      access). Feedback will contribute to information for instruction leaflets for access and
      usability and determine whether further adjustments are required and additional training
      information needed for therapists to be able to set up the system to meet individual
      requirements. Information gathered during the workshop will also inform on the links and
      support required from the computer scientists for backup.

      Phase 2 of the study, will test out the feasibility of use within a home/school setting as a
      Proof-of-Concept study. Phase 2, will inform on trial design for a larger randomized
      controlled trial. The VR system will be provided to each participant for a 2-week home- or
      school- based trial. User evaluation and performance data and therapist evaluations will be
      collected and compared to baseline data to provide information on usability, accessibility,
      acceptability and adaptability.

      Evidence from preliminary, albeit small single-subject design studies, suggests that children
      and adults with movement impairments may improve upper limb performance (speed, fluency and
      accuracy) with some transfer to clinical measures of upper limb and hand skills. It is not
      known if children with CP/ABI can improve upper limb movement performance and function nor
      whether gains transfer into improved hand skills in daily life although it anticipated that
      benefits to function will be achieved for many children. An exploration of this point will be
      considered as secondary outcomes to inform on dose and duration for a future definitive
      clinical trial.
    
  