
    
      The Office of Rural Health has funded the VA Pacific Islands Healthcare System (VAPIHCS) to
      provide HBTMH for rural veterans diagnosed by a mental health provider as having PTSD.
      VAPIHCS serves an area about the size of the continental United States. Outside of Honolulu,
      there are few mental health specialists to serve Veterans with PTSD and common comorbid
      disorders, such as traumatic brain injury (TBI), pain, insomnia, and substance abuse.
      Moreover, many such Veterans have difficulty following-up for services at Community-Based
      Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) due to psychological or physical limitations, transportation, work
      schedule, or stigma.

      Cost is another reason to develop a HBTMH approach. Seventy percent of those who complete a
      course of Evidence Based Therapy (EBT) significantly improve their symptoms, with most no
      longer carrying the diagnosis following such treatments (Bradley, Greene, Russ, Dutra, &
      Westen, 2005). However those who lack access to EBTs, especially those with polytraumas, have
      a low chance of recovery (Elhers & Clark, 2008; Lyons & Keane, 1992). The lack of specialists
      in these regions means that the Veterans continue to suffer with PTSD and related disorders
      far longer than if specialized care were available. Sending experts to these areas is costly,
      and inefficient. The cost and difficulty for highly rural Veterans to travel for weekly
      appointments to a CBOC that lacks expertise in EBT for PTSD and treating Veterans with
      polytrauma has minimal value. Finally, the no-show rate for such Veterans can run well above
      15%, whereas research with HBTMH has no-show rates of less than 4%
      (http://conference.avapl.org/pubs/2012%20Conference%20Presentations/HBTMH%20SOP_Shore_11-12-1
      1%20copy.pdf)

      To improve services for Veterans, the VA provides telehealth options at its CBOC locations in
      the Pacific Islands. Many patients live too far from the CBOC or prefer to receive mental
      health treatment in the comfort of their own homes. HBTMH technology, such as televideo
      sessions between a home-based patient and their mental healthcare provider, has been
      successfully implemented in the VA (e.g. throughout VISN 20 and VISN 7) and in the Department
      of Defense (DOD). VAPIHCS was funded by the ORH to provide evidence-based specialty treatment
      via HBTMH to rural Veterans with PTSD who would not otherwise have such treatment available
      to them. The clinical project is funded to provide up to 100 rural patients who were referred
      by their CBOC providers to this specialty clinic for HBTMH PTSD treatment. This VAPIHCS
      clinic provides evidence-based treatment to eligible veterans in their homes via televideo by
      clinicians currently based at the NCPTSD. Only ORH-funded VAPIHCS clinical staff will provide
      treatment to the PTSD patients who choose to and are eligible to receive the home-based
      telemental health. Veterans are eligible for this VAPIHCS-HBTMH clinic if they have been
      diagnosed with PTSD by a licensed mental health provider at a CBOC, or are referred by a CBOC
      (via clinical consult).

      In order to initially evaluate the effectiveness of HBTMH, the current research study will
      evaluate veterans participating in the VAPIHCS-HBTMH clinic compared to Treatment as Usual
      (TAU - those who were referred to the clinic, however either refused to participate in this
      type of clinical care or were ineligible to be part of this clinic due to structural
      difficulties (no 4G in their area, can't type, lack of nearby emergency services, etc). Thus,
      this protocol is assessment only, and is separate from the treatment provided to the rural
      Veterans.

      Currently, there are no standardized, objective assessments available for determining
      impairment and improvement of PTSD. The Defense Automated Neurobehavioral Assessment (DANA)
      is a clinical decision support tool developed for the Department of Defense (DoD) for field
      and clinic-based neurobehavioral functioning. This neurobehavioral assessment system was
      developed on the assumption that various risk factors (PTSD, Depression, Insomnia, anger,
      pain, etc.) lead to significantly slower and less accurate (throughput) performance on
      cognitive tests. The primary goal of DANA is to assist providers in determining level of
      functioning and to track recovery over time. An important purpose of this study is to collect
      longitudinal data from patients receiving EBT (both in clinics and through HBTMH) in order to
      assess whether cognitive functioning improves as PTSD symptoms decrease with treatment. This
      information will provide support for DANA's validity as an objective measure of PTSD
      impairment. The study also plans to determine the sensitivity and specificity of DANA
      neurocognitive measures in determining changes in cognitive functioning within PTSD patients
      engaged in EBT over time.

      The proposed project aims to examine the effectiveness of an empirically based trauma-focused
      treatment intervention delivered via video conferencing to the home. This project aims to:

      Objective 1: Examine the feasibility of HBTMH compared to treatment as usual.

      Objective 2: Compare the effectiveness of HBTMH compared to treatment as usual.

      Objective 3: Determine predictors of successful treatment outcomes (including treatment
      completion and clinically significant reduction in PTSD and related symptoms).

      Objective 4: Determine the sensitivity and specificity of Defense Automated Neurobehavioral
      Assessment (DANA) neurocognitive measures in determining changes in psychological functioning
      within subjects over time.
    
  