
    
      Epidemiologic studies have consistently shown that self -reported sleep durations of <7 hr
      and >8 hr are associated with increased mortality and morbidity. The risks associated with
      short sleep are consistent with a vast experimental literature indicating detrimental effects
      of profound sleep restriction. However, there has been little study of chronic moderate sleep
      restriction, which is far more common, and thus more important from a public health
      standpoint. The risks associated with long sleep have scarcely been experimentally examined,
      though epidemiological data suggest sleep restriction might promote health/longevity in long
      sleepers. Older adults might be more vulnerable than young adults to negative effects of
      further sleep impairment, perhaps particularly via inflammatory mechanisms. Negative effects
      might be at least as evident in long sleepers as in average sleepers if long sleep reflects
      underlying morbidity, as many have posited. On the other hand, older adults might tolerate
      (or benefit) from moderate sleep restriction. Older adults often tend to spend excessive time
      in bed (TIB), particularly long sleepers, and extra TIB could contribute to age-related sleep
      fragmentation and morbidity, which could be ameliorated with modest TIB restriction. The aims
      of this study are: (1) to examine the ability of older long sleepers and older average
      sleepers to adhere to 60 min TIB restriction; and (2) to contrast effects of 12 weeks of 60
      min TIB restriction on health-related measures in older long vs. average sleepers. One
      hundred older adults (ages 60-80 yr) who report sleeping 8-9 hr per night and 100 adults of
      the same age range who report sleeping 6-7.25 hr per night will be examined at 4 experimental
      sites over 5 years. Following a 2-week baseline, participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of two 12-week treatment groups. (1) A sleep restriction group (n=60 long sleepers and
      n=60 average sleepers) will be assigned to a fixed sleep- wake schedule, in which time in bed
      is reduced precisely 60 min below each participant's baseline time in bed (TIB). (2) A
      control group (n=40 long sleepers and n=40 average sleepers) will have no sleep restriction,
      but will also follow a fixed sleep schedule. Sleep will be assessed continuously with
      actigraphy and a daily diary. Questionnaires will be answered. Measures will include body
      weight, glucose tolerance, sleepiness, depression, quality of life, psychomotor vigilance,
      incidence of automobile accidents, incidence of illness, and multiple markers of
      inflammation. Physical exams during weeks 2 and 6 of the intervention and a study ombudsman
      will further monitor potential adverse effects. Follow-up assessments will be conducted for
      12 months. The proposed clinical trial will provide the most comprehensive Phase 1 assessment
      of risks and benefits of chronic moderate TIB restriction ever conducted.
    
  