
    
      While evidence-based care for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma can
      substantially reduce disease burden and prevent emergency visits and hospitalizations, it is
      estimated that 55% of patients with COPD do not receive all recommended care and that less
      than 50% of patients with asthma are well controlled.

      The proposed study will evaluate the effectiveness of a novel model for pulmonary
      specialist-health coach consultations (PuSHCon) in its ability to increase access to
      specialty recommendations and the provision of evidence-based care for patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and/or asthma receiving care at federally qualified
      health centers (FQHCs). The specific aims of the study are to compare the use of
      evidence-based care and of patient reported outcomes 4 months after the consultation. In
      addition, the study will evaluate the cost per patient in each model to determine the model's
      effectiveness in increasing access and lowering cost.

      The first aim of comparing the use of evidence-based care will be measured as the proportion
      of guideline-based recommendations that are ultimately received by the patients. The
      secondary endpoint for this aim will be measured through the proportion of patients receiving
      guideline-concordant medications at 4 months after consultation compared to baseline.

      The second aim of the study regarding patient-reported outcomes will be measured primarily
      through the change in COPD and/or asthma related quality of life measures from baseline to 4
      months post consultation. The secondary measure for this aim will look at changes in COPD
      and/or asthma specific symptom scores.

      The third aim of the study is to assess the impact of this model on access to care and cost
      of care. Access will be measured by tracking the number of patients who successfully complete
      a consultation per month. Costs will be determined by calculating time spent per patients, as
      well as by health care utilization.
    
  