
    
      The purpose of our research is to improve the ability to see kidney stones with ultrasound
      imaging. Specifically, we are testing how well new stone specific processing can find stones
      and show their size. Ultimately, better imaging can improve the care of future patients.

      Patients with kidney stones or undergoing surgery for kidney stones will be recruited and
      consented.

      We will image the kidney and ureter stones of consented subjects. We will place a water-based
      gel and ultrasound probe against the subject's skin on the back, sides, and abdomen. We will
      save the images and the raw electrical signals received from the probe and used to make the
      images. The images will be used to estimate the location and size of kidney stones in the
      kidney or ureter. The size and location will also be determined from x-ray and ultrasound
      images and reports already in the subject's medical record. And for recruited subjects who
      are already undergoing surgery in an existing clinical not research procedure, the surgeon
      will also measure location and size of stones seen in surgery. All these measurements of size
      and location of kidney stones will be compared to test the accuracy of the new ultrasound
      image processing.

      After the examination, we will not ask anything more of subjects, but we will collect some
      information from their existing medical records. This information includes existing images of
      your stones, size of stones, location of stones, number of stones, type of stones, and
      treatment records. We will also record your weight, height, race, and ethnicity. Not all this
      information may be available. We will use what information is available. This additional
      information is used to test how well our ultrasound exam did. It also shows if we do better
      with certain groups of patients, for example, for certain stone types or body sizes.
    
  