
    
      This is a multi-centre, open label, parallel group randomized trial designed to demonstrate
      the therapeutic equivalence of ANDY-Disc速 with Ultrabag速 for a treatment period of 12 months.
      270 patients on CAPD from 6 participating sites who met inclusion/exclusion criteria were
      enrolled into the trial. After initial screening, patients attended clinic for baseline
      examination, including clearance studies. Subjects were then randomly allocated to ANDY-Disc速
      or Ultrabag速 in a ratio of 1:1. Study visits occurred every 2 weeks through 4 weeks, then
      every 4 weeks through 12 weeks, and every 12 weeks thereafter for the duration of the study
      (12 months). Hence there were a total of 7 visits (1 screen/baseline, 2 biweekly, 2-4 weekly
      and 2-6 monthly treatment visits, the last being the final visit).

      Safety and tolerability assessments consisted of monitoring adverse events and serious
      adverse events, monitoring of haematology, blood chemistry and regular performance of
      physical examinations.

      Criteria for evaluation:

      Efficacy: Primary efficacy parameter:The primary efficacy variable will be the incidence of
      peritonitis. Peritonitis is defined as the presence of at least two of the following

        1. Abdominal pain or tenderness

        2. Presence of white blood cells in peritoneal effluent in excess of 100 cells per mL
           composed of at least 50% polymorphs

        3. Positive cultureSecondary efficacy parameter:

      The secondary efficacy variables are:

      1. Technique failure; defined as transfer to haemodialysis or death. Note that cross-over to
      a comparator treatment will be considered as withdrawal.

      Frequency of technical problem or product defect, satisfaction with and difficulty in using
      the connection system. Technical problem and product defect shall be observed and evaluated
      by patient and data recorded by using a patient's diary. Satisfaction with and difficulty in
      using the connection systems will be evaluated by investigator in global fashion through a
      questionnaire.

      Safety: Safety and tolerability assessments will consist of

        1. Monitoring and recording all adverse events and serious adverse events.

        2. Regular performance of physical examinations, including vital signs.

        3. Regular monitoring of haematology and blood chemistry parameters.
    
  