
    
      Fetal activity serves as an indirect measure of central nervous system integrity and
      function, and regular FM can be regarded as an expression of fetal well-being.A hypoxic fetus
      responds automatically by redistributing blood away from the non-essential organs which lead
      to a reduction of non-vital activities; movements. Conversely, pregnancies in which the
      mother report decreased fetal movements (DFM) is associated with adverse outcomes and may
      indicate danger for the fetus. In cases were DFM are associated with complications of
      pregnancy, maternal lack of sensitivity and awareness to fetal movements may be a risk factor
      for her pregnancy. The most important current identifier of DFM is the women's perception of
      what is a decrease of FM. Fetal movement counting may be a tool for the mothers that might
      increase identification of risk pregnancies.

      The outcome measures are (referring to the research questions above):

        1. Identification of risk pregnancies/pathology?

             1. Primary outcome measures: Numbers of identified pathological conditions in
                pregnancies (fetal growth restriction (FGR), acute caesarean section on fetal
                indication/non-reactive non-stress test (NST), oligohydramnios, pathologic blood
                flow in arteria umbilicalis, maternal perception of absent fetal movements for more
                than 24 hours before admission to hospital, or perinatal death).

             2. Secondary outcome measures: Frequency of consultations because of maternal concern,
                use of resources in evaluation of these pregnancies (NST, ultrasound, Doppler,
                recurrent consultations), induced or spontaneous start of delivery, mode of birth.

        2. Affect the women's well-being?

             1. Primary outcome measure: Maternal concern.

             2. Secondary outcome measure: Maternal satisfaction with use of FMC and sense of
                control in interpretation of signals from own body and child.

        3. Stimulate maternal-fetal attachment antepartum?

             1. Primary outcome measure: Maternal-fetal attachment.

             2. Secondary outcome measure: Health promoting behavior in pregnancy (smoking habits,
                use of alcohol, attending standard program for antenatal care).
    
  