
    
      Currently, the decision about how much radiation should be given to patients with stage
      IB2-IVA cervical cancer is based on direct physical examination, chest x-ray, computed
      tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, cystoscopy (examination of the
      bladder), proctoscopy (examination of the rectum), and possibly an intravenous pyelogram (a
      test that uses dye to outline the bladder, kidneys, and the tubes that carry urine from the
      kidney to the bladder on an x-ray). Unfortunately, these techniques may not identify cancer
      that has spread to the lymph nodes. Studies have shown that cancer in the lymph nodes is one
      of the most important factors in the return of the cancer. Standard radiation therapy treats
      the lymph nodes in the pelvis area but does not include the lymph nodes in the abdomen
      (called para aortic lymph nodes) . If cancer is present in the lymph nodes in the abdomen and
      it was not detected by the standard techniques, the cancer could be undertreated and the risk
      of the cancer returning would be high.

      Using a surgical procedure called extraperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy, surgeons can
      remove and examine the lymph nodes in the abdomen. This may help to find cancer in the lymph
      nodes that cannot be detected using standard techniques. If these lymph nodes contain cancer,
      the area of the body treated with radiation can be "extended" to treat new areas. This means
      that radiation will be used to treat both the para-aortic lymph nodes (lymph nodes in the
      abdomen) in addition to the standard pelvic radiation.

      Before beginning your radiation therapy, you will be taken to the operating room for the
      laparoscopy procedure. The laparoscopy procedure involves placing a telescope-like instrument
      through a small, usually ½ inch, incision (cut) in the abdomen. Three other small incisions
      are made to place additional instruments that may be needed to complete the surgery. Before
      the laparoscope is inserted, carbon dioxide gas (CO2) is introduced into the side of the
      abdomen. This gas helps to separate the organs inside the abdominal cavity, making it easier
      for the surgeon to see. The laparoscope is then inserted through the small incision. The
      laparoscope has a small camera on the end of the instrument. This is attached to a
      high-resolution TV monitor. Using the TV monitor, the surgeon can see inside your body
      without making a large incision. While watching the TV monitor, the surgeon uses the
      laparoscope to find the para aortic lymph nodes and removes them. Once the procedure is
      finished, the carbon dioxide gas is removed and you are taken to the recovery room.

      The lymph nodes that were removed will be sent to the lab and evaluated for the presence of
      any cancer cells. If cancer is found, your radiation therapy will be adjusted to also treat
      the lymph nodes. If no signs of cancer is found, you will receive the standard radiation
      therapy.

      If, during the laparoscopy procedure, the surgeon finds an obvious sign of cancer (such as
      enlarged lymph nodes) then an exploratory laparotomy will be performed. This procedure
      involves making a long incision in the abdomen so that the surgeon can remove any additional
      lymph nodes that may contain cancer.

      All participants will undergo a Positron Emission Tomography scan, also called a PET scan,
      before their scheduled surgery. This test studies the function of organs such as the heart,
      brain, and bone. The test is different from other imaging tests such as x-rays, CT scans, or
      MRI's because PET images show how tissues function. The other imaging methods show what the
      tissues look like. The PET scanner is similar to a CT or an MRI scanner. The bed on the
      scanner moves during the exam so that each area of the body can be imaged. The PET scanner
      makes no noise.

      Before the PET scan, a blood test (about 1 teaspoon) will be done to check your blood sugar
      level. The day before the scan, you will be asked to follow a special diet. This is to
      control the amount of sugar in your bloodstream. One the day of the scan a small tube will be
      placed in your vein to administer a very small amount of radioactive material. This material
      allows the PET scanner to "see" where the sugar is metabolized in your body. The amount of
      time the scan takes depends on how tall you are and why you are having the test. After the
      scan, patients rest for about 45 to 90 minutes before being discharged. Family members are
      not allowed to come in with the patient during the test. Overall, you should allow about 3
      hours for this scan. If you had this test prior to entering the study, you do not have to
      have this test repeated as long as it was done within 4 weeks of the laparoscopy.

      This is an investigational study. The PET/CT scan will be performed only at M. D. Anderson
      and the laparoscopy procedure will be performed at both M. D. Anderson and Lyndon Baines
      Johnson General Hospital (LBJGH). The chemotherapy and/or radiation treatments may be done at
      either MD Anderson or in your hometown. Up to 70 patients will be enrolled in this
      multicenter study. Up to 55 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  