
    
      Background: Chronic myofascial low back pain (CMLBP) is a common musculoskeletal disease.
      Deep fascia is the structures which insufficient in the theory of spinal stability, the major
      biomechanical role of the thoracolumbar fascia are segmental control and stability of the
      spine and sacroiliac joint, its biomechanical role is influenced by its mechanical properties
      of the fascia. Fascia provide the function of sensation and coordination, it is helpful for
      discussion the compensatory mechanisms for patients with chronic low back pain, and
      contribution to the development of appropriate therapeutic strategies or combined treatments
      in innovative applications. However due to the lack of understanding of myofascia, there are
      difficulties in diagnosis and treatments. It is necessary to establish methods of assessing
      fascia and complete series of study for understanding fascia and its attaching muscles.

      Objective: The objective of three-year research is to investigate the relationship between
      thoracolumbar fascia tissue characteristics, lumbopelvic asymmetry, core muscle
      contractility, proprioception and standing balance in different ages of asymptomatic
      participants and patients with CMLBP.

      Method: 270 subjects are recruited in this study, with ages ranging from 20 to 74 years old.
      120 of the subjects are patients with CMLBP and 150 are asymptomatic participants. Instrument
      in use including real time ultrasound imaging, Zebris 3D motionanalysis system and force
      plate system. The first year is to establish the reliability of measurement of lumbopelvic
      asymmetry, mechanical and physical properties of thoracolumbar fascia, and the norm of
      different age. The second year is to compare the differences among asymptomatic subjects and
      patients with and without lumbopelvic asymmetry, and investigate whether lumbopelvic
      symmetry, core muscle contractility, proprioception and standing balance change after
      manipulating thoracolumbar fascia tissue by physical therapy. The third year is to
      investigate the treatment effect on chronic myofascial back pain patient after 8 weeks
      exercise training with the aid of physical agent.
    
  