
    
      This research project first aims to compare the effects of high-intensity individualized
      group-based core stability training (GroupCoreSIT) for people with MS with standard care in
      the primary health care focusing on balance, walking, ADL, quality of life and
      cost-effectiveness. Secondly, the project aims to investigate patients' experiences from
      participating in the intervention and in standard care, particularly addressing reflections
      regarding content, relevance and feasibility, changes in ADL, continuity of care,
      self-management. The third aim is to investigate how the PTs act and interact with the group
      while conducting the intervention, particularly how individualization is carried out, and the
      PTs' reflections from participating in the education and performance of the intervention.
      Finally, changes in patients' pathways and coordination represent another main objective of
      this project.

      The RCT: hypothesis, study outcomes and measures:

      High-intensity individualised group-based core stability training performed at the municipal
      PTs' facilities, complemented by home exercises, will improve balance, walking, ADL, quality
      of life and cost-effectiveness. This is reflected in the primary and secondary outcomes.

      RCT will be conducted in collaboration with the outpatient clinic for people with MS at the
      Nordland Hospital Trust, Bodø, together with six municipalities in Nordland County. The
      municipalities are included: Bodø, Rana, Meløy, Rødøy, Vågan and Fauske. The out-patient
      clinic agreed to recruit the participants by sending a written invitation to people with MS
      in the selected municipalities, fulfilling the inclusion criteria. Six PTs with expertise in
      neurological physiotherapy agreed to conduct the intervention. These PTs will attend a four
      days practical and theoretical training on the intervention, with 1-2 follow up
      videoconferences during the study.

      A prospective RCT will be conducted, in which 72 persons with MS will participate, undergo a
      6-week intervention, and be followed up for 6 months. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to two arms in a 1:1 ratio. Participants in the intervention arm A will be offered
      individualised group-based core stability training termed GroupCoreSIT at the PTs facilities,
      complemented with home exercises. Participants in the control arm B will be offered standard
      care. Significant improvements in outcomes are expected for the intervention arm compared to
      standard care. Randomisation will be stratified by European Disability Score Scale (EDSS) to
      minimize selection bias and preserve homogeneity between arms. Randomisation and data
      collation will be performed using Remote Data Entry (WebCRF), an Internet-based solution
      developed by the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU). The researchers aim
      to recruit all subjects within 5 months.

      After enrolment, the PTs responsible for performing the intervention, will conduct an
      individual assessment of the participants in arm A as a basis for individualisation in the
      group based intervention.

      Each training group will consist of three participants. The training sessions will last for
      60 minutes, performed three days per week, for six weeks, between 10 am and 5 pm. A total of
      32 exercises with up to 5 levels of difficulty are described and illustrated by photos, will
      be available in an "exercise bank". 10-12 repetitions for each exercise with good quality of
      movement will be performed. Every session will end with active stretching/active relaxation
      and instructions for home exercises. The participants will perform 30-minute of exercises,
      optional to divide into smaller intervals, at home two days per week when there are no
      organized group training.

      Intervention arm A: the participants will perform the training program: GroupCoreSIT in the
      facilities of the municipal physiotherapist.

      Control arm B: the participants in the control group will receive standard care, i.e.
      following their ordinary physiotherapy services and/or routines/activities.

      Procedures and tests The trial will be restricted to patients who have volunteered and
      provided written informed consent in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the
      Ethics Committee procedures.

      At enrolment, a neurologist will do the EDSS screening, medical history, type of MS and
      medications. An appropriately trained PT, also blinded to the arm membership, will perform a
      standardized assessment for all the participants using relevant tests and provide the
      activity monitor. The following baseline information will be collected and then inserted
      electronically in the WebCRF system used also to randomize the patients:

        1. Medical history, type of MS, EDSS, age, gender, weight, height, medications,
           physiotherapy during the previous 6 months.

        2. Two primary outcomes measuring balance in sitting, standing and walking.

        3. Nine secondary outcomes measuring balance, waling, activities of daily living (ADL),
           quality of life and physical activity At 1 week, 3 months and 6 months post intervention
           all the participants will undergo the same standardized assessment performed at
           baseline.

      Exercise, activity and disease monitoring On a weekly basis all the participants will record:
      changes in medication, general wellbeing (qualitative self-score), exacerbations, and
      physical activities using a diary. The ActiGraph monitor will be used 1 week prior to
      intervention, 1 week post intervention and following the 3 and 6 months testing, demonstrated
      and delivered to the subjects by the test PT. In addition, participants in arm A will record:
      degree of exhaustion following group sessions (Borg scale) and home exercise completion (in
      the training diary).

      An intention-to-treat analysis will be performed on all randomised subjects and will serve as
      the primary analysis for all outcomes in this study. The data analysis will be carried out
      using SPSS. Possible differences between the groups at baseline will be calculated by using
      independent sample t-test for continuous variables and chi-square for categorical variables.
      Primary outcomes, changes in balance and walking between the groups will be calculated by
      using independent sample t-test.

      A cost-utility analysis will be conducted using healthcare system costs and quality adjusted
      life years (QALYs). QALYs will be calculated based on the answers of the Health Questionnaire
      (EQ-5D-3L) used to measure changes in patients' quality of life. The incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will be computed as differential costs between intervention
      arm and standard arm over the study period, and differential QALYs. Healthcare utilisation
      (including hospitalisations, emergency department admissions, outpatients visits,
      examinations, primary care visits, rehabilitation) and related costs will be collected
      through the hospitals' electronic patient journal (DIPS), from the Norwegian Patient Registry
      and The Norwegian Health Economics Administration's (HELFO) system. This secondary outcome
      will provide relevant knowledge regarding new effective method in organising healthcare
      services. This can be used as a basis for decision making regarding large-scale
      implementation of rehabilitation.

      Patients' experiences:

      The patients' experiences with the intervention will be examined through qualitative research
      interviews. The interviews will be conducted on a sample of 8-10 participants from the
      intervention and the control arm twice; at the end of intervention and 6 months post
      intervention. In accordance with qualitative methods, the researchers will select the sample
      strategically to promote breadth and variety of data production. Variation in training
      groups, EDSS, age, gender and time since diagnosis are considered to be important. The
      interviews will take place in participants' homes or another convenient place in their
      municipality. The interview topics include: the first assessment/consultation, the group
      situation, content of training, intensity/quantity, pros and cons, home-exercises and ADL.
      The same number of subjects from the control group will be interviewed regarding their
      experiences with standard care, investigating the same topics. In order to provide insight
      into the users' experiences beyond the intervention period the scope for the second
      interviews is: retrospective reflections regarding wellbeing and coping with ADL in the
      period before, during and after the intervention, self-management, and continuity of care,
      pros and cons regarding the intervention and standard care. A theme-based interview guide
      will be used as well as audio recordings of the interviews. The material will be transcribed
      and analyzed using Systematic Text Condensation applying phenomenology of the body, enactive
      theory complemented by neurosciences as a theoretical framework.

      Physiotherapists' performance of intervention and experiences:

      What the PTs emphasize in their individual assessment prior to the first group session will
      be investigated through observation and videotaping of the assessment of one patient in each
      training group (12 observations). These observations will be complemented by qualitative
      research interview with the actual PT (12 interviews) to illuminate the PTs' reflections
      regarding the assessment, planning of the group sessions, choices of exercises and goals for
      the individual. To investigate how the PTs' tailor the intervention in situ, how they act and
      interact with the participants, one session in each group will be observed and videotaped (12
      observations). To illuminate the PTs' reflections regarding education in the intervention,
      experiences from conducting it, particularly focusing on considerations regarding goal
      attainment, individualization in a group setting and home exercises, the PTs will be
      interviewed at the end of each training group period (12 interviews). An observation guide, a
      hand held video-camera and a theme-based interview guide will be used as well as audio
      recordings of the interviews. The material will be transcribed and analysed using Systematic
      Text Condensation applying phenomenology of the body, enactive theory complemented by
      neurosciences and practice knowledge as a theoretical framework.

      Changes in patient's pathway and coordination of care:

      In 2007 The Northern Norway Regional Health Authority (Helse Nord RHF) reported 650 persons
      with MS, the selected outpatient clinic has 300 persons enrolled, and prevalence and
      incidence in Nordland County have recently increased to a high risk area for MS. Courses for
      newly diagnosed persons have priority in the specialist care and current offer of complex
      rehabilitation, included high intensity physiotherapy is provided by the rehabilitation unit
      at UNN, The Rehabilitation Centre, the Kurbad of North Norway, Valnesfjord Rehabilitation
      Centre, supplemented by The National Hakadal MS centre. These institutions are currently
      characterised by long waiting lists. A system for early admission to neurological
      physiotherapy, and particularly to high intensity programs in the primary health care, is not
      established within the coordination of care for people with MS. Referral to municipality
      physiotherapy is not systematic, waiting lists in the primary health care are long, and
      services are often general and not specifically addressing the needs for people with MS.

      To explore coordination of care between the outpatient clinics for people with MS and the
      municipalities regarding high intensity physiotherapy, qualitative interviews will be
      conducted with selected health personnel (MS-nurses, neurologists, PTs, a total of 8-10
      subjects) at the hospitals' outpatient clinics and in municipalities (general practitioners,
      PTs, a total of 8-10 subjects), before the intervention (for the standard care) and after the
      RCT (for the new organizational model). The interviews will focus on structures for
      collaboration and content of service.
    
  