
    
      The study hypotheses will be tested using a prospective randomized-controlled trial of the
      effect of combination blue spectrum phototherapy and benzoyl peroxide on P. acnes at the
      shoulder arthroplasty surgical site. Accordingly, it will conform to the CONSORT
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) guidelines. Subjects presenting to our
      Orthopaedic department will be randomized to one of three study arms:

        1. Control: standard preparation of the surgical site without P. acnes pretreatment

        2. BPO group: Pretreatment with 2 days of washes prior to surgery

        3. BPO and Phototherapy: 2 days of washes with 3 treatments of blue spectrum phototherapy

      Patients will be seen at our office will be consented and recruited into the study. Subjects
      will have standard of care evaluation including: radiographs, preoperative labs and
      clearances. If selected and agreeable, treatment with phototherapy will involve the
      application of three sessions lasting 3 minutes preoperatively; the sessions will be
      conducted by the patient at home for two days prior to surgery and in the preoperative
      holding area. During each application, protective eyewear will be used. For patients in the
      BPO groups, a 10% benzoyl peroxide wash will be used globally on the operative shoulder and
      axilla during showering. An educational leaflet will outline the surgical field in addition
      to temporary demarcation at the time of BPO pickup at the office. Additional tests, imaging
      or procedures will be at the discretion of the treating physician and documented during the
      study. During the postoperative visit at 10-14 days, the post operative wound will be
      assessed in the standard manner. Final culture results will be recorded for each patient and
      documented in the study database.

        -  The surgical site will be prepared in usual fashion with Chloroprep and the patients
           will receive preoperative Cefazolin (or vancomycin based on penicillin allergy)

        -  Following both draping and skin incision, the surgeons gloves will be changed; any
           blades used in the skin incision will also be discarded

        -  Intraoperative cultures will be taken following established protocols, published in the
           literature: an excisional biopsy 1cm long and 3mm wide will be taken from the medial
           wound edge at the time of incision; the superficial dermal tissue will be swabbed
           immediately after the biopsy is taken and finally, a swab of the glenohumeral (shoulder)
           joint will be performed prior to closure at the end of the procedure and after insertion
           of the implant.

        -  Specimens will be transported to the laboratory adjoining the operating room at our
           institution within 1 hour of harvesting and processed by microbiology technicians in a
           laminar flow biological safety hood. Tissue from the skin edge will be homogenized in
           sterile saline solution and plated on media: blood agar, chocolate agar, Brucella agar,
           MacConkey agar, Columbia nalidixic acid agar and phenylethyl alcohol anaerobic blood
           agar. All media will be incubated at 37C for 14 days.

        -  Specimens will be incubated for 14 days in aerobic and anaerobic media to detect P acnes
           and other organisms

        -  Culture results will not be discussed with patients; patients will be consented to not
           know their results as they are not clinically significant

        -  Prophylactic antibiotic treatment of positive cultures will not be performed in any
           case.
    
  