
    
      PROTOCOL SUMMARY

      Study design: Phase II trial of monthly Doxil® and vinorelbine on day 1 and 2 in women with
      metastatic breast cancer.

      Treatment plan: Patients will continue therapy, until they have unacceptable toxicity or
      disease progression.

      Primary endpoint: Response rate

      Secondary endpoints: Time to progression, overall survival and toxicity.

      Additional study objectives: Evaluation of treatment-related dyspnea, with measurement of
      pulse oximetry during and after drug administration, and rigorous study of patients who
      experience dyspnea. Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) will be treated with one of 2
      randomly assigned topical salves, measuring duration and severity of symptoms.

      Eligibility: Women who have had prior chemotherapy in the adjuvant or metastatic setting, or
      both, up to 3 prior regimens. Patients having more than one prior regimen for metastatic
      disease must have a performance status of 0 or 1; others may have 0-2. No prior Doxil® or
      vinorelbine therapy. Patients are ineligible if prior anthracycline dose is greater than 400
      mg/m2, or if they have primary anthracycline-refractory disease, with disease progression
      during treatment or with relapse/recurrence within 6 months after last dose of anthracycline.
      Patients must have normal neurologic, hematologic, renal and hepatic functional parameters.
      Asymptomatic brain metastases are permissible.

      Treatment plan: Doxil® 40 mg/m2 IV infusion over 60 minutes on day 1 Vinorelbine 15 mg/m2 IV
      over 6 minutes on days 1 and 2 Dexamethasone 4 mg IV or 8 mg po (Doxil® pretreatment) Heparin
      5000 U IV (Vinorelbine pretreatment) Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) 200 mg po qd Repeat every 28
      days.

      Supportive measures:

      For anemia (hematocrit < 35): Procrit® 40,000 U q wk For neutropenia (ANC < 1,000/mm3 ):
      Prophylactic antibiotics (Cipro® or Septra®) For all cycles after neutropenic fever/infection
      or grade 3-4 stomatitis: Prophylactic Neulasta® 6 mg SQ on day 3 (This intervention may be
      adopted for all patients, all cycles, if 2 of the first 4 patients enrolled need it.) For
      PPE: randomize between 2 topical salves and document duration and severity of sx

      Dose adjustments: Subsequent cycles are given on day 29 or after recovery or to grade 0-1
      toxicity, with no more than 3 weeks delay. Reduce dose of both drugs by 25% if grade 3 or 4
      stomatitis or palmar-plantar or grade 4 thrombocytopenia. Reduce dose of Doxil® ONLY by
      50-75% if abnormal bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase and/or ALT, AST (appendix 14.3)
    
  