
    
      Primary Aim: To compare the primary endpoint event rates in patients with ESRD and candidates
      for a new BBAVF randomized to have one-stage or two-stage BBAVF procedure.

      Primary Endpoint: Primary Clinical Functional Patency, defined as the successful use of the
      index BBAVF with two needles for 75% of dialysis sessions over a continuous 4-week period
      without any endovascular or surgical procedure on the fistula (modified from the HFM
      study).Time to first occurrence of a qualifying clinical event will be compared utilizing
      follow-up at 6-month and 12-month after fistula creation (minimum of 12-month/subject).

      Secondary Aims: To compare the secondary endpoints (Fistula-related, CVC-related, and
      composite clinicaloutcomes) of subjects randomizing to one-stage or two-stage BBAVF
      procedure. CVC-related events will be calculated from the index procedure in the one-stage
      approach and the first procedure for the two-stage BBAVF approach.

      Secondary Endpoints: 1) Fistula-related outcome: stenosis and thrombosis, infection, arm
      swelling, hand ischemia, surgery or intervention, and hospitalization; 2) CVC-related
      outcome: duration of dependency, infection, bacteremia, and additional CVC procedure
      (exchange, placement of new CVC); and 3) Composite outcomes of Primary Clinical Functional
      Patency or CVC-related bacteremia or death.

      Hypothesis: Primary Clinical Functional Patency will be superior following two-stage compared
      to one-stage BBAVF procedure. CVC-related complications will be higher following two-stage
      compared to one-stage BBAVf procedure the investigator will recruit 60 subjects aged 18 years
      or older with ESRD who will undergo a BBAVF. Thirty subjects will be randomized in the
      one-stage approach and 30 subjects in the two-stage approach. The expectation for enrollment
      is 1 subject/month/site, and the recruitment period will be for 12 months.

      Inclusion criteria (all must be present for inclusion): 1. Age ≥ 18 years; 2. ESRD receiving
      hemodialysis (CVC) in need for new hemodialysis access; 3. Candidate for one-stage and
      two-stage BVT procedure as judged by the enrolling investigator; 4. Greater than 3 mm
      diameter of upper arm basilic vein on venous duplex scan; 5.Life expectancy ≥ 12 months; 6.
      Anticipated ability to comply with study procedures;

      Exclusion criteria (none of these can be met for inclusion):

        1. Life expectancy < 12 months;

        2. Brachial artery stenosis or occlusion;

        3. A documented hypercoagulable state (defined as a known blood disorder associated with
           venous or arterial thrombosis);

        4. Current immunosuppressive medication, chemotherapy or radiation therapy;

        5. Pregnancy or lactation
    
  