
    
      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) in pregnancy has dramatically reduced the rates of perinatal HIV
      transmission. Many pregnant women infected with HIV may not meet the criteria for treatment
      as set forth by the Department of Health and Human Services' guidelines and would not be
      started on therapy if they were not pregnant. Pregnant women are prescribed a variety of
      treatment regimens; the optimum regimen for pregnant women who plan to discontinue therapy
      after delivery is unknown. An optimum regimen would account for the need for maximum viral
      suppression, minimal fetal toxicity, and preservation of future therapeutic options for the
      mother. This study will compare an all nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)
      regimen of ABC/3TC/ZDV with a standard protease inhibitor (PI) regimen of LPV/RTV and
      3TC/ZDV. This study was initially designed for women who plan to take antiretrovirals only
      while pregnant and do not meet the criteria for treatment initiation if not pregnant.
      However, pregnant women who have taken ART for 180 days or less or have taken ZDV monotherapy
      for a total of 8 weeks or less prior to entering this study are eligible for Version 2.0 of
      this study.

      Women in this study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Women in Group A will
      receive one pill ABC/3TC/ZDV twice a day. Women in Group B will receive one pill 3TC/ZDV and
      4 pills LPV/RTV twice a day. Women will take their assigned medications until they go into
      labor. Once in labor, women will be given zidovudine through intravenous (IV) infusion; they
      will stop taking oral zidovudine but will continue with their other medications. After
      delivery, all infants will be given zidovudine for six weeks.

      Women will have study visits every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks of treatment, and then every
      4 weeks until Week 28. Depending on where a woman is in her pregnancy when she enrolls in the
      study, she will also have study visits at Weeks 20, 28, and 34 of her pregnancy. At each
      visit, women will have a medical interview, a physical exam, and an obstetrical exam; blood
      and urine collection will occur at these visits. Mothers will undergo a fetal ultrasound at
      Week 20. Adherence, health status, and behavior assessments will occur at selected visits
      prior to delivery.

      After delivery, women will stop taking the study medications but will continue to have study
      visits at approximately 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 52 weeks after delivery. Medical history and a
      physical exam will occur at all visits for mothers postpartum. Blood collection will occur at
      every postpartum visit; urine collection will occur 12, 24, and 48 weeks postpartum; health
      status and behavior assessments will occur at most visits postpartum. Infants will have study
      visits at 2, 16, and 24 weeks after birth. A medical history, physical exam, and laboratory
      tests will be conducted at the infant study visits. Women will also be asked to enroll their
      infants in PACTG 219C, a long-term study that follows infants who are born to HIV infected
      mothers.
    
  