
    
      This is a randomized (2:1), explorative, parallel-group, open-label, phase II trial in
      elderly patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. In the control arm, patients will receive
      radiotherapy, in the experimental arm, patients will receive bevacizumab during and after
      radiotherapy until progression.

      Background:

      For decades, neurosurgical resection and postoperative radiotherapy have been the
      cornerstones of treatment for patients with glioblastoma. Most chemotherapeutic agents showed
      little or no activity in malignant glioma patients, with the possible exception of
      nitrosoureas. This has changed with the introduction of temozolomide, first shown to be
      active in recurrent disease (Yung et al. 2000) and more recently in newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma (Stupp et al. 2005, 2009). This EORTC 26981-22981 NCIC CE.3 trial demonstrated
      an increase in median survival from 12.1 to 14.6 months and of the 2 year survival rate from
      10% to 26% in patients receiving radiotherapy plus temozolomide compared with radiotherapy
      alone. Notably patients with tumors exhibiting methylation of the promoter region of the
      O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene showed a striking benefit from
      temozolomide (Hegi et al. 2005). Yet, inclusion in this trial was limited to patients up to
      the age of 70, and subgroup analyses demonstrated that younger patients were more likely to
      derive benefit from combined modality treatment than older patients. Thus, radiotherapy alone
      is still the standard of care in the elderly. The value of radiotherapy has been confirmed in
      a small randomized trial comparing best supportive care versus radiotherapy alone: median
      survival was 29 weeks with radiotherapy compared with 16.9 weeks with supportive care only
      (Keime-Guibert et al. 2007). Based on the overall shorter survival in elderly patients,
      hypofractionated radiotherapy has been explored and shown to be equieffective in patients
      aged 65-70 years and more (Roa et al. 2004). Two randomized trials presented in abstract form
      at the Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology in June 2010 failed to
      show superiority of primary temozolomide chemotherapy alone over radiotherapy alone in
      elderly patients (Malmstrom et al. 2010, Wick et al. 2010a). In fact, the German NOA-08 trial
      even showed that primary temozolomide alone is not non-inferior to primary radiotherapy alone
      (Wick et al. 2010a). A concomitant treatment strategy is currently evaluated in a NCIC-EORTC
      randomized trial. Further, the Nordic trial corroborated the equieffectiveness of an
      accelerated radiotherapy protocol of 40 Gy administered in 15 fractions versus the standard
      fractionation of 30 x 2 Gy. Altogether, these clinical data justify the exploration of new,
      temozolomide-free first-line treatment strategies in glioblastoma.

      Glioblastomas express high levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and are highly
      vascularized tumors. The VEGF antibody, bevacizumab, has recently gained approval in patients
      with recurrent glioblastoma in the USA and in Switzerland in 2009, but not in the EU. Its
      role in the first-line treatment of glioblastoma is currently being evaluated in randomized
      trials. There is limited data on the safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in elderly patients
      with glioblastoma, although the safety profile of bevacizumab in elderly patients with other
      types of cancer, e.g., lung cancer is favorable. There are ample rationales for combining
      bevacizumab with radiotherapy, including the induction of VEGF by radiotherapy and the
      concept of vascular normalization resulting in increased oxygenation and thus sensitivity to
      radiotherapy. Thus, bevacizumab is not only expected to inhibit angiogenesis, but may also
      exhibit additive or synergistic interactions with radiotherapy and further impair tumor
      growth. Altogether, this study seeks to explore, using a dedicated neuroimaging protocol, the
      possibility that bevacizumab enhances the effects of radiotherapy via the process of vascular
      normalization.

      The purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with
      radiotherapy compared with radiotherapy alone in the treatment of newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma in the elderly.
    
  