
    
      The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RNYGB) is the most commonly performed bariatric procedure to
      treat morbid obesity 1. Numerous studies have documented the effectiveness of RNYGB in
      promoting excess weight loss (EWL) typically in the 65-80% range after 1.5 to 2 years 1.
      Despite the favorable short-term outcomes of this bariatric surgical procedure, approximately
      10-40% of patients do not achieve successful long-term weight loss 2. The weight regain
      occurs typically within 2 to 7 years after RNYGB surgery and is associated primarily with
      dilation of the gastric pouch or stoma 3, 4. Several open and laparoscopic bariatric revision
      procedures have been used in an attempt to correct these dilations, but they all have been
      associated with serious complications such as perforations, obstruction, staple line
      disruption, blind loop syndrome, stoma ulcer, and incisional hernias 2, 5, 6. Because of this
      high rate of morbidity associated with revisional gastric bypass surgery, less invasive
      endoscopic procedures may become a preferred approach for weight regain after RNYGB 7, 8.

      The StomaphyX delivery system with SerosaFuse fasteners consist of an ergonomic, flexible
      fastener delivery device and sterile polypropylene fastener implants. The unit is provided
      sterile and is a single use device. The polypropylene fasteners are proprietary and function
      only with the StomaphyX device. The device uses vacuum to invaginate tissue through a port
      into a chamber and fasten it using the H shaped polypropylene fasteners. The fastener
      delivery subsystem is comprised of 3 elements: stylet, pusher, and internal lumens. They run
      the length of the device, the pusher being a hollow tube that rides over the length of the
      stylet, both riding in the lumen. The stylet is sharp at the distal tip to pierce tissue. The
      fastener is loaded by snapping it onto the stylet in the loading port of the handle. When
      pushed by the operator, the stylet carries the fastener down the lumen which runs from the
      proximal handle assembly to the distal tissue port where it will eventually be deployed into
      the tissue. Durability of the SerosaFuse fasteners has been demonstrated during several
      clinical studies utilizing the EsophyX device 9-12.

      Reason for Conducting the Present Study: The goal of this study was to investigate the safety
      and effectiveness of the StomaphyX device for revisional natural orifice surgery of the
      gastric pouch and gastrojejunostomy anastomosis (stoma) in RNYGB patients to reduce regained
      weight.
    
  