
    
      Pain management after surgery is not optimal partly due to great interindividual variability
      in pain perception and coping. This also can lead to persistent pain beyond the healing
      period and disability. Up to two-thirds of the inter-individual variability result from
      genetic variations in pain perception as well as response to the pain medicine. The
      investigators aim to identify genomic (genetic/epigenetic), psychological and drug profiles
      contributing to this variability. Opioids are the mainstay for treatment of postoperative
      pain in children. Experience dictates that opioids have narrow therapeutic indices and large
      inter-patient variability in response. This leads to serious side effects like respiratory
      depression in up to 50% of children undergoing invasive surgery, which can be fatal. It is
      evident that there are particular children who are more susceptible to suffering side effects
      and having inadequate pain relief from opioids.

      It is hypothesized that much of the genetic variability can be explained by gene function
      which is modulated by a) Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes that encode proteins
      involved in pain perception, opioid transport/metabolism (pharmacokinetics), and opioid
      receptor signaling (pharmacodynamics); b) epigenetics which modify gene expression without
      structural changes to the DNA, and c) genes that influence psychological factors.

      Identifying genetic and non-genetic predictors for this susceptibility is vital for safe and
      effective analgesia in children. This is a critical knowledge gap in medical literature that
      significantly impacts pediatric pain management. The investigators' central hypothesis is
      that specific genetic polymorphisms in genes involved in pain perception, opioid transport,
      and opioid receptor signaling pathways contribute significantly to pain sensitivity, opioid
      side-effects, and analgesic efficacy in children.

      The choice and dosing of opioids and pain management approaches have thus far been largely
      empirical, with a frequent need to switch medications, strategies and alter doses due to
      inherent differences in individuals. By this study, the investigators hope to develop
      preemptive approaches and drug targets that can be targeted to individual risk and
      genomic-psychosocial profiles. The study will help determine the 'right' doses of the 'right'
      opioids for optimized and safe postoperative analgesia in children. This will be done by
      first building population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic models for opioid
      concentration-exposure and then investigating covariates.

      Given the unexplored nature of this complex phenomenon, The investigators propose a
      comprehensive study to evaluate gene, drug, and surgical interactions, in a large sample of
      650 children undergoing different surgeries, requiring patient controlled analgesia with
      opioids.

      The investigators' long term goal is to develop more effective, safer, and tailored pediatric
      opioid analgesia, by contributing to better understanding of the underlying genetic basis for
      variations in the sensitivity to pain, pain relief, and development of adverse effects from
      the extended use of postoperative intravenous opioids in children.

      The data collected will include acute and long-term pain data, opioid doses, incidence of
      side-effects of opioids - including respiratory depression, sedation, vomiting, and itching,
      and blood samples for genetic and pharmacometric analyses. Data analysis will use advanced
      logistic regression techniques to uncover the association between the SNP variants and the
      response to specific opioids following various surgeries.
    
  