
    
      The objectives of the study are as follows:

      Primary Objective:

      To determine the characteristic physiological and biological changes exhibited by females who
      develop the following liver diseases during pregnancy.

        -  Acute fatty liver of pregnancy

        -  Severe cholestasis of pregnancy

        -  Severe HELLP syndrome/hypertensive disease

        -  Pre-existing cirrhosis and pregnancy This will be determined through analysis of the
           standard of care imaging (Liver Ultrasound and Transient Elastography) and blood results
           (liver function tests, white blood cells, platelets and scoring systems for assessing
           the severity of liver disease (ALBI, APRI, FIB4 and ELF scores). These results will be
           analysed over the course of the participant's pregnancy and again at delivery, to
           explore any particularly distinguishing parameter changes for each disease group.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine the change in the reported quality of life of these participants either
           from diagnosis of pregnancy-associated liver disease or confirmation of pregnancy for
           pre-existing cirrhotic patients - up to 3 months' post-delivery.

        2. To determine the mitochondrial DNA content of blood from patients with Acute Fatty Liver
           of Pregnancy.

        3. Create an associated pan-European bio-resource (whole blood and serum) collection, which
           will offer an opportunity for ongoing collaborative translational research. Each
           participant will be given the option of donating additional research samples (15ml) of
           blood at each visit under the study for the bio-resource.

      Data from cirrhotic patients will be collected from pre-pregnancy and during the first,
      second and third trimesters as well as at delivery and post-partum. Data from patients with
      AFLP/HELLP/ICP will be collected from pre-diagnosis, at first presentation of liver disease,
      at peak of liver disease, during the recovery period from peak liver disease as well as at
      delivery and post-partum.
    
  