
    
      BACKGROUND Sepsis claims many lives annually, and poses a substantial drain on NHS (National
      Health System) resources. The use of a 'track-and-trigger' monitoring system, or the National
      Early Warning System (NEWS) has reduced mortality rates in recent years, by detecting the
      early onset of Sepsis. However, the acquisition of vital signs, required as part of NEWS, is
      a manual, error-prone, and time consuming process. Therefore, scope exists for improvement in
      the care pathway by automation and subsequent improvements in reliability, staff
      productivity, and patient treatment outcomes.

      Post-operative patients are typically monitored for a period of time before they are
      discharged. Potentially, patient safety can be further improved, and earlier discharge can be
      enabled by means of a continuous vital signs monitoring device, with algorithms that can
      track deterioration/recovery rate. This complementary information, together with the NEWS
      score, can then provide objective metrics to aid the attending physician. The primary
      objectives of this study are to assess the effectiveness of Bodytrak in monitoring patient
      health.

      In addition, within the set of vital signs monitored by NEWS, it is most difficult to
      automate the measurement of the Level of Consciousness/Alertness (LOC). Therefore, one
      objective of the proposed project is to investigate the feasibility of developing an
      unobtrusive method for automatically measuring LOC, of patients who are not under the
      influence of general anesthesia, which leads to the introduction of Bodytrak. Bodytrak® is a
      non-invasive, wireless ear-based device which can continuously monitor physiological
      parameters including tympanic temperature, photoplethysmography (PPG) derived heart rate and
      heart rate variability and accelerometer based motion metrics. The earpiece should fit
      comfortably within the right ear, similar to a earphone.

      To this end, the physiological and biomechanical signals required for LOC algorithm
      development will be acquired using Bodytrak®. Automating the measurements of two other vital
      signs - Tympanic temperature and heart rate, will be carried out using Bodytrak® as well.
      Since these vitals are important predictors of Sepsis, and because they are currently part of
      the NEWS framework, providing reliable means of measurement, and automating the acquisition
      process is consistent with the goal of improving patient safety and staff productivity. As an
      important part of the study, these primary vital signs will be evaluated against validated
      medical devices.

      Further, critical to eventual improvement of the care pathway by means of Bodytrak® is the
      feedback that can be gathered from both patients and clinical staff, since they are the end
      users of the system. If this application is approved, Inova intends to work closely with its
      partner, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, in order to gather information necessary for the
      integration of Bodytrak® into the NEWS framework.

      TRIAL DESIGN The trial is a non-blind, non-randomised single group feasibility study. 8
      participants will be recruited who have scheduled elective surgery and aftercare in the HDU
      (high dependency unit). Patient participation will include 2 visits: a screening visit during
      a pre-clinic visit; and an intervention visit which will last approximately 2.5 days during
      their elective surgery in-patient stay in the high dependency unit. During their in-patient
      stay, participants will wear a Bodytrak earpiece during the day (for approximately 8 hours
      per day during the working hours of the research nurse), alongside continuous vital sign
      monitoring from hospital standard equipment (Philips Intellivue MP50 Monitor). The research
      nurse will carry out hourly checks on the patient to ensure the earpiece is not causing any
      discomfort. Patients will be asked to complete a feedback questionnaire regarding their
      experience of wearing Bodytrak. Research nurse's will also complete a feedback questionnaire
      regarding their use of Bodytrak.

      While the sample size is admittedly small, note that the purpose of this study is NOT to
      validate Bodytrak® as a medical device, but rather to determine if it is feasible to devise
      reliable algorithms for reliably detecting the LOC and patient status, as well as to carry
      out a preliminary evaluation of the vital signs derived from Bodytrak®. A power analysis test
      will be carried out after the data collection has completed, in order to ascertain the
      validity of the statistical tests used and to determine if the sample size is sufficiently
      large. This would provide useful information for further studies that need to be carried out.
    
  