epsilon-aminocaproic acid (e-aca) as a therapeutic agent based on 5years clinical experience.experience in the treatment of 744 patients withe-aca suggested that the use of the preparation is indicatedin the following situations: (1) fibrinolytic haemorrhagein association with delivery.  (2) acute systemicfibrinolysis in association with surgery.  it ismainly major operations on the thorax, pancreas, prostate,liver and genital organs that are complicated byfibrinolysis, but fibrinolytic bleedings can occur afterany operation.  (3) acute systemic fibrinolysis in patientswith cancer, particularly cancer of the prostateand pancreas.  (4) systemic fibrinolytic states complicatingvarious disorders, especially leukaemia, livercirrhosis and boeck's sarcoid.  (5) as an antidote inthrombolytic therapy.  (6) local fibrinolytic activityin the urinary tract in the following situations: (a)after prostatectomy.  e-aca will substantially reduceblood losses following prostatectomy, especially if thetreatment is continued until the urine has become macroscopicallyclear.  (b) haematuria in prostatic cancer,prostatic hyperplasia, prolonged haematuria after traumaticinjury of the kidney, haematuria in haemophilia andother coagulation defects, and so-called essential haematuria.(7) ulcerative colitis.  the drug is equally effectivewhether given orally or intravenously.  in stateswith increased systemic fibrinolytic activity a dose of0.1 g per kg body weight every 4-5 hours is recommended.for inhibition of local fibrinolytic activity inthe urinary tract, a dose of 3 g three times a day hasproved sufficient.  the side-effects consisted of dizziness,nausea and diarrhoea.  no toxic effects of the drug one.c.g., blood picture, n.p.n. and liver function testswere observed, not even in cases receiving more than1000 g of e-aca.  nor did postmortem examination in46 cases reveal any signs of a toxic effect.  no signs ofintravascular coagulation in connection with e-acatherapy were observed.  the incidence of thromboemboliccomplications after prostatectomy in patientstreated with e-aca and a series of controls was identical.judging from the authors' experience in this materiale-aca did not act as an agent inducing thrombosis.