
    
      The study will be conducted in approximately 5 sites across South Korea and will include EGFR
      TKI pre-treated patients. All patients will be required to have NSCLC associated with at
      least 1 site of LM as identified by the Investigator that can be assessed by magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) scan and that is suitable for repeat assessments. Presence of
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) measurable intracranial
      (INC) metastases (ie, brain parenchyma and cranial leptomeninges) and/or extracranial (EXC)
      metastases is not mandatory. The presence of LM will be based on the Investigator assessment
      of the brain MRI scan. LM will be confirmed by radiologist from the central site to ensure
      that patients enrolled in the study are assessable for LM radiologically. Patients negative
      for LM according to radiologist assessment but enrolled in the study will be replaced. The
      replaced patient will be included in the study and will receive investigational product (IP)
      if, in the opinion of the Investigator, the patient is able to receive clinical benefit. Such
      a patient will not be evaluable for LM response in the LM-EFR analysis set.Full analyses set
      (FAS) is defined as patients enrolled who received at least 1 dose of study treatment. In
      addition to Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for Leptomeningeal Metastases
      (RANO-LM) assessments, separate RECIST 1.1 imaging assessments on EXC disease and INC (both
      LM and non-LM) disease will be performed on images acquired using the preferred method of
      contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and abdomen (and pelvis when
      indicated) (EXC) and gadolinium contrast-enhanced MRI scan of the brain (INC).

      Baseline scans will be acquired within 28 days prior to first dose of IP and then every 8
      weeks (±1 week) and every 12 weeks (±1 week) after 12 months relative to first dose. Patients
      who discontinue IP for reasons other than objective disease progression in all of INC, EXC,
      and LM, will continue scans every 8 weeks (±1 week; relative to date of first dose of IP) and
      every 12 weeks (±1 week, after 12 months) until objective progression in INC, EXC, and LM or
      withdrawal of consent. Progression refers to progression assessed objectively by imaging
      using RECIST 1.1 for non-LM INC and EXC or RANO-LM criteria as appropriate. If a patient has
      been deemed to have LM subjective disease progression according to radiological and clinical
      assessment by the Investigatorstudy treatment can be continue, and the patient should
      maintain tumor imaging assessments according to the schedule of assessments.

      CSF sampling for cytology is not mandatory, but is strongly encouraged, in patients who are
      willing to have lumbar punctures during the study, or in those patients who have Ommaya
      reservoirs.

      Physical examination, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)/World Health Organization
      (WHO) performance status score, vital signs, and laboratory tests (hematology, clinical
      chemistry, and urinalysis) will be conducted at each visit. Adverse events (AEs) will be
      monitored and recorded on an ongoing basis. Twelve-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) will be
      performed at baseline and at the time point of investigator's decision and will include
      measurement of the QT interval. A multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) or echocardiogram will
      be performed at baseline and at the time point of investigator's decision for left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measurement. Plasma and CSF (if feasible) samples for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis will be collected at pre-dose on Cycle 3 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day
      1.

      Patient-Reported Outcome (PRO) questionnaires, including European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 items (EORTC QLQ-C30),
      EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Brain Cancer Module 20 items (EORTC QLQ-BN20) will be
      collected at baseline (prior to first dose of IP and prior to all other assessments on Cycle
      1 Day 1) and at home (every 8 weeks [±3 days for EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-BN20 relative to
      administration of IP). The patient is asked to report PROs up to the end of Cycle 8 or to IP
      discontinuation, whichever comes first.
    
  