
    
      Panelists will be screened for their ability to discriminate 0.5% linoleic acid emulsion from
      the blank using two sequential tetrad tests. Panelists will wear nose clips during the tests.
      Panelists must successfully complete both tetrads in order to qualify for the study.
      Panelists who qualify for the full study will provide written informed consent as well as
      data on their ethnic background, age, and their habitual fat intake. Heights and weights will
      be measured.

      After completing the screening tests and the demographic questions, panelists will receive 15
      samples (for the first group: "All tastes sorting") or 12 samples (for the second group:
      "Bitters sorting"). When panelists receive the samples, they will be instructed to put on
      nose clips and keep the clips on for the duration of the test. Participants will be provided
      with water for rinsing their mouths as well as a cup to spit the samples into after tasting.
      Panelists will be provided with more water and additional spit cups as necessary. Next,
      panelists will be instructed to: "Taste each sample, spit it into the spit cup, and rinse
      with water. Then, sort the samples into groups you believe are similar. Groups may contain as
      many or as few samples as you desire. You may have as many or as few groups as you desire."
      Once they have decided on their groups, they will write in a description for each group and
      rate the group for its overall similarity. After finishing this initial sorting task, if
      panelists have more than two total groups, they will be instructed to select the two groups
      they believe are most similar to each other and combine them. If panelists still have more
      than two total groups, they will be instructed to combine the two most similar groups again.
      This will continue until panelists only have two groups remaining. At each level, panelists
      will rate the new, combined group for its overall similarity on a visual analog scale, as
      before.

      Data from this sorting task will be compiled in to dissimilarity matrices for each
      participant, showing how many groups it took them before each sample was combined with each
      other sample. This data will be analyzed to determine if the fatty acid samples are similar
      or unique in sensation from other taste qualities.
    
  