
    
      The present study is a prospective, observational registry designed to generate real-world
      data on the physician-recommended use of ST products for the management of chronic non-cancer
      pain in countries where these products are commercially available. The study will enroll 1500
      subjects from 50-150 sites in geographic regions of ST product distribution, over a 2-year
      period. Subjects at each site will be followed for one year to collect data on demographics,
      chronic pain classification, cannabis experience, treatment goals, concomitant medication(s),
      ST treatment regimen, clinical assessment, subject-reported outcomes, and safety. The study
      includes five physician-verified visits (baseline, 2, 4, 8, and 12 months), and four at-home
      subject-verified follow-ups (months 1, 3, 6, 10). Physician verified follow-ups can be
      conducted in person or via telemedicine. Additionally, should there be a need, according to
      the physician's judgement, there may be other unscheduled visits, either in-clinic, or via
      telemedicine. All data will be collected using REDCap Cloud data management platform, via
      online electronic case report forms (eCRFs), and questionnaires. During physician-verified
      visits, online questionnaires will be completed by both the physician and the subject (in the
      presence of a physician or study site personnel). At-home subject-verified follow-ups will be
      conducted via the REDCap Cloud online portal accessible by computer, tablet, or smartphone.

      The following activities will be completed at the Baseline Visit.

        -  The subject will receive an explanation of the study purpose and procedures, sign the
           electronic informed consent form (eICF), physician will review eligibility check list,
           if female of childbearing potential, subject will complete a urine pregnancy test.

        -  Together, physician and subject will create an account on REDCap Cloud. Together,
           physician and subject will complete the baseline assessment measuring:

             -  Demographics;

             -  Chronic pain classification;

             -  Cannabis experience;

             -  Concomitant medications;

             -  Treatment goal;

             -  ST treatment regimen;

             -  Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF);

             -  Euro Quality of Life Assessment (EQ5D-5L).

        -  The subject will be scheduled for the first physician-verified follow-up visit
           approximately 2 months after the initiation of treatment with an ST product.

      The following activities will be completed at each physician-verified follow-up visit:

        -  Physician and subject will discuss the overall treatment regimen.

        -  Physician will review the subject's online REDCap Cloud entries.

        -  Together, physician and subject will complete the follow-up visit assessment measuring:

             -  ST treatment regimen

             -  Concomitant medications

             -  Clinician Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I)

             -  BPI-SF

             -  EQ5D-5L

             -  Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C)

             -  Physician adverse events (AEs) form

      The following measures are to be completed by the subject for each at-home follow-up:

        -  ST treatment regimen

        -  Additional cannabis consumption

        -  BPI-SF

        -  EQ5D-5L

        -  Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C)

        -  Subject adverse events (AEs) log

      In the event of ST treatment discontinuation or study dropout, physicians will be asked to
      attempt to follow-up with subjects for the completion of the ST Discontinuation assessment
      and Exit assessment. Based on physician answers to the ST Discontinuation Assessment,
      subjects will either stay enrolled in the study (e.g., discontinue all cannabis treatment,
      but continue to be monitor by site physician for chronic pain), or be withdrawn (e.g.,
      unwilling to stay in the study, switched cannabis licensed producer).

      Safety Monitoring:

      Spontaneous AE reporting will be entered in REDCap Cloud by the subject during subject
      follow-ups, using the Subject AE log. Physicians will verify and assess all AEs entered at
      physician follow-ups, using the Physician AEs form. All serious adverse events will be sent
      directly to Canopy Growth's Global Pharmacovigilance Department (GPVD) in real-time, where
      they will be reviewed with respect to country specific regulatory requirements. All
      non-serious adverse events will be sent in a monthly report to GPVD.

      Duration of Subject Participation and Treatment:

      Subjects will be followed for one year, unless the subject withdraws early, either
      independently or in response to physician recommendation. ST treatment will continue for as
      long as subjects and physicians agree that there is a benefit and treatment is tolerated.

      Primary endpoints

        -  Physician selection of Spectrum Therapeutics (ST) medical cannabis treatment regimen and
           changes over time in:

             1. average daily dose of THC and CBD (in mg);

             2. route of administration (inhaled or ingested).

                Secondary endpoints

        -  Subject selection of ST treatment regimen and changes over time in:

             1. average daily dose of THC and CBD (in mg);

             2. route of administration (inhaled or ingested).

        -  Change in BPI-SF responses from baseline.

        -  Change in EQ5D-5L responses from baseline.

        -  PGI-C for the target treatment goal.

        -  CGI-I for the target treatment goal.

        -  In subjects taking an opioid, changes in opioid use over time (calculated as milligram
           morphine equivalents [MME]/day).

        -  Among subjects taking other medication, total daily dose change over time.

      Safety endpoint

      • Incidence of AEs stratified by product and formulation.

      Number of Subjects (Planned):

      Given a continuous enrollment design, the study will include two enrollment milestones over
      the 2-year study period. Milestone 1, targeted for the end of year 1 will be to recruit 750
      subjects. Milestone 2, targeted for the end of year 2 will be to recruit 750 subjects. To
      enroll a total of up to 1500 subjects. The number of subjects may vary based on the real-life
      use of ST products. Sites will be recruited from countries where ST products are available:
      Canada, Germany, and Australia. Sites from additional countries may be included as ST
      products are rolled out in those countries and based on site feasibility. The present study
      has an observational design that poses low-burden for subjects, as the number and frequency
      of in-clinic (telemedicine) visits represent those necessary for adequate monitoring of
      treatment for chronic pain and at-home follow-ups will be completed using a simple online app
      and take no longer than 15 minutes to complete. On this premise, no restriction was placed on
      the sample size based on an estimated minimum required sample. Furthermore, the observational
      nature of the primary endpoint (daily average dose [in mg] of THC and CBD and mode of
      administration [inhaled or ingested]), did not permit an a priori power analysis to estimate
      sample size. A sample size of 1500 subjects is consistent with similar previous observational
      registry studies.
    
  