
    
      One of the major problems in managing RA is adherence to rehabilitation and medication.
      Studies report low adherence to medication among patients of RA. Certain barriers to
      rehabilitation also exists which may include exhaustive treatment attendance, time management
      and direct costs. Patient intentionally make decisions of non adherence to their prescribed
      rehabilitation schedule and medication regimen. This may be due to suffering from adverse
      drug reactions (ADRs) of medications, excessive pain arising from physical therapy and/or
      out-of-pocket costs.

      Pharmacists have the potential to improve the patient's clinical, humanistic and economic
      outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis by providing pharmaceutical care. This can be executed by:

        1. Resolving drug related problems and managing drug therapy

        2. Management of modifiable risk factors such as weight

        3. Recommending dietary and lifestyle changes

        4. Providing patient counseling, disease education and medication advice

        5. Reducing the out-of-pocket costs

        6. Improve overall well being and quality of life

      Evidence from the past indicates a varying prevalence of RA in Pakistan. Figures for
      prevalence of RA varied geographically as literature reported a prevalence of 0.142% to 5.5%
      in the southern and northern region of Pakistan respectively. Recently, a study conducted in
      a tertiary care unit in the city of Karachi located in southern region reported a figure of
      633 (12.9%) for RA patients out of total 4900 patients who visited rheumatology clinic in the
      hospital. It highlighted that disease burden in this region has dramatically increased.

      Most Pakistani patients lack adequate disease knowledge and awareness regarding RA. Moreover,
      patients in Pakistan have to pay direct medical cost in most of the cases. In the past,
      studies have highlighted that Pakistani patients view costs per session and treatment
      attendance as major barriers to undergo physical therapy sessions for rheumatological
      disorders.

      There is a dearth of literature reported on pharmacist's inclusion to improve treatment
      outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis.There are no reported figures for adherence to treatment and
      medications for RA or any musculoskeletal disease. Studies conducted in Pakistan also
      highlight that pharmacists have the potential to improve economic, clinical and humanistic
      outcomes by providing pharmaceutical care to patients. However, it is to be seen if
      pharmacist can actually achieve the milestone i.e. improve patient treatment outcomes of
      rheumatoid arthritis. A randomized trial is therefore needed employing pharmacist
      intervention in RA patients. This present an excellent opportunity to identify the areas
      where a pharmacist has the potential to play his/her role and evaluate its effectiveness.
    
  