
    
      Subjects will be enrolled at the time of discharge from the observation unit (visit 1), all
      baseline procedures will be performed at this time, these would include blood draw for
      biomarker assessments, vitals, physical examination, and IP dispensation. At the baseline
      visit, the study team will schedule a follow-up appointment post Day 28 +/- 2 (Visit 3) with
      the subject's primary care physician(PCP)/cardiologist, if the subject does not have their
      own PCP/cardiologist the study team will schedule and facilitate this appointment with the
      Gateway Clinic. A list of current medications and doses will be provided. At Day 14 +/-1
      (visit 2) the subject will return for a follow up visit for IP accountability and titration
      (if needed), BB uptitration (if needed), replacement of the HR monitor (Zio patch),
      assessment of any adverse events, ECG, vital signs, and will undergo a physical examination.
      At Day 28 +/-2 (visit 3), the patient will return for study exit procedures, which include
      blood draw for biomarker assessments, vitals, physical examination, assessment of adverse
      events (if any), and IP return.

      As with any clinical trial, no un-blinding will occur unless there is a concern for patient
      safety, as this could affect the integrity of data. The study team will provide the patient
      and patient's PCP/cardiologist a clinical summary, inclusive of ECGs. On-going management for
      the patient's condition will be at the discretion of their PCP/cardiologist and will not be
      influenced directly by participation in this study.

      At Randomization the initial Ivabradine dose will be 5 mg BID. At Day 14 follow up,
      medication adjustments will be made (if needed). At Day 28 follow up, IP will be permanently
      stopped.

      At the last visit, the study team will contact the patient's primary care physician and/or
      the cardiologist to notify that the patient has completed the study and is off study drug and
      it is now the PCP/cardiologist's discretion to prescribe open label ivabradine (Corlanor) to
      the patient or not, as clinically indicated. If the patient's primary care physician and/or
      cardiologist prescribes open label ivabradine (Corlanor) after the completion of the study,
      the patient or patient's insurance will be responsible for payment as this would then be part
      of routine clinical care.

      The Zio patch will be placed at discharge from the observation unit. At the 14-day follow-up
      the original Zio patch will be collected and a second one will be placed. At the 28-day
      follow-up the second Zio patch will be collected

      Based on the SHIFT1 study, the mean heart rate reduction with IVA is 8 bpm with a standard
      deviation of 13 bpm. A sample size of 57 in each group will have 90% power to detect a
      difference in means of 8.0 assuming that the common standard deviation is 13.0 using a two
      group t-test with a 0.05 two-sided significance level. To account for a projected dropout
      rate of 15%, 66 subjects will be enrolled in each group (132 total for the study over a
      2-year period). Furthermore, the investigators expect that the enrollment centers will
      recruit a cohort that is 75% self-identified African Americans. This number (n=99) will
      provide 80% power to detect the same effect size when analyzed in African Americans only.

      For the safety endpoint (unplanned presentation for medical care), assuming an event rate of
      25% at 1 month (estimated based on local hospital readmission rates), the sample size will
      provide 80% power to detect a doubling of the relative risk. If the Control group event rate
      is higher there will be greater power; for example, with an event rate of 35% we would have
      98% power for risk ratio of 2.0 and 83% power for risk ratio of 1.75.
    
  