
    
      The LTO-BLOXY study will compare respiratory, cognitive and exercise function outcomes in
      patients who underwent one of the two oxygenation strategies in the context of the on-going
      LOCO-2 study:

        -  Experimental group: oxygenation will be maintained at a level between 55 and 70 mmHg of
           PaO2 as measured by blood gas test ("conservative" oxygenation). Between blood gas
           measures, oxygenation will be optimized to achieve an SpO2 between 88% and 92%.

        -  Control group: oxygenation will be maintained at a level between 90 and 105 mmHg of PaO2
           as measured by blood gas test ("liberal" oxygenation). Between blood gas measures,
           oxygenation will be optimized to achieve an SpO2 >96%.

      The primary objective is to demonstrate a lower level of impairment of respiratory function
      at 6 months in survivors of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) after a "conservative"
      oxygenation strategy, as compared to a "liberal" oxygenation strategy.

      Secondary objectives are numerous and will explore different areas such as evalution of
      disability, respiratory function, exercise function, cognitive function and quality of life.

      Participation in the LTO-BLOXY study will be proposed to all patients included in LOCO-2 at
      discharge from the ICU. A total of 259 patients from the overall total of 850 expected
      inclusions in LOCO-2, will participate in the LTO-BLOXY study. These patients will be
      followed up to 1 year after their initial inclusion in LOCO-2, with a view to evaluate
      respiratory function, exercise function and cognitive function, as well as QoL.

      The calendar of their study participation is as follows:

        -  Inclusion in LOCO-2 study and randomization LOCO-2

        -  Inclusion in LTO-BLOXY study at discharge from the ICU

        -  3 month visit ± 2 weeks (3 months after inclusion in LOCO-2 study)

        -  6 month visit ± 2 weeks (6 months after inclusion in LOCO-2 study)

        -  12 month visit ± 2 weeks (12 months after inclusion in LOCO-2 study)

      At each follow-up visit, the patient will attend a consultation in the Department of
      Physiology - Functional Explorations, where the study questionnaires will be given to the
      patient for completion. The neuropsychologist will perform the cognitive tests, the
      respiratory function and exercise tests will also be performed at the same visit.
    
  