
    
      Minimal invasive surgery total knee arthroplasty (MIS-TKA) is an excellent surgical procedure
      for patients with end-stage knee diseases and can reduce the postoperative complications
      compared with traditional TKA procedures.

      However, MIS-TKA procedures require a long learning curve to avoid malposition of prosthesis.
      In previous studies have demonstrated that the position of prosthesis and the postoperative
      mechanical axis are critical factors of outcome. Malposition of prosthesis and deviation more
      than 3 degrees of mechanical axis will lead to asymmetrical tibia-femoral tracking between
      prosthesis with the wear of linear, and increase the incidence of prosthesis loosening.

      Computer navigation assisted system has been used in TKA procedures for more than one decade
      and has been proven to improve the accuracy of prosthesis placement and postoperative
      mechanical alignment. Moreover, navigated TKA avoids the use of intramedullary guide and
      preserve the medullary cavity of femur, so the risks of bleeding and venous thromboembolism
      are reduced. However, traditional navigation system requires additional procedure to set
      reference arrays with pin fixation of femur and tibia. Pin wound complications including
      bleeding, infection, and iatrogenic fracture were reported. Moreover, traditional navigation
      system requires conventional TKA approach in which the wound length of the knee will be as
      long as 15 to 20 cm. Therefore a combination of new navigation system with a MIS technique to
      perform TKA procedure is required The new pinless navigated system for TKA procedures has
      been developed, as the navigation tools were fixed in the surgical field without additional
      pin wounds. This advantage meets the rationale of MIS-TKA to take care of both minimal
      invasive procedures and accuracy of prosthesis placement. Therefore, the investigators want
      to investigate the application of this pinless navigation system in MIS-TKA procedures.

      Our purpose is to conduct a prospective randomized clinical trial to compare the accuracy of
      prosthesis, radiographic alignment, total blood loss, the risk of venous thromboembolism
      between pinless-navigated MIS-TKA and traditional MIS-TKA.

      Material and Methods:

      The investigators plan to enroll 100 patients who plan to undergo unilateral primary MIS-TKA
      and will be randomly assigned into two groups. The first group (50 patients) will be treated
      by pinless-navigation (Stryker, OrthoMap Express Knee Navigation) MIS-TKA, and the second
      group (50 patients) will undergo traditional MIS-TKA.

      The investigators will record the surgical wound length, surgical time cost and calculate
      daily hemoglobin drainage and total blood loss after TKA procedures for all patients. At 3
      months after operation, the whole leg scanography, AP and lat view of knee radiography will
      be take and the mechanical alignment (MA), anatomic alignment (AA), femoral bowing angle
      (FBA), and coronal femoral-component angle (CFA), coronal tibia-component angle (CTA) in
      coronary view and sagittal femoral component angle (SFA), sagittal tibial component angle
      (STA) in lateral view will be measured. The operating time and surgical wound length in knee
      full extension will be recorded. All complications including bleedings, wound complications,
      venous thromboembolism will be recorded.

      Study year: one year Expecting Result The investigators anticipate that the position of
      prosthesis in pinless-navigated MIS-TKA is more accurate or equal to traditional MIS-TKA
      group. And the total blood loss in pinless-navigated MIS-TKA is less than traditional MIS-TKA
      group. The complication rate is similar between the two groups
    
  