
    
      PROSPER-HIV is a four-year, prospective, observational study of 850 CNICS participants who
      will complete an enhanced patient-reported outcome (PRO) assessment to measure physical
      activity and diet intake, once a year for three years. All participants will also complete
      the standard CNICS PRO and clinical assessment procedures. We propose to integrate the
      following measures, physical activity (triaxial accelerometery), dietary intake (24-hour diet
      recalls), and anthropomorphic factors (waist-hip-ratio), into an enhanced annual assessment
      of patient reported outcomes at four CNICS sites: Case Western Reserve University, University
      of Alabama at Birmingham, University of Washington, and Fenway Health. Our four primary
      objectives are to:

        1. Identify and characterize longitudinal, objectively measured, physical activity and
           dietary patterns among PLHIV

        2. Examine the relationship between objectively-measured physical activity and
           self-reported physical activity on the Lipid Research Clinics Physical Activity
           Questionnaire.

        3. Determine which aspects of physical activity patterns and diet quality are associated
           with decreased symptom burden and intensity in PLHIV, and if this relationship is
           moderated by age and sex.

        4. Explore the potential mediating effect of anthropomorphic and physical fitness variables
           on the relationships between physical activity, dietary patterns, and symptom burden and
           intensity in PLHIV.

      We hypothesize that people living with HIV who 1) have more intense, frequent and longer
      physical activity bouts will have age- and sex-dependent reduced symptom burden; 2) eat
      better quality diets (e.g., more fiber and protein, fewer carbohydrates) will have reduced
      symptom burden and intensity and that this relationship will also vary by age and sex.
    
  