
    
      Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) is a debilitating, incurable, and costly
      pain condition affecting approximately 3-8 million individuals in the United States and is
      extremely challenging to treat. Evidence suggests psychosocial factors accompany and
      intensify the illness.

      Unaddressed psychosocial co-morbidities are associated with reduced functionality and poorer
      outcomes, which suggests that psychosocial symptoms and bladder-specific symptoms reinforce
      each other. While psychosocial self-management interventions have demonstrated efficacy for
      other pain conditions, the IC/BPS field lacks the gold standard - randomized controlled
      trials - studying these interventions. At the same time, the chronic pain field is adopting a
      new approach driven by mechanisms of illness and treatment. Growing evidence suggests that
      subgroups (called "phenotypes") of patients with IC/BPS respond differently to medical
      intervention. Presence of central sensitization (CS) largely defines patient subgroups and
      may be a biological factor affecting response to medical treatment. The overall goal of this
      project is to fully develop, optimize, and evaluate a patient-centered CBT self-management
      intervention specific to IC/BPS. To achieve this goal, we will develop (Aim 1) and test (Aim
      2) an empirically-based psychosocial treatment for IC/BPS compared to attention control,
      while examining pain mechanisms and subgroup characteristics that may alter treatment
      response (Aim 3). We hypothesize that a) inclusion of a self-management intervention will be
      more effective than a control treatment for IC/BPS, and that b) treatment effects will be
      moderated by degree of psychological co-morbidity, presence of chronic overlapping pain
      conditions, and elevated central sensitization. Successful completion of these aims will
      determine whether the addition of a tailored self-management intervention for IC/BPS will
      improve outcomes compared to control, whether particular subgroups are more responsive to
      this intervention, and whether a biological mechanism (CS) influences treatment
      responsiveness.
    
  