
    
      Endothelins are powerful vasoconstrictor peptides that also play numerous other functions in
      many different organs. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is the most abundant and important of this family
      of peptides in blood vessels. Production of ET-1 is increased in the endothelium and the
      kidney in salt-dependent models of hypertension ET-1 elicits an inflammatory response by
      increasing oxidant stress in the vascular wall, which induces vascular remodeling and
      endothelial dysfunction found in the hypertensive models that exhibit an endothelin-mediated
      component. Endothelin receptor antagonists lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients.
      They could become therapeutic agents for prevention of target organ damage in hypertension
      and in type 2 diabetes, chronic renal failure and congestive heart failure. Side effects of
      endothelin receptor blockers have prevented up to the present their development for these
      indications. Endothelin antagonists have been approved only for the treatment of pulmonary
      hypertension, a rapidly fatal condition in which the endothelin system plays an important
      role and endothelin antagonists exert favorable effects.The exact mechanism of action of ERAs
      on the pulmonary vascular bed remains unclear. Vasodilatation is just a part of the
      mechanism, since usually 70%-80% of Idiopathic PAH patients do not respond acutely to
      vasodilators. Endothelin is likely to be involved in pulmonary vasoconstriction,
      inflammation, cellular proliferation and fibrosis ie. remodelling Recent research illustrates
      that bosentan is capable of blunting the vascular remodelling normally associated with PAH If
      ERAs could prevent remodelling, they might substantially improve the long-term survival in
      patients with mild symptoms (WHO class II or I).

      Bosentan, the most popular endothelin receptor antagonist, has been largely used in the
      treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PH). It can improve exercise capacity, lower Borg
      dyspnoea score nad these effects are usually associated with the concomitant improvement in
      cardiopulmonary haemodynamics.

      No physiological study has so far verified the hypothesis that Bosentan may laso have an
      effect on the "respiratory side" of the cadio-pulmonary system (i.e. on pulmonary mechanics
      and work of breathing)
    
  