
    
      The study will take place at the clinics of Riyadh Colleges of Dentistry and Pharmacy (RCsDP)
      in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

      Patients, who on previous occasions have demonstrated difficulties in accepting the procedure
      of making impressions of maxillary teeth due to a severe gag reflex (GR) will be invited to
      participate in the study.

      A Randomized single blinded clinical trial will be conducted on 30 participants who fulfill
      the inclusion criteria. Participants will be assigned to three separate groups. For each
      patient, two maxillary alginate impressions will be made; one before applying the proposed
      management technique and one after. Participants of Group EP (n=10) will be managed using
      earplugs while Group AC (n=10) will be managed using acupressure band and Group PL (n=10)
      will receive placebo management in forms of regular bands.

      Informed consent will be obtained from all participants. All impressions will be made by one
      dentist that will be blinded to the gag reflex (GR) management techniques. The GR evaluation
      for all the participants will be performed by another calibrated dentist who is also blinded
      to the applied technique.

      The severity of gag reflex will be assessed during making of the first impression using
      Dickinson & Fiske (2005) gagging severity index (GSI).

      After 20 minutes of making the first impression, participants of Group EP will be asked to
      place the earplugs in and wait in the waiting room for 10 minutes. Then, the second
      impression will be made while the participant still has the earplugs on. Group AC will have
      acupressure technique via sea aid bands which will be placed on the P6 points of both hand
      wrists. Participants will be asked to wait in the waiting room for 10 minutes then the second
      impression will be made. PL Group will have the placebo management via placebo bands ( with
      no pressure points ) which will be placed on both hand wrists. Participants will also be
      asked to wait in the waiting room for 10 minutes then the second impression will be made. The
      effectiveness of the treatment will be assessed using Dickinson & Fiske (2005) gagging
      prevention index (GPI).

      Participants will be asked to rate their discomfort during impression making using visual
      analogue scale (VAS).
    
  