
    
      Background:

      The rehabilitation with implant-supported restorations has been a successful treatment
      modality in fully and partially edentulous patients since the early 1980s . Today, partially
      edentulous individuals have become the main group of patients being considered for implant
      therapy, and several reports have been published showing favorable long-term outcomes with
      different dental implant systems. In systematic reviews analyzing the long-term performance
      of osseointegrated implants, clinical studies with 5-year observation periods are frequently
      included. However, studies with a 10-year observation period are sparse. Only three clinical
      studies with an observation period of 20-years in edentulous or partially edentulous patients
      have been found.

      Objective:

      The objective is to evaluate dental implants after 20 years of function.

      Methods:

      Partially edentulous patients provided with implants between 1986 and 1989 at the Department
      of Oral Surgery and Stomatology at the University of Bern recruited for a clinical and
      radiographic evaluation 20 years after implant installation. A total of 75 patients with 102
      implants will be recalled for a clinical and radiographic examination. All implants installed
      were hollow screw and hollow cylinder implants (Straumann, Waldenburg, Switzerland) with a
      rough TPS surface. They were placed according to the manufacturer's guidelines. The
      superstructures consistent in single crowns or fixed partial dentures, which were
      incorporated 4-6 months postsurgically. All patients will be evaluated using information from
      patient's charts and from the 20-year examination. Apical radiographs will be taken from the
      implant and the adjacent tooth. The marginal bone level around the adjacent tooth will also
      be calculated using the implant shoulder a reference point.
    
  