
    
      Early stage Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by a 'honeymoon' phase in terms of
      responsiveness of motor symptoms, including gait, to dopaminergic pharmacotherapy. Advancing
      PD is associated with disabling axial motor complications, such as freezing of gait (FoG),
      with decreased or even refractory dopamine responsiveness in over 50% of patients. The
      management of dopamine resistant gait problems represents the most important unmet need in
      PD. At present, there is no biomarker of FoG in patients with PD as there is a lack of
      mechanistic understanding of dopamine nonresponsiveness of FoG. The investigators have
      previously identified cholinergic denervation as a prominent factor related to both falls and
      gait slowing in PD. The investigators recently identified that cortical -amyloid deposition
      not only associates with cognitive decline but also with postural instability and gait
      difficulties in PD. In this proposal, the investigators present preliminary data suggesting
      that FoG is associated with either cholinopathy, amyloidopathy or both in PD. The
      investigators propose to test the novel hypothesis that comorbid amyloidopathy may be a
      possible mechanistic factor underlying the poor response of FoG to dopaminergic therapy in
      advancing PD. In contrast, isolated cholinopathy would be expected to be associated with
      preserved dopamine responsiveness of FoG. For this purpose, the investigators propose to
      perform detailed motor, including FoG, testing in PD patients "on" and "off" their
      dopaminergic medications and relate this to dopaminergic 11C-DTBZ, vesicular acetylcholine
      transporter 18F-FEOBV and -amyloid 11C-PIB brain PET imaging in PD subjects with and without
      FoG. Furthermore, based on recent clinical observations that serotoninergic drugs, like the
      popular anti-depressant SSRI drugs, are associated with significantly lower build- up of
      -amyloid plaques in the elderly population, and based on the investigators' subsequent
      observation of an intriguing inverse relationship between -amyloid plaque deposition and
      striatal serotoninergic terminal in PD, the investigators propose to perform an exploratory
      sub-study to test a new hypothesis that PD subjects with FoG will exhibit not only higher
      striatal -amyloid but also lower striatal serotoninergic innervation (as determined by
      11C-DASB serotonin PET imaging) compared to PD subjects without FoG. If confirmed, positive
      findings in this study would allow the identification of different PD subgroups
      ('personalized medicine'), such as presence amyloidopathy or cholinopathy, to select patients
      for targeted pharmacotherapies to potentially prevent the development of FoG (anti-amyloid,
      such as serotoninergic drugs) or manage its clinical manifestation (cholinergic augmentation
      therapy) in order to preserve and maintain a good quality of life in individuals with PD.
    
  