
    
      All patients will be subjected to the following parameters:

        1. Thorough history taking and full clinical examination.

        2. Chest X-ray (postro-anterior and lateral views) before and after the procedure.

        3. Recent Computed Tomography (CT chest) with contrast.

        4. Laboratory studies:

             -  Complete liver functions.

             -  Blood urea and serum creatinine.

             -  Complete blood picture (including platelet count).

             -  Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR).

             -  Fasting and postprandial blood sugar.

        5. Preoperative evaluation: Pulmonary function tests (PFT), Electrocardiogram (ECG),
           arterial blood gases (ABG) and coagulation profile (including bleeding & clotting times,
           prothrombin time& activity and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)) and oral
           anticoagulants should be stopped before the procedure for at least 48 hours.

        6. Color doppler ultrasound in suspected vascular lesions.

        7. Clinical and radiological follow up of patients over 1 week after the procedure to
           detect the occurrence of any complications.

        8. The biopsy samples will be examined histopathologically. EBUS-TBNA will be done within
           10 days of CT examination under local anesthesia and conscious sedation.

      Convex Probe EBUS- Guided TBNA EBUS-guided TBNA examinations will be performed at both Tanta
      University Educational Hospital and Kobry Elkoba Military Hospital using Pantex EBUS probe
      and Hitachi ultrasound in the supine position under local anesthesia with lidocaine and
      conscious sedation.

      Lymph nodes will be identified according to the Mountain's regional lymph node classification
      system (17). The lymph node stations of 2, 4, 7, 10 and 11 were evaluated systematically.
      During the process for every detected lymph node; short and long axis diameters, station of
      the lymph node, number of passes per patient and per lymph node were recorded for each
      patient.

      N3 nodes will be sampled first and then N2 nodes to avoid contamination in lung cancer
      patients. The materials obtained by EBUS-guided TBNA will be smeared on slides. These slides
      will be air-dried and Diff-Quik (American Scientific Products, McGaw Park, IL) staining will
      be used for ROSE. Additional smears will be prepared for Papanicolaou staining and any
      remaining sample will be placed in 10% formalin for histologic evaluation. The results of
      ROSE were compared with the results of the final pathologic diagnosis. (17) Aspiration
      specimen was considered "insufficient" if there were not an adequate number of lymphocytes on
      the smear. Diagnosis as "malignant" in cytologic examination was considered as the "final
      diagnosis". For the patients whose EBUS-guided TBNA results were negative for malignancy,
      more invasive procedures such as mediastinoscopy will be done to confirm the diagnosis or
      radiologic follow-up on the outcome of the LNs for at least 6 months. On follow-up, LNs that
      persisted in size, diminished, or resolved were considered benign. A diagnosis of
      tuberculosis or sarcoidosis will be made based on cytopathology that showed the presence of
      caseating or noncaseating granuloma, in addition to clinical, radiological, and
      microbiological findings.

      Any unexpected risk will be cleared to the participant and to Ethics committee. Waste
      materials will be disposed properly. All patients will sign an informed written consent.
      Patients' names will not be used and will be replaced by code numbers to confirm their
      privacy. Also, the results of the study will be used only for scientific purpose.
    
  