
    
      Bronchial hyperreactivity is defined as the increased respiratory tract responsiveness to
      multiple stimuli, which results in bronchial muscles constriction and bronchial lumen
      narrowing. Bronchial hyperreactivity is a hallmark of asthma, however it may also be present
      in other diseases, e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Methacholine challenge
      test is one of the bronchial reactivity assessment methods. Methacholine acts directly on
      bronchial smooth muscles receptors and causes bronchoconstriction. Bronchial reactivity is
      increased in the presence of active inflammation. Methacholine challenge testing is commonly
      performed in patients with symptoms suggestive of asthma and negative result of spirometry
      reversibility test. The measurement of methacholine concentration which causes 20% forced
      expiratory volume at one second (FEV1) decrease in post-inhalation spirometry (PC20) is a
      standard method of hyperreactivity evaluation. However, above method could be used among
      patients who are able to perform acceptable spirometry. Furthermore, results of spirometry
      might be influenced by level of compliance and motivation of patients. Moreover, whereas
      spirometric methacholine challenge test has high negative predictive values, its positive
      predictive value is relatively low. Thus, diagnostic utility of other pulmonary function
      tests should be assessed in methacholine challenge test evaluation.

      In plethysmography airway resistance is performed during tidal breathing. The increase of
      specific airway resistance of 200% and the decrease of specific airway conductance of 40%
      after methacholine inhalation, respectively, are proposed as a cut-off levels for bronchial
      hyperreactivity diagnosis.

      In forced oscillation technique (FOT), sinusoidal oscillations are emitted by membrane into
      airway lumen and airway resistance is calculated on the basis of changes in air flow induced
      by oscillations. The increase of resistance and decrease of reactance in FOT are typical for
      bronchoconstriction.

      Finally, also interrupter technique (IT) allows for airway resistance assessment during tidal
      breathing. In IT, airway resistance is calculated on the basis of mouth pressure measured
      directly after airway occlusion and airflow measured directly before occlusion.

      The aim of the study is to compare standard spirometric evaluation of methacholine challenge
      test with plethysmographic, interrupter technique and forced oscillation technique (FOT)
      evaluation of the airways resistance.

      All patient will undergo:

        -  clinical examination

        -  measurement of nitric oxide concentration in exhaled air

        -  spirometric, plethysmographic, interrupter technique and FOT examinations - before
           inhalation and after inhalation of aerosols

        -  following laboratory tests: blood count, measurement of serum C-reactive protein (CRP),
           sodium, potassium, creatinine, immunoglobulin E and NT-proBNP concentration

      Patients will be provided with written and spoken information about study protocol. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from every patient.
    
  