
    
      It has been known well for a long time that End stage renal disease (ESRD) patients usually
      need ESA to maintain their hemoglobin (Hb) to improve both mortality as well as quality of
      life. Later, several large-scale RCTs showing normalization of Hb in this population
      increased the risk of thromboembolic event, which leaded current guidelines to recommend the
      therapeutic goal for anemia in ESRD should be within a range (usually between 10-12 gm/dl)
      rather than above or below a certain level (or value). In addition to ESA dose, many factors
      contribute to the severity of anemia in this population, such as iron status, chronic blood
      loss, adequacy of dialysis, chronic inflammation, renal wasting, et al. To put all these
      factors together, maintaining the Hb levels within the target level is a challenge to
      physician. It was reported that only one third of Hb within the target at any given time. Our
      data showed, for those under maintenance hemodialysis and without any blood transfusion in
      observation period, near two third of patients' Hb level were within the target range.

      For better anemia management, NKF-K/DOQI developed and published guidelines using protocol or
      algorithm for EPO prescription.6 Recently, artificial intelligence (AI) has been widely
      applied to medicine in the field of reducing human error, robotic surgical system and
      decision- making aid. Since then, there were several studies working on decision making
      programs to set up model of predicting the ESA dose needed for target Hb level. Artificial
      neural network (ANN) model is most commonly used for ESA dose-response prediction. However,
      the effectiveness of these kinds of AI is not confirmed clinically and the result not
      satisfactory. In other words, it is still inconclusive whether contemporary AI has any role
      in decision making aid when prescribing ESA dose for dialysis patient, a typical trial and
      error which AI supposed should be very helpful with.

      Based on the mentioned above, we are going to conduct this clinical try to test the
      hypothesis that AI is not inferior to physician in prescribing ESA dose for hemodialysis
      patients to maintain hemoglobin(Hb) level to meet the target
    
  