
    
      An open label, successive dose escalation trial in subjects with Non Muscle Invasive Bladder
      Cancer (NMIBC), designed to evaluate the clinical response of low-intermediate risk tumors
      within the bladder to Mitomycin-C embedded in TC-3 Sterile Hydrogel (TC-3), administered
      intravesically, prior to TURBT in NMIBC subjects.

      Eligible subjects with NMIBC will be recruited to the trial following the initial diagnostic
      cystoscopy. During the diagnostic cystoscopy, the number of tumor lesions, their size and
      location will be documented and recorded with video or photo cystoscopy.

      A baseline cystoscopy will be conducted in all subjects for the evaluation of number of
      tumors and their diameters, and for mapping of their location. Baseline blood samples for
      liver and renal functions, as well as for complete blood count (CBC) and coagulation tests
      will be drawn prior to instillation to ensure eligibility and to serve as a reference point
      for systemic safety follow-up.

      A future TURBT has been planned for 8-10 weeks post screening. Enrolled subjects will be
      treated successively with 40mg MMC in 40 mL TC-3 (the first 6 subjects) and with 80 mg MMC in
      40 mL TC-3 (the following 12 subjects). At treatment session initiation, an 18-20 Fr two-way
      catheter will be inserted into the subject's bladder in order to completely empty the bladder
      of urine. Thereafter, a volume of 40 mL of cooled TC-3 mixed with 40 mg or 80 mg of MMC will
      be instilled through the catheter into the bladder of the subject. The catheter will then be
      ligated for twenty minutes, after which it will be drawn out of the bladder and the subject
      was will be allowed to urinate freely.

      The subjects will undergo six weekly bladder instillations according to their assigned
      treatment of either 40 mg MMC (Group A) or 80 mg MMC (Group B) in 40 mL of TC-3. Following
      completion of instillation treatment series, there will be a 2-4 weeks healing period prior
      to next follow up visit (overall 10-12 weeks post screening). During 2-4 weeks follow-up (FU)
      visit, the lesions' status will be examined under cystoscopy. For subjects who will appear to
      have complete response (CR), this will be confirmed based on histological results. For
      subjects that will not be classified as having CR, decision about performance of TURBT or
      giving additional treatment will be at the PI's discretion.

      Following 2-4 week FU visit, subjects will be managed according to their local standard
      guidelines. All patients will attempt to be followed up for 12 months following 2-4 weeks FU
      within the trial. These visits will be documented and data regarding recurrence and
      progression will be collected. Moreover, biopsy slides prior (when available), and following
      treatment will be collected and analyzed by an independent uro-pathologist.
    
  