
    
      The AMC-certified ophthalmologist will obtain a thorough eye history and conduct a slit-lamp
      examination of both eyes. The AMC-certified ophthalmologist will draw the size and shape of
      the suspected lesion on a well-accepted template designed for documentation of ocular surface
      malignancies. Using this template, the AMC-certified ophthalmologist will document the number
      of clock hours of corneal-scleral limbus involved (6 clock hours maximum) as well as the
      maximum vertical and horizontal dimensions of the lesion in mm as determined through the use
      of the adjustable slit beam, whose length can be adjusted and determined using the slit
      length display window, a standard feature of slit lamp biomicroscopes.

      Eighty-four participants undergoing surgical excision of tumors suspicious for OSSN will be
      enrolled in this study. Participants who do not complete the study follow-up visits will not
      be replaced. The lesions will be swabbed prior to surgical excision and the swabs will be
      placed in PrimeStore MTM solution, for HPV DNA testing. The suspected OSSN lesion will be
      excised with 3 mm margins as determined by clinical exam. The PrimeStore MTM solution will be
      sent to Stellenbosch University in Cape Town, South Africa for HPV testing. The surgically
      excised lesions will be fixed, aligned, embedded in paraffin, sectioned and evaluated by
      pathologists at each of the 4 study sites. Tissue will then be sent to Stellenbosch
      University in Cape Town, South Africa for confirmatory histopathologic analysis and HPV
      testing.

      To ensure reliable follow-up, we will collect detailed contact and alternate contact
      information from study participants. Participants will be asked to return for follow-up one
      week after surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, 6 months after surgery, and 12 months after
      surgery. At each of these follow-up visits, the AMC-certified ophthalmologist will obtain a
      thorough medical history and perform a slit-lamp examination of the eyes. At week 2, sites
      will contact participants via phone to review AEs. Participants will undergo a structured
      review of post-surgical signs and symptoms at each follow-up visit. Participants presenting
      with a suspected recurrent OSSN lesion at follow-up will undergo re-excision per routine
      clinical care, including any follow-up per the local standard of care. After local diagnostic
      review, excised specimens will be sent for central histopathology evaluation and confirmation
      of recurrent OSSN or not recurrent OSSN. All other ocular lesions and conditions will be
      referred for routine medical care, outside of the study.
    
  