
    
      In order to avoid sinus augmentation in the upper jaw and a vertical augmentation in the
      lower jaw, various manufacturers offer short implants of 6-8mm length. The prevention of
      augmentative measures, especially in the mandible, is a fundamental component of the
      minimization of invasiveness while at the same time improving the functional capability. The
      benefit lies in the possibility to place implants without prior bone augmentation even in
      difficult anatomical conditions. This significantly reduces the invasiveness which on the one
      hand allows a higher number of patients to be treated with implants (especially morbid
      patients and anxiety patients) and on the other hand makes the treatment more predictable,
      with less risk, cost-efficient and considerably faster. Moreover, new scientific insights are
      gained in the area of short implants.

      As with all implants, the risks associated with the study consist of intraoperative
      complications (e.g. damage of adjacent structures), failure of the implant (e.g. impairment
      of wound healing, fracture of the implant body), the abutment or abutment screw (e.g.
      loosening, fracture), or the crown on the abutment (veneer fracture, scaffold fracture).

      The objective is to determine whether implants with the Conelog® connection and a length of
      7mm are suitable for splinted/non-splinted monolithic lithium disilicate crowns cemented on
      individualized titanium abutments in the chewing centre of the mandible. The main indication
      for short implants is severe atrophy of the jaw, which creates a longer distance from the
      implant shoulder to the occlusal plane. An unfavourable crown-to-implant ratio means higher
      stress on the screws, the implant-abutment surface and possibly on the osseointegration of
      the implants. This raises the question whether splinted crowns have a positive effect on
      implant survival compared to non-splinted crowns.

      The two 7mm Conelog ® implants are either used in the area of the second premolar and the
      first molar or the first and second molars of the mandible. The diameter of the implant
      depends on the width of the alveolar bone and ranges from 3.8 to 4.3 mm.

      In case of a bilateral free-end situation, both quadrants are treated as part of the study,
      and both treatment variants are applied by using splinted crowns on one side and individual
      crowns on the other (split mouth design).

      20 patients will be included in the study, which will be divided into two equally sized
      groups of 10 patients. All patients are recruited by the three clinical investigators at the
      Department of Prosthodontics and Biomaterials, Centre for Implantology, Medical Faculty,
      Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule Aachen (RWTH) Aachen University Hospital. In
      order to achieve sufficient patient numbers, the population of Aachen will be informed via
      print media.

      Each patient receives a single dose of antibiotics one hour prior to implant surgery. A
      mucoperiosteal flap was mobilized and the implants were placed as recommended by the
      manufacturer, using a surgical template as a guide. Healing abutments were screwed, and
      submerged healing is used for all implants. Second stage surgery is performed after 3 months.
      The prosthetic restoration is completed within 4 weeks after exposure.

      Patients in group A will receive splinted monolithic lithium disilicate crowns cemented on
      individualized titanium abutments. Patients in group B will receive 2 non-splinted monolithic
      lithium disilicate-crowns cemented on individualized titanium abutments.

      The cementation is done with Multilink Implant ® on the machined abutments, which have been
      cleaned for 5 minutes in an ultrasonic cleaner with 95% alcohol. The crowns are conditioned
      with hydrofluoric acid for 20 seconds and silanized with Monobond Plus® for 60 seconds. The
      day of insertion of the restoration is marked as baseline.

      The examination performed at baseline and the follow up after 6 months includes occlusion,
      probing depth, plaque index and the condition of the ceramic surface of the crowns.
      Additionally, radiographs with customized positioning jigs are taken at baseline, after 1, 3,
      and 5 years.
    
  