
    
      Maxillofacial defects create unique challenges for the reconstructive surgeon, often
      involving bony and soft tissue components of the midface. Surgical reconstruction following
      maxillectomy is currently a topic of interest for reconstructive head and neck surgeons.
      maxillary defects were reconstructed with maxillofacial prosthetics including obturation.
      While the latter is an effective reconstruction. Over the past two decades, there has been
      increasing interest in the use of free tissue transfers of bone to reconstruct the maxilla.

      Scapular flap It is an excellent candidate for maxillectomy defects because of its unique
      feature, which is characterized by additional skin paddles or muscles. and can be harvested
      along with a part of the scapular bone for bony reconstruction

      Traditional reconstructive techniques often lead to suboptimal reconstructions due to inexact
      planning, poor communication between the resective and reconstructive teams or surgical
      difficulties in adjusting a free flap and osteosynthesis plates into a three-dimensional (3D)
      defect without the help of any templates or surgical guides The advent of 3D modeling in head
      and neck reconstruction has allowed surgeons to improve upon functional and aesthetic
      outcomes, which are crucial to patient satisfaction and can be difficult to achieve in
      maxillectomy defects The cutting guides used or not used, however debate still present for
      its benefits and worth for patient and surgeon. current study to evaluate how such virtual
      planning with using of customized cutting guide is effective and worth for patient aesthetic
      and operation time.

      our priori-hypothesis is that utilization CAD/CAM assisted with customized osteotomy guide is
      not related to an altered result regarding aesthetic outcome and operation time in patient
      undergoing maxillary reconstruction using free scapular flap.

      In order to test this hypothesis, we will compare aesthetic outcome and operation time in
      group of patients receive FSF by CAD/CAM-assisted with customized osteotomy guide to results
      of another group of patients receive FSF but without customized osteotomy guide. only model
      will be performed as conventional method aiding in reshaping of reconstruction plate which is
      another well-established concept of management of maxillary defect.
    
  