
    
      There are data supporting angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 (AT1) antagonist have beneficial
      effects on metabolic control due to some pleiotropic effect mediated by peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma induction. Azilsartan is a prodrug absorbed in
      the gastrointestinal tract that can improve metabolic milieu under diverse conditions like
      obesity, hypertension (can be considered a metabolic disease) or type 2 diabetes mellitus.
      Clinical studies that have been raised in this regard are few, and still show controversial
      issues.

      The objective of any study with AT1 antagonist drug interested in pleiotropic effects should
      not only focus on antihypertensive improvement, but also the effect on other areas such as
      metabolism of lipids and carbohydrates in obese and/or type 2 diabetes.

      This study is a randomized, open labeled, clinical study. The aim is to build a mathematical
      model for supporting the effect of azilsartan 40 or 80 mg on metabolic and inflammatory
      measurements in function of metabolic conditions (i.e. obesity, type 2 diabetes and
      hypertension, and their combinations).

      Patients will be stratified according to their metabolic status and randomized by blocks of
      four for each strata. This strategy will help to maintain each treatment group in balance.
      All subjects will receive the treatment for 12 weeks.

      Subjects who attend the outpatient consultation at the Hospital General de Mexico will be
      invited to participate in the study. Those who meet the inclusion criteria must sign an
      informed consent approved by the ethics committee. This document describes the follow-up
      visits as described below:

      Screening visit (V-1):

      This visit includes patient history, physical examination (weight, height, waist
      circumference and blood pressure) and a blood sample for measurement of: complete blood
      count, fasting glucose, HbA1c, creatinine, adiponectin, IL-1b, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, liver
      function tests, C-reactive protein, blood chemistry, proteinuria, 24-hours urinary glucose
      and creatinine.

      Initial visit (V0):

      Physical examination will be performed and blood samples for oral glucose tolerance test will
      be drawn at 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes, with these data points the Matsuda insulin
      sensitivity index will be calculated. Pharmacological treatment of 40mg or 80mg azilsartan 4
      weeks will be assigned (open labeled but randomized).

      Visit 1 and 2 (V1, V2):

      These visits performed at 4 and 8 weeks respectively include: physical examination, recording
      of adverse events and medication count to check adherence to treatment accomplishment.

      Visit 3 (V3):

      Week 12 include physical examination, adverse events registration, complete blood count,
      fasting glucose, HbA1c, creatinine, adiponectin, IL-1b, IL-6, IL-10, TNF - α, liver function
      tests, C reactive protein, blood chemistry, proteinuria, 24-hours urinary glucose and
      creatinine. Furthermore an oral glucose tolerance test with samples at 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120
      minutes will be taken, to calculate the index of insulin sensitivity by the Matsuda method.

      Statistical analysis and sample size. The sample size was calculated for ANCOVA analysis
      considering 8 groups with 5 covariates. Considering an alpha error of 5%, effect size of 30%,
      and statistical power of 90% a total sample of 250 patient was calculated. If we consider a
      20% attrition of the sample, giving a total of 300 patients, i.e. 150 patients per treatment
      group.

      A descriptive analysis will be done. The contrast among groups will be analyzed by an ANCOVA
      model and the function fitness will be calculated using ordinary least squares. Dependent
      variables will be insulin sensitivity, proteinuria, stiffness of the carotid artery,
      cytokines. Fixed factors: sex, blood pressure category, metabolic status, drug treatment.
      Covariates: Age, waist circumference.

      The greatest expected size of effect would be within the group of patients with obesity,
      hypertension, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (all three) treated with 80 mg and the lowest size
      of effect within the group of only obesity treated with 40 mg.
    
  