
    
      Many patients visit an emergency room because of their trauma. Trauma patients account for
      around 25-35% in an emergency room. Trauma is the biggest cause of acquired disabilities, and
      is greatly related to death and disabilities of those aged less than 44. As such, since
      trauma leads to lowering personal life quality and greatly influences social and economic
      aspects, it is greatly dealt with in public medical service.

      Primarily, patients with trauma experience a lot of bleeding and respiratory failure induced
      by multiple causes, and furthermore is likely to have hypovolaemic shock. Secondarily, the
      low blood flow induced by trauma and hypovolaemic shock triggers hypoxia and systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome(SIRS), and therefore lowering immunity leads to compensatory
      anti-inflammatory response syndrome(CARS). After that, failures to keep homeostasis, such as
      immune dysregulation induced acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), multiple organ
      failure(MOF), immune function reduction, and inflammation overexpression, and other
      additional causes damage the patients who can end up being dead without recovery.

      A trauma patient is able to be exposed to multiple complications of trauma and continue to
      have hypoxia and hyperoxia with multiple causes in the treatment step. Hypoxia triggers
      multiple organ failure by cell death and lack of oxygen, and especially is sensitive to nerve
      cells. Hyperoxia causes the problem of immunity system stimulation by oxygen radical and
      hydrogen peroxide(H2O2) secretion. As such, an oxygen condition can influence organ failure
      and inflammatory response in various ways. These hypoxia and hyperoxia are considered to be
      influential on post-trauma inflammation and on Polymorphonuclear Cells(PMN) and cytokine. A
      patient's oxygen condition control is the basic treatment of a trauma patient and is able to
      influence not only the maintenance of oxygen concentration in the body, but the immunity
      system for keeping body homeostasis to respond to trauma.

      Therefore, it is important to know how a patient's oxygen condition influences cells in order
      to treat the patient. Nevertheless, there is no research on how hypoxia and hyperoxia
      influence PMN cell and inflammatory cytokine as inflammatory cells playing a critical role in
      post-trauma immunity function. Therefore, this study tries to find how hypoxia and hyperoxia,
      among types of the respiratory failure induced cell damage that can arise in the course of
      traumatic damage and treatment, influences apoptosis of PMN cells and IL-6 and tumor necrosis
      factor(TNF)-α as inflammatory cytokines. This study is expected to be used as a fundamental
      material for treating relevant patients.
    
  