
    
      Many women develop pelvic organ prolapse over the course of their lives. Pelvic organ
      prolapse is the downward descent of the pelvic organs (which include the uterus, bladder and
      bowel) into the vagina. Researchers estimate that between 7-10% of women will require surgery
      for prolapse sometime in their lifetime. Many will have more than one operation for the
      prolapse. Because this is such a common problem, the investigators in the Pelvic Floor
      Disorders Network strive to offer women the best treatment options. However, there were not
      enough carefully designed and conducted research studies to help guide them in this
      direction.

      Women who are planning surgery for apical vaginal prolapse often experience bladder and bowel
      symptoms, as well as pressure and a bulge. These symptoms might include urinary leakage
      (urinary incontinence), urinary urgency (a sudden strong desire to urinate with fear that
      leakage may occur) or frequent urination, difficulty starting to urinate or perhaps a slow
      weak urinary stream, as well as accidental bowel leakage (fecal incontinence). After surgery,
      bladder and bowel symptoms may get better, get worse, or stay the same as before surgery.
      Sometimes new symptoms can start after surgery even if they weren't present before surgery.

      The OPTIMAL study was designed to compare two commonly performed vaginal surgeries for pelvic
      organ prolapse. One is the sacrospinous ligament fixation, called SSLF for short. The other
      is the uterosacral ligament suspension, called ULS. Both surgeries involve attaching the top
      of the vagina, which has fallen down, to internal ligaments in the pelvis in order to
      resuspend the vagina and correct the prolapse.

      The investigators were also interested in studying how the surgeries altered bladder and
      bowel symptoms. They had seen in other studies that behavioral and pelvic floor muscle
      therapy (PMT) is an effective therapy for stress and urge urinary incontinence, fecal
      incontinence, and other pelvic floor disorders. It is relatively easy to perform, and has
      rare side effects. They wondered if PMT around the time of surgery might further improve
      these symptoms.

      The OPTIMAL study has two main purposes:

        1. To find out which type of surgery, SSLF or ULS, has better results when used to repair
           prolapse of the top of the vagina,

        2. To find out whether or not doing pelvic muscle exercises and behavioral changes around
           the time of surgery will affect both bladder and bowel symptoms after surgery, and the
           success of the prolapse repair.

      Four Hundred women were enrolled into the OPTIMAL study, from January 2008 to May 2011. These
      women were randomly assigned to receive either the SSLF or the ULS surgery. They were
      randomly assigned to either receive the PMT training with a therapist before and after
      surgery or to not receive this therapy. So women fell into one of four groups:

        1. SSLF plus PMT

        2. ULS plus PMT

        3. SSLF without PMT

        4. ULS without PMT

      Women in this study were followed closely at regular intervals for two years after surgery.
    
  