
    
      The vestibular system system (i.e. inner ear balance system) is responsible for sending
      information to the brain about how fast our head is moving as well as about static head
      position, is necessary for us to be able to see clearly when turning our heads, to navigate
      in the dark and to balance. Persons who have an inner ear balance disorder will commonly
      report subjective symptoms of dizziness, imbalance, blurry vision, difficulty concentrating,
      imbalance and increased falls. Customised vestibular rehabilitation is the mainstay of
      treatment for persons with an inner ear balance disorder. Eye, head and body movement
      exercises are included (i.e. walking while turning your head left and right to scan the road)
      as appropriate for each individual. Moderate to strong evidence exists to support vestibular
      rehabilitation as a safe, effective management for persons with an inner ear balance
      disorder. However, there is insufficient evidence to discriminate between differing forms of
      treatment and although approximately 50% to 80% of persons with a vestibular dysfunction
      achieve significant symptomatic (i.e. dizziness) and objective improvements with regards to
      their balance, walking and activities of daily living, some persons do not improve. The
      reasons for this remain unclear. Thus, although vestibular rehabilitation has been shown to
      be safe and effective, further studies are required to identify optimal vestibular
      rehabilitation treatment approaches. Dual-task training (i.e. simultaneously performing two
      different activities such as walking and talking) has been shown to be beneficial in
      improving balance and complex walking ability (i.e. walking with head turns) in older adults.
      However, no studies have investigated dual-tasking training in persons with a vestibular
      disorder. This is despite evidence showing that the ability to perform complex walking tasks
      is negatively affected in persons with a vestibular disorder when a cognitive (i.e.
      "thinking") task is added. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to compare the effect of
      customised vestibular rehabilitation with and without the incorporation of dual-task (DT)
      exercises on subjective symptom, objective complex walking tasks, "thinking" function and
      psychological state. The hypothesis is that customised vestibular rehabilitation
      incorporating DT exercises will provide greater benefit compared to customised vestibular
      rehabilitation in isolation.
    
  