
    
      30 healthy patients, both gender between 18 and 40 years-of-age with the necessity of
      bilateral third molar removal with similar surgical difficulty will be recruited from a
      Dental Public University Clinic. Inclusion criteria includes: non-smoking participants,
      minimum of 50 Kg of weight. After clinical and radiographic examination, they will be
      randomized accordingly to the side to be operated in two groups: MEPI-LEVO and MEPI-EPI.
      There will be a memory-washout of 15days between surgeries. In the MEPI-LEVO group, the
      patient will receive local anesthesia employing 2% chloridrato mepivacaine with 1:20.000
      levonordefrin at a maximum of four cartridges of anesthesia. The other side will receive
      2%chloridrato mepivacaine with 1:100.000 epinephrine in the same maximum amount. The surgery
      in both groups will follow strictly patterns of minimum surgical trauma and high cautious
      antiseptic conditions. The same surgeon will do the tooth extractions but the anesthesia will
      be done by another oral surgeon in order to blind the type of anesthetic solution from the
      operator (type of vasoconstrictor used). The amount of bleeding will be quantified just
      immediately after suture by a blinded observer that will record in a visual analogical scale
      between 0 and 10 points, where 0 correspond to absence of bleeding and 10 to excessive
      bleeding.

      Blood pressure and heart rate will be accessed in five different moments:

        1. 20minutes before surgical procedure with patients in awaiting room;

        2. 5 minutes before procedure with patient seated in dental chair;

        3. 5 minutes after anesthesia procedure;

        4. during osteotomy/tooth sectioning and

        5. after 10 minutes of suturing.

      Patients after surgery will receive a diary to record the time when anesthesia sensation had
      ended, the amount of analgesics they had consumed and the level of pain in a visual analogic
      scale. The data will be submitted to statistical analysis with p<0.05 of significance.
    
  