
    
      The purpose of this research study is to examine oncologist and patients communication and
      how patient participation in shared decision-making may impact cancer treatment. Patients who
      are HIV positive and newly diagnosed with cancer and their treating oncologist may
      voluntarily participate in this study. The study team will record and observe the initial
      consultation visit between the patient and treating oncologist. Typically, at this visit,
      specific treatment options for a new cancer are reviewed in detail. Semi-structured
      debriefing interviews with participating oncologists and patients will follow the initial
      encounter.

      Patient interviews will occur in person or by telephone within 72 hours of the initial
      consultation. Oncologists will be interviewed in person within one week following the
      clinical interaction. Clinical interactions at the initial consultation visit and interviews
      with oncologists will be audio recorded and transcribed. Interviews will be conducted over
      45-60 minutes and will be semi-structured with open-ended questions to allow the interviewee
      to direct the flow of the conversation. A research assistant trained in qualitative research
      methods will administer interviews.

      There are two to three visits: one visit to complete the informed consent process, the
      recording of the initial consultation visit, and lastly a debriefing interview visit. The
      debriefing interview may be conducted in person or over the phone.

      The following instruments and question probes will assess three main areas of
      decision-making:

        -  Physician Rationale for Decision-Making: In debriefing interviews with physicians,
           research staff will ask how they arrived at their treatment recommendation and what
           alternatives they entertained. The extent to which medical comorbidities (including HIV)
           influenced treatment decision-making and what additional information would have been
           useful in arriving at the treatment recommendation will be assesssed. We will ask
           physicians what challenges they encountered in communicating treatment options to the
           patient, how patient preferences influenced treatment recommendations, and their
           assessment of how likely the patient is to pursue cancer treatment.

        -  Strength of Physician Treatment Recommendations: The Physician Recommendation Coding
           System (PhyReCS) is a validated tool to measure the strength of physician
           recommendations using direct observation of clinical encounters.64 It is a global,
           5-point scale ranging from -2 (strong recommendation against treatment) to +2 (strong
           recommendation for treatment) that captures how physicians portrayed treatment options
           during the entirety of the clinical appointment. The PhyReCS addresses major limitations
           with prior physician decision-making research by having the flexibility to capture
           multiple nuanced recommendations, for example, patients with early stage breast cancer
           choosing whether to receive breast-conserving therapy (lumpectomy plus radiation) or
           mastectomy.

        -  Patient Preferences: In debriefing interviews with patients, we will elicit beliefs and
           preferences regarding cancer treatment (e.g. self-efficacy, fear of toxicity, financial
           hardship, challenges with dual management of co-morbidities and cancer, family support.
           We will ask patients about their understanding of risks, benefits, and alternatives to
           treatment and their satisfaction with communication regarding cancer management and
           outcomes. Patients will be asked if they plan to pursue cancer treatment and if so,
           which elements of physician communication were most influential.

      Patient treatment choice will be determined via chart review 6 months after the initial
      recorded appointment. We will measure concordance between physician recommendation, strength
      of the physician recommendation (PhyReCS), and patient treatment choice.
    
  