
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of mortality in the world. Previous study has shown that
      about 88% lung cancer cases belong to non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in Taiwan (1).
      Approximately 50~90% of NSCLC patients had expression (or described as overexpression) of
      EGFR in cancer (2,3). Although targeting the EGFR kinase domain using the inhibitors
      gefitinib (Iressa) and erlotinib (Tarceva) has no effect against solid tumors, it achieves
      impressive response in subgroup of NSCLC especially in Asian ethnic background, female sex,
      the absence of a history of smoking, and a tumor with histologic feature of adenocarcinoma
      (3,4,5). Molecular studies of highly responsive cases revealed high percentage of somatic
      mutation within the tyrosine kinase, ATP-binding domain of the EGFR gene (6). One possible
      explanation for this phenomenon is that the cancer cells are "addicted" to signaling via the
      mutant EGFRs and die when the mutant oncoprotein is inactivated (7). However, specific
      mechanisms underlying epidermal growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) induced
      cell death have not been well delineated (7).

      Approximately 90% of mutations affect a few specific amino acids. In-frame deletions in exon
      19 centered on codons 756 to 750 make up 45~50% of mutations, and another 35~45% consist of
      the missense mutation leucine to arginine at codon 858 (L858R) in exon 21 (8, 9, 10). The
      link between EGFR-TKI response and EGFR mutations have been confirmed, but the increased
      prevalence of mutations in Asian (25%to 50%) compared with North American and Western
      European patients (10%) is currently unexplained (6,8-12). The response rate to TKI treatment
      in mutations-positive is 77% (30% to 100% with most series >60%) compared with 10% in
      mutation-negative cases (6). It is interesting that exon 19 deletion have increased response
      and survival with TKIs compared with L858R cases (10, 13, 14). This is in contrast to the
      natural history of patients, where those with exon 19 deletions appear to have shorter
      survival than those with L858R (8). The biological difference is still unknown and different
      mutations may have different biochemical signaling properties (15).

      In this study, we will collect the pleural effusion from lung cancer patients. We will
      characterize the EGFR status of the cancer cell from malignant pleural effusion and try to
      establish the cancer cell lines from these patients. We hope to establish several cell lines
      with different mutations and then we can compare the difference responses and signal pathways
      in these cell lines. We can also explore the detailed mechanism of TKI responsive cancer cell
      and try to develop other agent to enhance the pathways.
    
  