
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Pain in sickle cell disease is poorly recognized, measured, and treated. Although painful
      episodes are the most common reason sickle cell patients seek care, studies have seldom
      directly measured pain in detail. In studies to date, biological and demographic variables
      alone only partly explain the observed variance in painful episode frequency. Further, little
      is known about differences in pain responses including home management versus health care
      utilization.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This cohort study is measuring the variability in pain and response to pain in sickle cell
      disease, and building multivariate models to explain both patients' pain and their response
      to pain, especially, utilization of health care. The models' outcome variables include mean
      pain, painful episodes, and various types of utilization episodes, including non-narcotic
      analgesic use, narcotic use, office visits, emergency department (ED visits, and
      hospitalization. An additional outcome is the percentage of each patient's painful episodes
      that result in various types of utilization. Outcomes will be operationalized using daily
      pain diaries collected over six months. Reflecting on the prior 24 hours, patients will
      recall on an ordinal (0-9) scale maximum pain, distress, and disability, judge whether they
      were in a "crisis," and note pain locations and their various types of utilization. Daily
      pain intensity ratings will be transformed into pain episode counts using a formulaic
      threshold for a painful episode. The formula calculates each patient's threshold
      individually, based on his/her pain ratings. The models will measure the effect of several
      classes of explanatory variables (demographic, disease-related, psycho social, and readiness
      to utilize care), operationalized using primary data and validated instruments.

      Patients will be recruited from the central and Tidewater regions of Virginia, will undergo
      an initial survey battery, chart review, and a brief final survey, venipuncture and urine
      sampling, and complete pain diaries daily for six months. This study will advance knowledge
      of the etiology and influences on pain and pain response in sickle cell disease. By revealing
      potentially mutable explanatory variables, the study's results will suggest targets of
      biobehavioral treatment interventions.
    
  