
    
      Ceftolozane-tazobactam has recently emerged as a highly valuable option for the management of
      severe Gram-negative infections including those caused by multi-drug resistant (MDR)
      organisms, demonstrating superior antibacterial activity against the pathogens most
      frequently causing serious infection in the critically ill, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa
      and Enterobacteriaceae spp, when compared with other commonly used beta-lactam antibiotics.

      Although the continued reduction in the pathogen susceptibility to commonly used antibiotics
      in ICUs could be multifactorial, the potential contribution from inappropriate antibiotic
      exposure is undoubtedly very significant. Numerous clinical studies have reported
      sub-therapeutic antibiotic concentrations in ICU patients across different antibiotic
      classes, with conventional dosing regimens. This is due to marked changes in the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of antibiotics in the critically ill arising
      from disease-related physiological changes. Ceftolozane being a structural analogue of
      ceftazidime, shares similar PK properties of ceftazidime, and other beta-lactams, with a
      short half-life of about 2 hours, distribution into extracellular fluid, and predominant
      renal elimination, which all make it vulnerable to disease-related PK alterations in the
      critically ill.

      Inappropriate antibiotic exposure in the ICU can also arise due to use of extracorporeal
      therapies such as continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Many beta-lactam antibiotics
      share similar physicochemical and PK properties with ceftolozane and are efficiently cleared
      by CRRT machines. However the extent of total drug clearance during CRRT is variable not only
      due to the different modalities and operational settings across different institutions, but
      also due to the variable residual renal clearance associated with the degree of renal
      impairment. The traditional dosing considerations in patients undergoing CRRT mainly focus on
      the notion of renal impairment and generally consider low doses without giving appropriate
      consideration to the possibly high extracorporeal clearance, and thus risking under dosing.
      In a similar fashion, the product information for ceftolozane-tazobactam or the prescriber's
      information by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), recommends a ten-fold
      lower-than-normal dose for use during renal replacement therapy (maintenance dose of 150mg
      versus 1.5g in those with normal renal function). However, to date there is limited data from
      clinical studies during CRRT in ICU patients to confirm if such a low dose provides
      appropriate antibiotic exposure. Lessons from studies on other beta-lactams suggest that
      ceftolozane may be subject to extensive but variable clearance during CRRT. It is therefore,
      essential to describe the adequacy of dosing in patients receiving CRRT, given that fact and
      that several additional pathophysiological factors affect the PK and PD of antibiotics even
      in the absence of extracorporeal circuits.

      This prospective observational study will describe, firstly, the PK of ceftolozane-tazobactam
      in ICU patients who are not receiving CRRT, and secondly, the influence of CRRT on the PK and
      dosing requirements of ceftolozane-tazobactam in critically ill patients. This study will
      generate new PK data in ICU patients describing the exposure to ceftolozane-tazobactam from
      the recommended dosing regimen thereby allowing assessment of its adequacy and/or defining
      appropriate dosing. Further, it will provide invaluable insight into the altered dosing needs
      of patients receiving CRRT to enable its use in such patients through prediction of any
      necessary dosing corrections to account for the due effect of CRRT.
    
  