
    
      Participating Centers : 38 french high PCI volume (>700) centers Rationale: Clopidogrel /
      Prasugrel (75 mg/day), in combination with aspirin (75 mg/day), is currently the antiplatelet
      treatment of choice for prevention of stent thrombosis, and clinical trials have shown that,
      in high-risk patients, prolonged dual antiplatelet treatment is more effective than aspirin
      alone in preventing major cardiovascular events. However, despite the use of clopidogrel, a
      considerable number of patients continue to have cardiovascular events. Numerous in VITRO
      studies have shown that individual responsiveness to clopidogrel but also to aspirin is not
      uniform in all patients and is subject to inter- and intraindividual variability. The recent
      possibility of bedside monitoring of oral antiplatelet therapy offers the unique opportunity
      of tailoring antiplatelet therapy. However, the relevance of such strategy has never been
      evaluated in a randomized prospective adequately powered study having long term follow-up
      (rationale 1). Late state stent thrombosis, especially in the era of drug eluting stent and
      after interruption of OAT, is another important safety issue raising the questions of the
      modalities of interruption of dual OAT after one year according to the most recent updated
      recommendations. Can we switch from dual to single OAT after one year? If so, what is the
      ischemic hazard? (Rational 2) Our first hypothesis is that a strategy of dose adjustment of
      OAT based on biological monitoring reduces the rate of the combined ischemic endpoints of
      death, urgent revascularization, stent thrombosis and stroke as compared to a conventional
      strategy (local practice without monitoring) in patients scheduled for DES implantation and
      followed up for one year. Our second hypothesis is that interruption of clopidogrel after one
      year of dual OAT is associated with a higher rate of the same combined ischemic endpoints as
      compared with patients in whom dual OAT is maintained during the subsequent 6 months of
      follow-up. Objectives: 1) To demonstrate the superiority of the strategy of monitoring with
      dose adjustment in suboptimal responders (Monitoring Arm) as compared to a more conventional
      strategy (Conventional Arm) with fixed dose regimen of both oral antiplatelet agents in all
      patients as defined by the international guidelines to reduce the primary endpoint evaluated
      one year after DES implantation. 2) to demonstrate the superiority of a strategy of pursuit
      of a dual OAT beyond one year (Pursuit Arm) as compared to a strategy of interruption
      (Interruption Arm).

      Duration of the participation : from 18 up to 30 months according to the time delay from
      study start to randomization. No participants will be excluded from the study at the
      exception of consent withdrawal. However, participants who have not been randomized for
      interruption or continuation of DAPT at the 12 month follow up visit will terminate the study

      Number of patients: 2500 patients. This number was obtained for the demonstration of the
      superiority of the strategy of monitoring (Monitoring Arm) over the conventional strategy
      (Conventional Arm) to reduce the primary endpoint by 33% (relative risk reduction).

      Expected results: The ARCTIC study will provide answers to two major clinical challenges. It
      will also give a unique opportunity to assess the prevalence and the associated risk factors
      of suboptimal answers to OAT, but also to improve a suboptimal biological response. Finally,
      the economic impact of both strategies of monitoring and of interruption will be evaluated.
    
  