
    
      The treatment cycle begins with 6 hours of intravenous (IV) hydration followed by an infusion
      of the anti-cancer drug, Cisplatin. In addition, at the beginning of this treatment, you will
      begin low-dose Interferon-alpha injections for the entire duration of your participation in
      this study. The drug, Interferon-alpha, interrupts the division of cancer cells, destroys
      tumor blood vessels, and slows tumor growth.

      Forty-eight hours after the Cisplatin infusion, you will be treated with fever-range thermal
      therapy (whole-body hyperthermia, or heat). When your core body temperature reaches 104oF
      (40oC), a 30-minute (IV) infusion of another chemotherapy drug, gemcitabine (Gemzar) is
      given. Cisplatin, low-dose Interferon-a and gemcitabine are the only chemotherapy drugs used
      in this treatment plan. No other chemotherapy drugs are allowed to be given under this
      treatment plan.

      The fever-range whole-body heat treatment is carried out while you are lightly sedated. With
      this sedation, you will be awake and be able to talk during the treatment, however you will
      not be uncomfortable. This sedation is used to reduce any discomfort of the 6-hour heat
      treatment procedure yet will allow you to speak to your nurses.

      Your body temperature is raised to 104oF (40oC) over a period of 60-120 minutes. When the
      body first reaches the target 104oF, we administer the gemcitabine chemotherapy over 60
      minutes and continue to maintain the 104 oF body temperature for six hours. At the conclusion
      of the six hours of thermal treatment, you will be cooled to your normal body temperature,
      which takes about 30-45 minutes. The entire treatment lasts approximately 8 hours. After the
      treatment is completed, we will observe you for 2 to 12 hours to make sure you have tolerated
      the treatment without a problem.

      You will continue the low-dose Interferon-alpha. Additionally, you will be given 5-10 days of
      Leukine (sargramostim) cytokine injections usually beginning 3-5 days after receiving
      chemotherapy to help support the immune system by helping the body create more white blood
      cells. White blood cells are important to help your body fight infection.

      After treatment, you will need a complete blood count with platelet and differential count
      each week. These lab studies can be done at your own doctor's office or hospital as long as
      you make sure that the results are faxed to us. They can also be done in our clinic. We will
      see you again in approximately three to four weeks and the treatment cycle will be repeated.

      We always attempt to perform at least two thermo-chemotherapy cycles. After the second
      treatment, CT and/or MRI scans are repeated to see if your cancer is smaller. These scans,
      along with a physical examination and the lab studies, are used to determine if additional
      heat treatments will be performed. Additional treatments continue based on how well you
      respond to the treatment. We limit to the number of heat treatments a patient may have using
      these chemotherapy drugs to a total of six treatments.
    
  