
    
      This study has been planned as a prospective randomized clinical trial. We used a completely
      computer-generated list in order to randomize all participants to receive one of two
      treatments (https://www.random.org/sequences/).

      Anterior Cruciate Ligament tear diagnosis will be made by physical examination and magnetic
      resonance imaging. Participants who agree to be enrolled to study will be examined one day
      prior to surgery. Patients are randomly divided into 3 groups, after tibial fixation of the
      hamstring autograft, 3 different techniques will be used in the femoral fixation phase.

      The first group will be knottless and without retensioning the graft. In the second group,
      The graft will be retensioned after tibial fixation. In the third group femoral loop will be
      retensioned and knotted after tibial fixation.

      All the surgeries will be performed by the same senior surgeon experienced in sports medicine
      surgery under regional anesthesia with patient in supine position.

      All participants will receive a standard postoperative rehabilitation program starting
      immediately after surgery with closed chain exercises and quadriceps strengthening and
      walking. The operated lower extremity won't be placed in a brace and patient allowed for full
      weight walking with a pair of crutches.

      Postoperative evaluations will be performed regularly at 1 weeks, 3 weeks, 1 months, 6
      months, 12 months postoperatively .The results of last follow-up will be analyzed. To assess
      knee stability, KT-1000 measurement will be procedured to both extremites in each group and
      clinical scores ( Tegner Acitivy Scale, Lyhsolm knee score, IKDC ) will be measured.

      To evaluate enlargement of the tunnel width and graft integrity, the patients will be
      obtained MRI at the 1. Year postoperatively. The prospective follow-up data and radiological
      evaluation will be analyzed in order to compare clinical and radiological outcomes correlate
      the femoral loop suspension tecnique.
    
  