
    
      Despite smoking fewer cigarettes daily, African American (AA) men suffer higher morbidity and
      mortality associated with tobacco-related disorders than whites. Our preliminary data shows
      that 39.9% of AA men between 19 and 30 years of age who resided in rural Alabama smoke
      cigarettes. Although it has been well established that a combination of pharmacotherapy and
      advice-oriented counseling and/or cognitive behavioral interventions are efficacious in
      promoting smoking cessation across diverse populations, these evidence-based treatments for
      tobacco dependence have not proven to be effective/efficacious (or even accessible) among
      some subpopulations suffering disproportionally from tobacco-related morbidity and mortality.
      The overall goal of this feasibility study is to make adaptations to these evidence-based
      approaches, and develop, implement, and examine the feasibility and scalability of a
      theory-based, culturally relevant smoking cessation intervention for young adult AA men in
      rural Alabama who smoke cigarettes. Our formative assessments point to a cognitive-behavioral
      intervention delivered by a trained Community Health Worker with the support from an "expert"
      physician who can deliver the pharmacological component via Skype through an integrated
      approach. The proposed study will address the next three steps in this process: development
      of the intervention, pretesting, and feasibility. First, we will develop the intervention
      with input from a Community Advisory Committee, followed by an iterative process by which the
      target audience will be exposed to materials and messages to provide feedback (pretesting).
      Once all intervention components are finalized, we will recruit participants, randomly assign
      them to intervention/control groups, pilot test, and evaluate the intervention. The
      comparison group will be the Alabama Tobacco Quitline with 8 weeks of Nicotine Replacement
      Therapy to be consistent with the pharmacological approach proposed for the intervention. The
      primary outcome will be 7-day point prevalence abstinence (defined as no cigarettes in the
      past 7 days and verified through measurement of exhaled carbon monoxide levels) at 6-month
      follow-up. We will also conduct detailed treatment fidelity and scalability assessments
      (acceptability, feasibility, potential reach and adoption, alignment with the strategic
      context) to inform a full-scale efficacy trial.
    
  