
    
      The study had two components:

        1. a randomized open-label comparison between immediate cryotherapy (test-and-treat
           strategy; Arm A) and cytology-based strategy (Arm B) in participants detected with
           high-risk HPV (hr-HPV), and

        2. a brief cohort follow-up for participants for whom cryotherapy was inappropriate (Arm
           C).

      The study's primary objective was to evaluate the effectiveness of immediate cryotherapy (Arm
      A) compared to the cytology-based strategy (Arm B).

      The total target sample size was up to 450 (280 for Arms A and B, approximately 170 for Arm
      C). Randomization to Arms A and B was stratified by use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) at
      screening (taking any ART or not taking any ART) with institutional balancing.

      All study participants were screened with the Abbott RealTime hr-HPV test (aHPV) to detect
      hr-HPV infection.

      At screening, the examiner also performed a visual inspection and colposcopy without biopsies
      to determine whether the candidate's cervix was suitable for cryotherapy (see inclusion
      criteria for definition).

      Participants with cervical lesions inappropriate for cryotherapy were not eligible for
      randomization (to Arms A or B) but were eligible to register to Arm C. Participants without
      hr-HPV (by aHPV) were also eligible to register to Arm C if lesions were seen on the
      screening colposcopy or if the screening cytology showed high-grade squamous intraepithelial
      lesions (HSIL). Arm C provided a larger number of participants for assessments of HPV
      genotypes found in CIN2+ (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2, 3, or invasive cancer)
      biopsy specimens and of the effect of LEEP on prevalent hr-HPV infections. In addition, Arm C
      provided important data for implementation of the HPV test-and-treat strategy including the
      role of HPV testing in the management of women with extensive cervical lesions inappropriate
      for cervical cryotherapy, hr-HPV negative women with cervical lesions or HSIL cytology.

      Participants in Arm A undergo one or two cervical biopsies followed by immediate cervical
      cryotherapy at entry. Up to two visible lesions were biopsied. If no lesions were seen, then
      one normal-appearing area of the cervix was biopsied. Participants in Arm A received the
      results of the biopsy, but participants received cryotherapy treatment regardless of the
      results.

      Participants in Arm B followed a cytology-based management plan involving three steps -
      cytology, colposcopy with directed biopsies, and loop electrosurgical excision procedure
      (LEEP), as needed.

      Participants in Arms A and B were seen at weeks 26, 52, 78, 104 and 130 post entry for
      evaluation using aHPV, HPV DNA PCR, cervical cytology, and cervical colposcopy and directed
      biopsies for a total follow-up length of 130 weeks. Biopsies were expected for participants
      with abnormal cytology and with visible cervical lesions on colposcopy.

      Participants in Arm C undergo colposcopy and directed biopsies. If CIN2+ was detected by
      biopsy, then LEEP was performed and a follow-up visit 26 weeks after these procedures was
      scheduled for evaluation using aHPV, HPV DNA PCR, Xpert HPV, cervical cytology, and cervical
      colposcopy and directed biopsies. After the week 26 visit, Arm C participants went off study.

      All participants who had cryotherapy or LEEP were seen 4 weeks post-procedure to evaluate
      potential adverse events (AEs) from the procedure.
    
  