
    
      Enteral nutrition is often preferred in intensive care units, but it brings some potential
      complications in addition to its benefits. It is stated that abdominal massage and in-bed
      exercise in intensive care patients can reduce complications related to the gastrointestinal
      system when performed under appropriate conditions. Considering the ease of application, low
      cost and non-invasive nature of abdominal massage and in-bed exercises, it is predicted that
      patients will benefit in case of gastrointestinal complications and positive effects on
      comfort. It is also thought that these interventions that support independent nursing roles
      will contribute to the establishment of standards of care and the professionalization process
      by using evidence-based practices.

      This study is conducted to evaluate the effects of abdominal massage and in-bed exercise on
      gastrointestinal complications and patient comfort in intensive care patients who are fed
      enterally.

      The research is planned to be completed between April 15, 2021 and July 15, 2022. The
      universe of the study, which was conducted as a randomized controlled study model, consisted
      of patients with intubated enteral nutrition in the internal intensive care units of
      Diyarbakır Gazi Yaşargil Training and Research Hospital and Dicle University Medical Faculty.
      Participants were planned to be assigned to the experimental and control groups by
      stratification and block randomization (Abdominal massage group = 46 participant, in-bed
      exercise group = 46 participant and control group = 46 participant). Demographic
      Characteristics Form, Enteral Nutrition Follow-up Form, Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale,
      Intensive Care Pain Observation Scale and Comfort Behavior Checklist were used to collect
      data. According to the characteristics of the data, t test, ANOVA test, Mann Whitney U test
      and correlation were measured in independent groups.
    
  