
    
      At present, in the scientific literature, there are no known studies of the effectiveness of
      therapeutic support groups for supporting mental and physical health in transgender or gender
      nonconforming (TGNC)-identified individuals who are undergoing gender-affirming surgical
      interventions. Gender affirmation surgeries have been shown to decrease anxiety and
      depression, and increase well-being for TGNC individuals compared to the well-being of TGNC
      individuals who do not access surgery. In spite of this, surgery is inherently stressful for
      people undergoing it, and there are a plethora of medical and psychological complications
      that may be faced by people undergoing these surgeries.

      Denver Health has greatly expanded gender-affirming interventions in the past three years due
      to the creation of the Center of Excellence; however, mental health services are still
      catching up. While support from other TGNC individuals has proven to be effective in general
      for reducing anxiety and depression, and community support groups have begun to be offered
      more regularly to support TGNC individuals, surgical support groups appear to largely not be
      offered. However, a high proportion of TGNC individuals express a desire for post-surgical
      support around surgery results (84.6% in a sample of 415 people), and over 90% of people are
      in favor of peer support around medical interventions more broadly. In other areas,
      specifically bariatric surgery, peer therapeutic support groups have been found to help with
      continued post-operative weight loss and mental health, likely due to the additional
      opportunities for support and connection with others undergoing similar things, group
      provision of ideas, and additional therapeutic support. While individual therapy is, and
      should continue to be, offered for this population, the addition of a group attended by
      individuals going through similar situations is likely to be helpful above and beyond
      individual therapy due to the provision of peer support, as well as the opportunity for
      participants to offer support to their peers. Seeing oneself as a help provider, rather than
      simply a help recipient (helper-therapy principle) has been demonstrated to have a powerful
      impact on the helper's own well-being across a host of medical and psychological situations.

      Currently, therapeutic support groups are being developed to be offered to TGNC patients at
      Denver Health who are undergoing gender-affirming surgeries. Investigators will
      systematically collect data on well-being and mental health, as well as the mediating effect
      of feelings of cohesion on well-being, as well as the number of emergency department visits
      for participants in the groups as compared to the average number of emergency department
      visits across all TGNC patients in the Denver Health system for patients involved in these
      groups. Given the deficit of groups of this nature, as well as information on the helpfulness
      of therapeutic support groups for people undergoing gender-affirming surgeries, the
      investigators expect that this may be the first study on this topic. The study hypothesis is
      that participants in pre- and post-surgical support groups will experience increased
      well-being and mental health over a six month period, and that these increases will be
      mediated by group cohesion. Investigators also expect that attendance at these groups will
      lead to lower utilization of emergency services due to decreased anxiety and distress.
    
  