
    
      Objective: The primary goal of this study is to evaluate whether therapist supported
      in-session exposure exercises are more effective than individual out-session exposure
      exercises, or parent supported out-session exposure exercises. The secondary goal is to find
      child, parent and therapist factors that possibly relate to the effectiveness of the exposure
      exercises.

      Study design: Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) with three parallel groups (intervention
      versus intervention versus intervention).

      Study population: Children aged 8 to 12 years with a specific phobia of the
      animal/situational subtype

      Intervention (if applicable): The intervention will be designed as a CBT, a therapy which has
      proven to be effective in treating specific phobia. The intervention consists of three
      individual sessions, each up to 60 minutes long. Each condition starts with a
      psycho-education session on specific phobias and exposure. In the following two sessions,
      that differ per condition, either two therapist-guided in-session exposure exercises or two
      self-guided out-session exposure sessions are offered. In the out-session exposure sessions
      the child conducts the exposure exercises either with or without the help of a parent. The
      intervention will be provided by an experienced mental health professional.

      Main study parameters/endpoints (see outcome measures paragraph): The main study parameter is
      specific phobia severity. Secondary study parameters are subjective level of fear, fearful
      cognitions, bodily tension, avoidance, coping (possible mediator variables), approach
      behavior and self-efficacy. Tertiary study parameters are healthcare costs and quality of
      life (cost-effectiveness), note: cost-effectiveness is assessed for another study. Other
      study parameters are specific phobiadiagnosis, general comorbidity, comorbid anxiety and
      depression, parental fear, parental modelling behaviors, and demographic variables (possible
      moderator variables); and credibility and expectancy of the treatment, treatment compliance,
      treatment satisfaction, and therapeutic alliance (treatment characteristics).
    
  