
    
      patient selection:

      Selection of patients diagnosed with of biopsy proven breast cancer (BIRAD VI ) :

      • Inclusion criteria: patient in different age groups with local advanced breast cancer who
      are eligible for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and breast conservative surgery and in need for
      clip placement for tumor localization

      Breast cancer (BC) is the second most common cancer in the world and by far the most frequent
      cancer among women. In Egypt the incidence rate of breast cancer is 29.9/100,000 population
      in the age group of 30-34 years with the highest population among young women. (1).

      Management of breast cancer depends upon its stage. Early stages (stage I) with small sized
      breast masses undergo breast conservative surgery (BCS) while locally advanced breast masses
      (stage II and III) may require Preoperative administration of Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC)
      to decrease the tumor burden allowing for BCS instead of mastectomy with no significant
      difference in disease-free survival for patients receiving breast conservation in comparison
      to mastectomy.(2, 3)

      Patients who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR; defined as no residual tumor or a
      minimal residual tumor on histologic analysis) post NAC demonstrate significantly longer
      disease-free and overall survival rates(4).

      Predicting whether a patient will respond or not to the given chemotherapy would allow an
      early change in chemotherapy regime or early resort to surgery saving patients from potential
      toxic effects of chemotherapy and provide a greater chance of achieving a pCR.(5, 6)

      Imaging is more accurate than clinical examination in monitoring response to therapy.
      Different imaging modalities including Digital mammography, ultrasound and MRI have been
      incorporated in predicting tumoral response to NAC however the MRI has the upper hand due to
      its higher sensitivity.(3)

      Assessing tumoral response to chemotherapy based on observing the regression in the tumor
      size is widely accepted(7). However, changes in tumor microvasculature, cell density can
      predate tumoral size change therefore the use of Functional MRI techniques as
      diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI), MR spectroscopy (MRS) or Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI (DCE)
      can be used to quantify these early histopathological changes in the tumor.(8)

      DCE MRI was reported by multiple studies as the optimal imaging tool to determine disease
      response, with an accuracy of approximately 91% however there is no established cutoff of
      enhancement determining partial versus complete response.In three recent studies, the routine
      use of DWI allowed early differentiation between responders and non-responders by at least a
      20% increase in apparent diffusion coefficient, thereby allowing for tailoring of
      chemotherapy. Also it was reported that the addition of DWI to DCE MRI resulted in improved
      diagnostic performance in predicting residual disease after chemotherapy.(3) 80% to 90% of
      patients receiving NAC have a significant response rate of the primary tumor to neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy. However, this significant response complicates the surgical excision because it
      is difficult to verify accurate localization of the site of the previous tumor. Therefore the
      use of a radiopaque marker placed in the tumor bed before administrating chemotherapy has
      been reported as a safe and inexpensive technique that allows later on for wire guided
      localization of the tumor bed before surgical resection (9).

      In a report on patients who underwent clip placement and preoperative chemotherapy indicated
      that preoperative wire localization of the tumor bed would have been impossible in 35.7% of
      patients and difficult in 21.4% of patients without the aid of the clip. Dash et al.
      concluded that the clip placement was valuable in 57% of patients at the time of preoperative
      needle localization(10). Edeiken and colleagues reported a similar experience with
      ultrasound-guided implantation of metallic markers. The markers reportedly were the only
      remaining evidence of the original tumor site in (47%) of patients.

      In a study conducted in M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas in 2007 aiming to
      determine whether patients with breast cancer who received breast-conservation therapy after
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy had improved outcomes if radiopaque clips were placed to mark the
      primary tumor. The study concluded that the omission of tumor bed clips was associated with a
      hazard ratio of 3.69 for increased local recurrence compared with patients who did have
      radiopaque clip placement (P =.083;95% confidence interval , 0.84-16.16).(9)
    
  