
    
      Vaccination is estimated to have saved more lives in Canada over the last 50 years than any
      other single intervention and is considered one of the most important advances in the
      prevention of disease. One major drawback of vaccination, however, is that the usual route of
      administration involves a painful needle injection. In students undergoing school-based mass
      vaccinations, vaccine injections frequently cause sever distress and fainting, with some
      serious injuries resulting from fainting. Concerns about pain and/or needle fear are also
      directly responsible for vaccine refusal in this population.

      An evidence based clinical practice guideline for mitigating vaccine injection pain, fear and
      fainting has been developed, however, it is not yet implemented across different school-based
      vaccination settings and students are not benefiting from the research evidence. In a prior
      small-scale project, investigators developed and implemented a multi-faceted knowledge
      translation intervention - The CARD (C-Comfort, A-Ask, R-Relax, D-Distract) System - in some
      schools in a small public health region in Niagara, Ontario. CARD is a framework for
      delivering vaccinations that is student-centred and promotes coping. It integrates
      recommendations from the guideline in two separate components of the vaccination delivery
      program: 1) pre-vaccination day preparation, and 2) vaccination day activities. Investigators
      found preliminary evidence of acceptability, appropriateness, satisfaction and clinical
      effectiveness of CARD when used in grade 7 students in Niagara.

      In this study, investigators plan to determine the feasibility of implementing CARD in a
      diverse and more complex public health region in Calgary, Alberta. Specifically,
      investigators will determine recruitment rates, adherence to CARD protocol, response rates
      for questionnaires, acceptability, appropriateness (fit), and satisfaction. The results will
      inform a future cluster trial.
    
  