
    
      In the study group:

        -  Full medical and dental history will be obtained from all the patients participating in
           this study (figure 2).

        -  Thorough clinical and radiographic examination for the ridge area to be treated will be
           done.

        -  Future implant site will be planned.

        -  Each patient will be asked to evaluate their overall satisfaction using a questionnaire
           before any intervention.

        -  Patients will receive 2 gm of amoxicillin 1 hour before surgery. They will be instructed
           to wash their mouths with a 0.12% chlorhexidine solution for 30 seconds immediately
           before surgery.

        -  The patient will receive inferior alveolar nerve block and long buccal nerve anesthesia
           using articane HCl 4% with 1:100,000 adrenaline local anesthetic solution using
           aspirating syringe and 27-gauge needle.

        -  After confirming the success of profound local anaesthesia, an incision will be made and
           flap will be reflected along the ridge of the previously planned intraoral donor site to
           completely expose bone.

        -  Autogenous bone graft will be obtained and will be grinded according to the dimensions
           of the present defect.

        -  MPM (Mineralized plasmatic matrix) will be prepared:

      Tubes of 9 ml of venous blood will be taken from the patient and will be placed in a
      centrifuge at 2500 rpm / min for 5 min.

      At the end of the centrifugation, the blood in the tube will be separated into two
      compartments one yellow and one red.

      The yellow part will be withdrawn with a syringe to be mixed with the grinded autogenous bone
      previously obtained from intra oral site.

      Components will be mixed using a probe until the formation of a single homogeneous component,
      called the MPM (Mineralized Plasmatic Matrix).

        -  The graft site receiver will be prepared by perforating the lateral cortical bone to
           improve the vascularization and facilitate cell migration.

        -  Implant fixture/s will be inserted in the previously planned site.

        -  Uncovered fixture threads and bone defect will be covered by MPM.

        -  Osstell instrument will be used to measure and record fixture primary stability in ISQ
           units precisely and objectively 48.

        -  Edges will be approximated, Sutures will be placed.

        -  Sutures will be removed 7 days later.

        -  Immediate postoperative CBCT will be performed.

        -  Antibiotic (combination of 500mg amoxicillin and 125mg clavulanic acid) and analgesic
           and anti-inflammatory (Ibuprofen 600mg) will be prescribed after the surgical procedure
           to be administrated by the patients.

        -  Patients will be referred to the fixed prosthodontics department for placement of the
           crowns after ensuring success of osseointegration and implant stability (after 4
           months).

      In the control group:

        -  The Same previously mentioned procedure will be performed, But here gold standards are
           to be performed (Autogenous particulate bone graft used for vertical augmentation will
           be covered with titanium reinforced membrane).

        -  Osstell tool will be used to measure and record fixture primary stability in ISQ units.

        -  Suturing will be performed.

        -  Then Immediate Post operative CBCT will be performed.

        -  Antibiotic (combination of 500mg amoxicillin and 125mg clavulanic acid) and analgesic
           and anti-inflammatory (Ibuprofen 600mg) will be prescribed after the surgical procedure
           to be administrated by the patients.

        -  Patients will be referred to the fixed prosthodontics department for placement of the
           crowns after ensuring success of osseointegration and implant stability (after 4
           months).

      Postoperative follow up in both groups:

        -  After 4 months, Osstell instrument will be used to evaluate the implant stability ratio
           in ISQ unit to be compared to the ratio recorded before.

        -  After 9 months, Patients will evaluate their overall satisfaction after fitting the
           final prosthesis using a questionnaire to be answered by YES or NO.

        -  -After 9 months, CBCT will be performed to evaluate augmented bone height to be compared
           with the bone height previously recorded in CBCT.
    
  