
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR])
      in patients with unresectable biliary carcinoma treated with AZD6244 (selumetinib).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients. II. To evaluate the 6-
      and 12-month survival, 6-month progression-free survival, and overall survival rates of
      patients treated with this drug.

      III. To correlate genetic mutations, epigenetic silencing, and/or protein levels of
      RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathway activation with therapeutic efficacy of AZD6244 in these
      patients.

      IV. To genotype tumors for the presence of RAS mutations (i.e., NRAS, KRAS, HRAS) and BRAF
      mutations (e.g., V600E) in biliary tumor samples from these patients.

      V. To assess the presence of activation of the MEK1, MEK2, ERK, and/or Akt pathways in tumor
      samples from these patients.

      VI. To assess the epigenetic alterations (i.e., methylation) affecting the level of
      gene/protein expression of RASSF1A, NORE1A, and NORE1B in tumor samples from these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral selumetinib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks or fresh tissue samples are obtained from all
      patients prior to treatment. Tissue samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry for the
      expression level of target proteins (MEK, p-MEK, ERK, p-ERK, Akt, p-AKT, RASSF1A, NORE1A and
      NORE1B); PCR for mutational status of target genes RAS, BRAF and EGFR); and in
      methylation-specific PCR for methylation of target gene promoters (promoters for RASSF1A,
      NORE1A and NORE1B). Samples are also analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR to compare
      methylation status. Fresh frozen tissue, when available, is evaluated by Western analysis to
      measure expression levels of target proteins.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  