
    
      Each year, more than 2.000.000 patients visit their general practitioners for a acute
      cystitis. The scientific literature shows that acute cystitis without risk of complication
      cause complications, such as pyelonephritis, in a very rare cases. However, French guidelines
      systematically request an antibiotic therapy as soon as the diagnostic is confirmed with the
      only goal to lowering symptomatology.

      Recent studies show that some informed women would like not to take antibiotics and
      pain-killers could be as effective as antibiotics. Canadian studies assessing share decision
      making tools in patients with acute respiratory infection have shown that matching antibiotic
      treatment with the patient values lower such prescription without any impact on clinical
      outcomes .

      Investigators aim to assess a similar strategy in patients with acute cystitis. This study
      will compare a group following French guidelines versus one using a share decision making
      tool to determine if, after being informed of the benefice and risk of this treatment,
      patient still want an antibiotic. Targeting instead of systematic prescription will reduce
      antibiotic consumption.

      After diagnostic of acute cystitis to a woman between 18 and 65 years, investigators check if
      they filing all study criteria and ask for authorization to add them to the study. Then
      they'll act following their group instruction, and get information (antibiotic prescription
      or not, score to the Activity Impairment Assessment (AIA) scale, Score to satisfaction
      scale). Then patients will be followed by phone contact on day 5, day 14 and day 90 after
      inclusion to get information on antibiotic use, AIA and satisfaction scores and clinical
      outcomes, such urinary infection. Data on antibiotics delivery by pharmacy will be obtained
      through National assurance database.
    
  