
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Our purpose is to examine for evidence of genetic risk factors associated with idiopathic
      laryngeal motor control disorders. During the conception of the protocol, we were interested
      in investigating the pattern of inheritance of familial voice disorders, specifically
      spasmodic dysphonia and tremor. Interestingly, the initial search for families revealed
      several large families with idiopathic vocal fold paralysis with some family members
      experiencing symptoms of spasmodic dysphonia. During subsequent years, the research has
      focused on inherited forms of vocal fold paralysis in an attempt to determine the
      relationship between the laryngeal motor control disorder and other associated neuropathies,
      and to determine the existence of a specific genetic abnormality. These idiopathic laryngeal
      motor control disorders were one manifestation of peripheral neuropathies or may be an
      isolated disorder with only laryngeal involvement. Subsequently, we have shifted our emphasis
      back to the identification of genetic risk factors for spasmodic dysphonia.

      Hypothesis 1) Familial risk factors for spasmodic dysphonia result in a particular phenotype
      and genotype.

      Hypothesis 2) Environmental risk factors may differentiate between affected and unaffected
      members of families with spasmodic dysphonia.

      Hypothesis 3) Whole genome screening will identify SNPs associated with the occurrence of
      spasmodic dysphonia.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Families with multiple members affected with spasmodic dysphonia, vocal fold paralysis, and
      tremor will be ascertained.

      DESIGN:

      A pedigree will be developed via a questionnaire and voice history. Affected and unaffected
      family members will be examined to determine the presence and extent of their laryngeal motor
      control disorder. Affected family members will also undergo neurological examination and
      nerve and muscle studies to determine the loci of their pathology. A genotype will be
      developed for affected and unaffected family members, through DNA testing of blood samples.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      This is a natural history study characterizing the phenotype and genotype of idiopathic
      laryngeal motor control disorders.
    
  