
    
      After screening and informed consent, that will be collected demographical data from patient.
      Another researcher will evaluate the cognition, through MMSE; the activities of daily living,
      through Activities of Daily Living Questionnaire of Alzheimer disease; patient and
      caregiver's quality of life through Quality of life scale in Alzheimer's disease (QOL-AD);
      functional mobility, through Time Up and Go test.

      Afterwards, the pharmacist will give the medicine, orientations about its administration and
      clarify possible doubts. Therapy will begin with the small patch of 5 mg/24 h and, if well
      tolerated, the dose will be increased to the 10 mg/24 h patch.

      The patients will be randomly assigned, through a computer program list, to exercise or
      control group. The patient and caregiver exercise group will receive information about the
      two-day/week exercise program at physiotherapy ambulatory. Monthly, all patients and
      caregiver will be clinically reevaluated during six months.

      The forty minutes exercise program will include aerobic, strength, flexibility and balance
      training, organize in the follow sequence:

      - Ten minutes of global stretching (shoulder girdle, upper limbs, lower limbs and trunk)
      along the beginning and final of the session. Each stretch posture will last 30 seconds.

      Alternation of A and B sessions, lasting 30 minutes:

        -  Session A: Aerobic training on treadmill. Progression of 10 to 30 minutes of continuous
           aerobic activity

        -  Session B: - Resisted kinesiotherapy (strength training) with use of weights to be
           attached around the ankles and wrist of initially 1 Ib. The physiotherapist will
           evaluate if patient can progress to a higher weight during sessions.

        -  Walking over obstacles on the ground and direction change with use of cones.

        -  Functional activities like transfer exercise (stand/sit exercise) and squatting The
           monitoring of the exercise, its progress and any other observation will be register in a
           control form by the physiotherapist.
    
  