
    
      Prostate cancer is a considerable health risk for men throughout the world. In the United
      States, prostate cancer has been the second or third leading cause of cancer death in men in
      each of the last 75 years. In the European Union, an estimated 68,000 men died of prostate
      cancer in 2004, making it the third most common cause of cancer related death While prostate
      cancer mortality in East Asian countries remains lower than that in Europe and the United
      States, it has been continuously and dramatically increasing in the last 40 years. With the
      introduction of PSA screening test and transrectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsy, the
      detection rate of prostate carcinoma has markedly improved. Surgery and irradiation each
      provide excellent long-term cancer control but they may be accompanied by a risk of side
      effects that decrease quality of life. Since some of prostate cancers grow slowly and, even
      if untreated, might never progress to symptomatic disease, patients and clinicians face the
      dilemma of if, when and how to treat localized prostate cancer. Due to the stage migration of
      prostate cancer, the potential for patients to undergo unnecessary treatment and the risk of
      treatment related morbidity, there has been, in the last years, an increased interest in
      alternative strategies that offer the possibility of delaying, obviating or minimizing the
      impact of treatment maintaining the same oncological long term results. One such strategy is
      active surveillance with selective delayed intervention. Active surveillance consists of
      appropriate selection of patients to safely avoid radical treatment and its attendant
      potential for morbidity, regular and rigorous monitoring of the cancer via physical
      examination, PSA, biopsies and imaging and initiation of treatment with curative intent at
      any clinical, pathological or radiographic evidence of disease progression. Despite pros and
      cons have recently addressed, active surveillance has not gained popularity in men with low
      risk prostate cancer (only around 7% of men with localized prostate cancer in the Cancer of
      the Prostate Strategic Urologic Research Endeavor national registry have elected to undergo
      active surveillance as the initial treatment options). Traditionally solid tumors have been
      treated with radical surgery but selective, organ sparing therapies are now common for tumors
      of the breast, skin and kidney, resulting in equivalent rates of cancer control, lower
      morbidity rates and less disfigurement. With this in mind the potential role of focal
      ablative therapy for localized prostate cancer might be considered. We investigate the
      feasibility and the efficacy in term of quality of life and oncologic results of focal
      therapy by a pilot not randomized prospective study in a patients with localized prostate
      cancer who meet low risk criteria based on clinical, biopsy and imaging data.
    
  