
    
      Grade II and III (According to Wagner's classification system of Ulcer severity) are
      considered to be of the most common complications associated with Diabetes, which are mostly
      hard to heal using the conventional treatment methods which by consequence severely affects
      the quality and lifestyle of the diabetes patient.

      It's thought that the application of Autologous activated platelets "Resticutis" which
      secretes huge amounts of growth factors is capable of giving better results of which are: the
      stimulation of the healing process that includes contraction, granulation, tissue formation
      and epithelialization of the diabetic foot ulcer.

      Resticutis is obtained from an autologous 20 mL peripheral blood withdrawn in tubes
      containing 3.8% Sodium Citrate. Blood is then centrifuged to obtain Platelet-Rich Plasma
      -PRP- as per established method. PRP is then activated in a closed system by physical methods
      to obtain a final product of 5 mL of Resticutis which is injected intra-lesionally at ulcer
      margins per each session of therapy.

      It's hypothesized that a total of six injections throughout the period of the treatment are
      enough to achieve full closure of the DFU. The injections are given on days: 0,14,28,42,56,
      and 70 of the treatment period.

      The consenting patients will be randomized into 2 groups: One group will be given Resticutis,
      and the second one Platelet-Poor Plasma PPP as placebo. If patients in PPP group didn't
      achieve full healing after four-six injections, they're given a two weeks rest after which
      they are given Resticutis instead.

      This is mainly a phase 1 safety study, which means no formal statistical analysis will be
      applied to any of the data. Safety assessment will depend on the association of any adverse
      events during the course of the study, and efficacy as a secondary objective will be assessed
      by observing the healing time of DFUs.
    
  