
    
      Participants will not be required to attend any study visits outside of normal clinical
      encounters. Participants enrolled in the study will be randomized to treatment upon
      enrollment. Blocked randomization will be conducted, utilizing sex (M/F) and recurrent stone
      former (Y/N) as algorithm variables.

      Participants randomized to LithoLyte® will be provided 40 mEq of alkali in the form of
      LithoLyte® and advised to take 20 mEq twice daily according to package instructions, once in
      morning and once at bedtime; no requirements about proximity to meals are necessary.

      Participants randomized to baking soda will be provided instructions for using baking soda to
      provide 40 mEq alkali, to be accomplished by dissolving ¼ teaspoon baking soda in water or
      other beverage (any amount) in the morning on an empty stomach and ½ teaspoon baking soda in
      water or other beverage again at bedtime, also on an empty stomach.

      The 24-hour urine results that are available upon enrollment will be used for
      pre-intervention values. The 24-hour results from each participant's followup collection will
      be used for post-intervention values. Thus, no extra encounters are required for
      participation in the study. Additionally, no extra tests are required for participation in
      the study as participants would normally complete a post-treatment 24-hour urine collection
      anyway. Participants will be screened for eligibility, i.e., by pre-clinic review of
      schedules and 24-hour urine results. Only those meeting inclusion criteria will be invited to
      participate and enrolled, provided that informed consent is provided by signing the signature
      page of the consent/authorization form. The treatment/intervention period is up to 90 days
      (approximately 3 months). However, it should be noted that, as these are clinical
      interventions that would be prescribed or recommended anyway, it is expected that
      participants will continue treatment indefinitely and under supervision of urology and/or
      Metabolic Stone Clinic providers. If the participant has failed the randomized therapy they
      are assigned to, they will be clinically assigned a different treatment option and continue
      to be followed up in routine fashion.

      Participants will also be asked to complete a medication questionnaire and log, as well as
      the Wisconsin Stone Quality of Life (WISQOL) questionnaire. All study procedures are
      considered standard of care, except for: randomization into treatment and the medication
      questionnaire and log.

      Protocol Amendment Approved 11/16/2020 removed the UrocitK study arm; the investigators faced
      challenges recruiting participants during the COVID-19 pandemic and the possibility of being
      randomized into a prescription drug arm was causing many potential participants to choose not
      to participate.
    
  