
    
      General objective of the study To assess the efficacy and safety of enoxaparin in
      hospitalized patients with moderate to severe COVID-19 infection.

      Specific objectives Primary Endpoints To investigate the efficacy of enoxaparin in improving
      the clinical outcome of hospitalized patients with moderate to severe COVID-19.

        -  All-cause in-hospital, 30-day and 90-day mortality rates.

        -  Evolution of the clinical severity during treatment.

        -  ICU admission and length of ICU stay.

        -  Length of hospital stay.

      Secondary Endpoints To analyse the safety of enoxaparin in hospitalized patients with with
      moderate to severe COVID-19.

        -  Rate of adverse events (AEs) during treatment, at the end of treatment (EOT) and at 30
           days after EOT.

        -  Severity of AEs classified according to common terminology criteria for adverse events
           (CTCAE). The worst degree ever suffered will be considered.

      To describe the rates and the types of thromboembolic events among hospitalized patients with
      confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19.

        -  Occurrence of thromboembolic event at 90 days after COVID-19 diagnosis.

        -  Description of the type, distribution and severity of thromboembolic events.

      Study Design Overall Design

      The study consists of two parts:

        -  a phase II single-arm interventional prospective study including all patients treated
           with the study drug;

        -  an observational prospective cohort study including all patients screened for receiving
           the study drug but not included in the phase II study.

      Patients will be enrolled from "date of study approval" for 1 month. Each patient will be
      followed-up for a minimum of 90 days after COVID19 diagnosis.

      End of Study Definition A participant is considered to have completed the study if he/she has
      completed the last scheduled procedure shown in the Schedule of assessments. The end of the
      study is defined as the date of the last scheduled procedure shown in the Schedule of
      assessments for the last participant in the trial.

      Study Population

      Definitions

      Clinical severity of COVID-19 will be assessed at the diagnosis of COVID19, during the
      treatment with the study drug, and at the end of treatment according to the following
      criteria (1):

        -  Mild patients: only show mild symptoms without radiographic features

        -  Moderate patients: have fever, respiratory symptoms, and radiographic signs of pneumonia

        -  Severe patients: have fever, respiratory symptoms, and radiographic signs of pneumonia
           plus at least one of three criteria: (1) RR (respiratory rate) >30 times/min, (2) oxygen
           saturation <93% on ambient air, (3) PaO2/FiO2 (Oxigen partial pressure/inspired oxygen
           fraction ) <300 mmHg.

        -  Critical patients: meet one of three criteria: (1) respiratory failure needing invasive
           ventilation, (2) septic shock, (3) multiple organ failure.

      Major bleeding will be defined according to the ISTH (International Society of Thrombosis and
      Haemostasis) criteria as one of the following:

        -  Fatal bleeding

        -  Symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ, such as intracranial, intraspinal,
           intraocular, retroperitoneal, intra-articular or pericardial, or intramuscular with
           compartment syndrome

        -  Bleeding causing a fall in haemoglobin level of 2 g/dL or more, or leading to
           transfusion of two or more units of whole blood or red cells (11).

      Treatments Administration and monitoring of study drug

      All patients screened for being included in the study will receive standard
      thrombo-prophylaxis with LMWH (low molecular weight heparin) (e.g. enoxaparin 40 mg/die).
      Patients included in the observational cohort will continue on standard thrombo-prophylaxis,
      while patients included in the interventional study will receive subcutaneous enoxaparin in a
      single daily dose of:

        -  60 mg once daily in case of body weight of 45 to 60 kg

        -  80 mg per day in case of weight from 61 to 100 kg or

        -  100 mg once daily in case of bodyweight >100 kg Enoxaparin will be started on the first
           day of COVID19 diagnosis and continued for 14 days, after determination of baseline PT
           (prothrombin time), aPTT (activated partial thromboplastin time), complete blood cell
           count and creatinine levels.

      After reaching the steady state (usually after the third dose), heparin levels will be
      measured with the determination of anti-Xa activity on a blood sample obtained at 4 hours
      after the morning injection. LMWH dose may be then increased or reduced on the basis of
      target anti-Xa activity (0.4-0.6 antiFXa (Anti Factor X activated) UI/ml (International
      Unit/ml) for intermediate doses). The determination of anti-Xa activity will be repeated on
      the fifth or sixth day to monitor any drug accumulation.

      Complete blood cell count will be obtained every second day to monitor for heparin induced
      thrombocytopenia.

      Single low dose antiplatelet agents will be allowed. In all patients, RT-PCR (reverse
      transcription-polymerase chain reaction) nasopharyngeal swabs will be performed every 7 days
      to assess virus clearance and blood samples will be collected at baseline and on day 7 and
      will be retrospectively analysed to measure viral load.

      Follow up procedures Patients will be followed-up to 90 days after study drug initiation.
      Follow-up information will be collected via telephone calls, patient medical records and/or
      clinical visits according to clinical evolution.

      This is a pilot study and an initial sample of 100 patients for the phase II single-arm
      interventional trial is established. Even if currently precise data are not available, it can
      be assumed that the composite endpoint is around 30% in patient treated with the standard
      thromboprophylaxis dose of enoxaparin. To verify the hypothesis that the experimental
      treatment may produce a halving of this endpoint (from 30% to 15%), 300 patients (200 for the
      observational cohort and 100 for the phase II cohort; ratio 2:1) are needed with a 80% power
      and a 0,05 bilateral alpha error. As stated above a first safety analysis after enrolling the
      first 50 patients in the interventional study arm is planned and it will be done by an
      independent committee. According to safety and efficacy data obtained, using as control the
      observational cohort, a large study with a more robust design is planned.
    
  