
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects more than 600,000 US Veterans and is the most
      common psychiatric condition for which Veterans seek VA disability benefits, making up a
      substantial proportion of the $23 billion pensions and disability annual budget. Although
      many Veterans with PTSD are college educated, few have jobs, almost 40% are impoverished, and
      most report work, role and social functioning scores below those of persons with serious
      mental illness. Veterans returning from the Gulf War-era II conflicts, defined as having
      served in the military since Sept 2001, often experience PTSD and confront unemployment upon
      their military discharge. According to a March 2011 report from the U.S. Department of Labor,
      the 2010 unemployment rates were 11.5% for these Gulf War-era II Veterans, 21% for
      service-connected disabled Gulf War-era II Veterans, 13% for all service-connected Veterans
      of all eras combined and 9.4% for non Veterans. The current methods used by the VA
      Compensated Work Therapy (CWT) programs do not sufficiently meet the employment
      rehabilitation needs of Veterans with PTSD. In a VA Northeast Program Evaluation Center
      (NEPEC) study evaluating administrative data of 5,862 Veterans from 122 CWT programs,
      Veterans with PTSD were 19% less likely to be employed at discharge from the VA CWT program
      compared to those without a diagnosis of PTSD. The rate of competitive employment at
      discharge was only 30% for Veterans with PTSD. Similarly, another VA study found that
      Veterans with PTSD involved in CWT were no more likely to be employed at 4 months follow-up
      compared to those who participated in a specialized PTSD treatment program.

      Over the past two decades of studies, the Individual Placement and Support (IPS) model of
      Supported Employment has yielded remarkably robust and consistent employment outcomes for
      individuals with serious mental illness (defined as schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder,
      bipolar disorder, and major depression with psychotic features). Overall, approximately
      two-thirds of participants in clinical trials with serious mental illness who received IPS
      achieved competitive employment. However, Veterans with PTSD have very different clinical
      characteristics and employment challenges compared to Veterans with SMI. Serving as the first
      study in a PTSD population, a recent single site pilot study found superior outcomes from IPS
      compared to the conventional VA vocational rehabilitation program (VRP) in unemployed
      Veterans with PTSD (n=85). During the 12-month study follow-up period, 76% of the Veterans
      with PTSD randomized to IPS gained competitive employment, compared to 28% of those
      randomized to VRP. Together with the evidence base accumulated in the serious mentally ill
      population, the positive results of the pilot study in PTSD support a VA Cooperative Study to
      definitively test the effectiveness of IPS in Veterans with PTSD.

      As the primary outcome, the two groups will be compared in terms of the proportion of study
      participants who met the definition of steady worker, i.e., hold competitive employment for
      at least 50% of the follow-up period. Competitive employment is defined as a job receiving
      regular wages in a setting that is not set aside, sheltered, or enclaved, that is, the same
      job could be held by people without a mental illness or disability and is not a set-aside job
      in the TWP program. Secondary outcomes will include change in other occupational outcomes,
      PTSD symptoms, self esteem, community integration, and quality of life. We will explore the
      differences between groups in terms of occurrences of negative health outcomes.

      These findings would provide generalizable evidence of the effectiveness of differing
      employment support to the VHA stakeholders who inform policy and service delivery for
      Veterans with PTSD. Given the number of Veterans with PTSD, it is of critical importance for
      the VA to offer employment service programs based on the best evidence-based
      recovery-oriented model for this group. Conducting a large multi-site study is the next
      logical step in confirming IPS as an evidence-based employment service for Veterans with
      PTSD.
    
  