
    
      The small randomized controlled trial of an intensive curriculum and school garden
      intervention will be implemented in elementary schools in two communities (Shiprock and
      Tsaile). The study will begin in year 1 with a period of engagement and recruitment of
      schools in each community; with the goal of recruiting three schools in each community to
      start the run-in phase. The run-in period will include time for greater engagement with the
      school community, an assessment of the potential garden site and an assessment of evaluation
      readiness. Depending on whether all three schools in the community qualify for the study at
      the end of run-in, or only two schools per community, we will randomize three or two schools
      to intervention or delayed intervention status in each community. We will have either two
      intervention schools and 4 delayed intervention schools, or 2 intervention schools and 2
      delayed intervention schools, depending on the run-in information. We will conduct baseline
      data collection (T1) at the beginning of the school year in Year 2 with both children and
      parents. Students in the intervention group will receive the curriculum and school garden
      during that academic school year. At the end of the school year, we will conduct the T2
      assessment in children and parents. The main evaluation period is between T1 and f2, and the
      statistical analysis methods refer to the T2 versus T1 change in outcome measures (healthy
      eating and gardening). After that, at the beginning of the next school year (Year 3), the
      delayed intervention schools will receive the intervention. During Year 3, we will also
      conduct quarterly community gardening workshops for adult family members in all schools.
      Attendance at these will be tracked. A final assessment (T3) will be conducted at the end of
      the second school year in all the randomized schools to describe behaviors in children and
      parents over time, using a quasiexperimental design that estimates change in the delayed
      intervention group between T2 and T3, attributable in part to the delayed intervention.
    
  