
    
      Low back pain is the most commonly reported musculoskeletal condition, associated with injury
      and disability in adults worldwide. It is the leading cause of activity limitation and work
      absence throughout much of the world . Over 70% to 80% people experience low back pain
      somewhat once in their lives . Low back pain affects people of all ages, from children to the
      elderly, but it is more prevalent in young adults. Low back pain can lead to decrease in
      lumbar range of motion, change in gait pattern, and change of rhythm in the pelvis,
      limitations that can restrict social activities. Approximately more than 85% low back pain
      cases are categorized as non specific low back pain. Non-specific low back pain is defined as
      low back pain not attributable to a recognizable, known specific pathology (e.g, infection,
      tumor, osteoporosis, fracture, structural deformity, inflammatory disorder, radicular
      syndrome, or cauda equina syndrome) Hamstrings muscle is a postural muscle and as it is
      biarticular, it has tendency to shorten even under normal circumstances . Hamstrings are more
      prone to adaptive shortening than all other muscles of body .prevalence and incidences of
      Hamstrings tightness in non-specific low back pain individuals is high due to limited
      activity and lack of regular exercise . The hamstrings length is an essential component in
      the basic movements of the human body like walking and running . It is composed of three
      separate muscles; include semitendinosus, semimembranosus and biceps femoris which are
      present in the posterior part of thigh and help in the flexion of knee and extension of hip
      joint . Due to the attachment of hamstring muscles to the ischial tuberosity, the tightness
      of the hamstring produces posterior pelvic tilt which stops the flexion of hips during
      forward bending so reducing the lordosis of the lumbar spine. It may impair spinal loading
      and alter the Lumbar Pelvic Rhythm which will generate more strain on the lumbar segment
      giving rise to low back pain.

      ELDOA stands for elongation Longitudinaux avec Decoaption Osteo-Articulaire, or LOADS
      (Longitudinal Osteo-Articular Decoaption Stretching). A system of exercises and movements
      that uses the center of gravity and locates a target area of the spine that needs to be
      either mobilized or re-aligned by placing and maintaining tension on the fascia, was
      developed by Guy Voyer in Europe more than 30 years ago . The purpose of ELDOA is to help
      manage stress and create space in the vertebral joints, allowing muscles to move freely. The
      results of these stretches include joint mobility, increased absorption of fluid within the
      discs of the spine, flexibility, improved muscle tone, postural alignment, body-mind
      connection, and coordination. The tension and release created by these stretches help
      normalize the posture.

      In March-June 2019, a quasi- experimental study of 34 participants was conducted on
      Elongation Longitudinaux Avec Decoaption Osteo-Articulaire (ELDOA) in Lumbar Disc Protrusion.
      Two randomized group of patients with lumbar disc protrusion were treated and concluded that
      ELDOA improved pain and functional status of patients .

      In Jan-June 2019, another quasi-experimental study conducted with 20 patients, Elongation
      Longitudinaux Avec Decoaption Osteo-Articulaire (ELDOA) in Cervical Disc Protrusion. ELDOA
      technique was compared with conventional physical therapy treatment. The results showed,
      improved functional status and pain.

      In May 2019, an article published in Dynamic Chiropractic, Cervical spine degeneration- Exam
      to ELDOA founded significant results on using ELDOA exercises as main treatment intervention
      for cervical spine degeneration.

      In 2019, A study inquired the combination effect of core stability and contract relax
      exercise on hamstring flexibility and concluded that the combination of both core stability
      and contract relax exercise better than core stability exercises only and as good as contract
      relax exercises in increasing hamstring flexibility
    
  