
    
      BACKGROUND

      Radiotherapy is a key component in the management of head and neck tumors and primary or
      metastatic cancer of the central nervous system. Various radiation treatment methods employ
      different types of fractionation and conformational protocols designed to deliver focused
      radiation to target regions to maximize the lethal effect on the neoplasm and minimize the
      extraneous dose on normal brain tissue and other adjacent organs at risk. The outcomes of
      these clinical protocols may be complicated by radiation effects on normal brain parenchyma
      and other nervous system, resulting in a spectrum of phenotypes that range from clinically
      asymptomatic changes to radiotherapy-related nervous system complications with severe
      neurological defects, including delayed radiation-induced brain necrosis, myelopathy and
      nerve injury.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Interventions Patients are enrolled and administrated with optimized clinical treatment.

      Follow-up examinations

        1. Blood, urine and stool examinations, such as biochemical A, coagulation routine, thyroid
           function, EB virus DNA, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, morning cortisol, urine sodium
           and potassium, gonadal hormone, growth hormone, glycosylated hemoglobin.

        2. Imaging examinations, such as MR, CT, ultrasound. X ray is performed if needed.

        3. Other examinations, such as pure tone audiometry, fundus exam, visual exam, VEP, OCTA,
           visual field exam.

        4. Scale assessments about neurological function, radiation injury, common psychiatric
           disorders, cognitive function, quality of life, drug side effect, sleep and pain, such
           as LENT/SOMA, WHO-QOL, MoCA, MMSE, Hamilton anxiety scale, Hamilton depression scale,
           Pain numerical rating scale, Drug side effect scale, ADAS-cog, fatigue self-assessment
           scale (FSAS), Neuropsychiatric Inventry (NPI) total score, Clinical Dementia Rating
           Scale, Barthel index, UPDRS, Self-Rating Scale of Sleep (SRSS), NCI-CTCAE, CIBIC-plus
           and SSA.

        5. Blood sample are obtained in order to investigate significant genes, proteins and
           metabolites involved in the development and progress of radiotherapy-related nervous
           system complications. Genomics, metabolomics and proteomics are performed to detect
           potential genes, proteins and metabolites. Stool sample are obtained in order to
           investigate interactions between the gut microbiota, immune and nervous systems in
           radiotherapy-related nervous system complications. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and biopsy
           samples are obtained if needed.
    
  