
    
      Microneurosurgical resection of intracerebral metastases leads to prolonged survival and
      relief of symptoms in selected patients. Traditionally whole-brain irradiation is the
      treatment of choice following surgical resection. Whole brain irradiation has been the
      standard approach to minimize the risk of intracranial recurrence following resection of
      brain metastases. Almost 2 decades ago, Patchell et al. established the superiority of
      resection of solitary metastases followed by whole brain irradiation compared with whole
      brain irradiation alone with regard to survival, local control, and length of functional
      independence. A following study by the same group failed to show a survival advantage for the
      addition of whole brain irradiation compared to surgical resection alone in patients with a
      solitary intracranial metastasis, although the likelihood of local and distant recurrence and
      death from neurological causes were significantly reduced by whole brain irradiation. Due to
      potential delayed neurocognitive effects associated with whole brain irradiation,
      investigators have evaluated the use of partial brain irradiation in the form of stereotactic
      radiosurgery instead of whole brain irradiation after resection of brain metastases. They
      showed that despite whole brain irradiation means superior control of brain recurrence in
      sites other than the resection bed, stereotactic radiosurgery after resection resulted in
      equivalent survival times and neurological preservation. In a retrospective series of 52
      patients Karlovits et al. could show that stereotactic radiosurgery following surgical
      resection leads to equal local control compared to standard whole brain irradiation.

      Study objective

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether adjuvant "sector" -irradiation following
      microsurgical resection is equal to adjuvant whole brain irradiation in terms of local
      control and superior to in terms of quality of life and neurocognitive deficits in a
      prospective randomized trial.

      Hypothesis

        1. Sector irradiation is equal to whole-brain irradiation in local tumor control after 3,
           6, 12 and 36 months and

        2. Sector irradiation" is superior to whole-brain irradiation in terms of quality of life
           and neurocognitive function

      Patients and Methods

      Patients with a single brain metastasis amenable to surgical resection fulfilling the
      inclusion criteria will be consecutively enrolled in this study. After microsurgical complete
      resection documented by early postoperative MRI within 72 hours and histological proven brain
      metastasis patients will be randomized in arm A or B. Radiotherapy will start after 14th
      postoperative day within 3 weeks postoperatively. Study arm A means postoperative sector
      irradiation (30Gy), study arm B includes standard whole brain radiotherapy (40Gy). Follow up
      MRI will be every 3 months. Neurocognitive evaluation will be performed before radiotherapy
      and 6 and 12 months postoperatively. In case of local recurrence or developing further
      metastases a cross over to whole brain radiotherapy or focal irradiation is possible.
    
  