
    
      Colonoscopy Testing:

      A colonoscopy is a routine test where the doctor looks at the inner lining of the colon using
      a long, flexible, lighted tube that is inserted through the anus. This is the standard
      procedure for detecting mantle cell lymphoma in the colon.

      PET/CT Scanning:

      Because PET/CT scanning is less invasive than colonoscopy, researchers want to learn more
      about whether PET/CT scanning may be able to be used for detecting mantle cell lymphoma in
      the colon.

      PET/CT scanning is also considered a routine test for checking the status of mantle cell
      lymphoma. The scan is called "full body" because the neck, chest, abdomen (stomach area), and
      pelvis are included.

      In this study, participants will have a full-body PET/CT procedure performed like they
      normally would, but the difference will be that gas will be pumped into the colon before the
      scan. This is so the colon will be opened up (inflated) so the study doctor will be able to
      more easily look for any lesions. The procedure is called gas insufflation. (In standard
      PET/CT scanning of the colon, gas insufflation is not used.)

      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will begin the PET/CT procedure, as usual. This
      means a special substance called fluorodeoxyglucose will be injected by vein, in order to
      make the tumor more visible in the scanned image.

      About an hour later, the study doctor will prepare your colon for the PET/CT scan by
      performing gas insufflation. To do so, a soft plastic tube will be inserted through your
      anus. Carbon dioxide gas will be automatically pumped into your colon until the gas is at the
      correct pressure.

      If the study doctor decides it is necessary (for example, if cramping occurs), you will
      receive a glucagon injection under the skin in order to relax the colon. Glucagon is a
      medication that helps to relax the colon and decrease cramping. If continued cramping occurs,
      the gas will be turned off which results in immediate relief. This is considered routine for
      the CT part of the PET/CT. Administering the gas for the CT is similar to the sensation that
      will be felt during the colonoscopy when the colon is also insufflated.

      After the gas insufflation, the routine PET/CT scan will be performed to check the status of
      the disease. You will lie on your stomach for the first part of the PET/CT scan and on your
      back for the second part.

      After the PET/CT scan, the routine colonoscopy will be performed. You will need to sign a
      separate consent form for the colonoscopy, and the procedure will be explained to you in
      detail.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after the PET/CT scan. Researchers will compare
      the results of the PET/CT scan to the results of the colonoscopy.

      This is an investigational study. Gas insufflation and glucagon are FDA approved for use with
      CT colonography (colonoscopy that uses CT scanning), which is typically used to screen for
      colon cancer. PET/CT scanning is FDA approved for use in checking the status of mantle cell
      lymphoma. Using PET/CT scanning to detect mantle cell lymphoma in the colon, however, is
      investigational. For this purpose, at this time PET/CT scanning is being used in research
      only.

      Up to 43 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  