
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) and without nasal polyps (CRSsNP) is
      a common condition affecting millions of North Americans. CRS is a multifactorial disease
      that causes inflammation within the sinonasal passages. Symptoms include; dysosmia, nasal
      blockage, sinus pain, and discolored mucous. Olfactory dysfunction is commonly seen in the
      CRS patient population. It is estimated that up to 78% of CRS patients have a decreased sense
      of smell. Therefore, validated smell tests such as Sniffin'Sticks have been used to determine
      the severity and presence of dysosmia. In addition, patients are frequently colonized with
      various bacteria or fungi which may further aggravate patient's symptoms. Together, these
      manifestations lead to a decreased quality of life in CRS patients.

      The basis of therapy is to increase mucociliary clearance, improve drainage and relieve
      obstruction, and eliminate signs of inflammation. Common therapy for the inflamed nasal
      mucosal lining includes intranasal corticosteroids (INCS) or systemic corticosteroids.
      Budesonide (Pulmicort) is a corticosteroid which is the mainstay treatment for CRS patients.
      They have been proven to be very effective in reducing SNOT-22 scores, endoscopic scores, and
      reducing recurrence in varying severity and subtype of CRS disease.

      The current practice at our institution is to administer budesonide via two modalities: the
      mucosal atomization device (MAD, Wolfe-Tory Medical, Salt Lake City, UT) or impregnated
      budesonide in nasal saline irrigation (INSI) using a NeilMed squeeze bottle (NeilMed
      Pharmaceuticals, Santa Rosa, California). The MAD atomizes the medication into particles from
      30-100 um in size thus increasing the surface area for drug absorption. At our centre, INSI
      is frequently employed for CRS patients in the acute postoperative period. Postoperative use
      of INSI has shown to demonstrate significant improvement in quality of life and endoscopy
      findings in CRS patients. However, patients can potentially experience headaches and
      discomfort, which can affect their adherence to this treatment regimen. Therefore, for
      recalcitrant and non-responsive CRS patients, an alternative treatment method is to utilize
      budesonide via a MAD in its concentrated form.

      Although there is literature that exemplifies the benefit of adding budesonide to
      postoperative management of CRS patients, there is yet to be a study that assesses the most
      effective modality of administering the corticosteroid. Therefore, this study aims to
      prospectively assess the efficacy of INSI and MAD in delivering high-dose nasal
      corticosteroids in CRS patients. By determining which administration technique is more
      effective, it will lead to better postoperative outcomes for patients suffering from CRS.
      Overall, the investigators hope the results from this study will be a step forward in the
      understanding which administration modality of intranasal corticosteroids is most effective
      in ameliorating patient disease and quality of life.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the postoperative efficacy of budesonide in CRS patients delivered via mucosal
      atomization device (MAD) or impregnated budesonide in nasal saline irrigation (INSI).

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that budesonide delivered via MAD will be more effective
      postoperatively at decreasing objective evidence and subjective symptoms of CRS compared to
      INSI.

      Baseline and Follow-up Visits Evaluation:

      The following information will be obtained from each participant

      Baseline Demographic data: Age Gender Smoking status

      Clinical Data:

        -  Modified Lund-Kennedy (MLK) scores

        -  Sinonasal cultures

        -  Sino-nasal Outcome Test-22 (SNOT-22) and EuroQol-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) scores

        -  Sniffin' Sticks Smell Test

        -  Routine Blood work (Only at week 1 and month 6)

      Conduct of Study:

      This is a prospective randomized double cohort study at the St. Paul's Sinus Centre. Patients
      who have an upcoming sinus surgery will be recruited to this study. After the patients have
      signed the informed consent form and have undergone sinus surgery, they will have their
      baseline visit. Patients will be divided into the MAD or INSI arm randomly. Patients will be
      required to take budesonide at least 5 days a week to assure changes seen are directly
      correlated to taking budesonide. Baseline will be the 1-week postoperative visit following
      the patient's sinus surgery. Further data will be collected at month 3 and lastly at the
      patients 6 month follow up visit.

      Management of Patient Care

      Patients have the right to withdraw from the study at any time. Patients who experience signs
      and symptoms of hypersensitivity to iodine, burning, itching, pain redness, tiredness, nausea
      or vomiting will be asked to stop the rinses immediately. The reaction will be noted and the
      code will be broken so that a discussion can occur between the physician and the patient
      regarding the use of iodine with the nasal rinses. Patients who meet any of the exclusion
      criteria that were not noted at the beginning of the study will be removed from this study
      and the physician will discuss the future management options with the patient.

      Sample size:

      The investigators expect 60 patients (30 patients per study arm) for the number of
      participants in this prospective double cohort.

      Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze the baseline characteristic data and the data
      from the administered surveys and objective findings of eosinophil and IgE blood work,
      cultures, Sniffin' Sticks smell test and MLK scores. In addition, rigorous statistical
      analysis will be conducted on the Likert scale-based SNOT-22 and EQ-5D-5L surveys. These
      analyses will include cross-tabulations (Pearson's chi square test) and confidence interval
      calculations.

      Safety Monitoring

      Patients who experience signs and symptoms of budesonide reaction will be noted and the code
      will be broken so that a discussion can occur between the research supervisor and the patient
      regarding the use of the topical iodine.

      Patients can contact the office anytime if they notice any of the signs or symptoms of iodine
      reaction and will be seen by the research supervisor (or designate) within 24 hours.

      Adverse Events (AE's)

      All expected and unexpected adverse events will be recorded and graded by the research
      supervisor. Stable chronic conditions, which are present prior to the clinical trial entry
      and do not worsen, are not considered adverse events and will be accounted for in the
      patient's medical history.

      Recording/Documentation of Adverse Events

      During each patient visit, the research supervisor will ask appropriate questions and perform
      a physical exam to elicit any adverse events. The research supervisor will also review blood
      work obtained from the patient. All reportable adverse events will be recorded on appropriate
      case report form. The research supervisor will also write the stop date, the severity of the
      AE and his judgment of the AE's relationship to the study.

      Serious Adverse Events (SAE's)

      An SAE is defined as an AE meeting one of the following:

      Death occurring between Day 0 and 182 days (6 months) of the study. Life Threatening Event
      (defined as a participant at immediate risk of death at the time of the event) In-patient
      hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization between Day 0 and 42 of the
      study.

      Results in a persistent or significant disability/incapacity In the event of SAE, the
      research supervisor will discuss with the patient (or next of kin) whether there is a
      relationship between the study and the SAE. If there is a relationship, the PI will be
      responsible for coordinating care for the patient until the SAE has been addressed.

      Pregnancy During the Trial Patients will be responsible for determining if they are pregnant
      or become pregnant during the study. If patients notify the PI they are pregnant, they will
      be removed from the study and the medical management options will be discussed.
    
  