
    
      The fixed combination of orphenadrine 35mg, acetaminophen 325mg, caffeine 65mg and diclofenac
      sodium 50mg aims to provide patients with anti-inflammatory, analgesic and myorelaxant action
      with adequate safety and tolerability profile.

      Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory with analgesic, anti-inflammatory and
      antipyretic action and is effective in the treatment of a variety of acute and chronic
      inflammatory and painful conditions. Its anti-inflammatory effect occurs by inhibiting the
      synthesis of prostaglandins by inhibiting COX-1 and COX-2 in an equipotent manner.

      Orphenadrine, on the other hand, is a central acting muscle relaxant that has analgesic and
      anticholinergic effects. It presents clinical efficacy in the treatment of painful conditions
      associated to pictures such as strains and sprains, especially of acute character, among
      other musculoskeletal conditions that present with pain and muscular contracture.

      Concerning acetaminophen, its a drug with analgesic and antipyretic action as well as
      anti-inflammatory properties. It is widely used in a wide variety of pathologies with a focus
      on the treatment of mild to moderate pain. It is a non-opioid analgesic with action in the
      inhibition of cyclooxygenase and consequently in the production of prostaglandins, with
      potency similar to that of aspirin. It is the analgesic of choice for children, the elderly
      and pregnant women. It has been used successfully in the treatment of back pain. The
      association between acetaminophen and orphenadrine is known and clinically effective in
      analgesia, as well as the combination of acetaminophen and diclofenac, which also provides
      clinical efficacy in the management of acute postoperative pain.

      Lastly, caffeine, an alkaloid belonging to the group of methylxanthines, is an agonist that
      competes with adenosine receptors, acting in these receptors in very varied areas, such as
      throughout the peripheral circulation and in the cerebral cortex. Caffeine enhances the
      effects of other analgesics, improves acetaminophen pharmacokinetics, and induces mood
      changes. All these mechanisms may contribute to improve the analgesic action of
      acetaminophen.

      The association of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxant, analgesic and caffeine
      in the symptomatic treatment of painful conditions associated with the musculoskeletal system
      is quite old.
    
  