
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare activation of ADRB2/PKA/BAD signaling pathway in the prostate glands of men two
      hours after taking or not taking propranolol hydrochloride (propranolol) prior to
      prostatectomy, as indicated by phosphorylated CREB.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare activation of ADRB2/PKA/BAD signaling pathway in the prostate glands of men two
      hours after taking or not taking propranolol prior to prostatectomy as indicated by
      phosphorylated BAD.

      II. To determine the difference in candidate transcript levels associated with ADRB2/PKA
      activation between individuals two hours after taking propranolol or not taking propranolol
      prior to prostatectomy.

      III. To determine plasma propranolol levels in individuals taking propranolol two hours after
      administration prior to prostatectomy.

      IV. To determine if plasma catecholamine levels in men with prostate cancer can be used as a
      biomarker to identify patients who show activation of ADRB2 signaling pathway in prostate
      tumors.

      V. To determine perceived stress level differences in men with prostate cancer prior to
      surgery to examine possible association between perceived stress level and catecholamine
      levels in blood and activation of ADRB2 pathway in tumors.

      VI. To determine perceived distress level differences in men with prostate cancer prior to
      surgery to examine possible association between distress level and catecholamine levels in
      blood and activation of ADRB2 pathway tumors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive propranolol hydrochloride orally (PO) 2 hours prior to standard of
      care prostatectomy.

      GROUP II: Patients receive no treatment prior to standard of care prostatectomy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  