
    
      Previous studies have documented that a slow-release polymeric sirolimus-eluting stent
      (Cypher, Cordis) and paclitaxel-eluting stent (Taxus, Boston Scientific) reduce neointimal
      formation and result in decrease of angiographic restenosis and target lesion
      revascularization at 1-3 years in the multicenter randomized clinical trials RAVEL, SIRIUS,
      and TAXUS I-VI.From these studies, the two leading drug-eluting stents (DESs) of the Cypher
      and Taxus have been widely and rapidly accepted as a standard treatment of coronary lesions.

      Recently, randomized studies were conducted to reveal different outcomes of the different two
      DESs. These studies showed that the sirolimus-eluting stent was better than the
      paclitaxel-eluting stent in terms of lower angiographic restenosis rate or the two DESs were
      similar in angiographic outcomes. A recent meta-analysis supported results of the former
      randomized studies. Patients receiving sirolimus-eluting stent had a significantly lower risk
      of restenosis and target vessel revascularization compared with those receiving
      paclitaxel-eluting stent.

      With a recent approval of new DES, ABT-578-eluting stent (Endeavor, Medtronic, Minneapolis,
      MN), other comparison studies have been conducted to compare Endeavor ABT-578-eluting stent
      with the sirolimus-eluting stent and paclitaxel-eluting stent. ABT-578 and sirolimus share
      some common structural and biological properties. The ENDEAVOR clinical trials are currently
      in progress to evaluate a phosphoryl choline (PC)-coated ABT-578-eluting stent for the
      prevention of restenosis. The Endeavor ABT-578-eluting stent utilizes a cobalt alloy
      balloon-expandable stent (Driver; Medtronic) with a geometry similar to the stainless steel
      stent used in this preliminary study (S7; Medtronic). The Endeavor ABT-578-eluting stent also
      employees a PC strut surface coating as the drug delivery reservoir with a dose of 10 ug/mm
      of ABT-578. The Endeavor ABT-578-eluting stent, however, differs from the stent used in this
      experimental study by the addition of a drug-free PC coating to serve as a diffusion barrier
      to retard drug release from the polymer reservoir. Angiographic analysis at 4 months in the
      100-patient focal de novo lesion ENDEAVOR I feasibility study demonstrated a mean in-stent
      percent diameter stenosis of approximately 14% and a late lumen loss of 0.3 mm with a low
      frequency of target lesion revascularization (1%). The clinical outcomes from the ENDEAVOR II
      (1,500 patients randomized to ABT-578 or bare metal stent) and the ENDEAVOR III (436 patients
      randomized 3:1 to ABT-578 or Cypher) trials as well as other ongoing studies showed efficacy
      of the PC-coated ABT-578-eluting stent. In ENDEAVOR III study, the Endeavor stent had larger
      late loss and higher binary restenosis in both the analysis segment and stented segment. In
      contrast, the TLR rates are not statistically different between the Endeavor (6.0%) and the
      Cypher (5.3%, p=1.0) stents. This result of this study raised several questions to warrant
      further randomized studies 1) is the angiographic superiority of Cypher stent applied to the
      more complex lesions, 2) why is the TLR rate similar in spite of significantly different
      angiographic outcomes, 3) which is better in the Endeavor and the Taxus stents, etc. The
      ENDEAVOR IV study is being conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of the Endeavor stent
      versus the Taxus stent. However, the inclusion of ENDEAVOR IV study was also limited that
      this study did not include all complex lesions. Because of the limitations of current
      ENDEAVOR series, a further large randomized study for the concurrent comparison of the three
      DESs in the treatment of real-world practice would be needed.
    
  