
    
      Alcohol consumption is a critical driver of HIV outcomes, especially in sub-Saharan Africa
      (SSA), where both are extremely common. Heavy alcohol use has been associated with reduced
      antiretroviral adherence, decreased HIV suppression, and increased mortality among those with
      HIV. Thus, reducing unhealthy alcohol use may improve HIV outcomes and is a high priority
      worldwide. Screening and brief counseling for alcohol use, especially multi-session
      approaches, have shown evidence for reducing alcohol use in resource rich settings and among
      persons with HIV. However, there are significant cost and human resource barriers to multiple
      session interventions in SSA, and it is not known whether alcohol interventions can improve
      HIV outcomes. Thus, the long-term goal of the EXTEND study is to develop and test
      interventions to reduce alcohol consumption and improve HIV outcomes, that can be feasibly
      integrated into routine HIV care in SSA.

      Multi-session interventions that combine in-person visits with booster phone calls to
      reinforce the in-person counseling have shown good efficacy. Because cell phone use in Uganda
      is high, phone-based booster sessions conducted in-between the in-person sessions (that
      coincide with regularly scheduled clinic visits) may be feasible. However, phone-based
      booster sessions delivered by a live counselor ("live boosters") can be costly,
      time-consuming, limited to working hours, and dependent on good phone connections.
      Alternatively, automated cell phone-based booster sessions ("tech boosters"), can be
      conducted via interactive systems such as two-way Short Message Service (SMS, i.e. text
      messaging) or Interactive Voice Response (IVR) that allow for brief interactive sessions,
      with messages that are tailored to the participants' drinking goals and gender. Such
      automated tailored mobile phone-based interventions have been successful in improving several
      health behaviors in diverse populations. However, the uptake, acceptability, cost, and
      efficacy of live and tech booster calls for interventions for reducing alcohol use and
      improving HIV outcomes in SSA is not known. The investigators hypothesize that automated
      mobile phone-based technology can be leveraged as an efficacious way to implement
      multi-session alcohol interventions at a low burden and cost to both providers and patients
      in low resource settings.

      Objectives

      The EXTEND study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a goal of estimating the uptake
      and acceptability, preliminary efficacy, and cost of methods of delivery of an intervention
      to reduce unhealthy drinking and HIV viral failure among persons in HIV care in rural Uganda
      (n=270). The RCT study arms are:

        1. in-person counseling during 2 quarterly clinic visits plus live booster phone calls
           every three weeks in the interim;

        2. in-person counseling during 2 quarterly clinic visits plus tech (choice of SMS or IVR)
           boosters once to twice weekly in the interim; and

        3. standard of care (SOC) control (brief unstructured advice, with a wait-listed
           intervention).

      This study will be conducted in a large rural Ugandan HIV clinic. The end products of this
      study will be the preliminary comparisons of key outcomes to estimate effect sizes and inform
      the design of a future large-scale trial. The long-term aim is to implement interventions
      that reduce alcohol use and improve HIV outcomes feasibly and at low cost in low resource
      settings.
    
  