
    
      Trial design: Two-parallel arm, double-blind, individually randomized controlled trial.

      Primary endpoint:

      Fentanyl consumption in the first 48 postoperative hours.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Pain at rest, Pain on movement, stay in ICU, Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV),
      sedation, Hemothorax, seizures, arrythmias

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patient between 18 years to 80 years.

        -  Patient to myocardial revascularization by sternotomy

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patitient for combined surgery ( myocardial revascularization by sternotomy plus valve
           or maze)

        -  Emergency surgery

        -  Ejecction Fraction less than 35%

        -  Allergy to the local anesthesic.

        -  Allergy to opioids

        -  Patient in who will be technically impossible the application of the blockade

      Trial treatment:

      Intervention: These patients will receive the protocol multimodal analgesia patients receive
      on the Colombian Cardiovascular Foundation with Lidocaine 0.5mcg/k. Dexamethasone 8mcg,
      Fentanyl Bolus: 7mcg/k . infusion of Fentanyl 4 mcg/k/h start after induction , go down to 2
      Mcg/k/h during extracorporeal circulation , after extracorporeal circulation the infusion
      will be suspended of Fentanyl.In this Arm the patient will give a bilateral serratus
      intercostal plane block, will be performed echo-guided puncture in the line anterior axillar
      with fifth costal arch, whit 21 ml of anesthetic mass, 20 ml of Levobupivacaine 0.375 and 1
      ml (2mg) of dexamethasone. and the postoperative analgesia will be 500mg of acetaminophen
      oral and Analgesia, patient controlled with Fentanyl 20mcg/bolus

      Control:

      These patients will receive the protocol multimodal analgesia patients receive on the
      Colombian Cardiovascular Foundation with Lidocaine 0.5mcg/k. Dexamethasone 8mcg, Fentanyl
      Bolus: 7mcg/k . infusion of Fentanyl 4 mcg/k/h start after induction , go down to 2 Mcg/k/h
      during extracorporeal circulation , after extracorporeal circulation the infusion will be
      suspended of Fentanyl.. and the postoperative analgesia will be 500mg of acetaminophen oral
      and Analgesia, patient controlled with Fentanyl 20mcg/bolus

      Expected sample size, enrollment and expected number of centers:

      Sample size = 44 Recruitment start date: 15 january of 2019 Recruitment end date: 15 July of
      2019

      Follow-up end date:

      Number of centers: 1

      Statistical considerations:

        -  Intention to treat analysis

        -  The primary outcomes will be analyzed using
    
  