
    
      This is a single dose, randomised, active-controlled, four period, open-label cross-over
      trial in ad ult patients with COPD who have demonstrated a poor MDI technique. Berodual?
      (fenoterol hydrobromide 50 ?g + ipratropium bromide 20 ?g) will be delivered via the Respi
      mat? inhaler on two test days and via the MDI on two test days. Test days with no instruction
      on correct usage will occur prior to the test days with taught techniq ue, so that the
      patient's own technique will not be influenced by recent instruction.

      Each device will thus first be used with no instructions on correct device use provided. On
      these no instruction test days each device will be demonstrated and patients will be allowed
      time to practis e on their own with a placebo device. The second time each device is used
      full instructions will be provided on the correct usage with pat ients practising with
      placebo either from the Respimat? inhaler or from the MDI until they are judge d competent.
      On these two test days the Respimat? or MDI inhalers will be fired by the investigator one
      second after the patient has started to inhale. Thus on Test Days 1 and 2 patients will use
      their own natural inhalation technique without receiving any instruction on correct usage. On
      Test Days 3 and 4 patients will use a supervised optimal techn ique having received
      instruction on correct usage and with the investigator firing the device.

      The primary analysis will be carried out using the Sign Test. This is a non-parametric
      analysis in w hich no assumptions are made about the shape of the distribution of the
      responses from the Respimat? inhaler and from the MDI under the null hypothesis.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis is that poor technique has the same effect on the Respimat? and MDI
      devices. The alternative hypothesis is that poor technique has a differe nt effect on the
      Respimat? inhaler than on the MDI. This means that under the null hypothesis the median of
      the differences between the Respimat? inhaler and MDI pairs is zero i.e. the differences are
      equally lik ely to be positive or negative. Under the alternative hypothesis the median of t
      he differences between the Respimat? inhaler and MDI pairs is not zero i.e. the frequencies
      of the positive and negative signs are different.

      Comparison(s):

      Baseline comparability will be achieved by the use of a cross-over trial design with every
      patient receiving all four treatments and by ensuring at each test da y that baseline lung
      function is within 15% of the value obtained at the first t est day, pre-dose FEV1 is < 65%
      of predicted value and patients have abstained f rom inhaled bronchodilators for at least 4
      hours prior to the visit. Treatment s equence will not be fitted as a term in the analysis of
      variance models.
    
  