
    
      Existing self-reported data and assay results from the 1982-1986 North Carolina Early
      Pregnancy Study (EPS) and a subsequent 2010-2011 cohort follow-up study will be used to
      examine predictors of fertility and pregnancy outcomes. Some of these data will be harmonized
      with data from other studies by our collaborator (Harville PI, Tulane University) to examine
      factors, such as marijuana use in women and their partners, influencing reproductive success,
      including (but not limited to) conception, pregnancy loss, and birth outcomes. Women enrolled
      in the original EPS study after discontinuing birth control and were followed for the
      occurrence of a pregnancy. Participants completed daily diaries and collected first morning
      urine specimens which allowed the identification of hormonal endpoints. Thus, each woman s
      time to pregnancy was prospectively measured. In the EPS Follow-up study, women completed a
      questionnaire that included their recall of their time to pregnancy during the study. This
      allowed analysis of two major questions, one regarding the recall of time- to-pregnancy, and
      the other regarding the natural length of gestation. Several exposure metrics based on
      address geolocation data were calculated, including the distance from residence to nearest
      major road, air pollution and related exposures, light at night, and other exposures.
      Existing urine specimens can be assayed for numerous environmental contaminants including
      metals, pesticides, and drug metabolites (both over-the-counter medications like
      acetaminophen and drugs of abuse like marijuana or opioids). Urine specimens can also be used
      to examine nutritional markers such as phytoestrogen exposure and caffeine metabolites.
      Additional hormone measures may also be possible as metabolomics and technology improve.
      Thus, the stored EPS specimens can be leveraged to answer multiple, relevant fertility
      research questions. Women in the original tudy answered questions regarding their tobacco
      smoking and marijuana smoking. In addition, partners of the women were asked the same series
      of questions regarding tobacco and marijuana use.

      We intend to use all of this existing data, assay results, and to perform additional urine
      assays, to examine factors influencing reproductive success, including (but not limited to)
      conception, pregnancy loss, and birth outcomes. To address some of these questions,
      de-identified data from the Early Pregnancy Study will be harmonized with data from other
      studies in the Preconception Period Analysis of Risks and Exposures Influencing Health and
      Development (PrePARED) consortium. Further, de-identified data and specimens will be shared
      with Dr. Ashley Boggs and colleagues to address the objectives below. Data and specimens will
      be shared with other qualified investigators in the future to address relevant research
      questions.
    
  