
    
      Schizophrenia is a severely disabling brain disorder. People with schizophrenia often
      experience hallucinations, delusions, thought disorders, and movement disorders. Physical
      activity (PA) has been shown not only to increase quality of life, but also to reduce risk
      factors for several chronic diseases and conditions. The majority of adults, however, do not
      engage in the recommended amount of PA. Research has shown that people with schizophrenia are
      even less likely to be regularly physically active. Symptoms of schizophrenia,
      pharmacological treatments for the disease, and the lifestyle associated with the disease
      tend to contribute to physical inactivity and the resulting complications. Effective
      interventions to increase PA have been developed for the general adult population, but very
      little is known about how to adapt them for use in adults with schizophrenia. The PRIME
      (Physically Ready for Invigorating Movement Every Day) program is a lifestyle intervention
      focused on increasing physical activity. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a
      modified PRIME program in reducing the risk for morbidity in sedentary adults with
      schizophrenia.

      Participants in this 24-week, single-blind study will be randomly assigned to either the
      PRIME intervention group or the comparison group, which will involve the Program for
      Activity, Leisure Skills, and Socialization (PALSS). All participants will attend 90-minute
      sessions weekly for the first 16 weeks, then biweekly for the remaining 8 weeks. PRIME
      sessions will focus on learning about PA, setting PA-related goals, and assessing short- and
      long-term goals. Goals may include early-stage process-oriented goals, such as reading about
      PA benefits or finding a walking partner. Goals tailored to later stages of change include
      explicit PA goals, such as increasing frequency, duration, and intensity of PA. Training will
      also be accomplished online and via printed material. PALSS sessions will focus on motivating
      participants to engage in leisure and social activity. Sessions will include interactive,
      structured activity that will be led by a therapist, as well as unstructured leisure
      activities, such as board games, cards, general socialization, and viewing a travel video.
      Social and communication skills will not be explicitly taught or practiced. All participants
      will attend study visits at Months 2, 6, and 8 to assess outcomes. A follow-up visit will be
      held 2 months post-intervention.
    
  