
    
      This is a single center, prospective, randomized controlled pragmatic clinical trial designed
      to compare between disposable, reusable fiberoptic, and reusable digital ureteroscopes in
      upper urinary tract stone treatment efficacy. Three hundred subjects with kidney and/or
      ureteral stones are planned to recruit for the study. All subjects will be computer
      sequence-randomized into having their ureteroscopic treatment performed with a disposable
      (LithoVue™), reusable fiberoptic (URF-P6™), or reusable digital (URF-V2™) flexible
      ureteroscope. Patient's demographics, physical, laboratory, and image findings will be
      collected before surgery. These clinical data are already being collected as part of an
      ongoing registry study. Perioperative timing as well as operator's satisfaction and fatigue
      and need for a second ureteroscope during the case will be recorded during the treatment
      course. Other clinical data will be collected at days 7, 30, 90, 180 after surgery. The
      condition of the used ureteroscopes will be tracked and recorded to confirm the repair rate.

      Screening data will be reviewed to determine subject eligibility. Subjects who meet all
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be entered into the study.

      The following surgical treatment will be used similarly for all three randomized arms and
      represents standard of case therapy:

      Ureteroscopic stone removal Under general anesthesia, the patient is placed in the lithotomy
      position. All procedures are performed under direct videoscopic and fluoroscopic guidance.
      Fluoroscopic screening is utilized using a mobile multidirectional C-arm fluoroscopy unit.
      Initially, a safety guide-wire is placed into the renal pelvis, followed by a ureteral access
      sheath as needed to maintain low intra-renal pressure and to facilitate the procedures. Using
      a flexible ureteroscope, renal or ureteral stones are identified and fragmented with a
      holmium YAG laser. Basket extraction of residual fragments is done until visual complete
      clearance of stone fragments is achieved.

      After ureteroscopy is done and stone clearance is achieved, a ureteral stent is placed at the
      end of the procedure to drain the kidney for 2-21 days if it is clinically indicated.

      The total duration of the study is expected to be one year for subject recruitment and one
      year and six months for final subject follow-up.
    
  