
    
      Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) are a group of hematologic diseases that arise
      after chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy for a previous cancer or rarely autoimmune
      diseases. t-MNs had been included in the group of AMLs and remain as a distinct category also
      in the recent 2016 revision of the WHO classification of myeloid neoplasm and acute leukemia.
      The latency between exposition to anticancer drugs and development of t-MN may vary from some
      months up to 10 years, even considering the age at diagnosis of the primary malignancy, the
      kind of cytotoxic treatment previously used, and the cumulative dose and dose intensity. The
      prognosis of s-AML is generally considered to be poorer than that of de novo AML. The disease
      tends to be refractory to chemotherapy, and patients' tolerance of treatment generally is
      reduced because of prior therapies. 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival
      (OS) rates of pediatric t-AML/t-MDS have been reported to be 14% to 30%. However, the results
      are conflicting and overall lacking when compared with those in adults. The purpose of this
      national observatory is to record scientific and medical information on cases of secondary
      Acute Myeloid Leukemias that have occurred in France since 2013 in order to improve the
      treatment of children and adolescents with this disease in the years to come. The primary
      objective is to evaluate the association of potential prognostic factors (including
      clinical-biological factors) with the overall survival of children and adolescents aged 0-18
      years diagnosed with secondary AML. The secondary objectives are to test the feasibility of
      setting up a French national database of secondary AMLs for children and adolescents as a
      first step towards European implementation, to assess the association of potential prognostic
      factors with event free survival and the occurrence of treatment-related toxicities, to
      characterize the molecular abnormalities associated with secondary AMLs in children and
      adolescents.
    
  