
    
      Research has identified distress tolerance (DT) as a risk factor in the development and
      maintenance of various mental health problems, including anxiety, traumatic stress,
      depression, substance use disorders, psychosis, borderline personality disorder, and eating
      disorders. This research suggests that people with a poor ability to tolerate distress may
      use a range of unhelpful coping strategies such as experiential avoidance, which has been
      strongly associated with a range of mental health difficulties.

      A small, but growing body of research has shown improvements in DT using mindfulness and
      acceptance-based interventions, and reductions in distress and avoidant behaviours associated
      with low DT. It has been suggested that mindfulness and acceptance-based strategies increase
      DT through repeated exposure to distressing emotions and practice of non-judgemental
      observation and acceptance of distressing emotions without trying to escape them. The current
      study proposes to deliver a mindfulness and acceptance based DT Skills intervention group
      program informed by dialectical behavioural therapy (DBT).

      Due to the lack of published research examining the effectiveness of a distress tolerance
      group intervention in this setting, and the limited research exploring the mechanisms and
      process of change, it was decided that the primary research question should explore the
      acceptability and feasibility of the intervention in the first instance, and examine a
      theorised mechanism of change, as well as the process of change as secondary research
      questions in order to provide a foundation for further research in this area.

      Primary Objective

      To explore the acceptability and feasibility of a transdiagnostic DT intervention in an
      inpatient setting using a mixed methods case series design.

      Secondary Objectives

      Examine whether the intervention improves acceptance of negative emotional states and
      perceived and behavioural capacity to tolerate distress. It is hypothesised that over the
      course of treatment, as acceptance of negative emotional experiences increases, perceived and
      behavioural capacity to tolerate distress will also improve in line with this.

      To explore the use of multi-level modelling to examine the process of change in the proposed
      intervention.
    
  