
    
      Primary aldosteronism (PA) is a common form of hypertension caused by aldosterone secretion
      inappropriate for blood pressure (BP) and volume status. It involves over 11% of the patients
      referred to specialized hypertension centres, about one fifth of those with drug-resistant
      hypertension and even a large proportion of the hypertensive patients seen in general
      practice. The only main subtype of PA that can be unambiguously diagnosed based on
      post-adrenalectomy using a "five corners" approach is aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA).

      In patients undergoing screening for PA the current guidelines recommend pharmacological
      wash-out or, more correctly, switch to antihypertensive therapy not influencing the values of
      plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) and direct renin concentration (DRC) and therefore of
      the aldosterone/renin ratio (ARR). This therapy generally entails a long-acting calcium
      channel blocker, alone or in combination with an alpha-blocker. However, a significant
      proportion of hypertensive patients, about one third, require more complex therapies to
      maintain acceptable BP levels. In addition, a proportion, estimated at around 10% of patients
      with PA, have hypertension resistant to common antihypertensives, as shown in the PATWAY-2
      study. Noteworthy, these patients usually exibit a BP lowering response to
      mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonists (MRAs).

      MRAs act as diuretics and therefore stimulate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
      (RAAS), which might confound the results of the diagnostic tests, increasing renin and
      therefore reducing the ARR. This is considered to increase the rate of false negative tests.
      Moreover, some data suggest that MRA could inhibit the synthesis of aldosterone. However,
      this remains contentious as there are no prospective studies in this regard. Therefore, the
      use of MRAs, which can effectively control BP and hypokalemia during the PA screening is
      generally discouraged, despite the lack of solid prospective studies in this regard.

      The stimulation of SRAA, if it actually occurs in a patient with PA, could be controlled, or
      prevented, by the use of an angiotensin AT-1 receptor blocker.

      Therefore, the investigators set out a prospective observational study aimed at
      investigating, with a within-patient comparison, the values of PAC, DRC, ARR, serum
      potassium, in addition to blood pressure, in patients unambigously diagnosed with PA, who
      underwent screening and subtyping in washout from confounding treatments according to the
      current guidelines, with the values produced by treatment with MRA (canrenone) given alone or
      in combination with an angiotensin AT-1 receptor blocker (olmesartan).

      Methods:

      The investigators will prospectively recruit consecutive PA patients which have been
      previously studied in washout from confounding treatments (first basal evaluation) and will
      be subtyped by adrenal vein sampling (AVS) in the Clinica dell'Ipertensione Arteriosa,
      University of Padova, Italy (second basal evaluation). Inclusion criteria: patients between
      the ages of 18 and 75, diagnosed with APA according with the guidelines, which will give
      written informed consent. The exclusion criteria comprise the refusal to participate in the
      study of the history of intolerance or allergy to canrenone or ARBs.

      Patients will be treated with canrenone 50-100 mg orally for 1 month followed by canrenone
      plus olmesartan 10 or 20 mg for another month. At the end of each month they will undergo a
      clinical and biochemical reevaluation to investigate the effects of both treatments and
      compared with the ARR values observed during washout (i.e. during the first and second basal
      evaluations).

      Study design:

      After two biochemical and clinical evaluations under baseline conditions and after
      pharmacological washout from diuretics, betablockers, ARBs or ACEI (about 4 weeks) and MRAs
      (abut 6 weeks), PA patients will be treated with canrenone 50-100 mg orally once a day. After
      one and tho weeks the dose will be doubled if necessary to control BP and serum potassium.
      After one month of such therapy they will undergo the a clinical and biochemical evaluation
      (FW1) in a manner identical to the two basal evaluations.

      After, they will continue with a combination therapy with canrenone, at the dose reached,
      plus olmesartan starting with 10 mg a day for oral administration, a dose that can be
      doubled, if necessary, to achieve normotension.

      At the end of the second month of the double therapy, patients will undergo a biochemical
      re-evaluation at the Center of Hypertension (FW2) with methods identical to those performed
      in the two baseline evaluations and after one month of canrenone.

      This protocol is commonly used in the Center of Reference - UOSD Hypertension for the optimal
      preparation of patients with PA for the eventual intervention of laparoscopic adrenalectomy.

      Primary endpoint:

      This is a prospective, within-patient, observational study aiming at comparing, in patients
      with PA, the values of PAC, DRC and ARR assessed in wash-out (or in treatment with CCBs and
      or alfa-blockers) with the values observed after 1 month treatment with canrenone 50 or 100
      mg o.d. and after another month treatment with canrenone 50 or 100 mg o.d. plus olmesartan 10
      mg or 20 mg o.d.

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis A statistical power to detect any
      intra-patient difference of ormonal concentrations will be reached considering 40 patients.

      The analysis of the data will be performed initially globally (i.e. on the entire cohort) and
      subsequently conducted separately: in patients with APA where the diagnosis will be confirmed
      at the adrenalectomy and biochemical follow-up one month after surgery, and in patients with
      PA not lateralized where the one month follow up will be performed.

      Expected Results. The investigators expect to conclusively determine if and how MRA alone or
      combined with an ARB at doses that control BP and hypokalemia, affect plasma concentration of
      PAC and DRC and therefore the ARR.

      If the results of this study will not show a confounding effect of one or the other
      treatment, this study could open the way to perform the screening tests for PA without the
      need to suspend these treatments and therefore with the possibility of minimizing the risks
      due to the reduction of therapy antihypertensive in hypertensive patients.
    
  