
    
      After selecting the sample, patients will undergo an oral examination performed by a dental
      surgeon, in which they will be evaluated for the presence of lesions in the oral mucosa,
      periodontal conditions through simplified periodontal record - PSR, oral hygiene index,
      caries and lack of teeth - DMFT, if they need treatment and the situation of the prosthesis,
      if they use them, the data being recorded in a specific medical record. Subsequently,
      intervention will be performed in the group that received the treatment (intervention group).
      The treatment will consist of the adequacy of the oral environment in patients with teeth and
      evaluation of the mucosa and prostheses for edentulous patients.

      The service will take place at the UFVJM Surgery and Periodontics Clinic, on previously
      scheduled days and times. About 5 to 10 days before treatment, patients answered
      questionnaires about socioeconomic characterization, self-esteem and quality of life. The
      therapeutic protocol followed during the service will be the one proposed by Quirynen (1995)
      [22], in which the debridement of the entire mouth is recommended in a single 45-minute
      session. After removing the supra and subgingival biofilm, the patient will be instructed to
      use mouthwashes with 15 ml of 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate, for one minute, twice a day,
      thirty minutes after brushing, for seven days. In this phase, emergency extractions,
      restoration of restorations and cavity closure with glass ionomer cement and resins in the
      anterior teeth will also be performed, in order to adapt the oral environment in minimal
      interventions, considering the patient's systemic state.

      All patients who have at least 1 tooth, healthy or not, will be considered dentate. Toothless
      patients will receive guidance on oral hygiene and prostheses, if used, and will also use
      mouthwash with 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate for the same period. Group participants who were
      not submitted to the intervention (control group), received the same initial assessment and
      answered the same questionnaires, but will not be treated at that time. After 45 days from
      the end of the dental treatment, everyone will be reassessed, went through oral hygiene
      instructions again and answered the questionnaires, the questions being directed to the
      patient's perception in the last 45 days after treatment.
    
  