
    
      Background:

      Psychological morbidity is a major health problem in survivors of critical illness with no
      effective intervention to mitigate its burden. The increasing prevalence of critical illness
      combined with advances in intensive care medicine has led to a growing number of patients
      surviving to hospital discharge. However, resolution of critical illness does not equate with
      the end of a patient's struggles. The consequences of critical illness may persist long after
      the ICU stay and manifest in a number of new or worsening impairments in physical, cognitive,
      or mental health termed "post-intensive care syndrome" or PICS. Such impairments may persist
      for years and lead to increased re-hospitalization, health care costs, impaired quality of
      life, and inability to return to work. Thus, there is considerable interest in identifying
      causal factors and designing interventions to treat, and ideally prevent, PICS. Pioneering
      work has been done in the field of physical rehabilitation of ICU patients, demonstrating not
      only safety and feasibility, but improvement in physical and cognitive outcomes. Others have
      identified risk factors and interventional strategies for delirium and cognitive impairments.
      However, prevention of mental health morbidity remains unaddressed. Over a third of critical
      illness survivors manifest symptoms of anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD) 6 to 12 months post discharge. Reported rates for survivors of acute
      respiratory failure (ARF) have been even higher, with up to two thirds experiencing
      impairments in at least one psychiatric domain, most commonly in all three, persisting for
      years. There are no evidence-based interventions available to prevent or effectively treat
      mental health morbidity in such patients. Despite the staggering rates of mental health
      morbidity among critical illness survivors, research on targeting preventive measures to be
      employed in the ICU before development of psychologic symptoms has earned sparse attention.
      Most known risk factors such as female sex, alcohol abuse, unemployment, and premorbid
      psychopathology are not modifiable. Of those that can be modified, memories of frightening
      and delusional experiences from the ICU stay appear to be the strongest risk factor. Indeed,
      psychiatric symptoms such as anxiety, depression, and PTSD can be conceptualized as disorders
      of memory content, whereby the neural representation of the emotional component of the memory
      of a traumatic experience persists beyond any adaptive purpose. This causes dysregulation in
      the fear memory system, resulting in pathology associated with impaired cognitive, affective,
      and volitional functions. Once set, these emotionally charged delusional memories are
      difficult to treat.

      To be effective, psychological support has to be provided early in the course of critical
      illness before the traumatic memories become permanent. Very little is understood about the
      nature of psychological dysfunction during an ICU stay, as the state of critical illness
      makes conventional psychological evaluation and intervention challenging. In critical
      illness, the thinking process changes, becoming literal and overly sensitive to both direct
      and covert meanings of communicated messages. In such altered states, people tend to accept
      suggestions without critical appraisal, becoming open to messages that help them interpret
      their situation, with the content of such suggestions accepted as subjective reality. Given
      this heightened suggestibility, Dr. Varga and colleagues in Hungary adapted therapeutic
      suggestion to the ICU setting, calling it psychological support based on positive suggestions
      (PSBPS). Therapeutic suggestion is a well-known intervention that has been used over a
      century and practiced in a wide variety of medical settings including anesthesia, surgery,
      palliative care, radiology procedures, chronic pain and somatization disorders, as well as
      obstetric and pediatric practice. Although a call to mindful choice of words with the
      critically ill given their highly suggestible state dates back to 1969, it wasn't until the
      work of Dr. Varga and colleagues that the effect of positive suggestion has been evaluated on
      outcomes of the critically ill. Authors felt that such patients may be experiencing panic,
      loss of control, and lack of privacy while being surrounded by complex medical technology and
      receiving mostly painful interventions and therefore experience psychological harm.
      Critically ill patients may also perceive staff that carries out painful interventions as a
      hostile adversary, which can further complicate care and impair outcomes. Such patients have
      also been seen to develop a state of learned helplessness due to their inability to control
      basic physiological needs. These issues could prevent patients from taking an active role
      during their crucial recovery phase. Therefore, any successful psychological intervention in
      an ICU setting has to incorporate the patient into the care team as a valued partner, tasked
      with assisting in recovery and actively participating in rehabilitation. Investigators have
      developed specific suggestions that could be used verbatim for patients on mechanical
      ventilation. The intervention has been associated with earlier ventilation weaning and
      decreased need for sedatives and analgesics. Subsequent analysis demonstrated that the
      earlier positive reframing was the most important factor, as the later longer communications
      did not really improve outcome. Indeed, research on the formation of fear memories
      demonstrates that one can interfere with the initial process of fear conditioning during the
      temporal window when initial memory consolidation occurs. Furthermore, if mitigating
      information about a traumatic event is introduced during the time following memory formation
      and its subsequent recall, called the reconsolidation window, the emotional experience of the
      memory can essentially be rewritten. Therefore, a potential approach to treatment may be to
      interfere with the initial process of fear conditioning by introducing mitigating information
      during the temporal window when the consolidation of the initial memory occurs and also
      following its initial recall. This can potentially weaken or prevent the formation of a
      traumatic emotional memory by positively shaping its consolidation and reconsolidation,
      because at this time memories are labile and susceptible to alteration; however, the longer a
      memory has been stored in the brain, the more difficult it is to destabilize and alter it,
      explaining the lack of effectiveness of outpatient interventions. For the critically ill this
      would mean introducing psychological support as soon as feasible following admission and
      providing it in parallel with medical care in the ICU. Studies on PSBPS provided intriguing
      preliminary data for further evaluation as this form of behavioral therapy can be performed
      with patients regardless of their level of participation and therefore can be started early
      in the ICU course including during sedation. Notably, semantic processing continues in an
      altered states of consciousness, with some patients later recalling things said to them even
      while they were comatose.

      Methods:

      Design. This will be a three arm single-center, prospective, randomized, controlled trial
      comparing the effect of PSBPS vs. no PSBPS on psychological and clinical outcomes in the
      critically ill population. PSBPS will be administered by trained doulas or a trained
      psychiatrist to eligible patients.

      Eligible patients will be randomized at the earliest possible time after meeting inclusion
      criteria. Patients will be randomized 1:1:1 to intervention by either doulas or a
      psychiatrist or a non-intervention arms stratified by ICU location. Both intervention and
      controls will receive standard medical care at the discretion of the ICU team. The
      intervention arm will receive PSBPS as soon as feasible and continue on a daily basis.
      Doulas/psychiatrist will also liaise with family, the team, and with the nursing staff. Both
      intervention and standard of care arms will complete follow-up questionnaires measuring
      symptoms of anxiety, depression, acute stress and cognitive function after ICU discharge and
      at 6 months follow up by phone. These questionnaire results will not be entered into the
      medical record. The intervention will happen once or twice a day depending on the staff
      availability. All the patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive the same
      intervention. Length of the intervention will depend on the clinical situation as in our
      prior experience it is sometimes possible to spend 20+ minutes at bedside, and sometimes
      patients have conflicting procedures and tests and the intervention may need to be shorter.

      Retention strategy: We have minimized questionnaire length and frequency to reduce patient
      burden. We plan to employ additional successful retention strategies described in the
      literature, such as emphasizing study benefits, by having patients experience the importance
      of adding an early humanistic touch to a critical care setting, and having the benefit of a
      well-functioning, organized, and persistent anesthesia clinical research unit research team
      that would employ systematic methods of patient contact. The nature of our intervention would
      also allow patients to partner with the research staff. We will obtain all available phone
      numbers by which participant may be reached to facilitate follow up.

      Sample size: a 2-point difference in HADS would be meaningful and relevant to detect based on
      prior studies.(78) In our preliminary study (3), we observed a mean baseline HADS-A score of
      7.7 (SD = 3.9) post ICU discharge.

      Power Statement:

      We are combining two groups giving us sample sizes of (52+52=) 104 intervention patients with
      6 month follow up and 52 standard care with 6 month follow up.

      Power Statement: A two-sided two-sample t-test assuming unequal variances with sample sizes
      of 104 and 52 per group provides 80% (90%) power to detect a 33% (37%) reduction in HADS-A at
      6 months assuming a coefficient of variation of 1.0 and alpha level 0.05.

      We believe that a study should target enrollment of 80 patients per arm (240 total) to
      account for anticipated 35% loss to follow-up. Additional secondary endpoints include HADS-D,
      IES-R, and MoCA will be assessed at baseline and 6 months.

      Clinical endpoints include ventilator-free days (through 14 days after randomization), ICU
      and hospital-free days. Clinical endpoints will include all randomized patients, even if not
      discharged alive from the ICU. Overall, we expect this sample size will provide adequate
      power for the analysis of early post-ICU and 6-month clinical and psychological outcomes and,
      more importantly, will provide strong data to motivate a subsequent multicenter and
      well-powered study of long-term cognitive and clinical outcomes.

      Analysis plan: Demographic characteristics will be summarized by mean, median, SD, and IQR
      (continuous variables) and counts and percentage (categorical variables). The effect of
      intervention on outcomes will be estimated using ANCOVA with adjustment for relevant
      pre-randomization characteristics identified in our earlier studies that would improve power
      estimates. A non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test may be used if appropriate. In order to
      administer the intervention to subjects on each day while in the ICU, we anticipate most
      subjects in the intervention arm will have contact with >1 doula/ psychiatrist during their
      ICU stay. Thus, we do not plan to address possible correlation of patient responses arising
      from a shared intervention experience with the same intervention person. However, in the
      event we observe most patients in the PSBPS arm receive their intervention from one person
      during the entirety of their stay, additional sensitivity analyses may be considered, such as
      a stratified analysis. Interactions with relevant variables, including sex and
      race/ethnicity, will be assessed to determine if the effect of intervention differs in key
      subgroups; however, this study is not specifically powered to detect such effects. We
      anticipate little missing data with respect to patient demographics and baseline
      characteristics abstracted from the electronic health record (EHR). Similarly, clinical
      outcomes including ventilator-free days and length of stay are well-collected in the EHR. For
      cognitive outcomes, the reference population is patients discharged alive from the ICU.
      Baseline assessments may be missing for subjects unable to complete them or refusing to
      complete them after ICU discharge and 6-month assessments missing for patient mortality and
      loss to follow-up. We anticipate missing baseline assessments will be rare, but it is
      possible that these missing data will be not missing at random (NMAR). The initial analysis
      will use complete case data and sensitivity analyses will consider imputation of missing
      baseline data. Imputation may include multiple imputation under the missing at random
      mechanism as well as worst-case imputation assuming NMAR as those with missing data may be
      more likely to have poor (unobserved) outcomes. Analyses of 6-month outcomes will proceed
      similarly, as missing 6-month assessments are also possibly missing not at random. The
      primary analysis will be based on the intent-to-treat principle. A two-tailed p<0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  