
    
      The feasibility and safety of laparoscopic surgery has been established for colon cancer. The
      case for rectal cancer is less clear, and of the reported multicentre trials only the Medical
      Research Council (MRC) CLASICC trial included an evaluation of laparoscopic compared to open
      rectal cancer surgery. Although both laparoscopic and open rectal cancer resection were
      associated with similar lymph node yields, concern was expressed at the higher rate of
      circumferential resection margin (CRM) involvement in the laparoscopic arm (12.4%) as
      compared to the open arm (6.3%) for patients undergoing anterior resection. This however did
      not translate into a difference in local recurrence at either 3-year or 5-year follow-up. The
      difference in CRM involvement was felt to reflect the increased technical difficulties
      associated with the laparoscopic technique in the rectal cancer subgroup. This was supported
      by the higher conversion rate in the laparoscopic rectal subgroup (34%) as compared to the
      laparoscopic colon subgroup (25%). Analysis of CLASICC data revealed higher morbidity and
      mortality rates associated with laparoscopic cases converted to open operation (30-day
      morbidity: laparoscopic 29%, converted 45%; in-hospital mortality: laparoscopic 1%, converted
      9%). Some of this increased morbidity may be related to more advanced cancers requiring
      conversion, but a proportion will inevitably have resulted from the increased operative time,
      increased technical difficulty, and the need for a laparotomy wound in converted cases.

      The introduction of robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery using the da Vinci™ system
      (Intuitive Surgical, California, USA) promises to eliminate many of the technical
      difficulties inherent in laparoscopic surgery. It offers the advantages of intuitive
      manipulation of laparoscopic instruments with 7-degrees of freedom of movement, a
      3-dimensional field of view, a stable camera platform with zoom magnification, dexterity
      enhancement, and an ergonomic operating environment. Experience has shown that the benefits
      of the robot are most appreciated when surgical accuracy is required within a confined space,
      such as the pelvis.

      Laparoscopic rectal cancer surgery is technically demanding requiring accurate pelvic
      dissection according to total mesorectal excision (TME) principles with autonomic nerve
      preservation. Inadvertent injury to the nerves has been attributed to the higher rate of male
      sexual dysfunction following laparoscopic surgery. The practicalities of robotic-assisted
      colorectal cancer surgery have been reported in small series but only two studies have
      concentrated on rectal cancer, and only one of these performed a randomised comparison in a
      small number of patients.

      The literature on robotic-assisted colon surgery is limited to 17 small case series. Most of
      these comprise mixed benign and malignant disease. The largest by D'Annibale et al reported
      53 robotic-assisted colectomies and compared outcomes with 53 laparoscopic resections. It
      concluded that robotic-assisted surgery was as safe and effective as laparoscopic, was
      particularly useful in pelvic dissection, but that cost-effectiveness needed further
      evaluation. Other reports concur that robotic-assisted colorectal surgery is feasible and
      safe, with low rates of conversion, morbidity and mortality, but with increased operative
      times. There is only one study which has addressed the issue of hospital costs. This compared
      30 robotic-assisted with 27 standard laparoscopic cases and concluded that the total hospital
      cost was higher for robotic surgery.

      The feasibility of robotics for TME rectal cancer resection was established by Pigazzi et al
      in a series of 6 low rectal cancers. A subsequent follow-up study of 39 rectal cancers
      treated prospectively by robotic-assisted resection reported a zero rate of conversion with a
      mortality of 0% and morbidity of 12.8%. The only randomised trial compared 18 patients
      assigned to robotic-assisted resection with 18 patients assigned to standard laparoscopic
      resection. No difference was observed in the operative times, the conversion rates (2
      laparoscopic, 0 robotic), or the quality of mesorectal resection. The only difference was the
      length of hospital stay, which was significantly shorter following robotic-assisted
      laparoscopic surgery (robotic-assisted: 6.9 +/-1.3 days; standard laparoscopic: 8.7 +/-1.3
      days, p<0.001) and attributed to a reduction in surgical trauma by the authors. In addition
      to original reports, there has been one systematic review of robotic-assisted colorectal
      surgery, which concluded that "robotic colorectal surgery is a promising field and may
      provide a powerful additional tool for optimal management of more challenging pathology,
      including rectal cancer".

      The current proposal aims to test the hypothesis that robotic-assistance facilitates
      laparoscopic rectal cancer surgery. On short-term follow-up this should result in a reduction
      in the conversion rate and no worsening of the CRM positivity rate. On longer-term follow-up,
      the increased accuracy should improve post-operative bladder and sexual function, enhance
      quality of life (QoL), and ensure there is no increase in local disease recurrence.

      There is a growing enthusiasm for robotics in many surgical specialities. This enthusiasm is
      often not supported by data on clinical or cost-effectiveness derived from rigorous
      evaluation by randomised controlled trials. This is the case for robotic-assisted rectal
      cancer surgery. Given the expense associated with the robotic systems and the limited
      evidence to support clinical and economic benefits, it is essential that a proper assessment
      of this new technology is performed in timely manner before its widespread recommendation or
      implementation. A randomized trial of robotic-assisted versus standard laparoscopic rectal
      cancer surgery is now urgently needed.

      Rationale for current study

      The safety and efficacy of robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery have been established for
      certain operations, most notably radical prostatectomy. Pelvic surgery, including rectal
      cancer surgery, lends itself to robotic-assistance. However, the experience with robotic-
      assisted rectal cancer surgery is limited to a few small personal series and one randomised
      clinical trial. Although this data suggests it is feasible, it has not established a benefit
      over standard laparoscopic surgery in terms of technical, functional or oncological outcomes.
      The primary aim of any curative cancer surgery is complete oncological resection of the tumor
      with minimal morbidity. It is therefore of utmost importance that prior to the widespread use
      of robotics in rectal cancer surgery, it is subjected to rigorous evaluation. The use of this
      new technology incurs additional financial burdens on already overstretched health care
      resources and it is therefore essential to assess the health economics and cost-
      effectiveness in comparison to alternative treatments. As this trial is unlikely to be
      repeated, 3-year outcomes and cost effectiveness will be included within this trial.
      Specifically, it is aimed to provide information on the ability of the robotic system to
      facilitate laparoscopic rectal cancer resection, its impact on oncological outcomes
      (short-term and long-term), its effect on functional outcomes and QoL, and its
      cost-effectiveness in terms of future healthcare decision-making. Currently, and for the
      foreseeable future, there is only one surgical robotic system, the da Vinci™ robot. To avoid
      any criticism of commercial bias, it is imperative that an evaluation of this robotic
      technology is performed independently of the manufacturer.

      Justification for a randomized controlled trial

      Since this is a new technology, it is essential that a proper evaluation is performed and
      disseminated prior to its widespread implementation. A timely assessment is imperative and
      for this reason there is no plan to perform a prior pilot study, which would inevitably delay
      evaluation by proper scientific methods. The feasibility of robotic-assisted rectal cancer
      surgery has already been established and preliminary data upon which to base sample size
      calculations are available. The time is right for a formal randomised controlled trial to
      provide a definitive answer to the proposed research question.

      Aims and Objectives

      The purpose of the trial is to perform a rigorous evaluation of robotic-assisted rectal
      cancer surgery by means of a randomised, controlled trial. The chosen comparator is standard
      laparoscopic rectal cancer resection, which is essentially the same procedure but without the
      use of the robotic device. The two operative interventions will be evaluated for short- and
      longer-term outcomes. The key short-term outcomes will include assessment of technical ease
      of the operation, as determined by the clinical indicator of low conversion rate to open
      operation, and clear pathological resection margins as an indicator of surgical accuracy and
      improved oncological outcome. In addition, QoL assessment and analysis of cost- effectiveness
      will be performed to aid evidence-based knowledge to inform National Health Service (NHS) and
      other service providers and decision-makers. These short-term outcomes will be analyzed after
      the last randomised patient has had 6 months of follow-up to provide a timely assessment of
      the new technology, and made available to the public, clinicians and healthcare providers to
      inform health-care decision making. Longer-term outcomes will concentrate on oncological
      aspects of the disease and its surgical treatment with analysis of disease-free and overall
      survival and local recurrence rates at 3-year follow-up.
    
  