
    
      Malnutrition is associated with poor clinical outcomes. Nutritional status is closely linked
      with body lean mass, specifically the skeletal muscle. Several tool s had been suggested to
      determine nutrition risk and status for critically ill patients such as The Nutrition Risk in
      Critically Ill (NUTRIC) and subjective global assessment (SGA). However, they are surrogate
      (NUTRIC) or subjective (SGA) measures of nutritional status. Ideally, clinicians should
      measure muscle directly to determine the patient nutritional status. Several imaging
      techniques allow direct and accurate measurement of muscle mass, these include magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) and computed-tomography (CT). However, the measurement of MRI and CT
      involves the transfer of patients out of the intensive care unit or expose the patient to
      radiation (CT) and therefore it is not justifiable to conduct MRI or CT for the sole purpose
      of measuring body composition. Ultrasound and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) are
      non-invasive and can be conducted at the bedside and therefore are promising techniques in
      assessing patients' nutritional status. Ultrasound measurement of quadriceps thickness and
      rectus femoris cross-sectional area can measure muscle directly and are widely used in the
      research setting. BIA phase angle is a direct measure of cell integrity and is an independent
      predictor of mortality in the ICU.

      This study aimed to describe the trajectory of change in body composition and investigate the
      relationship of the changes with clinical outcomes and activities of daily living and quality
      of life at 6-month post ICU admission. Further, the association between nutritional (energy
      and protein) intake and change in body composition will also be investigated to determine if
      the ultrasound or BIA measurements of body composition can help to assess the response to
      nutritional intervention.
    
  