
    
      Metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) is an acute event demanding treatment which
      otherwise would eventually lead to paraplegia in all patients. This is a serious condition
      for the individual cancer patient and burdensome for the healthcare system. A surgical
      intervention plus fractionated radiation therapy (FRT) is currently the standard treatment.

      Proposed Solution: If spinal cord dose is respected, local tumor control could be equivalent
      using stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) with minimal risk in comparison to
      decompression surgery and postoperative conventional radiotherapy without the additional
      burden on the patient of performing an invasive surgical procedure.

      Clinical Impact:

      Patients currently requiring surgery plus radiation therapy will potentially benefit form the
      proposed method. Patients will potentially benefit from reduced toxicity by avoiding the
      surgical procedure. In addition, a shorter treatment protocol with only one fraction is
      beneficial.

      Aims:

      The investigators' hypothesis is that stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) could be
      equivalent alternative in the case of patients presenting with metastatic spinal cord
      compression with minor neurologic deficits.

      Specific aims:

        1. Determine the feasibility of recruiting patients to be randomized towards SBRT vs. of
           surgery plus FRT

        2. Determine the ability to walk after 6 weeks measured from the starting date of treatment

        3. Determine the side-effects and quality of life metrics following both treatment arms

        4. Determine the rate of local control following therapy using MRI scan

      Project Plan:

      The investigators intend to investigate if stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) could
      be equivalent alternative in the case of patients presenting with metastatic spinal cord
      compression with minor neurologic deficits
    
  