
    
      The current standard of care in our clinic when delivering a conventional course of whole
      breast radiation is to deliver between 60 and 66 Gy to the tumor bed when negative margins
      are achieved, with the initial ~45-50 Gy delivered to the whole breast and the 10-16 Gy TB
      boost delivered in 5-8 fractions.The current standard of care in our clinic when delivering a
      hypofractionated course of whole breast radiation is to deliver between 50 and 52 Gy to the
      tumor bed when negative margins are achieved, with the initial ~40-42.5 Gy delivered to the
      whole breast in 15 or 16 fractions respectively followed 10 Gy TB boost delivered in 4 or 5
      fractions (total 20). The clinical target volume for the TB boost in this study is quite
      similar to conventional TB boost. The only difference is that the planning target volume
      margin is smaller in this study (5 mm instead of 10 mm) due to the reduced set up
      uncertainties with the breast cup immobilization and localization devices. The current
      institutional standard is covering the TB + 15 mm dosimetric margin. Since the
      reproducibility is improved by 5 mm with the aid of the breast immobilization cup, the TB +
      10 mm dosimetric margin will be used on this study. Using the radiobiological equivalent dose
      (BED) formula, {BED = n D(1 + D/(α/β))}, the 8 Gy single fraction dose is equivalent to 16 Gy
      delivered in 8 fractions. Wherein the BED formula, n is the number of fractions, D is the
      dose per fraction and α/β is estimated to be between 3 and 4. On this study, the
      investigators will deliver either 40 Gy in fifteen (15) fractions (hypofractionated) or 50Gy
      in twenty-five (25) fractions (conventional) to the whole breast following a single 8 Gy
      boost using the Gamma Pod™. The summed dose to the boost region will be radiobiologically
      equivalent to a total dose of 52 (hypofractionated) or 66 Gy (conventional).

      The safety and feasibility of delivering the boost dose to the tumor bed using a single
      fraction external beam is supported by past clinical trials. Besides the use of electrons and
      external beam from a linear accelerator, intracavitary balloons and intraoperative x-rays and
      electron beams have also been used to deliver a Tumor Bed (TB) boost. In the T A R G I T
      trial, a single dose of 20 Gy is delivered to the TB using the Intrabeam™ device while the
      dose drops to between 5 and 7 Gy 1 cm into the normal breast. With long term follow up
      (median follow-up of 60.5 months), the 5- year local recurrence rate was less than 2 %. In
      the largest intraoperative electron experience, investigators delivered 9 to 10 Gy in a
      single treatment prior to whole breast radiation using 9 (million electron volts) electrons.
      Long-term local control rates and cosmesis appear similar to or better than more conventional
      techniques. In this proposed study, the investigators plan to deliver 8 Gy to the TB rather
      than 20 Gy with low energy x-rays or 9-10 Gy with electrons before whole breast irradiation,
      based on 1) there is no benefit of dose escalation over the biological equivalent dose of 16
      Gy at 2 Gy per fraction which is equal to 8 Gy in 1 fraction and 2) known increased side
      effects with higher doses to the tumor bed. The investigators believe that the proposed dose
      should be similarly tolerated as observed in these trials, since the volume of normal breast
      irradiated is similar using a lower dose. In addition, this treatment will similarly shorten
      treatment by 1 to 1½ weeks by replacing the 8 treatments to the TB.
    
  