
    
      Asthma is the most prevalent chronic childhood condition and is the most frequent cause of
      hospitalization among children. There are about 6.7 million children in the U.S. who
      currently have asthma, and nearly two of every three of these children had at least one
      attack in the past 12 months. Evidence suggests that exposure to cockroach allergen might be
      the most important risk factor for asthma in inner-city households. An environmental
      intervention targeting only cockroach allergen could potentially provide cost savings in a
      public health program over high cost multi-component interventions, if it could be shown to
      reduce asthma morbidity.

      The primary objective of the Childhood Asthma REduction Study (CARES) is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of a novel cockroach eradication method, shown in prior studies to drastically
      decrease cockroach allergen levels, in reducing asthma morbidity in children with moderate to
      severe asthma who are both allergic and exposed to cockroach allergen. Additionally, the
      study will characterize relationships between cockroach infestation and other environmental
      allergen exposures, and asthma morbidity, as well as consider dynamic relationships between
      cockroach counts and observed allergen reductions over time; and use study data to identify
      mechanisms such as cleaning behaviors that may influence those relationships.

      These objectives will be addressed through a prospective, randomized controlled, multi-site
      intervention trial in which 414 eligible children age 5 to 14 years who live in households
      with a confirmed trap count of 30 or more cockroaches over a 3-day period, are randomly
      assigned to one of two treatment groups. Treatment will be implemented at multiple intervals
      in the homes of children assigned to the intervention group. Children in both the
      intervention and control groups will receive clinical evaluations for asthma, home
      assessments of allergen exposures, educational materials on allergen exposures and asthma,
      and information on study results. Following 12-months of active data collection, the
      extermination treatment will be made available to the homes of children in the control group.
      The target sample size is 372 participants completing the study, equally divided into the two
      arms. Home environmental assessments following the enrollment visit will take place at
      enrollment, 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Clinical assessments will also be conducted in the
      home at enrollment and the 12-month visit. Primary outcome data will be collected during
      scheduled follow up phone calls every two months.
    
  