
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the difference in overall survival (OS) at 3 years for patients with
      incidental gallbladder cancer (IGBC) who receive neoadjuvant gemcitabine hydrochloride
      (gemcitabine) and cisplatin (gem/cis) prior to reoperation followed by adjuvant capecitabine
      compared to patients who receive only adjuvant capecitabine after reoperation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the difference in recurrence-free survival (RFS) at 1 year for patients with
      IGBC who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to and after re-operation compared to
      patients who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after reoperation.

      II. To assess the clinical effect of perioperative chemotherapy compared to only adjuvant
      chemotherapy after reoperation on resectability among 3 cohorts: all enrolled patients, all
      patients who undergo staging laparoscopy, and all patients who undergo laparotomy.

      III. To compare the incidence of residual disease at the time of re-resection between
      patients who receive perioperative chemotherapy and those who receive only adjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants undergo re-resection (including partial liver resection and portal lymph
      node dissection) after incidental diagnosis of gallbladder cancer. Participants then receive
      capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Participants receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and gemcitabine IV over
      30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 10 weeks of chemotherapy, participants
      undergo re-resection (including partial liver resection and portal lymph node dissection).
      Participants then receive capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up periodically for up to 3
      years.
    
  