
    
      As the world population ages, osteoporosis (skeletal fragility) and sarcopenia (decline in
      muscle mass and muscle strength) are becoming increasingly important public health concerns.
      Both osteoporosis and sarcopenia contribute to an increased fall risk and an increased number
      of hip and vertebral fractures. Clearly, the clinical and economic consequences of
      osteoporosis and sarcopenia, and the resulting falls and fractures, call for major efforts to
      search for efficient and feasible interventions to prevent or reverse bone and muscle loss.
      The present project is intended to partly meet this need.

      Whole Body Vibration (WBV) training might be an efficient training method. During WBV the
      subject stands on a platform that generates vertical sinusoidal vibrations. These mechanical
      stimuli are transmitted to the body where they stimulate the bone and reflexive muscle
      contractions will be generated. In previous studies performed by the same group, the
      investigators found that WBV training (frequency 30-40Hz, peak acceleration 3-10g) can be
      seen as an efficient alternative for strength training, both in the young sedentary as well
      as in the elderly population. Additionally, the investigators were able to show that 6 months
      vibration training in elderly females resulted in a net benefit of about 1.5% in bone mineral
      density of the hip compared with controls. Finally, the investigators have recently shown
      that long-term vibration training results in an increase of quadriceps muscle mass.

      From the above it appears that vibration therapy could be a plausible candidate as an
      efficient combination therapy for elderly subjects at risk for osteoporosis and sarcopenia
      and, by implication, the therapy might help to reduce the number of falls and fractures.
      However, many questions regarding vibration as a therapy still need to be answered in order
      to optimize both the efficacy and safety of its application. The application methods of
      vibration therapy should be optimized to be applicable in a broader range of subjects as well
      as to deliver the stimuli more targeted to specific regions of interest. Whole body vibration
      in its present form (subjects standing on a vibrating platform) is inadequate for a large
      part of the elderly population (e.g., subjects with osteoarthritis at the knee, wheelchair
      bound subjects, bedridden subjects). Additionally, the transmission of the vibration stimulus
      from the feet to the hip during WBV is probably insufficient to provoke optimal adaptations
      at this level. Delivering the vibration stimuli locally (i.e. more targeted) at those regions
      at risk for fractures or in need for muscle strengthening might be an efficient alternative
      application method.

      The main aim of this pilot research is to obtain data that should allow the investigators to
      optimize the efficacy and safety of the vibration excitation pattern as well as to optimize
      the application method. With the ageing of the world population and the predicted rise in
      fall and fracture rates, appropriate strategies to combat muscle and bone loss will have far
      reaching implications in containing future health care expenditure for the elderly and in
      reducing the need for institutionalized care.
    
  