
    
      Nocturnal enuresis is a worldwide health problem frequently encountered in childhood. 85% of
      cases of nocturnal enuresis are primary mono-symptomatic nocturnal enuresis that can cause
      substantial psychological impact on children and their families. The currently recommended
      treatment for NE are not effective in all children with high relapse rate. Posterior tibial
      nerve stimulation was introduced with early promising results as neuro-modulative therapy for
      both bladder and bowel dysfunction, although it's mechanism of action is not fully
      understood.

      This study aims to assess the efficacy and role of posterior tibial nerve stimulation versus
      Desmopressin in primary mono-symptomatic nocturnal enuresis.

      80 patients with PMNE were included, over a period of 6 months, at Urology department of Abou
      ElRish Children's Hospitals, Cairo University. The patients were divided into 2 groups, first
      group underwent posterior tibial nerve stimulation ( one session per week for 12 weeks ) and
      the other group of patients received medical treatment (Desmopressin 0.2 mg, single evening
      dose) for 12 weeks. Both groups are constructed to be adherent to behavioral therapy. The two
      groups were statistically evaluated regarding the frequency of nocturnal enuresis before,
      after treatment, and after one month of follow up.

      A statistical significant improvement in frequency of NE in both groups being more in group A
      but there is no statistically significant difference was detected between the two groups. A
      significant relapse rate after one month of follow in both groups but there is no
      statistically significant difference was detected between the two groups. Also, there was a
      statistical significant difference regarding improvement of frequency of NE more with
      patients with positive surgical history of tonsillectomy in both groups.

      This study concluded that both Posterior tibial nerve stimulation and Desmopressin are viable
      treatment options in patients with primary mono-symptomatic nocturnal enuresis. PTNS is a
      good option if Desmopressin is contraindicated, fear of it's side effects or ineffective. We
      should tailor the treatment according to the child and caregiver's condition. Relapse in some
      responders in both groups with time suggests the need for maintenance therapy.
    
  