
    
      Design: The trial is designed as a cross-over clustered randomized trial (each group would be
      a cluster), so that each group will act as their own control for their learning performance
      and perception.

      Setting: School of Dentistry, Princes Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University/ Riyadh/ KSA.

      Consents: Written consent will obtained from the students before commencing of the trail.

      Participants: The cohort of the trial includes 33 fourth-year dental students that represents
      whole fourth-year undergraduate class in order to eliminate the selection bias.

      Randomisation: Independent person will use computer-generated randomisation to allocate
      participants to one of the two groups. The sequence of random allocation will be concealed
      from the researchers who recruited the participants. Participants in the control group will
      be taught through the traditional passive online teaching model (PG) using live-video
      streaming while participants in the intervention arm (FG) will be taught through flipped the
      classroom model. Group 1 will consist of 16 students and group 2 will consist of 17 students.

      Intervention A total of 4 lectures will be delivered asynchronously using two different
      teaching methods as mentioned above. Participants in FG will have a monitored remote access
      to the recorded lectures for one week followed by 4 additional small group online discussion
      sessions. The students in both groups will remotely attend all pre-recorded and live-video
      lectures.

      Intervention implementation rounds The intervention will be implemented in 3 consecutive
      weeks The first lecture that will be taught in the first week will be related to the topic of
      Adult Orthodontics (L1).

      Before L1, all students will be asked to complete a set of multiple-choice questions (MCQs),
      formative exam (i.e. pre-test). Following the test , the lecture will be delivered to the
      participants of PG using a passive online teaching format for 60 minutes (i.e., live-video
      streaming). After the lecture is completed, students will be asked to re-take the same
      pre-test exam and complete questionnaire regarding their experience with the teaching
      methods. Consent for recording L1 will be granted from the attendees before recording. Within
      24 hours following L1, participants of FG will have an access to the recorded lecture.

      and they will be taught using an active teaching model known as flipped classroom model. In
      this model, participants will have 7 -day monitored remote access to the recorded L1. Similar
      to PG, completing the online pre-test formative exam will be preliminary requirement to
      access the published recorded L1.

      At the expiry of remote access to the recorded lecture, participants from FG will be invited
      to attend post-lecture discussion sessions. To enhance the effectiveness of flipped classroom
      teaching method, the cohort of FG will be randomly, using computer generated randomisation,
      subdivided to two smaller groups in which each group will be consisted of half of the FG
      cohort. The same lecturer will moderate the discussions for each group separately. After the
      lecture is completed, students will be asked to re-take the same pre-test of L1 and complete
      questionnaire regarding their experience with the teaching methods.

      Following the small groups discussion session, participants of FG will be given a 30-minute
      break before the start of second lecture related to the topic of Orthognathic Surgery (L2).
      However, the intervention will be crossed over, hence, the cohort of FG in week 1 will act as
      a control group while teaching L2 and vice versa. The same protocol of teaching models that
      was applied in week 1 will be adopted.

      Participants of both groups will be taught by the same instructor using the same materials,
      irrespective of the teaching methods. The lectures will be delivered using the same
      presentation platform (PowerPoint, Microsoft Corp, Redmond, WA) and the same virtual learning
      platform (Zoom live-streaming software - Zoom Video Communications, Inc, San Jose,
      California, Version 5.4.3). The duration of each lecture will be 60 minutes, while the
      post-lecture discussion, in the flipped classroom design, will take 15 minutes . Learning
      outcomes will be based on the learning objectives and outcomes of each lecture that align
      with what is specified by the National Commission for Academic Accreditation and Assessment
      in Saudi Arabia.

      Formative MCQs exam Before each lecture, students will complete a set of multiple-choice
      questions (MCQs), formatively (i.e. pre-test). These questions will be related to the taught
      topics, and will be administered remotely using learning management system (Blackboard).
      After each lecture, students will be asked to re-take the same pre-test via Blackboard. This
      formative assessment test will measure students' learning gain. Two investigators will
      construct the pre-test questions to ensure its content validity and reliability. Content
      validity will be tested using test matrix and experts judgment. The reliability test will
      estimated using inter-rater reliability. A correlation of more than 0.7 will be considered
      acceptable.

      Summative exam At the end of the semester, students will undertake their final summative
      written MCQ exam. This summative exam will cover topics taught during the second semester of
      preclinical orthodontic course. The summative written exam will include 10 randomly selected
      questions from bank of questions relevant to the orthodontic subjects taught in L1 and L2.
      The written exam questions will be identical for all students and will be delivered onsite,
      under controlled exam conditions. The summative written exam scores specific to L1 and L2
      will be traced and collected using an Excel spreadsheet by an independent person, the scores
      will be anonymously coded to minimize reporting bias. The maximum achievable score for the
      questions relevant to the subjects taught in L1 and L2 will be in accordance with an exam
      blueprint specified for the course.

      Students' perception At the end of each lecture, students will be asked to answer a
      questionnaire regarding their experience with the teaching methods they have received. We
      will use the validated Web-Based Learning Environment Inventory (WELEI). In addition to
      demographic section, the questionnaire consists of items that captures students' perceptions
      of web-based learning environments. Regarding the flipped classroom teaching method,
      additional questions adapted from previous studies that examined students' perception of the
      flipped classroom will be used. The questionnaire will be distributed online via SurveyMonkey
      (San Mateo, California, United States).
    
  