
    
      CEST in Stroke is an observational magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study in acute ischaemic
      stroke patients. Ischaemic stokes are the most common type of stroke and occur when a blood
      clot blocks the flow of blood and oxygen your brain needs. This can lead to cellular death
      (infarction) so the quicker a stroke is diagnosed and treated, the better a patient's
      recovery is likely to be.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the technical feasibility of a new MRI technique
      known as Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer (CEST) imaging for assessing the extent of
      potentially salvageable brain tissue (penumbra) around an area of infarction. CEST imaging
      works by looking at the chemicals in the brain cells. The chemicals may change when cells are
      affected by stroke. Stroke patients are not normally treated with with clotbusting drugs or
      clot-retrieving devices if they arrive at hospital many hours after the stroke because
      treatment may not help and in some cases it may cause more harm than good. However, the new
      MRI technique could detect those stroke patients who arrive at hospital many hours after the
      stroke but still have salvageable brain - in these cases it would be helpful to treat these
      patients and therefore stop those cells from dying.

      However, there are several technical issues that need to be addressed before CEST can be
      adopted as a routine clinical assessment. CEST in Stroke hopes to address these issues by
      using an alternate MRI sequence capable of acquiring CEST data over a large portion of the
      brain in approximately in 10 minutes.

      The overall aim of study is to determine the feasibility of CEST imaging for assessing the
      extent of penumbra, in order to determine which patients may benefit from re-perfusion
      interventions who would otherwise not be eligible. If the study is successful, further
      research will be implemented to help clinical decision making in stroke patients who present
      outside of conventional time windows.

      Eligible participants (or a consultee) will be approached upon admission in A&E or on the
      Hyper Acute Stroke Unit within 24 hours of onset. The study will be described in detail and
      an information sheet provided. After being given sufficient time to consider participation,
      the participant or their consultee will be asked to complete a consent form. They will be
      given a copy of the consent form and information sheet for their records.

      A one off study visit will then take place. This will entail a 30 minute MRI scan in the
      King's College Hospital Clinical Research Facility. In addition, a brief neurological
      assessment (routine examination for all stroke patients) will also be performed and the
      following information collected: demographics, past medical history and any local laboratory
      results. The participant's clinical details will be recorded on a case report form (CRF). Any
      clinical information not provided by the participant will be completed using the patient's
      medical notes.
    
  