
    
      Background - The molecular- and cellular-based mechanisms that contribute to the initiation
      and development of addiction remain to be elucidated. Estimates have suggested that 40-60
      percent of the vulnerability to addiction may be attributable to genetic aberrations.
      Multiple chromosomal regions have been linked to addiction including those containing the
      dopamine transporter (DAT) and vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) genes. Current efforts
      to understand how polymorphisms in these monoamine transporters contribute to the molecular
      mechanisms of addiction are severely hindered by the inability to directly interrogate neural
      cell types from the patients. There is great potential for patient-specific iPS cell
      technology to profoundly impact our understanding of human development and disease by
      providing genetically distinct, functional sources of human cells.

      Objective - The objective of the research is to develop a cell-based system whereby neural
      cells from afflicted individuals can be functionally assayed to interrogate the molecular
      mechanisms underlying addiction.

      Study population Controls (non-drug users) and opioid dependent adults receiving opioid
      agonist therapy aged 21- 65 will be enrolled.

      Design Participants demographic characteristics, psychosocial evaluation, and psychiatric,
      medical, and drug use histories will be characterized. DNA will be collected via cheek swabs
      of up to 30 potential participants for determination of dopamine transporter (DAT) and
      vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) gene polymorphisms. Participants (N=16) with suitable
      polymorphisms will be asked to under go skin biopsies; 2 individuals for each of two
      genotypes for each gene (DAT or VMAT), i.e., 8 samples from addicts and 8 samples for control
      subjects. Collaborators at Case Western Reserve University will use the skin cells to derive
      and characterize patient-specific, induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells that carry monoamine
      transporter polymorphisms for the hDAT1 and hVMAT2 genes. They will differentiate
      patient-specific iPS cells line into dopaminergic neurons and carry out a detailed and
      functional characterization of these cells to identify their molecular characteristics.

      Outcome measures - Biological specimens from the addiction patients and controls will be used
      to derive and characterize patient-specific, induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells that carry
      monoamine transporter polymorphisms. Patient-specific iPS cells lines will be differentiated
      into dopaminergic neurons. In follow up studies, we will characterize, compare, and
      functionally assay these patient-specific, iPS cell-derived dopaminergic neurons from control
      and addiction patients that carry polymorphisms for hDAT1 and hVMAT2 gene to investigate any
      possible association with dopamine neurotransmission variations and vulnerability to
      addiction.
    
  