
    
      Methadone is a synthetic opioid analgesic with agonist properties at the µ-opioid receptor
      binding site that has long been used as an alternative to morphine and hydromorphone in
      patients with severe pain. It has a diffuse bioavailability and is highly efficacious through
      its oral form, yet its bioavailability is heavily dependent on variability in cytochrome P450
      3A4 activity, and is quite variable amongst individuals. Methadone reaches peak plasma
      concentrations in 2.5 to 4 hours after oral administration, has a rapid onset, has a
      half-life is between 20-35 hours (range 5-130 hours), and analgesia may be reported for up to
      108 hours after a single dose. Additionally, methadone's NMDA receptor site antagonism acts
      to inhibit enzymes such as adenyl cyclase and their downstream production of secondary
      signaling molecules like cyclic AMP. This activity may attenuate opioid tolerance and opioid
      abstinence syndrome as NMDA receptor agonism has been implicated in the development of
      hyperalgesia, acute and chronic tolerance, and chronic pain states.

      IV dosing typically ranges from 2.5mg to 10mg every 8-12 hours, with PO forms dosed at 5-20mg
      every 6-8 hours.

      In a study of surgical patients, 40% required no additional post-operative pain control after
      a single 20mg iv methadone dose intra-operatively, and the 35% that did require a single
      additional dose required it on average 18.4±6.6 hours post-operatively. The remainder
      received additional non-narcotic pain medications post-operatively which were sufficient to
      control pain to tolerable levels.

      In a series of 29 patients undergoing multilevel thoracolumbar spine surgeries with
      instrumentation and fusion, patients were randomized to receive either methadone (0.2mg/kg)
      or sufentanil infusion of 0.25µg/kg/h after a load of 0.75 µg/kg.Post-operative pain control
      was delivered by patient-controlled analgesia and patients were assessed by visual analogue
      scale for pain, opioid dose, and side effected at 1, 2, and 3 days post-operatively. Patients
      reported less pain in the methadone group 48 hours post-operatively, as well as used less
      cumulative narcotic dose than the remifentanil control group. Side effects were not
      significantly different between the two groups. This study however, did not evaluate
      post-operative functional status, ambulation, and time to discharge.

      The literature comparing methadone to more commonly used post-operative narcotics
      demonstrates that it manages pain better, decreases narcotic requirement, results in no
      additional adverse events, and is safe, even in children. Since the standard of care is
      narcotic usage to manage the significant pain of complex spinal surgery cases, it is
      understandable that methadone could be a desirable therapy to promote sustained pain control
      and early ambulation in these patients.

      The current hypothesis is that methadone use intra-operatively will result in earlier time to
      ambulate post op and better ability to participate with post-operative physical therapy
      evaluation, lower narcotic usage, and earlier discharge. It is also foreseeable that since
      methadone would be administered while the patient was sedated intra-operatively, it could
      prevent the association between the analgesia and euphoria that may result from self- or
      nurse-administered narcotics, such as with a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA), which could
      promote early tolerance or reliance. The study plans to enroll the first 30 consecutive
      patients who met inclusion criteria, with an end goal of 20 patients who will complete the
      study. Patient will be recruited in office at time of consent for surgery by the principal
      investigator and be scheduled to undergo 1 or 2 level lumbar decompression and fusion
      surgery.

      The study outlined will be a prospective, positive-control, single-blinded study.

      On the day of surgery, the patient's pre-operative pain and functional status will be
      assessed, in addition to a review of the study protocols. An anesthesiologist will be
      assigned to the case and will administer a 0.2 mg/kg single-dose administration of methadone
      on incision (not to exceed 20 mg, as used in the literature) with a ketamine infusion of 4
      µg/kg/min and a remifentanil infusion starting at 0.1 µg/kg/min and titrating to effect or
      sufentanil infusion starting with a dose of 0.3 µg/kg/hr and titrating to effect. These
      standard doses have been well documented and studied in the literature and will be overseen
      and have been approved by Board certified anesthesiologist. For lengthier procedures, there
      will not be re-dosing of narcotics toward the end of the procedure. The operative procedure
      will not be altered in any way for the purposes of this study, and is beyond the scope of
      this protocol, yet can be detailed as requested. The patient will be taken to the recovery
      room post-operative and will be put on a standard post-operative morphine PCA at a rate of
      1mg per 6 minute lock-out period. Patient's narcotic usage and pain rating will be recorded
      at the intervals listed above and when stable from a cardiovascular standpoint, will be
      transition to the neurosurgery floor. Once able to bare weight, the patient will be
      encouraged to work with physical and occupational therapy as per standard post-operative
      protocol. Once the patient uses the PCA at a rate of less that once an hour, and can be
      managed with oral pain medications, the PCA will be removed. The remainder of their
      post-operative care will be according to the standard departmental protocol, and when
      milestones such as ambulation, voiding, and pain control are met, they will be discharged
      either to home, an acute care facility, or a subacute rehabilitation center. Any adverse
      events/reactions will be recorded and managed as normally they would be, and naloxone will be
      available for suspicion of narcotic overdose The subjects of this study will be compared to
      the historical controls in demonstrating the effect of methadone on post-operative pain,
      medication usage, and rehabilitation time. A goal of 30 patients will be planned to be
      enrolled. Other than intra-operative narcotic administration, all other portions of the
      intra-operative and post-operative care will remain the same as for historical patients.

      The primary outcomes for the study include total narcotic dose post-operative, frequency of
      narcotic use, the time to first ambulation after surgery with physical therapy, length of
      stay, and disposition (i.e. level of rehabilitative care). Secondary outcomes include better
      subjective pain control, need for post-operative course of dexamethasone for
      post-operative/post-fusion radiculopathy or neurapraxia/neuropathy, and fusion at 3-6 months.
    
  