
    
      -  Multicentre, prospective, randomized, 2 parallel group study

        -  Preoperative evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma in recipients: Tumor diagnosis will
           be mainly based upon EASL guidelines. HCCs will be classified according to UCSF criteria
           (size, number of nodules). Clinical and biological status will be updated every 3 month.

        -  Pre-transplant treatment:

      TACE group: An emulsion of Lipiodol and a cytotoxic drug (50mg/m2 of doxorubicin) will be
      injected as selectively as possible. Then, an embolic agent will be used to assure stop of
      flow. The first injection will be performed within 10 days following enlisting and repeated
      every 8 weeks until LT (only if hypervascularized vital tumor tissue is again visible on CT
      Scan and if liver function remains within Child A stage) or until complete response.
      Clinical/biological follow-up will be done once a month.

      Control group (no treatment until LT): clinical/biological follow-up and CT-scan every 3
      month.

      This prospective, multicentric, and randomized study may allow investigators to show that
      TACE with DC-BeadsR can significantly increase intention to treat survival of patients
      transplanted for HCC. We also expect that this result will be associated with less recurrence
      of the cancer after transplantation.

      Obviously, we expect that the beneficial effect of TACE will be associated with a acceptable
      rate of complication related to the procedure.

        -  Pathologic examination: In all patients in whom LT will be performed, the diagnosis of
           hepatocellular carcinoma will be confirmed by a histological examination of the
           explanted liver.

        -  Dropout criteria: Patients with progression but still meeting the transplant criteria
           will be maintained in their respective group. Patients with progression over the
           transplant criteria will be excluded from the waiting list and censored.
    
  