
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disease worldwide affecting an estimated 10% of
      males and 18% of females over 60 years of age. The resultant pain and loss of function can be
      debilitating and in developed countries represents a large socioeconomic burden, costing
      between 1% and 2.5% of gross domestic product, which currently stands at over £1.5 trillion.
      Total hip replacement (THR) is an effective treatment for end-stage hip arthritis; however,
      demand for the procedure is growing rapidly, fuelled by an ageing population and the obesity
      epidemic. In fact, rates of THR are predicted to rise 174% between 2005 and 2030. The current
      commissioning environment in developed countries means that investment in iterative
      improvements of existing THR implant designs are unlikely to yield either significant
      benefits to patients or be supported by health funders. The two principle issues that concern
      surgeons and patients are the longevity of implants and the ability of new technologies to
      minimise complications such as dislocation and infection. The James-Lind Priorities Setting
      Partnership, an internationally recognised patient-driven organisation, has recently
      identified these pre-operative and intra-operative factors as targets for improving outcome
      following hip and knee replacement.

      One of the largest costs to healthcare providers following THR is dislocation. Although the
      dislocation rate reported in Joint Registries is between 1 and 3% we know that this
      significantly underestimates the true problem, as the majority of dislocation events are
      managed with closed reduction and do not result in revision surgery. It is estimated that
      dislocation is an order of magnitude more common than reported in Registry data. Literature
      estimates indicate a true dislocation prevalence of 3 to 15%. The cost of dislocation is
      significant as the problem is often recurrent, resulting in multiple hospital admissions. The
      resulting average cost for each patient who suffers a THR dislocation is around £30,000.

      The factors that influence dislocation are poorly understood. Conventional surgical wisdom
      dictates that placing a cup in the Lewinneck 'safe zone' reduces both instability and wear. A
      recent study of 9784 primary THRs, however, demonstrated that 58% of patients who suffered a
      dislocation had implants judged to be in a safe position. This has led to suggestions that
      the idea of one generic 'safe zone' may be misleading; instead, there is a unique optimum
      position to place a cup in each patient undergoing THR, based on the unique and complex
      interaction of the spine and pelvis of the individual. Thus, in some patients, whilst the
      acetabular cup appears well positioned by conventional measures, pelvic tilt and spinal
      position mean that the cup is placed in a position of instability during some activities.

      The Corin Optimised Positioning System (OPS) is a novel platform, designed to enable delivery
      of the prosthetic acetabular cup into an optimised position for every patient undergoing THR.
      It comprises two stages: pre-operative planning and intra-operative guidance.
      Pre-operatively, patients undergo dynamic imaging (computed tomography scanning and X-ray
      films). The information gained about the relative movements of a patient's spine, pelvis and
      hips are used to create a personalized physiological profile. This enables calculation of the
      optimized acetabular cup orientation for each individual. A unique physical guide (which
      falls under the definition of a custom-made device in the Medical Device Directive) is then
      created for each patient to fit precisely into the acetabular fossa, for use
      intra-operatively. Intra-operatively, the Corin OPS uses laser alignment to aid the surgeon
      in aligning the acetabular cup in the calculated optimised orientation. One laser is affixed
      to an immovable pelvic screw; the other is attached to the reverse of the acetabular cup. The
      target orientation of the cup is achieved when the two lasers are aligned.

      The aim of this trial is to assess the efficacy of the use of the Corin Optimised Positioning
      System in reducing post-operative hip dislocation in patients undergoing total hip
      arthroplasty by comparing it with current standard templating in total hip arthroplasty. All
      total hip implants/components used in the study will be produced by Corin for uniformity and
      have the required approvals. There is currently no evidence that this novel approach to
      templating has an effect on dislocation rate. This project aims to provide evidence that this
      new technique can improve outcomes for patients and have the potential to reduce the need for
      complex, expensive revision surgery.
    
  