
    
      Background：The world is facing an aging population, with an increase in the number of people
      with mild cognitive impairment and dementia, creating a huge burden of medical costs for
      individuals, families, and society. Previous studies have shown that the Mediterranean Diet
      (MD) delays cognitive decline, but older adults are less likely to follow the Mediterranean
      Diet and have less knowledge about the risk of dementia and protective factors of the diet.
      This study will integrate the Asian version of the Mediterranean Diet Pyramid and local
      ingredients from Taiwan to design a nutritional health education and game intervention for
      the Mediterranean Diet.

      Purposes：To investigate the effectiveness of developing a Mini-flipped Game-based Learning
      strategy to promote dietary behavior and cognitive function in the community elderly with a
      modified diet learning intervention.

      Methods：A randomized controlled trial is used to recruit 90 participants and then randomly
      allocated to the experimental group and control group. In the experimental group, the
      mini-flipped Game-based Learning strategy was used in the intervention of Modified
      Mediterranean diet learning for the elderly in the community. The intervention was 8 weeks,
      forty minutes adjusted Mediterranean diet learning plan once a week, which includes the
      relationship between Mediterranean diet and dementia, knowledge of Mediterranean diet, how to
      integrate local food ingredients into Mediterranean diet, etc. The control group was given a
      balanced diet nutrition health education manual for the aged. All participants will be
      assessed at baseline(0 weeks), post-test(8 weeks), and follow-up(12 weeks) assessment. The
      primary outcome is Mediterranean dietary behavior and nutritional knowledge, and secondary
      outcomes are cognitive function.

      Contribution： In this study, the use of a mini-flipped Game-based Learning strategy in
      learning intervention can enhance participants' understanding of the nutritional knowledge
      and importance of the Modified Mediterranean diet, and thus improve eating behavior and
      cognitive function. The study is also helpful to integrate the Mediterranean diet into life
      through this community engagement process and expect the elderly in the community to achieve
      positive health promotion behaviors.
    
  