
    
      Coronary artery bifurcations (branching areas) are predisposed to atherosclerosis from
      turbulent flow and increased shear stress. Dilating lesions that involve a branch vessel is
      associated with the risk of closure of the side branch. Plaque redistribution or 'plaque
      shift' across the carina of the bifurcation is regarded as the responsible mechanism for the
      side branch stenosis and occlusion after angioplasty and stenting. Modern techniques of side
      branch protection require positioning of a second wire into the side branch before starting
      the treatment of the main branch. Placing an additional wire in the side branch is more
      laborious and complex than the wiring of the main branch only, is associated with additional
      use of contrast media and radiation, and may associated with additional risk of
      complications. Being able to determine which side branches require wiring for protection
      while treating the main vessel stenosis may make the procedure simpler and safer.

      Lipid core plaque (LCP) in the coronary arteries is very common in acute coronary syndrome,
      but can often be found also in patients with stable angina. Lipid core plaque cannot be
      detected by angiography or intra-vascular ultrasound. Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has
      the ability to identify chemicals in mixture. LipiScan, a catheter based NIRS coronary
      imaging system can detect intra-vascular LCP. This catheter has been shown to be able to
      identify LCP through blood in a prospective autopsy study, and that the LCP detection
      algorithm developed and validated on ex vivo data is applicable in vivo. The image generated
      by this system is called 'chemogram'. The catheter has also been tested successfully in a
      clinical study in the United States and Canada. Based on these studies the FDA approved the
      use of the LipiScan coronary imaging system. In CUMC, we have started to use this catheter to
      identify LCP, and have gained experience with its simple use.

      This study is intended as a pilot study to identify angioplasty related redistribution or
      shift of lipid core plaque (LCP) lesions that are located at sites of artery bifurcation. We
      hypothesize that during angioplasty and stenting, soft plaque that contains lipid cores may
      be prone to shift more than (hard) fibrotic or calcified lesions. This pilot study may help
      to better characterize lesions likely to shift and to provide imaging-based information like
      NIRS that will improve the interventional treatment of bifurcation lesions.

      A total of 20 patients with significant coronary artery disease with a bifurcation lesion
      suitable for angioplasty and stenting will be studied. The lesions that will be studied
      contain significant stenosis (≥50% stenosis) located in proximity (less than 2 mm) to a side
      branch. Prior to angioplasty, the main vessel involved in the bifurcation will be imaged
      using the LipiScan Coronary Imaging System. Angioplasty and stenting will be performed in the
      usual conventional way, and then re-imaged with the LipiScan system. Intravascular ultrasound
      will be done as standard interventional imaging procedure, when directed by the treating
      interventional cardiologist. Angiographic and Chemographic data will be qualitatively and
      quantitatively analyzed to assess LCP and plaque shift into the side branch. Subjects that
      have intravascular ultrasound as part of routine care, will have this data analyzed and
      compared to the chemogram data.

      Improved understanding of how plaques and lipid cores redistribute and under what conditions
      redistribution occurs could assist interventional cardiologists to better plan and perform
      complex procedures that involve bifurcation plaques. Improved procedural planning and
      prediction of shift can reduce instances of difficult side branch rescue and reduce
      occurrence of peri-procedural events, such as myocardial infarction. This may in turn lead to
      a reduction in overall complexity of treatment procedures, complication, and procedure
      recovery times.

      The catheter-based interventional treatment of branching points in blocked heart blood
      vessels is complex and prone to higher rate of complications. This study is intended to
      better understand why and under what conditions coronary blockages move during balloon
      angioplasty and stenting. The movement of coronary artery blockages during the standard
      treatment of coronary disease often leads to blocking of small artery branches near the
      treatment site. The blocking of these small branches does not occur at all times, but when it
      does occur it often results in small myocardial infarctions or residual chest pain.

      All patients in this study will undergo standard cardiac catheterization and intervention as
      directed by their treating physician. In this research, the researchers will analyze imaging
      data that will be collected during the procedure. This includes the angiography (all
      patients), intravascular ultrasound (in the patients that the operator determines its need
      for use as part of the procedure), and imaging from the LipiScan catheter (all patients). The
      LipiScan catheter is approved by the FDA for intravascular detection of fat in the blood
      vessel, and will be used to detect the fat composition of the blockage. This catheter,
      detects whether the blockage is composed of fat and is soft, or is fibrous and hard. In this
      study we are going to try to identify the type of blockages that are associated with
      branching points, and to learn whether soft and fat containing blockages are associated with
      shifting or movement of the blockage material into the side branch. The information learned
      from this study may help interventional cardiologists in the future to better plan their
      interventional techniques and strategy and to perform safer and more successful procedures.

      Coronary artery bifurcations (branching areas) are predisposed to atherosclerosis from
      turbulent flow and increased shear stress. Lesions situated at a bifurcation segment account
      for up to 16% of the interventional procedures (1). Stenoses at a bifurcation remains one of
      the most technically challenging lesion subsets to treat by coronary angioplasty and stenting
      (2- 5). Dilating lesions that involve a branch vessel is associated with the risk of stenosis
      or complete closure of the side branch. In the past, bifurcation lesions were considered a
      contraindication to PTCA due to the significantly increased risk of side-branch occlusion. In
      various series, the rates of side branch stenosis or occlusion post angioplasty and stenting
      is in the range of 9-67% (6-11) of threatened side branches. Salvage of an occluded
      side-branch may be difficult, and unsuccessful in around 50% of rescues, especially when the
      ostium of the side branch contains stenosis prior to occlusion (12, 13). In other cases, the
      side branch is not occluded, but may be severely narrowed, mainly because of plaque shift.
      Over the years, with the improved experience, techniques, and technology, it is common
      practice now to treat bifurcation lesions percutaneously, with high success and acceptable
      complication rates. Nevertheless bifurcation lesion pose higher technical demand and more use
      of interventional devices.

      Using IVUS imaging, plaque redistribution was described during stenting (14, 15). Plaque
      redistribution or 'plaque shift' across the carina of the bifurcation is regarded as the
      responsible mechanism that compromises the side branch lumen. Other predictors of side branch
      occlusion include significant branch-ostial stenosis, main vessel dissection, and acute
      coronary syndrome including acute MI (16). The later are important situations in which there
      may be a combination of thrombus on top of a lipid containing plaque.

      Modern techniques of side branch protection entails positioning of a second wire into the
      side branch before starting the treatment of the main branch (1,16, 17). The decision to
      protect the side branch depends on the estimated risk of closure while treating the main
      branch. Unfortunately, it is impossible to predict whether or not a specific side branch will
      be compromised. Advancing an additional wire in the side branch is more laborious and complex
      than the wiring of the main branch, mandating the use of larger caliber guiding catheters,
      prolongs the overall procedure time, associated with larger volume of contrast media and
      x-ray radiation, and may be associated with increased risk of complications like coronary
      dissection, perforation, bleeding and contrast induced nephropathy (1). The ability to
      identify which side branches need to be wired and protected while working on the main vessel
      will make the procedure simpler and safer.
    
  