
    
      This clinical trial is designed as prospective, observational, non-randomized clinical trial
      of overall duration of 8-9 years, but the first results and conclusions (secondary outcomes)
      could be achieved in 3-4 years from the beginning of the study.

      Based on ultrasound and/or magnetic resonance assessment of primary tumor dimensions,
      pathological report of core needle biopsy, ultrasound evaluation of axillary lymph nodes and
      cytologicaly proven positive lymph nodes, patients would be divided in three predefined
      groups and would undergo through predetermined group protocol.

      Group 1 (T1-2 N0 M0) protocol: Surgery is primary treatment (quadrantectomy/mastectomy and
      sentinel lymph node biopsy).

      Group 2 (T2-3 N0 M0) protocol: Neoadjuvant oncological treatment is primary therapy followed
      by surgery (quadrantectomy/mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy) and afterward by
      adjuvant oncological treatment. Before neoadjuvant treatment all patients would undergo
      magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and ultrasound guided placement titanium clip in primary
      tumor site. Clinical assessment of effectiveness of neoadjuvant treatment would be evaluate
      by breast MR imaging in the middle and at the end of the neoadjuvant systemic treatment.

      Group 3 (T1-3 N1-2 M0) protocol include the Group 2 protocol in addition with FNA (cytology)
      prove of positive node, ultrasound guided marking positive node with titanium clip before
      starting neoadjuvant protocol, ultrasound and MR imaging reevaluation of axillary nodes at
      the end of neoadjuvant treatment and for those patients who achieve complete clinical
      remission of axillary lymph nodes, biopsy of marked node would be performed in context of
      standard surgical procedure (in addition to quadrantectomy/mastectomy and sentinel lymph node
      biopsy) regardless being sentinel node or not.

      For presence of any size residual tumor in lymph node(s) in group 2 and 3 axillary lymph node
      dissection would be made.

      All patients would be controlled periodically in postoperative five years follow up period to
      determine the prevalence of locoregional recurrence, progression of disease to M1 stage and
      overall survival rate.

      The results would be compared among groups, to available literature data and to our former
      data of patients of same stage but treated in period from 2011 till 2014 (i.e. without
      neoadjuvant therapy).

      In addition, all marked nodes (group 3) would be examined for presence or absence of
      intraoperative signal and presence or absence of any residual tumor.

      In the first phase, that would last 3-4 years, the investigators would form three
      predetermined groups of breast cancer patients that would be monitored in the second phase
      for 5 postoperative years and analyse secondary outcome measures.

      According to statistical analysis made of former data of Clinical Hospital Centar Rijeka,
      groups should be made of at last 30 patients in each group.

      All patients participating in this trial and all members of investigation team would be
      completely introduced to plan and aims of this trial.

      Two main hypothesis of this trial are that SLNB does not have negative impact on clinical
      outcomes (locoregional recurrence and overall survival) in initially node-positive patients
      who achieved complete clinically axillary remission after neoadjuvant systemic treatment and
      that lymph node status after neoadjuvant treatment is significantly more relevant prognostic
      factor than nodal status at the time of diagnosis.

      Therefore, the aim is to establish that sentinel lymph node biopsy, in node positive breast
      cancer patients that achieve clinical remission after neoadjuvant treatment, is reliable
      approach for sugical axillary management and that does not have negative impact on the
      oncological principles and clinical outcome.

      Data would be collected individually for each patient during diagnostic and therapeutic
      period and in follow up period (periodic ambulance controls) for 5 postoperative years.

      Data would be recorded on appropriated forms. After data completion, leading investigator
      would import encoded data in register. All data would be available to all members of
      investigation team, members of Ethic Committee and a person in charge of statistic analysis.
      Data collected in this trial would be used for publications and self-control of our
      multidisciplinary team for breast cancer.
    
  