
    
      2.2.3 Research plan

      As model for this study we propose a longitudinal single-center study design with testing
      before and after the surgical intervention.

      Participants

      The study population will be limited to patients considered for gastric banding to gastric
      by-pass conversion. Patients will be recruited from the surgical out-patient clinic

      Testing during the study period

      Pre-OP 3 months post-OP Symptom evaluation X X Endoscopy X X Upper GI series X X Combined
      MII-EM X X

      OP - conversion of gastric band to gastric bypass

      After providing informed consent the volunteers will be screened for inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. Participants fulfilling the inclusion/exclusion criteria will undergo baseline
      symptom evaluation, endoscopy, an upper GI series and esophageal function testing using
      combined MII-EM as part of the pre-operative work-up. The same examinations (symptom
      evaluation, endoscopy, upper GI series and esophageal function testing) will be repeated 3
      months after successful conversion from gastric band to bypass.

      Symptom evaluation Patients will be asked to complete a standardized esophageal symptom
      questionnaire. This questionnaire evaluates the frequency and severity of heartburn, chest
      pain, regurgitation and dysphagia which are then computed into a composite score (Eraflux
      score ).

      Endoscopy Standard sedated endoscopy will be performed by a trained gastroenterologist. The
      endoscopy will be performed according to the standard clinical protocol. During endoscopy the
      examiner will pay particular attention to the esophageal mucosa, the size of the gastric
      pouch above the band (baseline examination), the size of the gastric pouch above the
      gastro-jejunal anastomosis (post-operative examination), the presence of ulcerations at the
      site of gastric banding/gastric bypass.

      Upper GI Series Patients will undergo upper GI series using a modified timed-barium swallow
      (achalasia) protocol. Patients will receive 100ml liquid barium and PA images focused on the
      GE junction will be taken immediately after swallowing, 1 and 3 minutes later. These
      sequences should allow determining the position of the band relative to the GE junction and
      the size of the gastric pouch above the gastro-jejunal anastomosis.

      Esophageal function testing (EFT)

      On the day of esophageal motility testing an EFT probe will be placed transnasally through
      the esophagus into the stomach and the LES location and pressure will be determined by
      stationary pull-through technique. The most distal circumferential pressure sensor will be
      placed in the high-pressure zone (HPZ) of the LES. The other measuring sites (both pressure
      and impedance) will be subsequently at 5, 10, 15 and 20 cm above the HPZ of the LES. Ten
      swallows (5 cc each) of liquid (0.9% normal saline) and 10 swallows (5 cc each) of a standard
      viscous material (EFT viscous, Sandhill Scientific, Inc) will be given with each swallow
      20-30 seconds apart.

      Analyzed parameters:

        -  Bolus transit time (BTT): time interval (sec) between bolus entry at the proximal
           measuring segment and bolus exit at the distal segment

        -  Smooth muscle bolus transit time (SMBTT): time interval (sec) between bolus entry at the
           second most distal measuring segment and bolus exit at the distal segment

        -  Contraction amplitude at 5, 10, 15 and 20 cm above the HPZ

        -  Distal esophageal amplitude (DEA): average amplitude of contraction at 5 and 10cm above
           HPZ

        -  Onset velocity of contractions: contraction velocity between 5 and 10 cm above the HPZ

        -  LES mid-respiratory resting pressure measured during station pull-through

        -  Average LES residual pressure during swallowing

      Data analysis

      Proportions (i.e. percentage of patients with esophageal dysmotility, patients with
      ulcerations at the banding/anastomosis site, etc.) will be compared using McNemar test.
      Continuous parameters (i.e. symptom scores, esophageal manometry and bolus transit data)
      recorded prior and 3-months after the conversion will be compared using paired T-tests. For
      statistical significance alpha will be set at 0.05.

      Sample size calculation Assuming that esophageal dysmotilities are present in 50% of patients
      prior to the conversion of banding to bypass and that conversion reduces this proportion by
      50% we calculated that 40 complete datasets would be required for an 85% power to identify
      this change. Allowing a drop-out rate of 20% we plan to enroll 50 patients in the present
      study.
    
  