
    
      The purpose of this study is to obtain preliminary data on the safety and acceptability of
      UC-781 vaginal microbicide gel (0.1% and 0.25%) versus placebo when rectally administered in
      HIV-1 seronegative adults.

      Participants will enter a screening period, which includes Visit 1 and if necessary a
      medication washout period.

      Subjects who are deemed eligible after this screening period will return for a baseline
      evaluation (Visit 2), including clinical evaluation and mucosal specimen collection, as well
      as the Baseline Behavioral Questionnaire (BBQ). The BBQ will be administered by Computer
      Assisted Self-Interview (CASI). Subjects may complete the web-based CASI in the privacy of
      their own home. If a subject does not have access to the Internet, prefers to complete the
      BBQ at the study site, or requires assistance in using the CASI, he or she will be
      accommodated at the study site.

      After completing Visits 1 and 2, eligible subjects will be randomized to one of three groups:
      0.1% UC-781 gel, 0.25% UC-781 gel, or a placebo gel (12 per group). A subset of 9 subjects (3
      from each group) will also participate in a pK sub-study, which will include 6 timepoints
      (Visit 3- pre, 0.25 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, Visit 3A- 24 hr, and Visit 5- 1 day post-QD dose). During
      randomization, study staff will be notified if the participant is randomized to the pK
      substudy.

      This study will involve 2 stages of treatment. Each treatment stage is independent of the
      other. This study aims to examine the effects of 2 different dosing regimens, NOT cumulative
      safety over the both stages.

      Once randomized, subjects will return to the clinic (Visit 3), where a single dose of the
      study gel (Treatment Stage 1) will be administered followed by clinical evaluation, including
      flexible sigmoidoscopy, and sample collection.

      Subjects will return to the clinic for Treatment Stage 2 Clearance (Visit 4), in the week
      prior to beginning Treatment Stage 2. If given clearance, the subject may begin Treatment
      Stage 2.

      In Treatment Stage 2, subjects will begin to self-administer once daily outpatient doses of
      the study gel for 7 days. After completion of Stage 2 the subject will complete a Product
      Acceptability Questionnaire (PAQ) by CASI and return to clinic for evaluation and specimen
      collection (Visit 5).

      After completion of Visit 5, subjects will be contacted by an interviewer to complete an
      in-depth phone interview regarding product acceptability.
    
  