
    
      Background. Reducing cigarette smoking among adults is a major public health objective.
      Although the target prevalence for adult smoking is < 12% by 2010 (DHHS 2000), current
      estimates indicate that 20.8%, or 45.3 million adults, currently smoke (CDC, 2007). An
      estimated 44.2% of smokers tried to quit at least one day in the last 12 months (CDC, 2007),
      yet <10% of smokers who try to quit remain abstinent (Benowitz, 2008). Even with intensive
      treatment, only 11-20% of smokers are abstinent for 6 months (Sutherland, 2003). Smoking also
      results in an enormous economic burden, with health-care and lost productivity costs totaling
      approximately $167 billion per year (CDC, 2008). A limitation of current treatment guidelines
      is a lack of specificity for individual smokers. Completion of the sequencing of the human
      genome and the current focus on genomics (Collins, Green, Guttmacher, & Guyer, 2003) provides
      an unprecedented opportunity to study the biobehavioral factors influencing smoking. This
      research will contribute to individualized treatment by providing a better understanding of
      the effects of genetic, psychological, and environmental factors and their interaction on
      smoking initiation, maintenance, cessation, and relapse (Lerman, Schnoll & Munafo, 2007;
      Morgan et al., 2003; Swan et al., 2003). Both candidate gene studies to identify specific
      genes that affect smoking and pharmacogenomic studies that investigate the effects of
      selected genes on treatment response contribute to a growing body of knowledge about genetic
      influences on smoking. The anticipated outcome of these studies will be the ability to
      individualize type, dose, and duration of treatment based on smokers' genotypes (Lerman,
      Schnoll & Munafo). Ultimately, the long-term goal of this research is to decrease relapse and
      promote sustained abstinence.

      The Genetic Education and Smoking Model provides a framework for investigating variables that
      potentially influence the ways smokers respond to information about: (a) genetic
      contributions to smoking and (b) the potential for genetically-informed cessation treatment.
      Based on social-cognitive theory and the Common Sense Model (CSM)(Cervone, 2004; Brownlee,
      Leventhal, & Leventhal, 2000), the Genetic Education and Smoking Model proposes that genetic
      education will influence smokers' mental representations and appraisals about genetics and
      smoking in addition to their smoking-related behaviors and affective responses.

      As genetically-informed cessation treatment becomes a part of research and clinical care,
      smokers will need a degree of genetic literacy to make informed decisions (McInerney, 2002;
      Shields, Lerman, & Sullivan, 2004). There is a growing body of scientific knowledge to guide
      an educational program about genetic contributions to smoking and the potential for
      genetically-informed cessation treatment. Epidemiologic twin studies consistently support a
      genetic cause for smoking, with an estimated 56% of the variance for smoking initiation and
      67% of progression to nicotine dependence due to additive genetic effects (Sullivan and
      Kendler, 1999). Findings from several genome-wide scans using linkage analysis have
      identified chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 14, 17, 18, and 21 as containing possible
      susceptibility loci for smoking-related genes (Li,Cheng, Ma, & Swan, 2003; Li, Ma, & Beuten,
      2004). Several candidate-genes for smoking heritability have been identified, including
      nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), dopamine receptor (DRD2 and DRD4) and transporter
      (SLC6A3) genes, the catechol-o-methyl-transferase (COMT) gene, the mu opioid receptor (OPRM1)
      gene, and the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene (Lerman, Schnoll, & Munafo, 2007; Schnoll,
      Johnson, & Lerman, 2007). Polymorphisms of CYP2A6, a cytochrome P450 enzyme, play a major
      role in the inactivation of nicotine to its metabolite, cotinine (Messina, Tyndale, &
      Sellers, 1997; Benowitz, 2008).

      Specific Aims. The primary specific aim is to compare the effects of the experimental group
      to the attention control group on smoking-related mental representations, appraisals,
      behaviors, and affective responses over time. The primary aim will be achieved using a
      randomized, longitudinal, two-group repeated measures design to determine the direct effects
      of the intervention on smoking-related mental representations, appraisals, behaviors, and
      affective responses.

      The secondary aim is to explore whether personality characteristics (trait negative
      affectivity and curiosity) and educational level moderate the effects of the genetic
      educational program on smoking-related mental representations, appraisals, behaviors, and
      affective responses.

      The secondary aim will be achieved with multiple and logistic regression to determine whether
      personality traits and educational level moderate the effects of the intervention on the
      identified smoking-related outcomes.

      Methods. Participants will be assigned randomly to either the experimental or attention
      control groups. The groups will be balanced for gender and number of cigarettes smoked per
      day using stratified randomization (Friedman, Furberg, & DeMets, 1996). Age and baseline data
      for major study variables will be treated as covariates.

      The experimental group, referred to as the Genetic Education Session (GES) group, will
      receive education about two smoking-related genotypes, DRD2 and CYP2A6. The content of GES
      session one is basic genetics and includes concepts and terminology, the impact of the Human
      Genome Project on health-care and the use of genetic counseling and testing. The content of
      GES session two is research about smoking and genetics. The content focuses on the
      multifactorial nature of smoking; research findings about genetic contributions to smoking,
      specifically for candidate genotypes DRD2 and CYP2A6; and potential applications of this
      research for cessation treatment, including legal, ethical and social implications of
      genotyping. To control for an attention placebo effect (Meltzoff, 1998), the control group
      will receive information about nutritional guidelines as established by the USDA and FDA. The
      attention control group will be referred to as the Nutritional Education Session (NES) group.
      The content of NES sessions one and two are aimed at understanding and using dietary and food
      safety guidelines. Following the genetic or nutritional education sessions, both groups will
      receive a standard cognitive-behavioral smoking cessation intervention with NRT in the form
      of transdermal nicotine (TN) patch. This intervention will be referred to as the standard
      smoking cessation (SSC) sessions. SSC content focuses on the: (a) nature of nicotine
      addiction; (b) use of self-change strategies in the form of self-monitoring, stimulus
      identification and control, stress management, and relapse prevention; and (3) use of
      nicotine replacement to manage craving and withdrawal symptoms. The SSC sessions consists of
      four 2-hour group counseling sessions and one follow-up telephone call after the last
      session. The intervention will occur over a 5-week period after the GES or NES. Participants
      will receive a 6-week supply of TN patches in the following dosages: 21 mg/24hours for 4
      weeks and 14 mg/24 hours for 2 weeks (Fiore Jaen, Baker al., 2008). A 1-week supply of
      patches will be distributed during SSC sessions 2-3 and a 2-week supply will be distributed
      at session 4. The final two weeks of free TN in 14 mg/24hours strength will be mailed to
      participants' homes during week 7. Participants will be encouraged to purchase a two-week
      supply of the 7 mg/24hours patches for the final two weeks of an 8-week course of TN. They
      will also have the option of using combination therapy as recommended in the 2008 guideline,
      to augment the TN with other NRT (gum, spray, inhaler) or bupropion SR. This option will be
      explained at the time of obtaining informed consent so participants can visit their primary
      care provider to obtain prescription medication (nicotine spray or inhaler or bupropion SR)
      prior to the SSC. Data will be collected on use of TN alone or in the recommended
      combinations. Expired air CO measurements will be conducted at each Session as
      feedback/motivation for participants. Session 1 CO measurement will be used as the baseline
      CO data.

      Data Collection. Data collection in the form of self report questionnaires will occur at four
      time points, Time 1 through Time 4 (T1-T4). Baseline data collection (T1) will be followed by
      randomization to the experimental or control group. T2 data will be collected in two parts
      (T2a&b) to obtain initial post-intervention data for variables pertaining to each of these
      sessions: T2a will occur at the end of the education sessions (GES or NES) and T2b will occur
      at the end of the SSC sessions (i.e., 6 weeks). T2a Questionnaires will be distributed at the
      end of these sessions and return by the start of the SSC (Week 3). T2b questionnaires will be
      distributed at the end of the SSC. Questionnaires will be returned by postage-paid mail by
      Week 8. If needed, participants will be reminded to do this at the follow-up telephone
      session. Two additional data collections (T3-T4) will occur at twelve weeks and 6 months
      after the end of the SSC. T3-T4 data will consist of self-report questionnaires and in-person
      measurement of expired air CO with salivary cotinine verification of abstinence for
      participants not using NRT and whose CO measurement is <8-10 ppm (Benowitz et al., 2002).

      Data Analysis. Preliminary analyses of the dependent variables will include frequency
      distributions to look for outliers, descriptive statistics and plots to assess normality, and
      bivariate scatterplots to evaluate linearity of relationships among study variables.
      Statistical methods of dealing with nonnormality, such as transformations of the raw data,
      may be employed prior to analysis. For all scales, internal consistency reliability
      coefficients will be estimated. All primary analyses will be based on an intent-to-treat
      paradigm. Each participant's data will be analyzed according to their randomized assignment,
      regardless of whether they completed all intervention sessions. The analysis plan will be
      carried out in order to work out any methodological issues, but because this is not a fully
      powered study, significant findings are not expected at the .05 level. A more liberal level
      of .10 will be used for significance tests, and emphasis will be placed on descriptive
      statistics and estimating effect sizes.

      For Aim 1, the primary endpoint of mean change over time relative to baseline will be
      compared for the experimental and control groups using Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE)
      methodology (Laing & Zeger, 1986). A model will be fit incorporating terms to test the
      effects of the intervention and time, covarying for baseline values, for age, and for amount
      smoked. An interaction term will also be included to test whether the rate of change over
      time is the same for both groups. If difficulties occur with implementing GEE because of the
      relatively small number of cohorts per group in the pilot study, the model may be simplified
      to a cross-sectional analysis with individuals nested within cohorts at each time point.

      For Aim 2, multiple and logistic regression will be used to predict the outcome variables
      from the independent variables and tests of moderation will be conducted according to
      procedures described by Baron & Kenny (1986).
    
  