
    
      A large proportion of patients with sudden cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction
      (MI) had no prior symptom, which emphasizes the importance of early detection and treatment
      of the underlying subclinical coronary atherosclerosis before they happen. However, there are
      no powerful screening methods to detect subclinical coronary atherosclerosis until recently.
      Traditional CAD risk factors, treadmill exercise test, and EBCT are known to have limited
      power to detect subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and predict future cardiac events.

      Coronary CT angiography (CTA) depicting detailed coronary artery anatomy in a noninvasive
      fashion would seem to be already one of the mainstays of diagnostic procedure in symptomatic
      population. Instead of the probability of significant stenosis, CTA could provide information
      about the location, burden and characteristics of atherosclerotic plaque per se, which might
      give additional insight to stratify the risk of future cardiac events and therapy.

      In this study, we will evaluate the prevalence and characteristics of subclinical coronary
      atherosclerosis on CTA and its impact on the management in asymptomatic population. And then,
      we will develop standardized protocol for the management of subclinical coronary
      atherosclerosis, and follow for adverse cardiac events.

      In phase I study, we will enroll subjects who had undergone CTA and analyze the
      characteristics of plaques on CTA. Also, we will evaluate the impact of CTA by comparing the
      performance of secondary test with those who had not undergone CTA evaluation.

      In phase II study, we will recruit subjects who had significant coronary stenosis on CTA. If
      the patients had significant stenosis, they will undergo coronary angiography to confirm the
      severity of stenosis. If they had coronary artery stenosis more than 75%, they will receive
      percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting stent (DES). If they had intermediate
      lesion, their treatment option will be judged by the results of fractional flow reserve test.
      If they had coronary lesion less than 50%, they will be treated only by medication.

      When the patients are eligible for study, investigators will give information about the study
      and obtain written consent. The presence of chest pain symptom will be screened with Rose
      questionnaire. Medical history and physical examination will be performed, and baseline
      laboratory work-up will be performed.

      Following above treatment guidelines, all patients will be followed for adverse cardiac
      events for 5 years.
    
  