
    
      The morbidity and mortality of lung cancer ranks the first in all malignancies. Although
      targeted therapy such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors
      (TKI) and activated lymphocyte kinase (ALK)-TKI can prolong non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients' survival, drug resistance almost occurs inevitably.

      In recent years, PD-L1/PD-1 antibodies like Nivolumab and Pembrolizumab, show satisfactory
      therapeutic potential in the treatment of cancers like melanoma and lung cancer. Latest
      clinical investigations show that anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 antibody therapy can prolong patients'
      survival but actually only 20% of patients benefited from it.

      Chimeric antigen receptor T-Cell (CAR-T) was genetically modified T lymphocytes by
      pseudo-lentiviral transduction to provide them with high binding affinity and specificity to
      the tumor antigen. That affinity was provided by CAR, independent from major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC).

      CAR-T cell immunotherapy had shown tremendous success in the treatment of acute lymphocytic
      leukemia (ALL). Cluster of Differentiation (CD)-19 CAR-T cell treatment archived as high as
      92% complete response rate for refractory and recurrent ALL. When the CAR-T cells targeting
      Her2/neu were given to the patients, mortality was observed from cardiopulmonary failure due
      to the weak expression of Her2/neu on the pulmonary epithelial cells. In contrast, Her2/neu
      antibody (trastuzumab) is widely applied safely in clinic to treat breast cancer patients. It
      strongly suggests that the CAR-T cells are more potent.

      Thus investigators hypothesized that the CAR targeting tumor cell PD-L1 would significantly
      improve the efficacy of CAR-T cells and extend their application in the treatment of solid
      tumors, especially lung cancer. Investigators designed and cloned a PD-L1 CAR gene that
      targets the PD-L1 expressed on tumor cells. Given that PD-L1 CAR-T cells can effectively kill
      not only PD-L1 positive tumor cells in vivo but also immunosuppressive cells (like
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs)) inside tumors, they can remarkably improve
      immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Accordingly they can restore the function of tumor
      infiltrated T-lymphocytes(TILs) to achieve the synergistic effect of killing tumor cells that
      can greatly enhance the killing effects of PD-L1 CAR-T cells on tumor cells, even eliminate
      tumors.

      The preclinical studies showed that PD-L1 CAR-T cells could be activated by and had
      significant killing effects on PD-L1 positive tumor cells in vitro. They inhibited tumor
      growth, while no obvious toxicity have been observed in mouse xenograft models. Investigators
      decide to explore the safety and efficacy of the new CAR-T cells in the phase I clinical
      study in the treatment of advanced NSCLC patients.
    
  