
    
      There is a clear unmet need for new therapeutics to treat irritability in children with ASD
      that do not have the metabolic and weight adverse event profiles of the currently approved
      treatments. Cannabidivarin (CBDV) is a nonpsychoactive phytocannabinoid and a safe variant of
      Cannabidiol (CBD). It has no appreciable tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) [less than 0.01%], has
      been shown to have no impact on weight or metabolism, and improves both social and cognitive
      functioning in animal models of idiopathic and syndromal autism (Fragile X, Rett Syndrome,
      Angelman Syndrome). The CDC currently estimates 1 in 59 children have ASD. ASD is
      characterized by deficits in social communication, irritability, repetitive behaviors,
      impulsivity, temper tantrums, and high caregiver burden. Currently, the only FDA-approved
      medications for symptoms of ASD are aripiprazole and risperidone, both of which are indicated
      for irritability in pediatric ASD. These medications are effective but are associated with
      considerable side effects with long term treatment in this chronic developmental disorder,
      including weight gain, metabolic syndrome and the risk of type 2 diabetes, prolactin
      elevation and growth of breast tissue, extrapyramidal symptoms and the risk of tardive
      dyskinesia. The anticonvulsant divalproex sodium (valproate/VPA) also significantly reduces
      irritability and repetitive behaviors in individuals with ASD. Although VPA is efficacious
      for pediatric epilepsy and some symptoms of ASD, it also has significant side effects,
      including weight gain, sedation and nausea. CBDV, like VPA, is effective in the treatment of
      pediatric epilepsy, and ASD mouse models demonstrate potential mechanisms for treatment with
      CBDV, including potential therapeutic effects on repetitive behaviors, irritability,
      sociability, and quality of life, and the capacity to reduce inflammation. This study aims to
      examine the efficacy and safety of cannabidivarin (CBDV) with a primary aim of studying its
      effect on irritability in children with ASD.

      STUDY DESIGN: This is a 12-week randomized, double-blind study of CBDV vs. placebo in 100
      child and adolescent subjects aged 5 to 18 years with a diagnosis of ASD.
    
  