
    
      Aim: to know the perception of older patients and health professionals regarding bedrails
      using as a method of physical restraint. Additionally, we will evaluate if the health
      professsional's knowledge on patient´s desire regarding bedrails using produce a change on
      that using.

      Design: quasi-experimental study ("before-after").

      Duration: 18 months

      Sample:

      Two samples will be recruited: one from older patients who are hospitalized at Geriatric
      Hospitalization Units participating in the study, and the other one including all health
      professionals working at the 3 hospitals which belong to the Consorci Sanitari de l'Alt
      Penedès i Garraf.

      Sample size:

      Being the main objective of the study the estimation of a proportion (proportion of users who
      consider the siderails as a method of physical restraint), and having a preliminary
      estimation (65%) of this perception in older patients from a preliminary study, we calculated
      a sample size of 270 participants, considering a confidence level of 95% with a precision +/-
      6%, and a necessary replacement rate of 10%. In the case of healthcare professionals, we
      calculated a sample size of 85 participants, considering an estimated proportion of 30%, a
      confidence level of 95% with a precision of +/- 10%, and a necessary replacement proportion
      of 5%.

      Procedures:

      During month 1 a measurement of the use of bedrails at the Geriatric Hospitalization Units
      will be performed. In the sample of health professionals, a single online survey
      questionnaire is expected in month 2 with the purpose of knowing the health professional's
      perception of siderails as a method of physical restraint.

      Once the health professionals' evaluations are finalized, the older patient recruitment will
      start. In the sample of hospitalized older patients, 4 evaluations are expected. A baseline
      evaluation (interview) will be performed within days 0-2 of admission at the hospitalization
      unit. In this evaluation, basal data, the perception of bedrails as a method of physical
      restraint, and a register of patient's desire on using bedrails during their hospitalization
      will be collected. Then, two follow-up evaluations (days +1 and +2 from baseline evaluation)
      will be done to record the use of the siderails. Finally, a clinical, functional, and mental
      assessment will be performed at discharge.

      During the trial, using bedrails at the Geriatric Hospitalization Units will be registered in
      3 different moments of the study: at the beginning of the study, after health professional's
      interviews, and finally after the period of patients' recruitment. For this, one of the
      collaborating researchers (external to the nursing team) of each hospitalization unit will
      proceed to count the number of beds using siderails, number of occupied beds, and number of
      free beds available in the corresponding unit, and the user's position (at bed or chair) will
      be recorded at the time of assessment. This counting will be done one day a week, first thing
      in the morning and before users start to get up.

      Participants' recruitment:

      After the first register of use of bedrails at the Geriatric Hospitalization Units, the
      researchers will inform the health professionals about the objectives and design of the
      study, and compliance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be verified. If the
      health professional agrees to participate, the information sheet will be delivered and the
      informed consent will be collected. All health professionals will complete the survey
      questionnaire individually, anonymously, and in electronic format.

      Older patient's recruitment and their baseline assessment will take place on the same day.
      The collaborating investigator of the study will invite all those users who undergo the
      clinical admission interview in the participating hospitalization unit to participate in the
      study, and within the first two days of admission. Once the study admission criteria have
      been confirmed, and the participant's informed consent has been obtained, the baseline
      interview will be carried out. In this interview, the user's perception of the bedrails and
      their willingness to use them during their hospitalization will be registered. Subsequently,
      the collaborator will communicate the patient's desire to the nursing team orally and
      registering the desire at the clinical record.

      In the case of participants with Pfeiffer test ≥ 5 errors or a positive result for the
      Confusional Assessment Method test, a patient's relative or accompanying person will also be
      interviewed. In the event that the participant is not clinically stable to be interviewed
      according to the criteria of the interviewer, the interview will be carried out exclusively
      with the family member or accompanying person.
    
  