
    
      1. Study team recruits patients with severe CTS who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria
           in an outpatient hand surgery clinic. Patients will be consented by the research team if
           the patient agrees to participate in the research study.

        2. This will be a single blinded study, and participants will have an equal chance to be
           placed in either group. Participants will be randomized using permuted block
           randomization predetermined by our dedicated orthopedic biostatistician into two study
           groups: those that undergo CTR with adjuvant intra-operative PRP and those that undergo
           CTR without adjuvant PRP. All participants will have a pre-operative
           electromyography/nerve conduction study (EMG/NCS).

        3. Primary outcome measures (BCTQ and grip strength), and secondary outcome measures
           (PROMIS; 2 point discrimination - thumb, index finger and middle finger; key pinch; 3
           finger pinch; and EMG/NCS results) will be collected and stored in REDCap at initial
           visit. BCTQ and PROMIS will actually be available online for patient to complete at the
           patient's convenience.

        4. Patients will undergo CTR with or without adjuvant PRP (based on assigned study group).
           Patients will not know which group the subject is in (single blinded).

        5. BCTQ and PROMIS will be collected online at 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months
           post-operatively. EMG/NCS will only be performed preoperatively and at 12 months
           post-operatively in the Sports Medicine clinic. At these visits, the investigators will
           also collect data on 2 point discrimination, grip strength, key pinch, and 3 finger
           pinch.

        6. The investigators will store data in REDCap.

        7. Data will be analyzed with the assistance of our biostatistician, and results will be
           written up.
    
  