
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common manifestation of atherosclerosis affecting a
      large proportion of the aged population. It is associated with a more or less severe
      impairment in functional activity and with an increased risk of future cardiovascular events.
      In PAD patients, an increased inflammatory status and a depressed endothelial function,
      assessed as flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery have been demonstrated. Moreover, a
      prognostic value has been found in PAD patients for both inflammatory parameter and
      flow-mediated dilation (FMD). One of the reasons of the increased inflammatory activation and
      endothelial dysfunction in PAD patients could be the ischemia-reperfusion injury associated
      with intermittent claudication. The hypothesis is that repeated episodes of acute
      inflammation and endothelial dysfunction following ischemia-reperfusion injury linked to
      intermittent claudication could be in part responsible for the increased inflammatory status
      and chronically depressed endothelial dysfunction of these patients. Taking into account
      these considerations, it is reasonable to assume that the correction of leg ischemia by
      interventional procedure, such as peripheral transluminal angioplasty (PTA) should determine
      a reduction in inflammatory mediators and an improvement in endothelial function.

      The study is a prospective, open, randomised, controlled, single-centre, follow-up
      evaluation, assessing the efficacy of peripheral catheter interventions in patients with
      symptomatic PAD on endothelial dysfunction and plasmatic procoagulant activity. Patients will
      be randomly assigned to immediate revascularization or to no treatment for one month. The
      assessment of parameters (brachial artery flow-mediated and nitrate-mediated dilation, plasma
      levels of C reactive protein, fibrinogen, microparticles and coagulation factors) will be
      performed at baseline and after 4 weeks in both, patients undergoing interventional
      procedures and in those, who will not be treated.
    
  