
    
      Exercise testing by Active Pedal Plantar flexion:

      The investigators plan to collect 140 cases:

        1. Healthy subjects with no apparent atherosclerotic risk [< 65 y/o, no diabetic mellitus
           (DM), no hypertension, or no hyperlipidemia, not obese, not current smoker, no smoking
           history >10 years] 4(n=5)

        2. Patients at risks (e.g. hypertension, hyperlipidemia) (n=5) but without DM,

        3. Type 1 and Type 2 DM patients with normal ABI( >1.0)and normal Toe-brachial index (TBI)
           (> 0.6) without intermittent claudication(by Edinburgh claudication questionnaire), nor
           PAD diagnosis (n= 10)

        4. DM normal ABI>1.0 and normal TBI (> 0.6) with suspected symptoms (intermittent
           claudication, non healing ulcer) (n=10),

        5. DM normal or borderline ABI( >1, 0.91~0.99) but low TBI (< 0.6), or with suspected
           symptoms (intermittent claudication, non healing ulcer) (n=20),

        6. DM patients with borderline ABI (0.91-0.99) (n=50) with or without leg symptoms,

        7. DM patients abnormal Low ABI (<0.9) (n=30) with or without leg symptoms,

        8. DM patients abnormal high ABI (> 1.3) (n=10)with or without leg symptoms, Post-exercise
           ABI with APP, and NIRS examination during APP exercise test will be performed.

      The investigators also plan to collect 500 cases of nonpregnant, ≥ 40 years old DM patients,
      obtained baPWV and the resting ABI by oscillometric device (Omron colin, Japan). The
      investigators will apply this novel technique to assess the extent of arteriosclerosis and
      atherosclerosis by oscillometric device in our DM patient without PAD (ABI >0.9).

      Collect baseline characteristics and follow up annual data: Age, sex, body weight, height,
      BMI, waist circumferences, history of smoking (ex-smoker, current), coexisting hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, DM duration, presence of chronic DM complications of neuropathy, retinopathy
      (by fundus camera), nephropathy (cr, estimate glomerular filtration rate(eGFR), proteinuria,
      microalbuminuria). The biochemistry data involving atherosclerotic risk including: systolic
      blood pressure, diastolic pressure, mean pulse pressure, HbA1c, total cholesterol,
      LDL-Cholesterol(LDL-C), HDL-Cholesterol(HDL-C), triglyceride, creatinine, microalbuminuria,,
      high sensitive C-Reactive Protein (hs CRP), baseline EKG all will be collected. All the above
      data will be followed up annually for 3 years to analyze the correlation of progressive
      change of baPWV, ABI and microalbuminuria with the atherosclerosis event and mortality.
    
  