
    
      In Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) conventional chemotherapy induces only low Complete
      Remission (CR) rates and responses of short duration compared to other indolent lymphomas.
      Thus, innovative approaches are needed which combine excellent activity and tolerability in
      patients with WM, who are mostly of advanced age. Today, chemotherapy in combination with the
      anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab is still the backbone of treatment in patients with WM and is
      recommended as first line in national and international treatment guidelines.With the
      approval of Ibrutinib by the EMA 2015 for patients with relapsed WM or for patients not
      eligible for chemotherapy with treatment naïve WM treatment landscape has changed in this
      lymphoma subtype and there is an urgent need to evaluate to which extent chemotherapy-free
      approaches add clinical benefit to the patient. Based on its high activity in WM and its low
      toxicity, Ibrutinib was approved for the treatment of WM by the EMA. However, also Ibrutinib
      fails to induce CRs and the VGPR (Very Good Partial Response) rate is 16% in relapsed
      patients. In addition, activity of Ibrutinib depends on the genotype with inferior response
      rates in MYD88mut/CXCR4mut patients and in patients with unmutated MYD88 and CXCR4 compared
      to MYD88mut/CXCR4WT patients (major response (at least PR) in 91.7 % compared to 61.9 and 0
      %, respectively). Phase II data have indicated that the proteasome inhibitor Carfilzomib is
      able to overcome the inferior prognosis of Ibrutinib in MYD88mut/CXCR4mut and MYD88WT/CXCR4WT
      patients, as response rates were high for all genotypes in a phase II study combining
      Carfilzomib with Rituximab and Dexamethasone. Based on this the investigators hypothesize
      that addition of Carfilzomib to Ibrutinib will increase the VGPR/CR rate compared to
      Ibrutinib alone in patients with WM, in particular in patients carrying the CXCR4 mutation.
      In addition, the investigators hypothesize, that the combination Carfilzomib and Ibrutinib
      will be also highly active in MYD88 wildtype patients and that this combination will be at
      least as efficient in treatment naïve patients as in relapsed/refractory patients.

      The study is an international, phase III, multicenter, open label and randomized trial
      comparing Carfilzomib in combination with Ibrutinib (treatment Arm A) versus Ibrutinib
      (treatment arm B) in male or female patients aged ≥ 18 years of de novo and
      relapsed/refractory WM in need of treatment.

      The phase III study will consist of an open labeled, stratified 1:1 randomization between Arm
      A and Arm B. Stratification factors are MYD88 and CXCR4 status (positive vs. negative) and
      number of prior lines (0 vs. ≥ 1 treatment lines). A stratified central block randomization
      will be used.

      The primary objective of the trial is to test the efficacy and toxicity of Carfilzomib and
      Ibrutinib in patients with treatment naïve or relapsed WM.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the rate of CR or VGPR 12 months after the start of
      treatment using the response criteria updated at the Sixth IWWM (CR/VGPR).

      184 patients at approximately 60 investigator sites will be recruited. Patients will be
      followed up after end of treatment. Patients will receive Ibrutinib in both treatment arms
      until progression, non-tolerated toxicity or until the study duration has reached its maximum
      of 7 years after the first patient was included into the trial. Follow-up (5 years or until
      disease progression for patients who discontinue treatment due to toxicity) or survival
      follow-up (for patients with progression disease) will be performed until the study duration
      has reached its maximum of 7 years after the first patient was included into the trial.
    
  