
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory, demyelinating, neurodegenerative disease of the
      central nervous system. The most common clinical signs and symptoms are fatigue, spasticity,
      cognitive impairment, chronic pain, depression, decreased quality of life, and bladder and
      bowel dysfunction.

      Current medical treatment is divided into three groups: disease-modifying, symptom
      management, and prognosis and relapse management. Intravenous methylprednisolone treatment is
      generally used in the management of relapses and prognosis. It is also thought that
      physiotherapy during the intravenous methylprednisolone treatment provides better treatment
      results. Therefore, treatment planning of people with MS during hospitalization should be
      done by a multidisciplinary team.

      Studies have shown that video games based physical activity training as a non-pharmacological
      therapy may be an effective method for managing symptoms such as balance, gait, fatigue, and
      cognitive functions in people with MS, but its feasibility in the inpatient period is
      unknown.

      The primary aim of the study is to investigate the feasibility and acceptability of the video
      game-based physical activity training program in the inpatient period. The secondary aims are
      to investigate its effectiveness on upper extremity functions, walking, balance, cognitive
      functions, quality of life, depression, and fatigue in persons with MS comparing to
      conventional rehabilitation.

      Volunteers from people with MS who are in the inpatient period due to relapse in the
      Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Dokuz Eylül University will participate in the
      study. In accordance with the inclusion criteria, 30 patients were randomly assigned to two
      groups: 15 patients in the game-based rehabilitation group and 15 patients in the
      conventional rehabilitation group. Based on the physical levels of the patients, appropriate
      games will be selected and video game based physical activity training will be started. Video
      games will be played with Xbox One with a motion sensor (Microsoft) and a 52'' Liquid Crystal
      Display. Depending on the prognosis of the patients, the grades and types of games will be
      changed. A conventional physiotherapy program including balance, upper extremity, and core
      stabilization exercises will be implemented. Treatments will be given by the physiotherapist
      for 45 minutes once daily during the hospital stay. Evaluations will be made before and after
      the treatment (discharge) and 4 weeks after the end of treatment. Physical and clinical
      evaluations will be made by physicians and physiotherapists, and cognitive evaluation will be
      performed by psychologists.
    
  