
    
      The AVATAR Trial: Protocol

      Applying VAcuum To Accomplish Reduced wound infections in laparoscopic pediatric surgery

      Surgical Site Infections (SSIs) are the most common complication of surgery worldwide and one
      of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in surgical patients. Literature has shown
      that patients who develop an SSI are five times more likely to require readmission to
      hospital within 30 days, 60% more likely to require ICU admission, and twice as likely to
      die. SSIs also carry a significant financial burden to the healthcare system. Annually in the
      US, SSIs account for over 900 million dollars spent in-hospital and $1.6 billion overall in
      health care. The average risk of developing an SSI from any surgical procedure is 1-4%. A
      landmark study by Horan, et al. in 1992 defined SSIs as any infection occurring within 30
      days of an operation or up to 1 year if an implanted device was used. Infections were further
      classified as: superficial incisional, deep incisional, or organ/space, with diagnostic
      criteria on physical exam to support each category. This criterion for SSI diagnosis has
      since become the standard definition at the American Center for Disease Control (CDC) and
      worldwide.

      Table 1: CDC Definition of an SSI.

      Superficial Incisional SSI:

        -  Infection occurring within 30 days of an operative procedure AND

        -  Involves only skin or subcutaneous tissue of the incision AND

        -  Patient has at least 1 of the following:

        -  Purulent drainage from the superficial incision

        -  Organisms isolated from an aseptically obtained culture of fluid or tissue from the
           superficial incision

        -  At least one of the following signs or symptoms: pain or tenderness; localized swelling,
           redness, or heat; superficial incision is opened by a surgeon and is culture-positive or
           not cultured. A culture negative finding does not meet this criterion.

        -  Diagnosis of a superficial incisional SSI by a surgeon

      Deep Incisional SSI:

        -  Infection occurring within 30 days of an operative procedure if no implant OR within 1
           year if an implant is used AND the infection appears to be related to the operative
           procedure AND

        -  Involves deep soft tissues (eg. fascial and muscle layers) of the incision AND

        -  Patients has at least one of the following:

        -  Purulent drainage from the deep incision but not from the organ/space component of the
           surgical site

        -  A deep incision spontaneously dehisces or is deliberately opened by a surgeon and is
           culture positive or not cultured when the patient has at least one of the following
           signs or symptoms: fever > 38 degrees Celsius or localized pain or tenderness. A culture
           negative does not meet this criterion.

        -  An abscess or other evidence of infection involving the deep incision is found on direct
           examination, during reoperation, or by histopathologic or radiologic examination.

        -  Diagnosis of a deep incisional SSI by a surgeon

      Organ/Space SSI:

        -  Infection occurs within 30 days of an operative procedure if no implant was used OR
           within 1 year if an implant was used AND the infection appears to be related to the
           operative procedure AND

        -  Infection involves any part of the body (excluding the skin incision, fascia, or muscle
           layers) that is opened or manipulated during the operative procedure AND

        -  Patient has at least 1 of the following:

        -  Purulent drainage from a drain that is placed through a stab wound into the organ/space

        -  Organisms isolated from an aseptically obtained culture of fluid or tissue in the organ
           / space

        -  An abscess or other evidence of infection involving the organ / space that is found on
           direct examination, during reoperation, or by histopathologic or radiologic examination

        -  Diagnosis of an organ/space infection by a surgeon

      Significant research has been undertaken to determine risk factors, prevention, and treatment
      of SSIs. Risk factors can generally be divided into procedure- and patient-specific risks.
      Horan, et al. grouped procedures into 4 wound classifications: clean, clean-contaminated,
      contaminated, and dirty. They found that clean operations carried an average risk of 1% while
      dirty surgeries carried a risk > 27%. Other procedure-specific risk factors that have been
      identified include: length of the procedure, degree of hemostasis, tissue trauma, and use of
      drains. Patient-specific risk factors include: age, smoking, obesity, diabetes, poor
      nutrition, and compromise of the immune system.

      While there is a large body of research addressing SSIs in adults, very few papers have
      addressed the development of SSIs in the pediatric population. Bucher, et al. found that SSI
      prediction models used in adults are not generalizable to pediatrics. Extremes of age, immune
      naivety, general physiology, and indications and types of procedures undertaken on children
      are significantly different than those faced by adults. Research has found that
      procedure-specific risks are much more heavily weighted in pediatric populations than
      patient-specific risks.

      A number of interventions have aimed at reducing procedure-specific risk factors, including:
      clipping rather than shaving hair, chlorhexidine vs iodine skin preparation, steri-strips vs
      sutures vs tissue glue for closure, and the use of prophylactic antibiotics. However, very
      few studies have looked at post-operative dressings as a role player in reducing SSIs. A
      recent Cochrane Review on this subject revealed that there is currently no evidence to
      suggest that any dressing significantly reduces the risk of SSI in wounds healing from
      primary intention. However, the Cochrane review also revealed that the 16 randomized
      controlled studies included in the review were generally of poor quality, small sample size,
      and/or high bias. Cochrane listed the following aspects as attributes of an ideal dressing:

        -  ability to absorb and contain exudate without leakage

        -  lack of particulate contaminants left in wound by dressing

        -  thermal insulation

        -  impermeability to water and bacteria

        -  ability to use with different types of skin closure (ie. stapes, sutures)

        -  avoidance of wound trauma on removal

        -  minimal frequency of dressing changes

        -  provision of pain relief

        -  cosmesis and comfort

        -  effect on formation of scar tissue

      In 2011, the investigators published a pilot study that showed that a simple, cost-effective
      vacuum dressing could reduce wound infection rates in pediatric laparoscopic appendectomies
      by 6%. This dressing is fashioned by placing a sterile 2 by 2 inch gauze over the umbilical
      port site and covering it with a bioocclusive dressing, such as an op-site. A 22-gauge needle
      is then inserted subcutaneously to remove air from the dressing, thereby creating a vacuum
      atmosphere. This dressing fulfills all the criteria from the Cochrane review of preferred
      attributes, is easy to apply, and inexpensive.

      The use of negative-pressure wound treatments (NPWT) is not a novel concept - however,
      specialized VAC dressings are costly (at approx $107/day) and generally reserved for complex,
      debilitating wounds. NPWT are thought to promote wound healing by removing local edema,
      improving vascular and lymphatic flow, decreasing bacterial density, and promoting
      angiogenesis and formation of granulation tissue. Minimal literature is available on the
      utility of these dressings in children. Six studies that have shown NPWT to be effective in
      healing complex wound dehiscence in the pediatric population; however, to the investigators'
      knowledge, no study has yet been undertaken to look at the role of NPWT in SSI prevention and
      healing of non-complex wounds in either pediatrics or adults.

      The aim of this study is to address this very issue by undertaking a randomized controlled
      trial with sufficient statistical power to prove (or disprove) that a simple, vacuum dressing
      can be effective at reducing the SSI rate in children undergoing any laparoscopic procedure.

      The primary outcome measure in this study is the rate of postoperative wound infection at the
      umbilical port site. A sample size calculation using the pilot study data demonstrated that
      the investigators need 275 patients in each group for the Chi-squared test to have an 80%
      chance of detecting a difference in wound infection rate of 6% with a 5% level of
      significance. Approximately 600 patients will need to be recruited from the Children's
      Hospital to ensure sufficient statistical power. Based on the annual number of laparoscopic
      procedures in the Children's Hospital (approximately 400) the investigators anticipate
      completing the inclusion of patients within a two-year period. Candidates will be screened
      for eligibility upon booking operative time for a laparoscopic surgery. These surgeries may
      be either elective or emergent in nature. Patients will be recruited by the pediatric surgery
      service that will meet with the patients and their parents/guardians prior to the operation
      to discuss the purpose of the trial and their role, should they choose to participate.
      Written information will be supplied and consent will be obtained from the patient directly
      or their parent/guardian by the nurse in clinic or the operating room. Once enrolled,
      patients will be randomized to one of two arms: one group will receive a simple vacuum
      dressing to their umbilical port (experimental) while the other group will receive the
      standard dressing without vacuum (control). Randomization will take place after the operation
      has been completed and will be done via a computer-generated list of numbers in a 1:1 ratio
      using the online tool Research Randomizer.

      All patients will be prepped with chlorhexidine and draped using sterile paper drapes. The
      umbilical incisions will be made in a horizontal manner and the trochar will be introduced
      using the Hasson technique.

      Both groups will undergo fascial closure of the umbilical wound with a figure-of-8, 0 vicryl
      stitch and subsequent umbilical port closure with 5-0 biosyn simple interrupted subcutaneous
      sutures. A 2x2 sterile gauze will be applied with a simple bio-occlusive dressing (ie.
      op-site). In the vacuum dressing group, a 22-gauge needle will be introduced subcutaneously
      into the dressing and air will be suctioned out using a 10 cc syringe.

      Post-operatively, the dressings in both groups will be removed after 48 hrs, either by the
      patients (or their parents) if the patient is discharged home or the house staff on the ward
      if they are an inpatient.

      An independent nurse from the clinical research unit at the Manitoba Institute of Child
      Health (MICH) who is blinded to the treatment groups will examine the patients at 8-10 days
      post-operatively and diagnose any surgical site infections using the criteria provided by the
      CDC. Funding for the MICH nurse has already been approved (see budget). The timeframe for
      follow up was chosen because it will minimize the likelihood of patients being lost to follow
      up while maximizing the opportunity for detection of infection, since the majority of SSIs
      are apparent by postoperative day 3-5.

      Based on the pilot study, it is unlikely that the simple vacuum dressing will increase the
      rates of SSI however as the data is accrued the investigators will assess the results in real
      time for a disparity in SSIs greater than 10% between the study and experimental groups.
      Should this disparity exist, in either direction, recruitment will temporarily be held while
      the results are analyzed for their statistical significance at that point. If the results are
      significant, the investigators will consider terminating the trial before all 600 patients
      are recruited and changing practice accordingly.

      Data collected from the trial will be stored on a computer kept in a secure location on the
      Health Sciences campus. The file will be kept for a period of 25 years (or when the youngest
      child in the study turns 25). Only members of the research group will have access to the
      password-protected server where the data is kept. As patients are recruited, they will be
      assigned a unique identification number that is separate from their PHIN or hospital ID. This
      number will be used to organize the data instead of the patient's name or health information.
      Only the patient's date of birth, weight, sex, diagnosis, procedure type and duration,
      estimated blood loss, length of stay, and presence or absence of SSI will be recorded. Since
      identifying information about the patients will not be recorded, the investigators will not
      directly contact the patients with the results of the trial. Instead, patients will be
      provided with an email address (avatar.clinical.trial@gmail.com that they can contact, from
      which the investigators will periodically send out updates about the trial.
    
  