
    
      1. Purpose: To evaluate whether topical anti-inflammatory ointments (calcipotriol,
           betamethasone dipropionate, or a combination of both) can decrease sensitivity to nickel
           in known nickel allergic patients. Optional blood samples will be part of the protocol
           to measure immune responses.

        2. Hypothesis: Use of these topical agents will prevent sensitization to nickel sulfate
           upon re-exposure.

        3. Justification: Currently, no cure can yet be offered to nickel sensitive patients.
           Standard treatment only involves avoiding nickel-containing products. However, this is
           not always easily achieved depending on patient awareness and environmental exposures.
           Topical desensitization has not yet been explored in patients with pre-established
           contact allergy. This research will be placebo-controlled with Vaseline petroleum jelly
           to compare reactions to nickel in those treated with anti-inflammatory ointments.

        4. Objectives: a) To evaluate the use of topical anti-inflammatory agents and its role in
           desensitizing known nickel allergic patients to nickel. b) To measure immune cell
           responses to nickel allergen from a blood sample taken before and after topical
           anti-inflammatory application.

        5. Research Method: Randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, proof of principle
           study. Subjects meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria with known nickel sensitivity
           will be recruited into the study. Those who consent will undergo 3 sets of nickel patch
           testing: At week 1 to confirm nickel allergic status, week 3 to induce tolerance by
           patch testing at the site of topical ointment application, and finally at week 5 to test
           for desensitization. (Week 2 is self-application with topical ointment; Week 4 is a rest
           week).

        6. Statistical Analysis: a) Primary end-point: Clinical responses measured by standard
           patch testing scores will be documented and photographed for comparison. b) Secondary
           end-point: Levels of T regulatory cell responses before and after topical treatment. c)
           Planned sample size: 24 patients. Given that this is a proof-of-principle study, the
           investigators are choosing to study a small sample size to detect any differences
           amongst treatment arms, if any. A larger-scale, adequately-powered study would be needed
           to detect any statistical significance.
    
  