
    
      Coronary artery disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States.
      The American Heart Association estimates that 571,000 Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary
      Angioplasty (PTCA) procedures were performed in 2001 in the United States and that 80% to 90%
      of these patients also underwent stent placement. Despite the effectiveness of intracoronary
      stents in maintaining a larger luminal diameter as compared to angioplasty alone, 15 to 35%
      in-stent restenosis occurs within 6 to 9 months after stent placement. While stents can
      reduce restenosis by blocking vascular recoil and remodeling, mechanical intervention alone
      is incapable of treating the biological problem of neointimal hyperplasia. Various approaches
      have been used to treat in-stent restenosis, including balloon angioplasty, repeat stenting,
      rotational and directional atherectomy, laser, and local delivery of radiation at the time of
      stenting (brachytherapy). However, these techniques add complexity to the interventional
      procedure and have not had documented success in preventing in-stent restenosis. Drug-eluting
      stents (DES) using antiproliferative agents delivered via a polymer based stent platform have
      shown significant success in the reduction of restenosis in de novo lesions over the
      traditional bare metal stents in randomized clinical trials. Local delivery of the
      pharmacological agent allows for controlled delivery of high drug concentrations to the
      targeted tissue while minimizing systemic drug effects. The ZoMaxx II Trial represents the
      first US study of the ZoMaxx(TM) Drug Eluting Coronary Stent System to evaluate the potential
      benefits of the local application of the zotarolimus drug in combination with a
      phosphorylcholine (PC)-coated tri-metal stent.

      ZoMaxx™ Drug-Eluting Stent System is an Investigational device. Limited by Federal (U.S.) law
      to investigational use only.
    
  