
    
      Rapid and successful airway management is important for the patient's outcome in emergency
      care. Tracheal intubation with an endotracheal tube is the gold standard for airway
      management, but tracheal intubation by paramedical staff in pre-hospital setting can be
      time-consuming and difficult. The ProSealTM laryngeal mask airway (PLMA) is one of the
      alternative methods for effective airway management. It is an advanced form of laryngeal mask
      airway(LMA) with a softer and larger cuff to improve sealing and a drain tube to permit
      venting of the stomach. However, the larger cuff is more difficult to save space for
      insertion in the mouth and is more likely to fold over. Particularly, a relatively large
      tongue, a floppy epiglottis, a cephalad and more anterior larynx and frequent presence of
      tonsillar hypertrophy may disturb PLMA insertion in pediatric patients. The manufacturer
      recommends inserting PLMA using digital manipulation or with an introducer, but these
      techniques have lower success rates compared to those of LMA insertion. The first attempt
      success rate of PLMA insertion by inexperienced personnel was reported to be 83%. Several
      techniques have been introduced to improve the insertion success rate; the use of
      fiberoscopy, gum-elastic bougie, and a suction catheter. However, all of them can not save
      enough oral space for PLMA insertion and it would not be easy for the unskilled personnel to
      use them in emergency situations. A larger space between tongue and retropharynx, not being
      accompanied with an index finger for insertion would make make it easier for the unskilled
      personnel to insert the PLMA.

      McIvor blade is a tongue retractor with a thin and curved blade and a flat handle. It is used
      to secure the operating field by pressing tongue during tonsillectomy. We hypothesized that
      McIvor blade would provide more space in the mouth for PLMA insertion, and therefore it could
      improve the PLMA insertion as well as reducing injuries to the pharyngeal wall. We compared
      the success rate and the incidence of complications of the digital technique with those of
      McIvor blade-guided insertion by unskilled anesthesia residents.
    
  