
    
      The dopaminergic projections from the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area into
      the ventral striatum and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) play major roles in the neural
      processing underlying motivated behavior. Hypofunction of this system is hypothesized to
      underlie the anhedonia, psychomotor slowing and amotivation that characterize major
      depressive disorder (MDD; (Fibiger, 1991; Swerdlow and Koob, 1987). A variety of indirect
      evidence supports this hypothesis (Wilner, 1995) as: 1) Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      concentrations of the DA metabolite, homovanillic acid, are reduced in nondelusional,
      depressives. 2) Dextroamphetamine (AMPH) improves mood in depressed patients, and direct DA
      receptor agonists (e.g. pramapaxil) and DA reuptake inhibitors (e.g. nomiphensine) exert
      antidepressant effects. 3) Many somatic antidepressant therapies enhance D(2/3) receptor
      sensitivity in limbic structures and/or increase interstitial DA concentrations in the mPFC
      and accumbens in rats. 4) Conditions in which DA is depleted increase the risk for developing
      major depression, and DA receptor antagonist administration produces dysphoria, avolition and
      fatigue in healthy humans.

      In more direct assessments of DA receptor pharmacology, Suhara et al. (1992) reported an
      abnormal decrease in D1 receptor binding using [(11)C]SCH 23390 in the frontal cortex of
      bipolar subjects. However, [(11)C]SCH 23390 has some affinity for 5-HT(2) receptors in the
      frontal cortex (De Keyser et al.,1988) so the specificity of this result remains unclear. In
      contrast, [(11)C]NNC 112 is selective for D1 receptors and shows sufficient receptor
      selectivity to access D(1) receptor binding in the frontal cortex in mood disorders.

      Previous studies of D(2) receptors using [(11)C]raclopride, [11C]NMSP and [(123)I]IBZM have
      been limited by the lack of sensitivity of those radioligands to receptors outside the
      striatum. Striatal D(2) receptor binding has been reported to be abnormally increased in
      psychotic bipolar subjects relative to both controls and non-psychotic bipolar subjects using
      [(11)C]NMSP (Pearlson et al., 1995) and unaltered in subjects with Major Depressive Disorder
      (MDD) compared to controls in two studies using [(123)I]IBZM (Klimke et al., 1999; Parsey et
      al., 2001). An increased basal ganglia-to-cerebellum ratio of D(2) receptor binding using
      [(123)I]IBZM has been reported in depressed MDD subjects compared to controls (D'Hanenen and
      Bossuyt, 1994; Ebert et al., 1996). SPECT imaging studies show that [(123)I]IBZM binding to
      striatal D(2/3) receptors is abnormally elevated in MDD. Although these studies were
      confounded by medication effects and small subject samples, because [(123)I]IBZM binding is
      sensitive to competition from endogenous DA, this abnormality could reflect reduced
      intrasynaptic DA levels in the striatum of MDD subjects.

      The current study will address the limitations of the previous studies by characterizing D1
      and D2 receptor binding in depression in extrastriatal, as well as striatal regions. PET
      measures of [11C]NNC 112 and [(18)F]fallypride binding to assess D(1) and D(2/3) receptor
      binding potential (BP), respectively, in unmedicated depressed subjects (part A). The
      11C-Raclopride Bolus plus constant infusion (B/I) PET scan will assess D(2) receptor binding
      in vivo in the striatum while the subjects perform a monetary reward task, specifically
      designed to induce changes in the striatal dopaminergic transmission (part B).

      The application of high resolution 3D PET and MRI-based region-of-interest analysis will
      permit specific assessment of abnormalities of the D(2/3) receptor system in currently
      depressed individuals with MDD and BD and of correlations with clinical ratings in ventral
      and dorsal striatum as well as in extrastriatal areas such as the amygdala, anterior
      cingulate cortex, medial prefrontal cortex and orbital cortex. Possible relationships of
      polymorphisms in the genes coding for elements of the dopaminergic system as well as the
      dopamine receptors being studied in MDD or BD with the level of binding detected will be
      investigated collecting preliminary data.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. Assess D(1) receptor binding in BD subjects and performance on working memory and
           attention based tasks.

           Hypothesis 1a. D(1) receptor binding will be decreased in the frontal cortex and
           unaltered in the striatum of BD subjects compared to healthy controls.

           Hypothesis 1b. Working memory and attention task performance impairments will correlate
           with changes in binding levels.

        2. Evaluate striatal and extrastriatal D(2/3) receptor binding, severity of depression,
           psychomotor retardation and anhedonia in depressed subjects with BD or MDD compared to
           healthy controls.

      Hypothesis 2a. Baseline [(18)F]fallypride binding in the ventral striatum, amygdala, medial
      thalamus, orbital cortex and subgenual PFC will be increased in depressives relative to
      controls.

      Hypothesis 2b. The ventral striatal D(2/3) receptor binding will correlate positively with
      ratings of anhedonia and depressed mood, and negatively with psychomotor performance speed.

      Hypothesis 2c. Baseline [(11)C] raclopride binding in the ventral striatum will be increased
      in depressed patients and this increase will correlate negatively with the subjective
      evaluation of rewarding stimuli and mood.

      Hypothesis 2d. The monetary reward task will induce a reduction of [(11)C] raclopride
      striatal binding, which will be larger in controls than in depressed patients and correlate
      negatively with anhedonia scores.

      Secondary Aims: A. To explore differences in D(1) and D(2/3) receptor binding between MDD and
      BD subjects.

      B. To investigate whether polymorphisms for the D(1) or the D(2/3) receptor gene may be
      associated with differences in receptor BP.

      C. To assess the relationship between [11C]NNC binding to D(1) receptors and performance on
      working memory and attention based tasks from the CANTAB (Cambridge Cognition, UK), including
      the Rapid Visual Information Processing test (RVIP) the Spatial Working Memory test (SWM) and
      the Pattern Recognition Memory test (PRM).
    
  