
    
      Study Treatment Assignment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, the study doctor will review the
      test results in your medical records that were previously performed as part of your routine
      care. The results of the testing may be helpful in managing your treatment and may also help
      the doctor to find effective off-label use of FDA approved therapies for the type of cancer
      you have.

      After reviewing the screening tests and the molecular test results in your medical records,
      the study staff and your study doctor will work together to find an off-label use for an FDA
      approved therapy that is best for you. You may receive a single therapy or a combination of
      therapies. You and the study doctor will discuss this.

      The study doctor or study staff will tell you which drug(s) you will be taking, the dose of
      the study drug(s), and how often you should take them. You will sign a separate consent form
      that explains in more detail how the study drug(s) are administered and the potential
      benefits and side effects of taking the study drug(s).

      Study Visits:

      While you are receiving treatment and during follow-up, you will have your routine, standard
      of care clinic visits and routine tests so that the doctor may check the status of the
      disease to learn if the therapy chosen to treat the disease is having any effect. Information
      from these routine visits will be collected and stored by the study staff. The timing of
      these visits will depend on the type of therapy you receive.

      During every cycle of therapy (about every 3-4 weeks):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an EKG to check the health of your
           heart.

      After even numbered cycles (2, 4, 6, and so on), or more often if the doctor thinks is it
      needed, you will have the same imaging scan(s) which were done during Screening to check the
      status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 100 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  