
    
      Heart failure poses a major public health challenge in the United States. It affects more
      than 6.2 million people and is the leading cause of hospitalization among older adults, with
      a growing prevalence among Black, Hispanic, and low-income populations.

      Despite advances in the treatment of heart failure, the associated morbidity and mortality
      remain high. From the time of heart failure diagnosis, survival is approximately 50% at
      5-years and 10% at 10-years.8 Improved mortality and hospitalization rates have been observed
      due to the advent of mortality-reducing HFrEF therapies and earlier diagnosis. Nonetheless,
      substantial gaps in the uptake of guideline-directed medical therapies (GDMT) exist. GDMT,
      which include beta-blockers (BB), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI),
      angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB), and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRA), have
      been demonstrated to reduce all-cause mortality by > 50% when used in combination.
      Nonetheless, fewer than 25% of eligible patients currently receive these medications at any
      dose, with socially disadvantaged groups having the lowest rates of utilization.

      The polypill is an alternative management strategy. The polypill combines multiple
      evidence-based medications in a single pill, which reduces pill burden and improves
      adherence. Therapy with multiple medications can be conveniently initiated at an early stage
      of disease, increasing the overall therapeutic benefit accrued over time. This is
      particularly relevant in settings where patients experience barriers to care due to high cost
      burden with copays associated with medication initiation, frequent lab tests, and need for
      multiple follow up visits.

      Polypills have been shown to be feasible and effective in multiple settings, including in the
      prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease (CVD). They have been well tolerated and
      additionally demonstrate significant improvements in adherence when compared to usual
      therapies in randomized control trials. However, no randomized trial to date has evaluated a
      polypill strategy for the treatment of heart failure, a condition in which pill burden and
      adherence pose substantial challenges to management.

      The proposed study is a single-center, pragmatic trial of a polypill-based strategy for
      treatment of HFrEF in a low-income, racially diverse community. This will be a randomized
      open-label trial comparing a polypill-based strategy versus usual care in adults with HFrEF
      (≤40%). The targeted enrollment is 200 adults with newly diagnosed HFrEF receiving care at
      Parkland Hospital. Follow-up duration will be 6 months.The hypothesis is that use of a
      polypill-based strategy in HFrEF will be feasible and lead to improved left ventricular
      systolic function and lower circulating NT-pro BNP levels compared with usual care.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the change in LVEF over 6 months, based on existing
      literature demonstrating measurable changes in systolic function and cardiac biomarkers
      within 6 months of treatment with GDMT. LVEF will be assessed using cardiac MRI at baseline
      and at the end of the study period. Key secondary endpoints of the study will include the
      evaluation of cardiac biomarkers, including NT-proBNP, a serum marker of myocardial insult.
      NT-proBNP levels have been associated with short- and long-term clinical outcomes for all
      stages of HFrEF and receive a class I, Level of Evidence A recommendation for diagnosis and
      assessment of prognosis in clinical HF guidelines and have additionally been associated with
      use of GDMT with reductions associated with the use of BB, ACE/ARB, MRA, and SGLT2i as early
      as six months post initiation of therapy.

      The trial will be led by study investigators from the University of Texas Southwestern with
      joint appointments within the Parkland Health and Hospital System. The proposal builds on the
      team's prior experience conducting clinical trials of cardiovascular therapies in low-income,
      diverse populations. The trial can be performed efficiently and cost-effectively within the
      Parkland Health and Hospital System.

      After securing permission from the clinical director and providers within the Parkland Health
      and Hospital System and Parkland Cardiology Clinic, the study team will begin active
      screening for patients with new diagnosis of heart failure within the Parkland Cardiology
      Clinic and inpatient Parkland Cardiology service. To achieve the target enrollment, the study
      team will enroll participants during inpatient hospitalization and from outpatient clinics.
      Patients will be started on the polypill prior to discharge or at the first outpatient visit
      after heart failure hospitalization. In both settings, the polypill will be substituted for
      the individual component medications, with other medications continued as prescribed. The
      team will include a study coordinator with extensive experience performing clinical trials at
      Parkland Health & Hospital Systems. The team will perform pre-screening using EHR data after
      obtaining permission from the Parkland inpatient and clinic heart failure attendings.
      Patients deemed eligible for participation will be contacted prior to discharge from their HF
      hospitalization or at the time of their initial visit to cardiology clinic following
      discharge. Patients will be informed about the study, its goals, and the risks and benefits
      of participating, and will be invited to participate. Potential participants will be asked to
      fill out a questionnaire seeking information on medication use, health status, and on the
      characteristics to assess potential eligibility. Eligible participants may also be identified
      based on review of the EHR post-discharge and will be contacted through an introductory
      letter and pre-screening questionnaire. Based on our initial experience, we conservatively
      estimate that we will need to contact 800 patients over the 4-year enrollment period to
      enroll 200 patients in the study. In the investigators' prior polypill trial, conducted in an
      outpatient setting, the study group observed a 45% response rate to the initial invitation,
      of which ~50% met eligibility criteria and consented to randomization. The team will record
      all contact attempts and responses in order to determine recruitment rates and reasons for
      entry or non-entry into the trial. The study team has substantial experience with recruitment
      of participants for clinical trials and observational studies in a variety of settings,
      including at Parkland Hospital.

      Participants who meet eligibility criteria will be invited to enroll in the trial.
      Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio using a computerized algorithm. Block
      randomization will be performed according to baseline use of a polypill component and
      race/ethnicity group. The randomization key will be maintained by a faculty member with no
      involvement in the trial.

      The study investigators will prescribe the polypill to those in the active arm. In response
      to the initial polypill prescription, participants will receive an initial pill vial
      containing a 30-day supply of medication via overnight shipping. Subsequent refills of 30-day
      supply will be made available by overnight shipping. Patients will be contacted by the study
      team every month, 1 week before the end of their 30-day supply, to follow up on their
      clinical status and adherence to the therapy. Participants will be instructed to take one
      pill per day for the duration of the study. All polypill medication, including unopened or
      partially used containers, will be maintained at the study site for eventual return to the
      vendor. As this is an open-label trial, there will be no placebo provided in the usual care
      arm. Participants in the usual care arm will also receive their medications free of cost in
      30-day supplies with overnight shipping and receive monthly follow up calls.

      In accordance with local regulatory requirements, the investigator or designated research
      staff will document the quantity of polypill dispensed and/or administered to study
      participants, the amount returned by study participants, and the amount received from and
      returned to the vendor when applicable. Product accountability records will be maintained
      throughout the course of the study. Concomitant medications and non-drug therapies not
      specifically prohibited by the study are allowed. All concomitant medications taken during
      the study will be recorded by study staff. Prohibited medications include all medications
      that interact with the components of the polypill or are contraindicated in patients with
      HFrEF.

      There will be a total of 4 visits (screening/baseline visit, 1-month follow up, 3-month
      follow up, and end-of-study visit). The screening and baseline visits will be combined into a
      single visit to reduce the total number of visits. The team anticipates that a relatively
      small proportion of subjects will be excluded at the first visit. At the baseline visit
      informed consent will be obtained. Responses to the baseline questionnaire will be reviewed
      by a study coordinator as a final check on inclusion and exclusion criteria and current
      medication use. A medical and social history will be obtained. Vital signs will be measured
      in seated participants, according to standardized protocols. A 15 mL blood sample will be
      obtained for eligibility laboratories. Pre-menopausal women will undergo a rapid urine
      pregnancy test.

      At 1, 3, and 6 months post-randomization, participants will be sent follow-up questionnaires
      and scheduled for a follow-up visit at the outpatient clinic. At these follow-up visits, the
      study coordinators will review questionnaires for completeness, assess vital signs, collect a
      blood sample, perform a 6-minute walk test, and assess quality of life and medication
      adherence using standardized instruments as detailed below. Procedures for blood collection
      and processing, assessment of quality of life, and 6-minute walk test will be identical to
      those of the baseline visit. Information on tolerability and side effects of medications will
      be collected. A basic metabolic panel test will be performed on the collected blood at each
      follow up visit to assess for hyperkalemia or kidney dysfunction. Additional clinic visits
      will be allowed at the discretion of the patients' physicians. Pill bottles will be collected
      for pill counts. Self-reported adherence will also be ascertained for all medications (in
      both study arms), recorded as the number of days the medication was taken in the week prior
      to the study visit.

      Subjects will receive $25 per study visit. In addition, subjects will also receive $25 for
      their CMR visits at baseline and follow up. Participants will also receive travel vouchers
      and/or transportation reimbursements for their follow-up visits.
    
  