
    
      Tight glycemic control is mandatory for the prevention and treatment of vascular
      complications in patients suffering from diabetes mellitus. After onset of Type 2 Diabetes,
      patients are usually treated with diet along with or without different combinations of oral
      drugs. One first-line drug class are sulfonylurea drugs that are preferably provided to
      patients who are not obese. The mode of action of sulfonylurea drugs is to increase beta-cell
      secretion, but it could be shown that they lead to deterioration of the beta-cell secretion
      product over time, resulting in increased proinsulin secretion. Since proinsulin is an
      independent cardiovascular risk factor, recent publications have demonstrated an increased
      risk for cardiovascular events in patients treated with sulfonylurea drugs as compared to
      other treatment methods.

      Combination therapy of sulfonylurea drugs with glitazones has been shown to counterbalance
      the effect of deteriorated beta-cell secretion and to improve insulin sensitivity and the
      levels of proinsulin, C-peptide and other laboratory surrogate markers for cardiovascular
      risk. Proving that the treatment of diabetic patients with higher doses of beta cytotropic
      agents can be avoided and beta-cell function can be preserved by using pioglitazone in
      combination with low dose sulfonylurea drugs, it will be possible to optimize the treatment
      of patients with type 2 diabetes who are not controlled efficiently by sulfonylurea drugs
      monotherapy.

      In this study patients will be enrolled who are inefficiently treated with a Glimepiride
      monotherapy. Patients will be either randomized to a combinational therapy of Pioglitazone
      and Glimepiride or Glimepiride monotherapy. If possible, study medication will be up-titrated
      to maximal dosage levels in both treatment arms to observe maximal and comparable treatment
      effects. Stable effects on beta-cell function will be observed after 24 weeks of treatment.
    
  