
    
      The number of pathological gamblers in the United States is steadily growing, leading to
      significant financial, psychological, and public health consequences. However, studies
      examining the effectiveness of treatment interventions for pathological gamblers are limited.
      This study will compare the effectiveness of three different treatment strategies, including
      referral to Gambler's Anonymous (GA), a self-help manual, and cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT), in reducing gambling behaviors and other problems related to pathological gambling.

      This study will last 8 weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three
      interventions. Group 1 participants will be referred to GA and 8 weeks of CBT, which focuses
      on teaching skills to help reduce gambling urges and develop alternative behaviors to
      gambling. Group 2 participants will be referred to GA and given an 8-week self-help manual.
      Group 3 participants will be referred to GA alone. Questionnaires will be used to assess
      participants' gambling behavior and any personal, legal, or health problems they may be
      experiencing. The questionnaires will be completed at study entry, study completion, and at
      6- and 12-month follow-up visits.

      Participants will be asked to identify at least one person who knows about their gambling
      problem and will have regular contact with them during the study and for at least 1 year This
      person will be interviewed at the beginning of the study, and at Months 2, 6 and 12.
      Researchers will ask contact persons about participants' gambling behaviors, personal
      relationships, legal problems, use of health care and mental health services, and how the
      participant can be contacted if he or she moves.

      For information on related studies, please follow these links:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00118391

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00618462
    
  