
    
      Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a global public health issue. There are 60,000
      cardiac arrests per year in the United Kingdom (UK), of which resuscitation is attempted in
      just under half. Resuscitation attempts are successful in up to 30%. However, more than two
      thirds of patients who survive to hospital admission die before discharge. There is wide
      variation in both regional and inter-hospital survival rates from OHCA; this disparity is
      also present across London. This variation has been shown to be attributable to hospital
      infrastructure, resources and personnel rather than patient characteristics. Overall survival
      therefore remains poor, at 7%.

      It is well known that the majority of OHCA are secondary to an acute cardiac ischaemic event.
      Coronary artery disease is responsible for more than 70% of OHCA of presumed cardiac cause,
      with acute occlusion demonstrated in 50% of consecutive patients taken for immediate coronary
      angiography (ICA). Early cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and defibrillation, with ICA and
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in a cardiac arrest centre (CAC), prevents
      re-arrest, preserves myocardial function and has been shown to improve post-arrest outcomes
      in ST-segment elevation (STE). The management of patients without STE however is
      controversial, with a delayed approach to intervention. Despite recently published data
      suggesting PCI in non-STE resulted in a two-fold increase in favourable outcome, randomised
      data are lacking. Emergent reperfusion therapies come with a weak recommendation from the
      International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR), and a Class IIa recommendation by
      the American Heart Association (AHA) and European Society of Cardiology (ESC), if there is a
      high suspicion of ongoing infarction.

      The European Association of Percutaneous Cardiovascular Interventions (EAPCI) recommends a
      prior rule-out of non-cardiac cause in the emergency department followed by coronary
      angiography within 2 hours. It remains unclear if time-critical, definitive hospital based
      management of the post-arrest patient without STE in a specialist centre improves outcomes,
      and there has been variable uptake of this strategy both pre-hospital and amongst the
      interventional cardiology community.

      There is an urgent need for a randomised controlled trial examining the benefits of early
      delivery of post-cardiac arrest care in specialist centres, specifically in the absence of
      STE. Post-arrest care is time-critical, requires a multi-disciplinary approach and may be
      more optimally delivered in centres with greater provider experience. ILCOR and the EAPCI
      state that randomised trials are essential in this population to determine if timely delivery
      by the ambulance services to a CAC with organised postcardiac arrest care including immediate
      access to reperfusion therapy improves survival. There are no randomised trials and only
      indirect evidence that CAC and systems of care may be effective and only two observational
      studies examining the role of immediate ICA±PCI in the absence of STE. This is an important
      and topical question as there is a drive to regionalise care for all patients into CACs.

      To address this, ARREST will enroll 860 OHCA patients with ROSC to a randomised clinical
      trial. Each arm of the trial will include 430 patients.

      The two arms are as follows:

      Intervention Arm: Direct to CAC The intervention arm consists of activation of the
      pre-hospital triaging system currently in place for post-arrest STE patients. This involves
      pre-alert of the CAC and strategic delivery of the patient to the catheter laboratory (24
      hours a day, 7 days a week). Patients will receive definitive post-resuscitation care:
      intubation and ventilation, where necessary, targeted temperature management, and goal
      directed therapies including evaluation and identification of underlying cause of arrest with
      access to immediate reperfusion if necessary. Prognostication will occur no earlier than 72
      hours post-cardiac arrest to prevent premature withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment.
      Transfer times estimated from the 40-patient pilot are anticipated to be 100 minutes (median;
      IQR 75 to 113) from time of arrest to the designated centre.

      Control Arm: Standard of Care The control arm comprises the current standard of pre-hospital
      advanced life support (ALS) care management for patients with ROSC following cardiac arrest
      of suspected cardiac aetiology. The patient is conveyed to the geographically closest
      emergency department. Management thereafter will be as per standard hospital protocols
      however as in the intervention arm, prognostication is to be delayed in trial patients until
      at least 72 hours post arrest.
    
  