
    
      The overarching research question is as follows: Is frailty predictive of patient-centered
      outcomes in older adults with heart failure (HF)? Hypotheses regarding this research question
      are: 1) Frailty is associated with increased 12-month mortality, 2) Frailty is associated
      with increased 3-month mortality or unplanned hospitalization, 3) Frailty is associated with
      lower baseline health-related quality of life (HrQOL), and 4) Frailty is associated with
      worsening HrQOL at 3 months.

      There are three specific study objectives. 1) To compare the ability of various frailty
      measures to predict all-cause mortality, hospitalizations, and HrQOL in patients attending an
      outpatient HF clinic. 2) To examine the determinants of longitudinal changes in frailty
      measures over time. Lastly, 3) To examine the clinical and frailty related determinants of
      fatigue in older adults

      A prospective longitudinal cohort study will be conducted at a specialized heart failure (HF)
      clinic at the Jewish General Hospital (JGH) and Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH). The study aims
      to measure frailty and its associated risk factors in community dwelling individuals, aged 65
      years or older and who have been diagnosed with HF (preserved or reduced ejection fraction)
      for at least 3 months. The multi-domain geriatric assessment will include questionnaires
      administered by interview, physical performance tests, body composition analysis using a
      bioimpedance machine, review of clinically acquired biochemical and imaging tests, and chart
      review. The geriatric domains evaluated will include: frailty status, hearing impairment,
      visual impairment, polypharmacy, sarcopenia, malnutrition, cognitive impairment, depression,
      fatigue, sleep difficulties, and disabilities. Baseline assessment will approximate to 40
      minutes of patient contact time while follow up phone interviews at 3 and 12 months will
      approximate to 20 minutes. Outcome measures such as all-cause mortality, HrQOL, unplanned
      hospitalization will be assessed at 3 months and 1-year post enrollment.
    
  