
    
      Blepharoptosis (incomplete opening of the eyelids) occurs because of a disruption in the
      normal agonist-antagonist neuro-muscular complex balance. An external device, if able to
      generate an appropriately balanced force, could restore eyelid movement by performing the
      paralyzed function; for example, a ptotic (droopy) eyelid could be opened, and the
      functioning eyelid closure muscle could overcome the device's force (Conway, 1973; Barmettler
      et. al, 2014; Houston et. al, 2014). Despite this seemingly straight-forward application,
      permanent magnets for eyelid movement disorders have not thus far become an available
      treatment. It is possible that earlier magnetic materials lacked the strength (at sizes which
      were acceptable to patients) to effectively restore the blink, or methods of implantation or
      external mounting were not effective. A newer class of permanent magnets made of alloys of
      neodymium (Nd), iron (Fe) and boron (B) might provide the technology needed to develop a
      feasible external magnetic device. They generate the strongest static magnetic fields yet
      possible, (1.3T compared to 0.4T of conventional ferrite magnets) (Cyrot, 2005) with
      exceptional uniaxial magnetocrystalline anisotropy, which makes them resistive to
      demagnetization (Chikazumui, 1997). The increased magnetic force at a fraction of the size
      has led to attempts for other medical applications including implantation for
      gastroesophageal reflux disease (Ganz, 2013), in dental prosthetics (Uribe, 2006), ocular
      reconstructive surgery (de Negreiros, 2012), and glaucoma (Paschalis et. al, 2013). Problems
      with extended external non-surgical adhesion to the skin of the eyelid may be solved with
      hydrocolloid-based medical adhesives e.g. Tegaderm™ (Chen, 1997), already used for IV
      catheter securement, wound dressing, and as a protective eye covering (FDA, 1997). This
      material is extremely thin, transparent, and oxygen permeable with an established safety
      profile for days to weeks of wear. The hydrophyllic properties (FDA, 1997) may be beneficial
      to the eyelids, which are often moist. In our prior work we established proof-of-concept data
      demonstrating safety and efficacy for temporary management ptosis up to 2 hour per day for 2
      weeks. Due to the sensitive force distance relationship characteristics of magnetic fields
      and variable nature of ptosis (often worsens throughout the day) the MLP required frequent
      readjustment and consistent correction was difficult to achieve. Other challenges included
      lid redness with longer wear times (in the participants who wore the MLP longer than
      instructed), incomplete spontaneous blinking, and difficultly with self-application of the
      magnetic lid array to the eye lid. This study aims to address these challenges. In order to
      improve the MLP we will determine the range of force in the target severe ptosis population
      to open the lid and where blinking is inhibited, determine the best polarity combination
      between the lid magnets and the spectacle magnet, determine if rotating the spectacle magnet
      is a good method to allow simple force adjustment via a dial on the side of the frame,
      determine if custom made frames improve stability of the frame, and create an applicator tool
      to help participants apply the lid magnet themselves.
    
  