
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To improve cognition of women who have had breast cancer and exhibit cognitive decline
      through a cognitive enhancement program.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (Cognitive Enhancement Program): Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM IA (Lumosity): Participants complete Lumosity cognitive exercises. Lumosity cognitive
      exercises are online video game-based activities that are designed to practice various
      cognitive skills including processing speed, attention, memory and executive function.
      Participants complete cognitive exercises at least 20 minutes a day, 5 days a week for 6
      weeks. Participants also complete relaxation exercises (guided imagery, progressive muscle
      relaxation, and/or autogenics) at least 10 minutes a day for 6 weeks and compensatory
      strategies (the use of external devices such as a notebook, day planner, or smartphone for
      cuing, reminding, and organizing; the use of memory strategies such as repetition,
      paraphrasing, and active listening; and the use of executive strategies such as self-talk for
      planning and attention orientation) as much as possible.

      ARM IB (Active Journaling): Participants complete Active Journal cognitive exercises. Active
      Journaling requires participants to keep a written diary or journal where she discusses what
      her thoughts and feelings about various events with a focus on describing the meaning of the
      activities and experiences, particularly new things that were learned. Active Journaling is a
      method of practicing various cognitive skills including communication, organization, memory
      and executive function. Participants complete cognitive exercises at least 20 minutes a day,
      5 days a week for 6 weeks. Participants also complete relaxation exercises and compensatory
      strategies as in Arm IA.

      ARM II (Lumosity only): Participants complete Lumosity cognitive exercises as in Arm IA.
    
  