
    
      Portal hypertension develops in patients with advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis and is the
      primary driving force leading to complications of cirrhosis, hepatic decompensation and
      mortality in patients with chronic liver disease. None of the three major complications of
      advanced liver disease variceal hemorrhage, ascites and hepatic encephalopathy occur in the
      absence of portal hypertension. As a result, measuring portal pressure and treating portal
      hypertension is an important part in the management of patients with advanced liver disease.
      A sub-study to measure portal pressure was initially proposed as part of the HALT-C clinical
      trial. Unfortunately, only 2/10 centers elected to participate in this sub-study and as a
      result, this was eventually dropped as a sub-study within the HALT-C trial.

      Recent data has suggested that interferon therapy may selectively reduce portal hypertension
      in patients with cirrhosis. In an abstract presented at the 2004 annual meeting of the
      European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL), portal pressure declined
      significantly in patients with NR after 6 months of treatment with peginterferon and
      ribavirin. At the time portal pressure was measured in this study, a transjugular liver
      biopsy was also performed to assess the effects of treatment on hepatic histology. Despite a
      reduction in portal pressure, no reduction in hepatic fibrosis score was observed. This
      suggested that interferon may reduce portal pressure through a direct affect on the hepatic
      vasculature; and suggests that interferon may prevent complications of cirrhosis regardless
      of its effects on HCV RNA and hepatic inflammation. Since portal pressure is the primary
      factor responsible for complications of cirrhosis including variceal hemorrhage, ascites and
      hepatic encephalopathy, these preliminary results suggest that maintenance interferon therapy
      could possibly prevent these complications.

      Preliminary results form a randomized, controlled trial of maintenance interferon therapy
      (Co-Pilot) presented at the 2004 annual meeting of the American Association of the study of
      Liver Disease (AASLD) did in fact demonstrate that patients with advanced fibrosis or
      cirrhosis who received maintenance peginterferon maintenance therapy over a two year period
      had a significant reduction in the incidence of variceal hemorrhage compared to that observed
      in the control group. The HALT-C trial provides an ideal patient population in which to
      further assess the effects of maintenance interferon therapy on portal hypertension.

      The first patients who were enrolled into the HALT-C trial are scheduled to complete four
      years of maintenance therapy near the end of 2004. This provides an optimal time point at
      which to assess the impact of maintenance interferon therapy on portal pressure. Although an
      ideal study design would have been to measure portal pressure at baseline and then again
      after 4 years in both the control and treatment groups, measuring portal pressure at the
      completion of the study will still provide significant information regarding the impact of
      maintenance interferon therapy on portal hypertension. The number of patients enrolled into
      HALT-C at these two sites is substantial (nearly 400 patients) and since the control and
      maintenance therapy groups were well matched at the start of the study we can assume that
      baseline portal pressure at the time of randomization was not significantly different in the
      two groups. Thus, if 4 years of maintenance interferon therapy does indeed reduce portal
      pressure a significant difference in mean portal pressure should be observed between the two
      groups at the completion of the HALT-C trial.

      Patients who were randomized to the control arm of HALT-C during the past four years have
      received no treatment for chronic HCV during the past 4 years. Such patients will be offered
      the opportunity to receive peginterferon maintenance therapy for 6 months as part of this
      protocol and then undergo repeat measurement of portal pressure to determine if they could
      potentially benefit from remaining on peginterferon maintenance therapy long term
    
  