
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) greatly impairs standing and walking ability, which severely
      compromises daily living activities. While these deficits are partially improved by locomotor
      training, even after multiple training sessions, abnormal muscle activity and coordination
      still persist. Thus, locomotor training alone cannot fully optimize the neuronal plasticity
      required to strengthen the synapses connecting the brain, spinal cord, and local circuits. As
      such, treatment interventions that effectively promote neuromodulation of spinal locomotor
      networks and strengthen neural connectivity of the injured human spinal cord in combination
      with physical rehabilitation are greatly needed. It is proposed that transcutaneous spinal
      cord (transspinal) stimulation as a method to synergistically 'prime' the nervous system to
      better respond to locomotor training. Transspinal stimulation alters motoneuron excitability
      over multiple spinal segments, a pre-requisite for functioning descending and local inputs.
      Importantly, whether concurrent treatment with transspinal stimulation and locomotor training
      maximizes motor recovery after SCI is unknown. The goal of this clinical trial is to use high
      frequency (30 Hz) transspinal stimulation to prime locomotor training and ultimately improve
      standing, walking, and overall function in individuals with chronic incomplete SCI (iSCI).
      Forty-five individuals with iSCI will undergo 40 sessions of body weight-supported step
      training primed with high-frequency transspinal stimulation. Participants will be randomized
      to receive transspinal stimulation during standing (real or sham) or while supine (real). Aim
      1 evaluates how priming locomotor training with high-frequency transspinal stimulation in SCI
      alters corticomotoneuronal connectivity strength, as indicated by motor evoked potentials
      recorded from the legs.

      Aim 2 evaluates how priming locomotor training with high-frequency transspinal stimulation in
      iSCI affects reorganization and appropriate engagement of spinal neuronal circuits. Finally,
      Aim 3 evaluates activity-based motor function, ability to stand and walk, and quality of
      life. These results will support the notion that tonic high-frequency transspinal stimulation
      strengthens corticomotoneuronal connectivity and improves spinal circuit organization through
      posture-dependent corticospinal neuroplasticity. It is anticipated that the information
      gained from this mechanistic clinical trial will greatly impact clinical practice. This is
      because in real-world clinical settings, noninvasive transspinal stimulation can be more
      easily and widely implemented than invasive epidural stimulation.
    
  