
    
      Purpose of the study Apremilast (Otezla®) is a Federal Drug Administration (FDA)-approved
      treatment for psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. Although there are a lot of data
      demonstrating how apremilast works in the laboratory, there are very few demonstrating how it
      works in the actual target organ, i.e. the skin or synovial (joint) tissue in patients with
      psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.

      Laboratory data has demonstrated that apremilast decreases inflammatory proteins and
      increases anti-inflammatory proteins. However, almost all of these data/studies have been
      performed on the blood of patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, not the skin or
      synovial (joint) tissue. These studies that have been performed on the blood of patients with
      this condition may, or may not, reflect the true response to therapy in the synovial (joint)
      tissue and/or skin. They also provide no data regarding the timing of response in the target
      organs.

      Because of these limitations in the existing literature, a study assessing the response to
      apremilast in synovial (joint) tissue and skin is needed. This will be a small study
      assessing the inflammatory response in the synovial (joint) tissue and skin samples from
      patients with psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. These data will be very important in
      demonstrating the effect of apremilast on the target organ tissues; i.e. synovial (joint)
      tissue and skin.

      We are asking you to take part in this research study because you have both psoriasis and
      psoriatic arthritis. Both conditions are active and you are an appropriate candidate to be
      treated with apremilast, i.e. this same treatment would be offered to you if you were not to
      enroll in this study. You are also an appropriate candidate to receive skin and synovial
      (joint) tissue biopsies. We want to find out how specific proteins in your skin and synovial
      (joint) tissue that are responsible for the inflammation associated with psoriasis and
      psoriatic arthritis respond to treatment with apremilast.

      Study Procedures: What will happen during this study?

      This study will consist of three study visits over a period of three months. If appropriate,
      you will be started on apremilast at your first study visit. This is part of your standard of
      care. The dose of apremilast you will receive will be the normal FDA-approved dose. You will
      not receive a placebo (sugar) pill. Everyone who participates in the study will be treated
      with apremilast. The study procedures that will take place at each of the three visits are
      listed below:

      Baseline Visit:

      Review inclusion/exclusion criteria Medical history obtained by the study nurse A physical
      examination by the study doctor Obtain blood and urine samples with psoriatic arthritis and
      psoriasis. These data will be very important in demonstrating the effect of apremilast on the
      target organ tissues; i.e. synovial (joint) tissue and skin.
    
  