
    
      Hand and forearm pain secondary to fracture, laceration, dislocation, infection, and blast
      injury is a common issue in the emergency department (ED). Pain control is particularly
      important in these patients as they frequently require manipulation of their injured
      extremity for suturing, reduction, splinting, or abscess drainage. Pain management has
      traditionally centered on the use of parenteral narcotics. These medications can have
      significant side effects, especially in the elderly and those with comorbid diseases, and may
      not provide sufficient pain control in these cases, specifically in those with opioid
      tolerance or gruesome blast injuries. Regional nerve blocks have proven a useful tool in the
      management of extremity pain but have been traditionally limited to use by anesthesiologists
      in order to limit side effects such as intravascular infiltration and nerve damage. However,
      the use of direct visualization with ultrasound (US) can minimize these risks and emergency
      medicine (EM) physicians are using nerve blocks with increasing frequency. Recent emergency
      medicine literature has been promising with regard to the successful use of US-guided
      regional nerve blocks for finger reduction, upper extremity fractures, dislocations, abscess
      drainage, and hand blast injuries in the emergency department. In one case series, nerve
      blocks were used successfully in pediatric patients and studies measuring feasibility have
      found that these blocks can be done in less than ten minutes, and without significant
      complications. However, more studies are needed before these blocks become standard of care
      in all institutions. Studies that evaluate the use of other pain medications in the setting
      of these blocks would be particularly helpful.

      Academic institutions are using US-guided nerve blocks with increasing frequency. In a recent
      publication 121 academic instructions provided information on usage of this technique. 84% of
      programs perform US-guided nerve blocks, most commonly forearm nerve blocks (ulnar, median,
      or radial nerves). Nerve block technique is taught via didactic sessions, online resources,
      and supervised training. However, most of the programs do not have specific agreements with
      other specialty services with regard to performing US-guided nerve blocks in the ED. One
      group has successfully created a multidisciplinary approach to treat blast injuries to the
      hand which includes EM physicians and surgeons. This team recognized the importance of
      surgical evaluation prior to nerve block in blast injuries to assess for risk of compartment
      syndrome. No cases of compartment syndrome were reported in this case series and pain control
      provided by the nerve block allowed the surgical team to evaluate the extent of injuries,
      irrigate the wound thoroughly, and employ temporizing measures such as sutures and splints
      while the patient waited for definitive management.

      However, this aforementioned study was inherently limited in that it was a feasibility study.
      While promising, further work that establishes forearm blocks by ED physicians in the setting
      of severe hand injuries as safe and effective can guide us as to whether this mode of pain
      management should be standard of care. A major goal of this study will be to provide
      important data for emergency physicians when they consider whether or not to include these
      blocks into their practice.

      To that end, the study investigators present a randomized controlled trial where patients
      with blast injuries will be randomized to standard-of-care versus early ultrasound-guided
      nerve block as an intervention. Measured outcomes will include pain scores, complications,
      and opioid use.
    
  