
    
      Current conventional therapies for ANCA-associated vasculitis (AAV) are associated with high
      incidences of treatment failure, disease relapse, substantial toxicity, and patient morbidity
      and mortality. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This
      study will evaluate the efficacy of rituximab with glucocorticoids in inducing disease
      remission in patients with severe forms of AAV (WG and MPA).

      The study consists of two phases: a 6-month remission induction phase, followed by a 12-month
      remission maintenance phase. All participants will receive at least 1 g of pulse intravenous
      methylprednisolone or a dose-equivalent of another glucocorticoid preparation. Depending on
      the participant's condition, he or she may receive up to 3 days of intravenous
      methylprednisolone for a total of 3 g of methylprednisolone (or a dose-equivalent). During
      the remission induction phase, all participants will receive oral prednisone daily (1
      mg/kg/day, not to exceed 80 mg/day). Prednisone tapering will be completed by the Month 6
      study visit.

      Next, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two arms. Arm 1 participants will
      receive rituximab (375 mg/m^2) infusions once weekly for 4 weeks and cyclophosphamide (CYC)
      placebo daily for 3 to 6 months. Arm 2 participants will receive rituximab placebo infusions
      once weekly for 4 weeks and CYC daily for 3 to 6 months. During the remission maintenance
      phase, participants in Arm 1 will discontinue CYC placebo and start oral azathioprine (AZA)
      placebo daily until Month 18. Participants in Arm 2 will discontinue CYC and start AZA daily
      until Month 18. Participants who fail treatment before Month 6 will be crossed over to the
      other treatment arm unless there are specific contraindications. Participants in either group
      who reach clinical remission before they complete 6 months of therapy may switch from
      CYC/placebo to AZA/placebo if directed by their physicians.

      All participants will be followed for at least 18 months. Initially, study visits are weekly,
      progressing to monthly and then quarterly visits as the study proceeds. Blood collection will
      occur at each study visit.
    
  