
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the overall 18-month survival of patients with radiographically resectable
           pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant gemcitabine and oxaliplatin followed
           by surgical resection and adjuvant gemcitabine.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety, toxicity, and feasibility of this regimen in the neoadjuvant
           setting.

        -  To determine the feasibility of obtaining preoperative core tissue biopsies and the
           ability to use these biopsies to establish pathologic correlates of response following
           neoadjuvant therapy and to determine if xenografts can be developed from these core
           tissues.

        -  To determine the specific tumor marker response (CEA and CA19-9) to neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  To determine the prognostic accuracy of serum protein profiles in these patients.

        -  To determine the overall survival and patterns of tumor recurrence (local vs distant).

      OUTLINE:

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 100 minutes and oxaliplatin IV
           over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Within 2-6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo a
           laparoscopy that includes a pancreaticoduodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy with or
           without splenectomy.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4-16 weeks after surgery, patients receive gemcitabine IV
           over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 5 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for correlative
      studies. Samples are analyzed for protein expression and tumor markers (CEA and CA19-9) pre-
      and post-neoadjuvant therapy via proteomic analysis. Tumor tissue samples are also banked for
      research purposes.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  