
    
      Purpose of the Study: The primary purpose of this study is to determine if the loss of
      internal rotation following a throwing session is best restored through soft tissue
      stretching with the sleeper stretch or with scapular repositioning with the 90/90 hip lift
      with balloon blow exercise. This study will progress the body of research related to internal
      rotation deficits with regards to baseball throwers. The research will be relevant to
      clinicians who treat patients with baseball players with internal rotation loss.

      Specific Aim: To determine if the glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) is more
      effectively restored following a throwing session by performing the sleeper stretch (SS) or
      the 90/90 hip lift with balloon blow exercise (BBE).

      Hypothesis: BBE will improve GIRD more effectively and quickly than the SS.

      This is a prospective randomized trial comparing the efficacy of two exercises designed to
      improve shoulder internal rotation. Subjects meeting study criteria will be randomly
      allocated to each group as shown in the following CONSORT allocation diagram. Randomization
      will be performed via random number generator.

      Each subject will participate in two week-long interventions with at least one week
      separating the two intervention weeks. During the week of intervention, the subject will have
      his baseline IR measured. He will then be instructed in how to perform a single exercise
      designed to improve internal rotation range of motion. Approximately half of the subjects
      will perform the Sleeper Stretch the first week, then the Balloon Blow Exercise the second
      week. The remaining group of subjects will perform the Balloon Blow Exercise during the first
      week, then the Sleeper Stretch the second week. Both exercises will be instructed by a
      physical therapist who commonly prescribes the exercises in the clinical setting. A written
      handout detailing the exercise instructions, frequency, and duration of the stretch will be
      provided for the subjects' reference (submitted with IRB application). The subject will
      perform this exercise throughout the week as directed by study personnel. Baseline measures
      of glenohumeral internal rotation (IR) with the shoulder positioned at 90 degrees of
      abduction in the scapular plane will be obtained using a goniometer, as described by Manske.
      These measurements will be repeated after the initiation of the intervention exercise at the
      following intervals: 2 hours, 1 day, 2 days, 3 days and 4 days. All measures of IR will be
      taken 3 times and the average of the three measures used in data analysis. The investigator
      performing the measures will be blinded to participant group assignment. When the subject
      completes both intervention weeks, he will be asked if he had a personal preference for
      either exercise.
    
  