
    
      Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have an increased incidence of cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality. Presence of hypertension, lipid abnormalities and inflammation each
      contribute to increased cardiovascular risk. Therefore blood pressure control slows the
      progression of CKD towards End Stage Renal Failure (ESRF) improving clinical outcome.

      Instead the contribution of lipid abnormalities is still not completely understood, mainly
      because dyslipidemia interferes with a number of non-traditional cardiovascular risk factors,
      particularly the activated acute-phase response.

      In proteinuric patients, dyslipidemia has a highly atherogenic profile, with increased total
      and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglyceride, and lipoprotein(a) serum levels,
      as well as decreased HDL cholesterol. Numerous studies have indicated that treatment of
      dyslipidemia with a statin decreases cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Experimental and
      clinical evidences show that statin, in addition to ameliorate lipid profile, may have
      specific renoprotective properties and, combined to Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) inhibitor
      therapy, may synergize their antiproteinuric effects.

      Preliminary data are also available data that the combination of statin to ezetimibe (EZE), a
      cholesterol absorption inhibitor, produces an additional decrease in LDL cholesterol and
      C-reactive protein levels, over that achieved with statin monotherapy.

      Thus, adding the potential antinflammatory effect to hypolipidemic efficacy, combined therapy
      may expand the renal and cardioprotective potentiality. It may also permit a reduction of
      statin therapeutic dose improving safety profile. Therefore EZE-statin combination therapy
      may be an effective therapeutic option to statin alone in patients with high cardiovascular
      risk, such as chronic proteinuric patients.
    
  