
    
      The study will be split into 2 parts: an open label Phase I dose escalation part followed by
      a non-randomized Phase II part, as an expansion study, in patients with selected tumors at
      the recommended doses and schedule determined in the phase I.

      Phase I: A dose escalation study will be performed in patients with advanced or metastatic
      solid tumors without established standard therapeutic alternatives.

      Phase II: An expansion dose study selecting patients with potential tumors with possibly
      sensitivity to PARP inhibitors according to histology, including triple negative breast
      cancer, high grade serous platinum-resistant ovarian and endometrial cancer patients, or
      patients with molecular features such as endometrial cancer with PTEN loss, breast or ovarian
      cancer with PTEN loss, known BRCA1/2 germline, somatic mutation or somatic methylation.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary objectives:

      Phase Ib: To establish the safety [dose limiting toxicity (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      and recommended Phase II doses (RP2D)], of orally administered olaparib in combination with
      PM01183 in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors without established standard
      therapeutic alternatives.

      Phase II: To assess the efficacy in terms of Tumor response rate according to RECIST v1.1
      criteria of PM01183 in combination with olaparib in the selected populations.

      Secondary objectives

      Phase Ib:

      To explore the pharmacokinetics of PM01183 and olaparib when administered in combination. To
      determine the effects of the study treatment on the level of PARP activity and

      DNA damage in:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).

        -  Circulating tumor cells (CTC).

        -  Tumor biopsy samples. To evaluate the preliminary antitumor activity (overall response
           rate) by RECIST of the combination in the exposed population.

      Phase II:

      Progression free survival. Overall Survival. Toxicity profile of the combination in patients
      enrolled in the study. To explore the possible correlation between the expression of certain
      biomarkers and the efficacy of this therapeutic approach.

      STATISTICAL PROCEDURES

      - Sample size. Justification

      Phase I:

      Between 18-48 patients are expected to participate in the Phase Ib part of the study. The
      number of patients may vary depending upon the tolerability of the combination and the number
      of dose levels required to identify the MTD.

      Phase II:

      A total accrual up to 73 subjects would be required, according to an MinMax two-stages Simon
      design. With an α-error 0.05 and a power 90%, RR with a poor scenario according previous one
      would be 24%, and in a favourable scenario RR would reach 40%.

      Progression-free survival according to previous reported is 3.5 months and the objective for
      the study is 6.5 months (n=56). According to this objective, the maximum sample size is 73
      patients, and first sample size is 61 patients (upper limit for first stage rejection: 18).

      Two stages are established:

        1. In the first step 61 evaluable patients will be included in the study. If 18 or fewer
           responses are observed, the study will be stopped due to an inadequate response rate.

           Efficacy data for the patients included at this first step will be reviewed by an
           independent assessment committee (IAC).

        2. If 19 or more responses are observed recruitment will continue until the group has 73
           evaluable patients. If 23 or fewer responses are detected among these 73 patients, it
           will be concluded that the regimen is not sufficiently active to warrant further
           testing. If 24 or more responses are observed it will be concluded that the regimen is
           sufficiently active to warrant further testing in posterior Phase III.
    
  