
    
      The investigators plan to recruit 2,000 cases of community acquired pneumonia (CAP) and 2,000
      cases of faecal peritonitis (FP) from 30 UK ICUs and HDUs (members of the UK Critical Care
      Genomics group - UKCCG). The large number of patients is required to satisfy the power
      calculations based upon the predicted allele frequencies of candidate genes and the level of
      functional expression of the gene polymorphisms.

      If a patient is eligible, written, informed consent will be obtained either from the patient
      or, if the patient is incompetent via the patient's legal representative. Patients will be
      characterized clinically in terms of admission diagnosis, severity of illness (APACHE II),
      organ failures (SOFA) and final outcome (ICU and hospital mortality, death or survival 6
      months following ICU admission. Date of death will be recorded when appropriate). Clinical
      status will be assessed daily for days 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 of ICU admission using the Sepsis
      criteria, SOFA score, microbiological culture results and antibiotic therapy.

      Selected ICUs will, following consent, also undertake blood and urine sampling on days 1, 3
      and 5 for genomic, proteomic and metabolomic studies. Information will be recorded on a
      bar-coded paper clinical report form (CRF) at the bedside. The CRFs will be securely stored
      locally and copied to the research coordinator, where they will be archived. The data will be
      entered independently by the research coordinator and one of the investigators into a secure,
      central web-based electronic database for storage of clinical data and the calculation of
      derived values. The patient codes for genetic analysis will be derived directly from the
      clinical database. Those undertaking genotyping will be blinded to the clinical details and
      these two databases will be brought together at the time of analysis only under the direct
      supervision of one of the principal investigators.
    
  