
    
      This study will be conducted under the CONSORT recommendations and respecting the principles
      of Helsinsky convention and corresponds to a multicenter study in conjunction with the
      University of Ponta Grossa Brazil (Deputy resolution protocol and ethics committee (Appendix
      A and B ) . Will be invited to participate in the study to patients who come to the clinic
      through FOUCH public posters. Subsequently 120 volunteers will be selected on the criteria
      that qualify inclusion and exclusion from the study will be reported all volunteers were
      examined not qualify under the criteria for inclusion as part of the initial n , according to
      CONSORT recommendations .

      After signing the informed ( TCLE ) consent (Appendix 3 ) shall be made prophylaxis teeth of
      the upper and lower teeth , for the removal of extrinsic stains jet sodium bicarbonate (
      Profi class , Ribeirao Preto , Sao Paulo , Brazil) , two weeks before the beginning of tooth
      whitening.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Patients included in this study must be over 18, in good general health and buccal, have
      teeth free of carious lesions and periodontal disease, which agree with the informed consent
      document . And the color of the anterior teeth higher is classified as A2 or greater value ,
      according to the scale VITA Classical (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany) and the
      spectrophotometer Easyshade Vita (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany). Evaluation of
      color through the VITA scale Classical will be made independently by two calibrated
      investigators and blind.

      Be excluded from the study patients: they have already made treatment tooth whitening, or
      dental prosthesis having options at the upper front teeth , who are pregnant or lactating ,
      presenting gingival recession, sensitivity dental, endodontic treatment in anterior maxillary
      teeth, which have a coloring severe internal, if they have non-carious cervical lesions, are
      taking medications , using fixed orthodontic appliances, submit bruxism habits, which have
      visible teeth cranks and those who are not available to attend the controls.

      Study Design Patients will be divided into two groups (n = 60 ), GC (control group) and GE
      (group experimental ). At the initial consultation volunteers will be asked about smoking
      habits daily. Patients who do not smoke will be part of the GC, and heavy smokers (more than
      10 day ) will be part of GE.A cigarettes all smokers are complementary be given a booklet of
      tips for quitting smoking and damage, and sites where to find more information. (Annex C )
      The teeth whitening technique selected for this study, is the technique of home bleaching,
      validated for both groups. Treatment and follow-up will no cost to the patient . For the
      development of individual buckets, this will be through impression of the upper and lower
      arch of each patient Jeltrate Plus alginate ( Dentply, Petrópolis, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil),
      the molds will be cast in plaster and immediately after printing. After obtaining this
      plaster model is cut and taken to the vacuum laminator ( Protécni, Araraquara, Sao Paulo,
      Brazil) for making buckets individual vinyl acetate 1 mm thick (Plate Pail Whiteness -FGM,
      Joinville, Santa Catarina, Brazil). Cuvettes acetate be cut an inch margin on gingival . For
      both groups of PC gel will be used 10% ( Whiteness Perfect, FGM, Joinville, Santa Catarina,
      Brazil ), for a period of 3 hours a day for three weeks ) . After the test cuvette acetate
      individual, the method of application of the product will be carefully explained to each
      patient in the study as follows : Dispense a drop in the region of the product corresponding
      to the buccal surface of each tooth in the tray. The amount of gel should be sufficient to
      remain in contact with the buccal tooth surface without covering the gingival third,
      preventing injuries from it. After this period, patients will be instructed to withdraw the
      tray with the whitening gel and perform vigorous mouth rinsed with water to complete removal
      of the product.

      Evaluation of Color Subjective method Color will be assessed by the scale VITA Classical
      (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany ), consisting of 16 color guides, organized by
      value, higher value (B1 ) to low value ( C4 ). Although this scale is not linear, it is
      organized according to a ranking range valor. Represent and the purpose of analysis.

      Two blind reviewers record the color of the right maxillary central incisor patients through
      the scale VITA Classical (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany). At the following times :
      initial, 1st week, 2nd week, 3rd week (active phase bleaching) and post- bleaching periods :
      1 week, 1 month, 2 and 3 months. Evaluators always record the color independently in the same
      room with the same lighting. If there is a discrepancy in the color registration, a new
      evaluation will be conducted together until a consenso. The area chosen for color measurement
      is the middle third of the labial surface of the central incisor, according to the ADA
      specifications . The color change will be evaluated by means of varying scale Vita units (
      ΔUEV ) organized by value.

      Objective method The color will also be measured with the spectrophotometer Easyshade ( Vita
      Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany ) according to the CIELab system of Vita. Calibration of
      equipment will always be made before each measurement, and three measurements for each tooth
      will be made. The evaluation will be conducted at the same times that the method subjective.
      For standardize the measuring of color, a mold of the teeth of the upper arch with heavy
      condensation silicone (Coltoflax profile and cub, Vigodent, Rio de Janeiro will be held,
      Brazil ) for making a silicone matrix. The matrix was used to standardize the region of the
      tooth in which the color is measured with the spectrophotometer. The matrix will be drilled
      in the vestibular region, in the middle third, in the upper teeth, using a scalpel circular 6
      mm in diameter, Biopsy punch ( Miltex, York, PA USA), similar diameter to the tip of the
      spectrophotometer Vita Easyshade. Color recurrence begins the day the patient is bleached,
      the spectrophotometer used has a sufficient sensitivity to determine minimal color changes,
      is based on the construction algorithm for the detection of the dimensions h and b color .
      (Jadad et al. , 2011)

      Evaluation of the Dental Sensitivity In the initial clinical examination of patients ,
      baseline sensitivity is measured by the vertical , horizontal drum , air jet application and
      probing of all teeth, so it can be compared with the sensitivity during the whitening
      dental.Durante whitening, patients record the presence or absence of tooth sensitivity, in a
      newspaper of tooth sensitivity using analog numerical scale (ENR ), with values from 0 to 4,
      where: 0 = no tenderness, 1 = Slight, 2 = moderate 3 = considerably and 4 = severe. And on
      the visual analogue scale (VAS ) with values from 0 to 10 where 0 = no sensitivity and 10 =
      severe. Patients mark a vertical line across the horizontal line of the scale corresponding
      to the intensity of tooth sensitivity. After measurement in millimeters are made with the aid
      of a millimeter ruler. Annex 5 and 6 values will be organized into two categories: percentage
      of patients with tooth sensitivity at some time during treatment ( absolute risk sensitivity
      ) and intensity of tooth sensitivity.

      Patients with severe sensitivity will be immediately assisted by investigators to reverse the
      painful picture using desensitizing and / or analgesics and anti-inflammatories for pain
      relief, the patient will be removed from study. If sensitivity is used desensitizing FMG KF
      2% ( nitrate Potassium and Sodium Fluoride 2%, Joinville, Brazil) , the literature does not
      present any report about RAM, if for any reason there is any Medical Adverse Event the
      research team will be responsible for any additional medical or dental treatment required and
      its follow-up, in the wake of whitening procedure ( restorations, endodontics, etc. )

      Statistical Analysis The color data obtained by the objective and subjective analysis will be
      evaluated by analysis of variance of two factors (ANOVA ) for repeated measures ( time vs.
      treatment groups ) ( α = 0.05). Tukey's test performed to test the means ( α = 0.05). The
      absolute risk of sensitivity will be evaluated by the Fisher exact test .

      Sampling calculation was obtained by the G -Power 3.1 program considering a Beta error 0.8,
      and an alpha error 0.05, meaning a sample calculation of 25 patients per group per center,
      considering the drop-out reported in other published work ( 5%) was decided to increase to 30
      the n sample size for each group per center. Coincident with the Odds Ratio of all clinical
      work whitening the past 10 years.
    
  