
    
      It is now known that human adults do possess viable brown fat in quantities that may be
      critical for maintenance of a normal basal metabolic rate (BMR) and body weight, dispelling
      the myth that BAT is only present during infancy for thermoregulation. There are data
      suggesting that obesity is associated with insufficient BAT. So far the only known and
      arguably 'gold standard' methodology of BAT imaging in humans is 18-FDG-PET. Yet 18-FDG-PET
      imaging has significant limitations, given its restricted spatial resolution and its
      non-trivial level of ionizing radiation (2.8 mSv). The International Commission for
      Radiological Protection recommends that the radiation exposure for the general public should
      not exceed 1mSv/year and 1.5 mSv/year from background radiation. In addition, 18-FDG-PET
      depends on glucose uptake by BAT that does not directly measure its key metabolic activity,
      namely fatty acid oxidation. Finally, PET scans are very costly. This makes the present gold
      standard far from ideal as a research tool for investigating BAT physiology. Thus the first
      objective of this project is to develop an alternative activated BAT imaging method that is
      not based on ionizing radiation. We are interested in advancing infrared (IR) thermography as
      a method to assess BAT activity by developing a novel image processing algorithms for IR
      thermography. Much extant literature describes the use of "average temperature" instead of IR
      heat flux using the physical principles of radiative heat transfer and thermodynamics to
      quantify heat from BAT. Also,IR digital still-shots were mostly employed in the past whereas
      none have reported the analysis of IR flux using a video sequence which more accurately
      integrates time-varying heat energy output. Without precision in capturing and processing the
      rich IR data, the value of IR thermography as a tool for BAT research is limited. It is thus
      crucial to convert the IR images into a readout that reflects energy output. We will thus
      develop, validate and apply automatic IR image processing with computer software that can
      efficiently calculate BAT activation. In this proposal we will also improve and validate
      anatomical fat fraction MRI as a tool for evaluating BAT volumes based on the higher water
      content in BAT compared with that in WAT. Fat fraction imaging by MRI has been proposed but
      no proper validation has been done due to the difficulty in matching PET and MRI data on BAT.
      Instead of using pharmacologic agents (e.g. beta 3-adrenergic receptor agonists such as
      mirabegron) that can be administered to activate BAT instead of cold stimulus, we will employ
      capsiate (i.e. capsinoids - non-spicy analogues of capsaicin in peppers and chilies) that
      have been proven to effectively stimulate BAT in thermoneutral conditions as confirmed by PET
      scans. We have conducted a preliminary study approved by the DSRB that showed the
      effectiveness of capsinoids in stimulating BAT. There are publications documenting the use of
      MRI in distinguishing BAT from WAT, each with their advantages and disadvantages. In this
      present study, we will perform a proof-of-concept study by simultaneous acquisition of MRI
      and 18-FDG-PET in a dual-modality fusion MRI-PET scanner available at the Clinical Imaging
      Research Centre (CIRC) to image BAT in humans, and correlate this with IR thermography of the
      cervical and supraclavicular regions (SCR) and with metabolic rate accurately measured in a
      whole body calorimeter. Whole body calorimetry is the real gold standard to assess BAT
      activity by measuring nonshivering thermogenesis. IR has so far been validated against
      18-FDG-PET in mice and rodents, but equivalent validation in humans has not been published.
      If IR thermography is shown to be equivalent or superior to 18-FDG-PET imaging, it will set a
      new gold standard in BAT imaging which will be a boon for study of BAT biology in humans.
    
  