
    
      Background and rationale Post-operative AF (POAF), i.e. new-onset AF that occurs secondarily
      to surgery is considered a phenomenon rather than a definite diagnosis, and continuous
      anti-coagulation is not recommended in AF of short duration and non-persistent AF.1,2 The
      most recent guidelines from the European and American Societies of Cardiology has no specific
      recommendation regarding management of secondary AF, though referral for an outpatient
      cardiology clinic can be considered if the condition is not self-limiting.3,4 Despite this,
      recent data from the Framingham population suggest that secondary AF is not a benign
      condition,5,6 and some studies have found POAF in relation to non-cardiac surgery to be
      associated with increased post-operative mortality and stroke.7-9 Currently few prospective
      studies have been performed in non-cardiac conditions and consequences of secondary AF in
      patients without known heart disease is not well described. POAF in relation to non-cardiac
      surgery is common with an average incidence of 10.94%.10 However, the true incidence of POAF
      in relation to non-cardiac surgery is uncertain, as the available studies are few,
      heterogenous and often methodologically inadequate.10 Different risk-stratification models
      exist, however it is still challenging to accurately predict which patients will develop AF
      both perioperatively and in the years following surgery.11-14 Important risk factors for
      developing POAF is: age (age 65-74, OR 2.08; age >85, OR 3.56), hypertension (OR 3.66), heart
      failure (OR 1.64), thyroid disease (OR 6.29), laparotomy vs laparoscopy (OR 3.30) and
      duration of surgery (> 600 min, OR 1.38).10 The use of electrocardiogram (ECG) in risk
      stratification for AF and stroke is not yet incorporated in clinical guidelines. However,
      short and prolonged p-wave and p-wave terminal force in lead V1 (PTFV1) is correlated with
      AF.15 Myovista (HeartSciences, Southlake, Texas, USA) is a novel ECG utilizing continuous
      wavelet transform signal processing (wavECG) and can be used to prove left ventricular
      diastolic dysfunction (LVDD).16 LVDD is other studies associated with AF.17-20 These new
      biomarkers might improve identification of patients at risk of developing POAF.

      Purpose The study aims at reporting the true incidence of AF, and associated complications,
      in relation to abdominal surgery. Concurrently, patients will be characterized by specialized
      ECG analysis and wavECG.

      Methods Prospective, single-centre, cohort study of consecutive patients undergoing abdominal
      surgery. Patients will be identified among elective and acute referrals for Department of
      Abdominal Surgery at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital. The Investigator (Department of
      Cardiology at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital) will ensure signed informed consent prior to
      any study related examinations. Surgery will be performed at Department of Abdominal Surgery
      at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital independently of study enrolment.

      No randomization or placebo will be used. ECG measurements will be compared to existing data
      from a healthy population.

      Measurements

        -  ECG: PR-interval, p-wave area, PTFV1

        -  wavECG: LVDD

        -  Heart rhythm monitoring: AF

      Statistical considerations Consecutive patients attending the Department of Abdominal Surgery
      at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital will be invited to participate in the pre- and
      post-operative examination programme. The study aim is to identify the true incidence of
      peri- and postoperative AF. Hence, sample size calculations are uncertain. The expected
      incidence of AF for non-oesophageal surgery patients is at least 7.63%.10 Pre-operative
      p-wave indices have shown ability to predict POAF in cardiac surgery population of 105
      patients (with incidence 11%).21 wavECG has been used to show LVDD in a study population of
      188 patients referred for computed tomography angiography of the heart.16 The study will
      include 300 patients. Follow-up will be at least 12 months. Parametric statistics is used as
      normal distribution is expected with two-sample unpaired Student's t-test (continuous
      variables) and Chi-square and Fisher's exact test (categorical variables) where appropriate.
      Data is presented with mean (±standard deviation) for continuous variables and frequency
      (percentages) for categorical variables. All tests are two-sided and a P-value < 0.05 is
      considered statistically significant. Furthermore, non-parametric Kaplan-Meier
      (time-to-event) curves will be produced and log rank test (chi-square and hazard ratio) will
      be used for comparison. IBM SPSS version 22 will be used for statistical analyses.
    
  