
    
      Abstract Obesity is a chronic disease whose global incidence keeps rising as the twenty first
      century goes on. Nowadays, the surgical approach constitutes the best treatment option for
      these patients, making the sleeve gastrectomy and the gastric bypass the more frequently
      performed bariatric surgeries.

      However, the superobese patients (IMC≥ 50kg/m2) present variable weight loss resistance to
      the previous techniques, showing better results when submitted to disabsorptive procedures,
      namely the biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch, and the more recently created
      single anastomosis duodeno-ileal bypass. Each constitutes a revisional surgery option after a
      primary sleeve gastrectomy, reducing surgical and anesthesia risks. This has brought to light
      that some superobese patients do not need the revisional procedure as they achieve the weight
      loss target solely by the vertical gastrectomy.

      Supported on the investigators' previous work and extensive experience performing both
      techniques, they now aim to understand the enteroendocrine physiological changes which each
      procedure accomplishes and compare them in terms of therapeutic efficacy among the
      superobese. The utmost goals will be to unravel the advantages of BPD-DS and SADI-S as
      primary or revisional surgeries, the differences between patients that respond well to sleeve
      gastrectomy alone and those who do not, and, finally, providing further insights on which
      procedure should be favoured over the other based on the patient characteristics.

      Study Overview:

      Participants in this study will have been submitted to either BPD-DS or SADI-S, as a primary
      or as a revisional surgery.

        -  Participants visits will be scheduled before surgery and after surgery at 3, 6 and 12
           months for those who receive BPD-DS or SADI-S as a primary procedure.

        -  Those who are firstly submitted to the sleeve gastrectomy, visits will be scheduled
           before surgery and after surgery at 3 , 6 and 12 months. The revisional surgery will
           take place 1 year after the sleeve, with visits scheduled before surgery and after
           surgery at 3, 6 and 12 months.

      In all these visits, detailed participants assessment will include vitals, anthropometric and
      biochemical evaluation, and the performance of a MMTT with plasma sampling for hormonal
      profiles. Intraoperative sampling of visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue will take place
      during BPD-DS or SADI-S as a primary procedure and during the sleeve gastrectomy and repeated
      1 year after the revisional surgery, either BPD-DS or SADI-S, is performed.

      Participant Enrolment:

      Participants will be selected from the cohort of patients referred for multidisciplinary
      evaluation by the clinical team for surgical treatment of obesity of the Centro Hospitalar
      Entre Douro e Vouga (CHEDV). Participants found to be suitable according to the entry
      criteria and who have accepted to participate will be enrolled in the study and assigned to
      one of the four study groups according to participants clinical features.
    
  