
    
      Power calculation was performed based on preliminary pilot results using a clinically set
      difference of 10 degrees (SD 15 degrees) change in mean global lumbar spine flexion between
      sitting and standing postures. An estimated sample population of 100 patients was deemed
      necessary for this study to fulfill a statistical power of 90% and a two-sided 5%
      significance level.

      Block randomization of every 4 subjects was performed at the beginning of the study to ensure
      equal numbers of subjects in both study arms for comparison and these results were concealed
      in envelopes.

      During the clinical consult, history taking was performed as per a usual clinic visit.
      Specific patient's details including age, occupation, presence and severity of back pain,
      presence and severity of leg pain, and neurological symptoms were documented. Physical
      examination was performed accordingly and parameters such as clinical range of motion of the
      lumbar spine, neurological signs and provocative tests were recorded for later analysis.

      For the flexion radiographs, both the new and conventional methods were performed on each
      patient. These pictures were made into charts and visually displayed. They serve as
      instructional manuals for patients during the radioimaging process, which are again
      reinforced with verbal instructions from the on-duty radiographers.

      Both images were done with the X-ray beam projected from the patients's left and at a
      distance of 100cm from the patient. The central beam was directed at the estimated centre of
      L3, with T11 vertebral body and mid-body of the sacrum serving as superior and inferior
      limits respectively. A single extension view of the lumbar spine was also performed after
      these flexion views. All radiographs were stored on Digital Imaging and Communications in
      Medicine (DICOM) format and viewed with Centricity Enterprise Web V3.0 (8.0.1400.128) for
      assessment.

      Measurements were done by 2 independent reviewers and an average of their readings was
      recorded. Both reviewers were blinded to the method in which flexion X-rays was taken.

      Interim data analysis is planned at 30th patient and the 60th patient. During this time
      point, the primary objective which look at mean global lumbar spine flexion between sitting
      and standing postures is assessed.

      All collected data and measurements were tabulated using Microsoft Excel 2011(Version 14.0
      (32-bit)) and analyzed using International Business Machines (IBM) Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS Version 23.0).

      For the main analysis of both global and segmental lumbar flexion, as well as the measured
      displacements obtained between the two flexion methods, paired t-test was employed.

      There is no requirement to follow up the patients in this study. The whole study is to be
      completed within 1 year of recruitment
    
  