
    
      The study population will be screened at the cardiothorathic surgery ward Soroka Medical
      Center. A member of the study research team will approach individual subjects who are
      potential candidates (if all inclusion criteria are fulfilled and if there are no exclusion
      criteria) for participation in the study. The study member will explain the purpose,
      procedures and intent of the study to each potential participant. Interested patients will be
      asked to provide written consent prior to performing any study procedure. Each patient will
      be associated to one group, according to the CMV test results, which will be done at the
      enrollment.

      Study Group - the Study group will comprise of seropositive CMV patients undergoing
      cardiothorathic surgery and having a complicated postoperative course.

      Control Group 1 - the first control group will be comprised of patients who are seropositive
      CMV undergoing cardiothorathic surgery and having a normal postoperative course.

      Control Group 2 - the second control group will include seronegative patients for CMV
      undergoing cardiothorathic surgery with complicated and uncomplicated post-operative course.

      Visit 1 - Screening and enrollment:

      After the patient will provide written inform consent data collection will be done by a study
      member and includes: demographics, clinical and medical information. In addition, vital signs
      will be taken and blood work: CMV Ab, CMV PCR, CBC, INR, Chemistry and IL28.

      Visit 2 - follow up (on the 7th post operative day):

      For patients with uncomplicated post operative (post op) course follow up at the
      cartiothorathic post op clinic one week after discharge. In addition to the routine blood
      works and medical follow up, a second blood test panel will be drowned including a second CMV
      PCR for the control group 1. For those patients with complicated post-operative course and
      prolonged hospitalization a follow up will be done in the cardiothorathic ward and will
      include medical tracking and blood test for a second CMV PCR for the study group. For control
      group 2: medical follow up and routine blood works.

      Visit 3- follow up 2 (on the 14 th post operative day):

      This visit is a follow up for patients still hospitalized post operatively. We will keep
      medical tracking and draw the last blood test for the 3rd CMV PCR for the study group. For
      control groups 1 and 2: medical follow up and routine blood works.

      Visit 4 - follow up 3 (90 days post op):

      Data collection from computerized medical records for all patients.
    
  