
    
      Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) affects approximately 0.5% of the adult population worldwide. In
      Ireland c46,000 people have RA, with c2,000 new cases diagnosed annually. Cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) , infections and lymphoma occur more frequently in this population with
      increased mortality rates present1. Physical activity (PA) is very important in the
      management of RA and is an essential in reducing the risk of CVD, improving disease symptoms
      and quality of life. However, people who have RA tend to have low PA levels, thus improving
      PA levels is important. Previous interventions which have targeted PA in people who have RA
      have had limited success in increasing and maintaining PA behaviour change (BC) in the longer
      term. Reasons for this limited success include short intervention time, inadequate
      involvement of participants in designing the study, lack of objective measurement of PA and
      lack of a BC theoretical underpinning. Thus, better intervention design through the
      incorporation of appropriate BC theory is necessary. Adopting the Behaviour Change Wheel
      (BCW), facilitates the identification of factors which should be targeted in a BC
      intervention to promote PA. In order to design a robust intervention to address the issues
      above, the applicants undertook extensive systematic literature reviewing, objective PA
      measurement validation and qualitative interviews with people with RA and with rheumatology
      health professionals, guided by the Medical Research council framework for complex
      interventions. A pilot intervention is now proposed building on that work to determine the
      feasibility of a physiotherapist led BC intervention to promote PA in people with RA who have
      low levels of PA.

      The aim of this pilot study is to determine the feasibility and acceptability of a
      physiotherapist led BC intervention to promote PA in people with RA who are insufficiently
      physically active compared to a control group who receive a leaflet on PA.

      Ethical Approval: approval will be sought in advance of the study start date from Health
      Service Executive Research ethics committee University Hospitals Limerick.

      Trial design: single-centre randomised pilot study, incorporating qualitative interviews to
      examine acceptability, comparing the intervention with a control.

      Methods: Participants, interventions, and outcomes Study setting - Academic teaching
      hospitals group in Mid-West of Ireland

      Interventions The intervention group (group A) will receive an 8 week individualised,
      tailored behaviour change intervention to promote PA and an information booklet about PA with
      a physiotherapist with training in behaviour change techniques and motivational interviewing.
      Using a range of behaviour change and self-regulation techniques (eg goal-setting,
      self-monitoring), participants will be guided towards PA maintenance at the end of the 8
      weeks. In addition, participants will be signposted to PA classes, facilities and resources
      in the local community.

      The control group (Group B) will receive the same information booklet about PA only. Both
      groups will continue with their routine care for their condition throughout the study period.

      Primary outcome measures will be:

        1. Recruitment rate - the rate of participants recruited to the study versus total
           potential participants

        2. Retention rate - the number of participants who complete baseline measures and at week 6

      Sample Size A target of 40 participants, with 20 participants in both the control and
      intervention groups. This sample size is expected to provide sufficient data to meet the
      primary outcomes. A definitive sample size of a large-scale RCT will be determined from the
      results of this trial.

      Data analysis Descriptive statistics will be used to determine the recruitment and retentions
      rates and to measure change in outcome measures from baseline to T1 and T2 and T3. Thematic
      analysis will be used to analyse the transcribed interviews
    
  