
    
      The biological study will include the two following steps:1. On frozen specimen: genic
      profile of the tumor will be studied with two different techniques: CGH-array from extracted
      DNA in order to evaluate the number of gene copies, amplifications and deletions. The RNAm
      expression profile will be studied to evaluate the level of the gene expression. More than
      200 data collected in Institut Bergonié, coming from de novo sarcoma would be used as a
      comparative specimen since the pathological diagnosis is the same as the one observed for
      radiation induced sarcoma. A comparison between the two populations will be able to define
      profiles, gene modifications and signalisation pathways of radiation induced sarcoma. 2. On
      blood sample: 2 groups of patients will be compared: those with radiation induced sarcoma and
      patients receiving radiation therapy for more than 5 years ago without developing sarcoma.
      The study will be performed with the inform consent of the patients and of the controlled
      cases.This second step requires 2 blood samples (2 x 5 ml). They will be collected and sent
      to the molecular biology laboratory located in Centre Alexis VAUTRIN (Nancy).- One sample of
      5 mm will be dedicated to study radiation induced apoptosis assessed by flow cytometry. A
      correlation has been described between radiation-induced apoptosis of CT8+ lymphocytes after
      an 8 Gy irradiation and the occurrence of severe late toxicity after radiation therapy for
      patients treated for several types of tumors.- The second sample will be used to study the
      polymorphism of the genes involved in reparation of DNA by using chip screening of single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP). This sample will be used after DNA extraction from
      mononuclear blood cells. DNA will be extracted and controlled by flow cytometrical
      separation. It will be sent to Bordeaux molecular biology laboratory in Institut Bergonié
      (Prof. JM COINDRE) to perform an evaluation of the single nucleotide polymorphism. The aim of
      this part of the protocol is to study variances in gene, the product of which plays a role in
      radiation response and in the development of adverse effects after radiation therapy. For
      patients with radiation-induced sarcoma, the results of this analysis will be compared with
      the data obtained from DNA analysis extracted from the tumors. The clinical, pathological and
      biological characterisation of radiation-induced sarcoma obtained will allow to identify
      constitutional variances linked with an increased sensitivity to radiation therapy leading to
      discuss indication of irradiation in a population at risk. Pediatric radiation therapy and
      adjuvant treatment after surgery for breast carcinoma will be the main targets of this
      selection of patients. This project will be able to select radiation modality in patients at
      risk (intensity modulated radiation therapy or 3D conformal approach, stereotactic
      approaches, partial irradiation of the breast).
    
  