
    
      Research Questions

      The Brown School Evaluation Center at Washington University in St. Louis will conduct the
      local impact evaluation. The local evaluation seeks to answer four primary questions
      pertaining to the implementation and outcomes of the Family Formation Program (FFP) (an
      integrated approach of responsible parenting, economic stability and mobility, and healthy
      relationships):

      Outcome Q1: Does the participation of fathers in the comprehensive Family Formation Program
      have greater effect on family functioning, father and child outcomes, and father economic
      stability and mobility compared to fathers receiving the 80 hour economic stability services
      only (i.e., job readiness and employment skills)?

      Implementation Q2: How many families were reached by each of the conditions and was there
      variability in retention rates of fathers across conditions?

      Implementation Q3: Did fathers in the treatment and comparison conditions find the
      intervention to be acceptable and appropriate?

      Implementation Q4: What barriers and benefits exist to successful implementation of father
      focused family support programs?

      Background Fatherhood programs originally had a narrow focus on financial stability and
      support, but have recently evolved to also emphasize healthy relationships, parenting skills,
      and father involvement. Despite significant state and federal funding for fatherhood
      programs, few have undergone rigorous evaluation to examine their effectiveness. This
      evaluation will determine the added benefit of content on parenting, father-child engagement,
      and father well-being over and above content on economic stability and mobility, in relation
      to family functioning, child well-being, and economic stability. This will also further build
      the evidence supporting one particular comprehensive intervention, FFP, as a means to improve
      outcomes for children and families through intervening with fathers.

      Relation to program logic model The primary research question of this impact evaluation will
      examine the effect of the FFP on short- and long-term outcomes as described in the FFP logic
      model

      Short-term outcomes assessed by the impact evaluation will include:

        1. improved parenting and co-parenting skills;

        2. increased father-child engagement;

        3. increased financial responsibility of fathers; and

        4. progress towards greater economic stability.

      The impact evaluation will also examine the FFP long-term outcomes of improved family
      functioning (through changes in father and child well-being; co-parenting relationship
      quality, and the father-child relationship) and increased economic stability and mobility.

      Hypothesis:

      Investigators believe that the FFP will have a greater effect on family functioning, father
      and child outcomes, and father economic stability compared to fathers in the comparison group
      because members of the treatment group will be receiving a more comprehensive range of
      services. Investigators anticipate that fathers will equally participate in both programs
      because both will provide meaningful information and opportunities to build their skill sets.
    
  