
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, debilitating disease that causes
      destruction of central nervous system (CNS) myelin, with varying degrees of axonal damage. It
      mainly affects young adults and is twice as common in women as in men (1). Studies published
      from the 1990s brought animal models and theoretical considerations of hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT) being useful in the prevention and treatment of autoimmune
      diseases, with clinical responses in some patients, suggesting that high-dose chemotherapy
      followed by HSCT rescue could "reset" the immunological changes through the control of
      autoreactive clones, followed by immunological tolerance after immune reconstitution (2);
      this led to the conclusion that HSCT may be a viable therapeutic option for MS (1-6).
      Autologous HSCT have been done in patients with MS since 1996 and more than 700 HSCTs have
      been performed around the world (1-6). Most patients have been treated in small trials or in
      multicenter studies. In retrospective analyzes, a progression-free survival of more than five
      years after transplant has been observed, the neurological outcomes being considerably more
      favorable in patients with the relapsing-remitting type and/or those who showed an
      inflammatory pattern in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during the pre-transplant screening.
      Reports of good results, particularly in the aggressive forms of MS reinforce the
      effectiveness HSCT in MS patients with prominent inflammatory activity. The risk of
      transplant related mortality in HSCT for MS was conventionally considered very high but has
      declined since 2001 to 1.3% (2-6), this probably being the result of the changes in the
      conditioning regimens, thus reducing toxicity. Recent data, with more than 700 autologous
      transplants for MS in Europe, showed an overall survival of 92% in five years and a
      progression-free survival of 46%, the main cause of mortality and morbidity being the
      recurrence of the autoimmune disease (2-6). The consensus provides an indication of HSCT in
      patients with progressive MS unresponsive to conventional therapy and Expanded Disability
      Status Scale (EDSS) (1) between 3.0 and 6.0. The forms of the disease that might benefit from
      transplantation are: relapsing remitting, primary or secondary progressive, and the
      "malignant" form, provided there is evidence of inflammatory activity at the time of
      transplant indication.

      Since 1993 our group has engaged in practicing HSCT using novel methods to both decrease the
      toxicity of the procedures and diminish costs (7-14); we have done over 400 HSCT for
      different diseases such as acute leukemia, chronic leukemia, aplastic anemia, myeloma,
      lymphoma, myelodysplasia and autoimmune diseases, including MS. Within the subset of
      autologous HSCT, the salient features of our method is that we conduct them on an outpatient
      basis (8-9, 15-16) and we avoid freezing and thawing the hematopoietic cells in order to both
      increase viability of hematopoietic cells in the graft and to reduce costs (8-9, 15-16) and
      we always employ peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC). All these changes have turned the
      practice of autografting in our hands in an affordable procedure which can be offered to
      individuals living in underprivileged circumstances such as those prevailing in developing
      countries (17). Having gained experience autografting hematological malignancies (8-9, 15) we
      aim to engage in a program of grafting non-cryopreserved autologous hematopoietic stem cells
      in patients with MS, employing a modification of the autografting conditioning regimen used
      in malignant diseases.

      Material and methods

        1. Patients:

           Patients with MS refered to our center for a HSCT will be prospectively entered in the
           study. Individuals with a relapsing-remitting (RRMS) course, secondary progressive
           (SPMS) or primary progressive (PPMS). Patients should have a Karnofsky performance
           status (18) above 70% and a EDSS score (1) of 6 or below. The study has been approved by
           the Ethics Committee of the Clinic Ruiz and all patients sign a consent form after being
           fully informed about procedure an possible complications.

        2. Peripheral blood stem cell mobilization and apheresis:

           The PBSC mobilization schedule was done with cyclophospha- mide (Cy) and filgrastim
           (granulocyte colony stimulating factor, G-CSF). Intravenous Cy (50 mg/kg) was delivered
           in a 120-min period on days -11 and -10. Subcutaneous G-CSF (10 μg/kg/b.i.d.) was
           delivered on days -9 to -1. Using either a peripheral vein or a Majurkar-type subclavian
           catheter, the apheresis procedure was performed on day -2, using an Amicus machine
           (Fresenius Kabi, Deerfield, IL, USA) or a Spectra Optia machine (Terumo BCT, Lakewood,
           CO, USA) and the Spin-Nebraska protocol [19]. The apheresis objective was to reach at
           least 1 × 106 viable CD34+ cells/ kg. CD34+ cells in peripheral blood were not measured
           before the apheresis procedures.

        3. Conditioning and autografting:

           As outpatients, intravenous Cy (50 mg(Kg) delivered along a 120 minute period on days
           -11, -10 , - 2 and - 1 followed by MESNA (1000 mg/m2 along a 180-minute period),
           ondansetron 8 mg, dexamethasone 4 mg and pantoprazole 40 mg. After the intravenous Cy,
           ondansetron (4 mg every 12 h after chemotherapy), oral cotrimoxazol (800 / 160 mg every
           24 h), oral fluconazole (200 mg) and oral acyclovir (400 mg every 12 h) will be used in
           all patients until granulocytes were greater than 0.5 x 109/L; in this period all
           patients will have laboratory workup and clinical studies every 48 h. After the recovery
           of the granulocytes, patients will be given rituximab (1000 mg total dose along a 3 h
           period), and in the following six months, cotrimoxazol 800/160 mg bid three times a
           week, acyclovir 800 mg daily.

        4. Apheresis product preservation, studies and infusion:

      The products of the apheresis and 1 ml aliquots were kept in ACD-A (Baxter Healthcare,
      Deerfield IL) at 4oC, in 300 ml transfer packs (Baxter Healthcare, Deerfield IL) composed of
      gas impermeable, polyvinyl chloride plastic film for up to 72 hours. Enumeration of the total
      white mononuclear cells (MNC) and CD34 positive cells is done by flow-cytometry (20) in an
      EPICS Elite ESP apparatus (Coulter Electronics, Hialeah, FL), using for the latter
      subpopulation the anti-CD34 monoclonal antibody HPCA-2 (Becton Dickinson, San José CA),
      gating in propidium iodide-excluding CD45(+) MNC population according to forward and 90°
      angle light scattering. Additional viability studies of the MNC uses propidium iodide
      exclusion and anti-cell antibodies on a flow cytometer. No purging procedures are performed.
      The apheresis products obtained on days - 2 and - 1 are reinfused to the patients on days 0
      and +1 respectively after keeping them in the conventional blood bank refrigerator.
    
  