
    
      Introduction Telangiectasia of the face are a common facial cosmetic disorder and may cause
      severe psychological distress. Facial telangiectasia may be treated with pulsed dye laser
      (PDL) or intense pulsed light (IPL). Clinical results are not always satisfactory and
      numerous treatments may be necessary to achieve acceptable results. Unexperienced operators
      often depend on treatment guidelines provided by the manufacturer when selecting energy
      settings for treatment, while more experienced operators may be guided by the immediate
      post-treatment biological endpoints and history of adverse events from previous treatment
      sessions. Thus, several treatments are often needed to determine optimal energy settings for
      the individual patient.

      In general, light energy must be targeted to individual blood vessel dimensions, when
      optimizing laser or IPL treatment of vascular lesions. In clinical practice it may however be
      challenging to decide vessel width, vessel depth and blood flow by merely looking at the
      skin.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive in vivo imaging technique, which
      provides images of superficial skin structures. It has previously been demonstrated that OCT
      can visualize facial telangiectasias before and after IPL treatment. Dynamic OCT (D-OCT) adds
      identification and measurement of superficial cutaneous blood vessels with great certainty.
      Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether D-OCT could be utilized to
      characterize vessel dimensions and blood flow of facial telangiectasias before and after IPL
      treatment.

      Material and Methods Patients with telangiectasias visiting the Department of Dermatology for
      IPL treatment of telangiectasia at the Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, between
      February and November 2018 were offered participation after informed consent. The study was
      approved by the Science Ethics Committee of Region Zealand (Approval no.: SJ-651) and the
      Danish Data Protection Agency (Approval no.: REG-177-2017).

      D-OCT imaging was done immediately before, 1-3 days after, and one month after scheduled IPL
      treatment. The D-OCT scans and IPL treatments were performed by two separate physicians and
      the treating physician was blinded to all information obtained by D-OCT.

      The IPL treatments were performed using a Palomar ICONTM Laser and Intense Pulsed Light
      platform applying a MaxGTM Optimized Handpiece with a dual-band wavelength of 500-670 nm and
      870-1200 nm.

      Dynamic OCT scans were performed by the 1305 nm VivoSight DX (Michelson Diagnostics, Kent,
      UK) with penetration depth of approximately 1 mm and vertical/horizontal optical resolution
      of less than 5/7.5 µm, respectively.

      Drawn templates of appropriate facial telangiectasia ensured consistency of consecutive
      scans. Measurements of vessel dimensions were performed at the most evident level at
      horizontal images and verified by a blinded observer (PLA). A blinded (PLA) as well as an
      un-blinded evaluator (EHT) characterized vascular morphology at horizontal images from
      baseline and one-month follow-up. Clinical observations at one-month follow-up included
      changes in facial telangiectasia and registration of any adverse effects.
    
  