
    
      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      This study is aimed at decreasing the decisional conflict among family members who are ready
      or not to disclose patients' terminal illness. The decision aid will lead to effective
      communication between patients and family and the effective decision making process will lead
      to the final outcome to improve the quality of life in patients and their family. This trial
      is limited to situations where the family and their patients are cognitively capable of
      participating in decision-making process.

      Measures:

      Baseline Measures. At baseline, before randomization, self-reported questionnaire is used to
      collect data. To correct possible confounders in this study, family' background variables are
      assessed on entry to the study, including sociodemographic and decisional conflicts,
      decisional-role preference, stage of readiness, level of anxiety and depression, and QOL.

      Family decisional conflict is assessed using four subscales of the Decisional Conflict Scale
      which assessed how well informed participants feel about their choices and the associated
      benefits and risks; the clarity of their values; the support they have in the decision-making
      process; and their level of uncertainty. It consists of 16 items followed by a Likert
      response of 1, strongly agree, to 5, strongly disagree. A mean score is obtained for each
      participant. The Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) is translated into Korean by two bilingual
      individuals, using a forward-backward translation procedure, and completed pilot test.

      Family preference for role in decision making is assessed using a scale modeled on an
      instrument developed by Degner et al. We make family/patient dimension from modifying Degner
      and Sloan's second Control Preference Scale set, family/physician dimension. The options of
      modified set of five cards (family/patient dimension) range from the family making the
      decision mainly, through a collaborative model where the family and patient jointly decided,
      to a scenario where the patient made decision mainly. Family is asked to indicate whether
      they preferred an independent role (i.e., "that the family makes the final decision regarding
      which treatment the patient will receive or after considering patient's opinion"), shared
      role (i.e., "that the family and patient together select which treatment is best for the
      patient"), or a dependent role (i.e., "that the patient alone makes all the decisions
      regarding the patient's treatment or considers the family's opinion"). Family participant
      chose the decision-role statement that best described his/her preferred role in decision
      making. The Control Preference Scale (CPS) is translated into Korean by two bilingual
      individuals, using a forward-backward translation procedure, and completed pilot test.

      Levels of family anxiety and depression is assessed by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale which consists of 14 items, seven on anxiety and seven on depression, forming two
      sub-scales. Each item has four descriptive response options to be scored on a 0 to 3 scale. A
      value of 0 corresponds to not having the symptom, 3 corresponds to having the symptom to a
      high level. Scores for each of the two sub-scales are constructed by simple summation of its
      seven items. The developers have suggested that sub-scale scores of 0-7 represent non-cases,
      8-10 represent doubtful cases, and 11-21 represent definite cases.

      The Baseline Patient's Generic QOL:. Because we expect the effect of intervention for family
      to accompany change of patients' outcome, we measure patients' QOL and quality cancer care at
      baseline to observe secondary outcome related with effect of the decision aid.

      Patient's QOL is assessed with QCQ-EOL. To correct possible confounders in this study,
      patient' background variables are obtained on entry to the study including sociodemographic
      and medical records.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome to be considered is the potential efficacy of this aid including family's
      decisional conflicts, satisfaction with decision making, and decisional-role preference,
      decisional regret, and physician and family acceptance of the decision aid.

      Family satisfaction with decision making is assessed using the effective decision-making
      subscale of the decisional conflict instrument [O'Connor AM. Validation of a decisional
      conflict scale. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jan-Mar;15(1):25-30]. The subscale was four items
      regarding satisfaction with decision making (being informed, reflection of participant's own
      values, likelihood to comply, and satisfied). Scores for family satisfaction are reversed so
      that the higher scores reflect higher level of satisfaction (ie, a reversed Likert scale in
      which 5 is the highest scored). A mean score is obtained for each patient.

      Physician and participant's acceptance of the decision aid is addressed using two
      questionnaires followed by a Likert response of 1, strongly agree, to 5, strongly disagree
      (i.e., family assessment item, "The decision support was useful to me in reaching a
      decision", "I would recommend that others facing the decision use the support", "The decision
      support interfered with my relationship with patient", Physician assessment item, "I feel the
      family has made an informed choice", "The decision support was useful in helping this family
      understand the risk and benefits of the disclosure on terminal illness", "The decision
      support did not interfere with my anticipated physician-patient relationship with my
      patient")[Brundage et al2001]. Decision regret is measured by the Decision Regret Scale which
      is useful tool for measuring regret after decisions at a particular point in time developed
      by O'Connor et al. It consists of 5 items followed by a Likert response of 1, strongly agree,
      to 5, strongly disagree. The definition of decision regret is remorse or distress over a
      decision[O'Connor]. These items were whether regret was felt to be present, whether the
      decision was the right one for him/her, whether he/she would make same decision again in the
      same circumstances, whether the decision was a wise one, and whether the decision had
      resulted in harm. The Decision Regret Scale is translated into Korean by two bilingual
      individuals, using a forward-backward translation procedure, and completed pilot test.

      Secondary outcomes include the levels of family anxiety and depression,and family's QOL.

      Levels of family anxiety and depression is assessed with the Hospital Anxiety Depression
      Scale. The actual disclosure following use of the material is assessed by following items
      including chosen disclosure and if terminal illness disclosed "who, and when disclose
      patients' terminal condition" and it is assessed at 1, 3, and 6 months after sending the
      material. Levels of family anxiety and depression, family decision regret, family preference
      for role in decision making, and patient's QOL are assessed at 1, 3, and 6 months after
      sending the video.
    
  