
    
      Psychiatrists have recognized cognitive dysfunction as the principal impediment to recovery
      and psychosocial rehabilitation of patients with schizophrenia since the first edition of
      Emil Kraepelin's 1893 masterwork, Dementia Praecox. While currently available pharmacotherapy
      may improve psychotic symptoms, there is still no largely effective treatment for impairments
      of critical executive functions - attention and working memory - that are widely considered
      the functional nexus of this extremely costly illness. Thus, it appears heuristically
      reasonable to consider putative modes of treatment that may specifically target these
      deficits. For example, abundant evidence supports the assumption that pre-task alpha band
      power, measured as mean peak frequency, is inversely associated with reaction time (RT) - an
      index of encoding efficiency - in a working memory task. Additionally, recent evidence
      suggests pre-task alpha peak frequency predicts outcome on tests of working memory. Evidence
      also suggests patient with schizophrenia have low pre-task alpha peak frequency, and slower
      RT on working memory paradigms, such as the n-back and Sternberg compared with healthy
      controls; taken together, the weight of evidence lends plausibility to the assumption that an
      increase in patients' pre-task alpha band power might be associated with a faster reaction
      time. Notably in this regard, recent evidence suggests transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) may increase pre-task alpha, and is associated with a faster RT in healthy subjects.
      There are as yet no reports of the effect of TMS on alpha band peak frequency, or reaction
      time, in patients with schizophrenia. A critical obstacle to progress in the clinical
      neuroscience of TMS effects in human subjects until now has been the absence of a means to
      determine the optimal subject-specific brain region to target with TMS. Cortical targets for
      stimulation are customarily selected on the basis of group mean data, with the tacit
      assumption that candidates for TMS all utilize the same distributed neural circuit to perform
      a particular cognitive task. This untested assumption is a conceivable source of the
      confusing discrepancy of TMS clinical trial outcomes, for example, in the depression
      treatment literature. In this regard, a group from our laboratory recently reported the use
      of structural equation modeling (SEM) based path analysis to construct group and
      subject-specific models of the 2-back working memory task in healthy subjects studied with
      PET. The results of this investigation suggest there may be a significant association between
      cognitive strategy, circuit path, and memory performance. We found higher scores were
      associated with activation of a left hemisphere distributed circuit, and a verbal cognitive
      strategy, while lower scoring subjects utilized a right hemisphere circuit, and a
      visuo-spatial strategy. Notably, these findings are congruent with those of previous studies
      that used different methods of analysis and a similar paradigm. Taken together, these data
      suggest that a trial of TMS aimed at improving working memory reaction time by elevating
      pre-task alpha power should first identify the predominant nodes of a subject-specific
      working memory sub-network as putative sites of stimulation. There are no reports of such an
      approach to TMS target selection in either healthy controls, or patients with schizophrenia.
      In this proof of concept with healthy subjects protocol, our principle assumption is alpha
      frequency TMS directed to a subject-specific predominant node (right or left DLPFC) of a
      distributed neural network reduces reaction time on the n-back and Sternberg working memory
      paradigms.
    
  