
    
      Cognitive and Pilot Testing:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in an interview with a member of
      the research staff. The interviewer will take notes of your responses. First, you will be
      asked some questions about you, like your age, sex, race, and education level. Then you will
      be asked to look at some educational materials about lung cancer screening. These could be
      written information, animations, graphics, videos, or questionnaires. You may be asked
      questions about:

        -  Lung cancer and lung cancer screening

        -  The length of the materials

        -  The balance of the information found in the materials

      The study interview will take place in person at MD Anderson and will take between 1 and 1 ½
      hours.

      Your participation on this study will be over once the interview is complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 50 participants will be enrolled in this part of the study. All will take part at MD
      Anderson, UTMB, the Galveston community, or tobacco-related community events.

      Measures Reliability Study:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire 2 times. The
      questionnaire will ask about:

        -  Lung cancer

        -  Lung cancer screening

        -  Making decisions about screening

        -  Your age, race, gender, and level of education

      You will complete the first questionnaire in person. It will take about 20 minutes to fill
      out. Then, about 1 month later, you will be asked to fill out the questionnaire again.

      The second time you can come in person, or fill out the questionnaire by mail or telephone.
      Your participation will be over when the second questionnaire is complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 150 participants will be enrolled in this part of the study. All will take part at MD
      Anderson, UTMB, the Galveston community, or tobacco-related community events.
    
  