
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative responses (in both blood and
      bone marrow) at any time during treatment with ibrutinib maintenance.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Median time to achieve MRD- (negative) status (in blood and in bone marrow) after
      initiation of ibrutinib maintenance treatment.

      II. Toxicity profile of ibrutinib as maintenance therapy after frontline induction.

      III. Durability of the MRD- state (determined from the time of first documentation of MRD-
      until the first documentation of MRD+ (positive) (or last date shown to be MRD- for a
      censor).

      IV. Determine the number of patients who improve their remission category (i.e., upgrade
      clinical response achieved after the induction such as from partial response [PR] to complete
      response [CR]) after initiating the maintenance therapy.

      V. Time to requirement of next therapy for patients who achieve confirmed MRD- vs. those who
      remain MRD+ disease at 48 weeks (end of 12 cycles).

      VI. Progression free survival (as determined by the International Workshop on Chronic
      Lymphocytic Leukemia [IWCLL] criteria) among patients who achieve confirmed MRD- vs. those
      who remain MRD+ disease at 48 weeks (end of 12 cycles).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct correlative studies for further understanding of the mechanism of antitumor
      activity of ibrutinib in eradication of the MRD.

      II. Determine the impact of ibrutinib on depression and anxiety symptoms to better understand
      toxicity profile of ibrutinib maintenance.

      III. Determine impact of social support or lack thereof on mood symptoms in chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients receiving maintenance treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every
      4 weeks* for up to 36 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Note: *The last course may last up to 56 days to accommodate the study drug discontinuation
      visit.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  