
    
      Home dialysis (including peritoneal dialysis and home hemodialysis) has a number of potential
      benefits over in-center hemodialysis (including lower healthcare costs and improved quality
      of life for patients). However, overall quality of life remains low compared to the general
      population. Furthermore, home dialysis patients (primarily those on peritoneal dialysis)
      continue to experience a high rate of hospitalization. Finally, there can be improvement in
      patient satisfaction with home dialysis, particularly in the areas of shared decision making
      and handling of patient requests.

      Regarding satisfaction with care, peritoneal dialysis patients have identified that
      "attentiveness to concerns", and clarity of recommendations is important. Improved
      satisfaction in turn, may be associated with improvements in quality of life. Therefore,
      identifying novel communication systems for home dialysis patients is crucial. The use of
      eHealth online portals that support online communication between patients and healthcare
      workers is increasing. An interface that allows patients to discuss treatment plans and
      address clinical problems while obviating the need for telephone communication has been shown
      to be beneficial in some studies. Such a system may improve patient satisfaction, reduce
      health service utilization, and potentially improve health outcomes.

      Thus far, the feasibility and potential benefit of an eHealth online portal to facilitate
      communication has not been evaluated in home dialysis. Therefore, in a cohort of home
      dialysis patients, the purpose of this study is to identify the following: 1) Does an online
      portal improve patient satisfaction with home dialysis care? 2) Does an online portal improve
      quality of life? 3) Does an online portal reduce hospitalization and health service
      utilization? Overall, we hope that this study will inform the need to pursue a larger,
      multicenter trial to more rigorously evaluate the utility of this novel form of communication
      for home dialysis patients.

      We will conduct a prospective pilot study of prevalent (receiving home dialysis for at least
      three months) home dialysis patients (including both peritoneal dialysis and home
      hemodialysis) at Capital Health. Consecutive patients that are evaluated in the home dialysis
      clinic over a 4-month period will be enrolled in the study if they provide consent.
    
  