
    
      Background:

      Much is known about the radiation-related risk of thyroid cancer, but there is considerable
      uncertainty about the magnitude of the radiation risk among those who were exposed as adults,
      particularly in males. A large number of clean-up workers, mostly male, who participated in
      decontamination and clean-up activities after the Chornobyl accident were exposed to external
      radiation at various levels. An increased thyroid cancer risk has been reported from studies
      of Russian, Estonian and Latvian clean-up workers, but there is little evidence of a dose
      response. However, recent published data from an IARC study of thyroid cancer cases and
      controls pooled from the Chornobyl clean-up workers in Belarus, Russia and Baltic countries
      show a strong dose response with an estimated risk per unit dose that is much higher than
      those reported from other irradiated populations exposed as adults. Following the completion
      of our NCI study of leukemia among Ukrainian clean-up workers, we are proposing a nested
      case-control study to assess the radiation-related risk of thyroid cancer among the 150,000
      male cleanup workers in Ukraine. In preparation for this study, a pilot study is in progress
      to assess the feasibility of a full study.

      Objectives:

      The objectives are (i) to identify thyroid cancer cases and demographically matched controls
      without thyroid cancer occurring among the 150,000 Ukrainian clean-up workers through linkage
      to the National Cancer Registry and Chernobyl State Registry of Ukraine; (ii) to trace/locate
      and interview a small sample of subjects with thyroid cancer and their respective controls ;
      (iii) to obtain saliva buccal cell samples; and (iv) to locate and transfer thyroid tumor
      specimens from identified cases to the archive maintained at the Research Center for
      Radiation Medicine (RCRM),for diagnostic verification and possible future genetic/molecular
      research using the latest available techniques.

      Eligibility:

      The cohort includes Ukrainian clean-up workers who meet the following eligibility criteria:
      males, first year of service as a clean-up worker (1986-1990); initial registration as a
      clean-up worker in one of the study areas; and age when first worked in the Chornobyl zone
      (under 60). For the pilot study, we will select 100-110 cases with thyroid cancer in three
      study areas, Kyiv, Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk oblasts and controls (with a case-control ratio
      of 1:3). We will assess the feasibility of proxy interview for deceased thyroid cancer cases
      in the study area.

      Design:

      This pilot study will be conducted in the framework of the planned nested case-control study
      in the cohort of Chornobyl clean-up workers but will involve only a small number of subjects
      with thyroid cancer and their respective controls. Thyroid cancer cases will be identified by
      linkage to the Cancer Registry of Ukraine. Controls will be identified from the Chernobyl
      State Registry. Locating archived tumor tissues will be done by search of the Cancer Registry
      of Ukraine database supplemented by interview data. Consent for transfer of tissues to RCRM
      will be sought at the time of interview.
    
  