
    
      The current standard of care for newly diagnosed GBM is radiation therapy plus concomitant
      oral Temozolomide of doses of 75mg/m2 up to 150mg/m2. Because of the blood brain barrier
      (BBB) where drugs do not penetrate the blood vessel walls well to get into the brain, no one
      knows for sure if these oral drugs actually get into the brain after infusion. Previous
      studies have shown that intra-carotid artery (intra-arterial) delivery is superior to
      standard intravenous or oral delivery for increasing the penetration of drug to the brain.
      Previous techniques using intra arterial (intracarotid) infusion still were non-selective as
      drug delivery still went to all blood vessels in the brain, so patients still had significant
      adverse events, such as blindness. Newer techniques in interventional neuroradiology have
      allowed for a more selective delivery of catheters into the arterial tree where
      chemotherapies can be delivered without the risk of adverse affects such as blindness.
      Therefore, this trial will ask one simple question: Is it safe to deliver a dose of
      Temozolomide intraarterially using these super selective delivery techniques in addition to
      the standard oral route of administration? This should not only increase the amount of drug
      that gets to the tumor but also spare the patient many of the adverse effects from a less
      selective delivery. Prior to this single dose of intra-arterial Temozolomide, the patient
      will also receive a dose of mannitol that will increase the permeability of the blood brain
      barrier to improve delivery of the agent to the brain. After this single dose of mannitol and
      Temozolomide, the patient will be evaluated for 4 weeks to assess for toxicity. If there is
      no toxicity at this point, then the patient will proceed with oral maintenance Temozolomide
      chemotherapy. In summary, this is a Phase I trial that is designed to test the safety of a
      single dose of intra-arterial delivery of Temozolomide immediately following 42 days of
      radiotherapy/oral temozolomide and prior to starting oral maintenance Temozolomide.

      To summarize:

      Current Standard of Care Therapy:

      Days 1-42: Adjuvant dose of Temozolomide 75mg/m2 for 42 days concomitant with focal
      radiotherapy Day 42: 4 week rest period Day 70: Maintenance dose of Temozolomide 150mg/m2
      once daily for Days 1-5 of a 28 day cycle for 6 cycles

      Experimental portion of this proposal:

      Days 1-42: Adjuvant dose of Temozolomide 75mg/m2 for 42 days concomitant with focal
      radiotherapy Day 42: Single Intra-arterial Mannitol to increase the permeability of the blood
      brain barrier followed by Intra-arterial Temozolomide single dose (starting at 75mg/m2 and up
      to 250mg/m2) followed by 4 week rest period Day 70: Maintenance dose of Temozolomide 150mg/m2
      once daily for Days 1-5 of a 28 day cycle for 6 cycles

      Therefore the experimental aspects of this treatment plan will include:

        1. On day 42, subjects will first be treated with Mannitol prior to chemotherapy infusion
           (Mannitol 25%; 3-10 mLs for 30seconds) in order to disrupt the blood brain barrier. This
           technique has been used in several thousand patients in previous studies for the
           intraarterial (IA) delivery of chemotherapy for malignant glioma.

        2. Following the addition of mannitol, the investigators will deliver a single SIACI dose
           of Temozolomide for patients with high-grade glioma. After a one-cycle observation
           period to assess for toxicity from the IA infusion, the subject will receive the
           standard oral maintenance regimen of Temozolomide chemotherapy. The Intra-Arterial
           Infusion Procedure will be done under general anesthesia and standard monitoring will
           occur.

      The dose escalation algorithm is as follows: The investigators will use a single intracranial
      superselective intra-arterial infusion of Temozolomide, starting at a dose of 75mg/m2 in the
      first three patients. Assuming no dose limiting toxicity during the next 28 days after the
      infusion, the patient will then begin standard maintenance oral Temozolomide chemotherapy
      regimen. The doses will be escalated from 75 to 100, to 150, 200, and finally 250mg/m2 in
      this Phase I trial.

      Most patients with GBM are also monitored every two months with serial history, neurological
      and physical examinations together with serial blood counts, prothrombin time (PT), partial
      thromboplastin time (PTT) and chemistries. In addition, most patients with GBM have an MRI
      performed every two cycles or approximately every two months to assess for tumor progression.
      .

      Since this is a Phase I trial, response is not a primary endpoint. However, the investigators
      will evaluate response to the one time IA Temozolomide therapy with a MRI with the injection
      of contrast approximately 4 weeks after infusion. Follow-up of all patients in the trial
      after the IA Temozolomide therapy will continue until disease progression or death. Survival
      will be measured from the time of the dose of IA Temozolomide®. The investigators expect
      patients in the trial to be monitored for 12 months.
    
  