
    
      Objective:

      Our overall goal in this protocol has been to gain insight into early motor skill learning
      (micro-learning) in large-scale healthy volunteer cohorts using online crowdsourcing. We have
      used a simple keyboard typing task to study micro-offline performance improvements during
      early motor skill learning. This online approach limits the burden on participants (who
      perform tasks in the comfort of their homes instead of traveling to NIH) and substantially
      reduces burden on in-house human, financial and technical resources. Results from this
      protocol contribute to a better understanding of factors relevant to human motor skill
      learning, with important implications for the design of better motor learning and
      neurorehabilitative strategies after brain lesions. We had completed data collection for four
      aims under this protocol at the time we were informed by the NIH IRB that they determined
      this to be a thematic protocol (September 23, 2019).

      The four specific aims addressed under this protocol are:

        1. Aim 1. To validate a motor skill learning task previously used by our group in lab-based
           studies {Bonstrup, 2019 #36} within an online, crowd-sourcing platform.

        2. Aim 2. To compare the influence of an interfering task applied during early ("early
           interference") vs late ("late interference") rest periods on motor learning, thus
           evaluating resistance to interference, a feature of consolidation.

        3. Aim 3. To evaluate the effects of a shorter practice period duration (i.e. - 5s vs.
           previously studied 10s duration) on micro-offline motor learning to gain insight into
           the impact of fatigue-related factors on learning.

        4. Aim 4. To evaluate the effects of randomly variable practice period durations between
           5-10s in length on micro-offline gains

      As instructed, the purpose of this amendment is to request authorization to proceed with data
      analysis and publication. No new experiments will be carried out under this protocol.

      Study Population:

      U.S.-based English speakers aged 18 and above were recruited under this minimal risk
      protocol. Participants completed an online task in the comfort of their own homes using the
      internet, and did not need to directly interact with the investigators. All participants were
      given an anonymized random ID by the on-line site. We did collect general demographic
      information including age (needed to determine elegibility), and gender, race and ethnicity
      (per IRB reporting requirements, i.e. - Cumulative Inclusion Enrollment Report). However, we
      did not collect personally identifiable information (PII) about the participants.

      Design:

      Under this protocol, we have conducted experiments supporting four aims using Amazon
      Mechanical Turk (AMT). All experiments consisted of a brief keyboard typing task where
      participants were asked to repeatedly type a 5-key sequence (4-1-3-2-4) as fast and as
      accurately as possible for several seconds (i.e. - practice trial). Each practice trial was
      followed by a rest period lasting several seconds. Following the task, participants completed
      a short questionnaire designed to query compliance with task instructions, and collect
      general demographic data required for IRB reporting. The average total time for participation
      across all experiments was approximately 20 minutes.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measures for the keyboard typing task were correct sequence typing speed
      and typing accuracy. Microlearning scores were derived by quantifying the speed change
      between the end of a previous practice trial and the beginning of the subsequent one
      (micro-offline learning) and the speed difference between the beginning and end of the same
      practice trial (micro-online learning). Information from the questionaires related to task
      instruction compliance was primarily used to exclude data from further analysis if needed.
    
  