
    
      Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) refers to a category of disorders, consisting of Crohn's
      Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC), where segments of the gastrointestinal tract become
      inflamed and ulcerated. Canada has among the highest incidence rates of IBD in the world -
      16.3 and 12.3 per 100,000 for CD and UC respectively. Moreover, IBD care spans a broad range
      of inpatient, outpatient, and emergency services; which vary across populations due to the
      heterogeneous nature of these conditions. The economic burden of IBD in Canada is estimated
      to be $2.8 billion per anum, where direct health care costs (i.e. medications,
      hospitalizations, physician visits) alone exceed $1.2 billion.

      In the absence of a cure, the current goal of treatment is to manage patients in a milder
      state of remission. However, maintaining (or even achieving) remission is dependent on timely
      access to specialist IBD care; which in light of rising incidence rates have proven to be
      challenging. Wait times for gastroenterology care are currently in excess of guidelines
      outlined by the Canadian Association of Gastroenterology - Wait Times Consensus Group.
      Moreover, patients often experience flare-ups of their gastrointestinal symptoms, while
      awaiting access to specialist care.

      In recent years, there has been increased integration of telemedicine services in
      gastroenterology practice. This change has been driven by a desire among IBD patients to have
      more flexible follow-up care, where 'virtual' care is provided as an adjunct to in-person
      consultations. Telemedicine is the process by which medical information is transferred
      between providers and patients through an electronic interface (i.e. two-way video,
      smartphone applications and secure messaging). Within the context of IBD, telemedicine might
      be effective in delivering routine and timely follow-up care to high-risk patients. It's also
      enticing to speculate that if telemedicine follow-up care can adequately manage the
      gastrointestinal symptoms of high-risk patients, then it may also reduce their need for
      preventive health care services and alleviate some of the economic burden associated with
      these conditions.

      Therefore, the purpose of this study to determine whether telemedicine-based follow-up care
      can effectively manage the gastrointestinal symptoms of high-risk IBD patients and reduce
      their need for preventive health care services. As part of this study, we will attempt to
      recruit all IBD outpatients, who were seen at the Mount Sinai Hospital urgent care clinic.
      These are a subset of high-risk IBD patients, who often have moderate to severe exacerbations
      of their medical condition.
    
  