
    
      Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is due to non-resolution of pulmonary
      embolism (PE), and is the most serious long-term sequela of PE. Without treatment, CTEPH
      leads to progressive right heart failure and death. Fortunately, most cases of CTEPH are
      potentially curable by a surgical procedure in which the chronic thromboembolic material is
      removed from the pulmonary arterial tree, and for those who are not surgical candidates a
      novel medical therapy is now available. Multiple studies have shown, however, that the
      majority of CTEPH cases go undiagnosed, and thus many symptomatic patients are never offered
      these potentially beneficial treatments. Because persistent dyspnea affects up to 50% of
      patients who survive an acute PE, selecting which patients should undergo further invasive
      testing for CTEPH is a difficult clinical problem. In this study, the investigators propose
      to prospectively follow a cohort of high-risk patients after acute PE until CTEPH is either
      diagnosed or excluded, and perform serial collection and banking of biospecimens that will
      allow for prospective and longitudinal screening of biomarkers that might predict future risk
      of CTEPH. Biomarker screening will initially be focused on a panel of 20 pre-specified plasma
      proteins with roles in coagulation/fibrinolysis or inflammation, as well as assays of
      fibrinolysis, as these are processes that existing literature suggests are linked to the
      pathophysiology of CTEPH. The biorepository created for this study could also be used in the
      future to perform unbiased screening with proteomic techniques or RNAseq in the hopes of
      identifying novel biomarkers and novel biological processes that are relevant to the
      development of CTEPH. As there is no current consensus as to whether structured follow-up
      after PE to detect signs and symptoms of CTEPH is beneficial, this study also includes an
      analysis of whether a novel structured follow-up program improves identification of incident
      CTEPH cases. This study has the potential to dramatically improve post-PE care by
      facilitating stratification of patients by future risk of CTEPH at the time of acute PE, thus
      allowing for expert follow-up to be tailored to those patients at highest risk for CTEPH. The
      investigators hope that these efforts will improve the rate at which CTEPH cases are
      identified, so that more patients can benefit from existing treatments.
    
  