
    
      Bone Health is becoming of great concern in the population > 50 years old in the past several
      decades. Literature review has detected a high incidence of patients with hypovitaminosis D
      and back pain. Vitamin D Deficiency is in all races, age groups, and ethnic backgrounds
      affecting greater than one billion people worldwide1. There is a higher incidence of Vitamin
      D Deficiency noted in the northern states.

      Adequate Vitamin D is essential in bone health and muscle function. It also has been reported
      to have positive effects on decreasing myopathy and /or musculoskeletal pain. Vitamin D has
      been shown to have a protective effect on fracture risk by providing increased bone matrix
      and on fall prevention through improved muscle function. 2

      Deficiency of this vitamin can lead to impaired bone mineralization and bone softening
      diseases including osteomalacia and osteoporosis in adults. Osteomalacia has significant risk
      factors for vertebral fractures, and spinal instrumentation failure. Low-energy fractures or
      fragility fractures have been found to be more common because of an increase in life
      expectancy 3. The total 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OH-VitD) level (the sum of 25-OH-vitamin D2
      and 25-OH-vitamin D3) is the appropriate indicator of vitamin D body stores. Presently, there
      is no universal consensus about a treatment cut point. Studies suggest >30 ng/mL as the
      minimal concentration of 25-OH-Vit D Total is needed to avoid the adverse effects of
      deficiency4. Vitamin D insufficiency is considered at <30ng/ml to 21 ng/ml and Vitamin D
      Deficiency is <20 ng/ml of 25-OH-Vit D Total. Several researches have indicated increasing
      Vitamin D levels >45 ng/ml will increase their immune system, bone health, lower risks of
      neurological disorders and cancers. 3,4

      Influential pathophysiological changes in osteoporosis include the hyperactivity of
      osteoclasts compared to the need for bone remodeling or a decreased activity of osteoblasts
      compared to the need for bone cavity repair or laying down new bone.5 Osteoporosis has become
      synonymous with decreased bone mineral density (BMD). Bone Marrow Density scans (DXA) allows
      accurate diagnosis of osteoporosis, estimation of fracture risk, and monitoring of patients
      undergoing treatment.5 In postmenopausal women and men age 50 years and older, the WHO
      diagnostic T-score criteria categorizes a normal DXA scan of <1.0 or above, low bone mass or
      osteopenia has a T score between <1.0 and -2.5, and osteoporosis is designated with a T-score
      at -2.5 or below) are applied to BMD measurement by central DXA at the lumbar spine and
      femoral neck. 5

      This study was done in two parts. Part 1 was the Retrospective Study from November 1, 2012 to
      October 31, 2014 and Part 2 is the Prospective pilot from July 1, 2015-June 30, 2016. We are
      anticipating to raise the awareness and identify the importance of evaluating for
      hypovitaminosis D and bone marrow density preoperatively in Neurosurgery Clinic for 12
      months. Our goal is to show treating bone health in spinal diseased patients preoperatively
      will provide optimal bone health with better long term outcomes requiring less revision
      surgeries for our patients.

      Research Question:

      Part 1 - Retrospective Study

      1. What is the prevalence of Vitamin D Deficiency in patients over 50 undergoing spinal
      fusion surgery by Dr. Daniel Fassett, MD, MBA, Neurosurgeon?

      Part 2- Prospective Study (screening period July 1, 2015-June 30, 2016)

        1. What is the prevalence of Vitamin D Deficiency in patients over 50 undergoing spinal
           fusion surgery by Dr. Daniel Fassett, MD, MBA, Neurosurgeon?

        2. Do patients with Hypovitaminosis D maintain therapeutic levels between 45 ng/ml to 75
           ng/ml in approximately 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively with supplements of Vitamin
           D3?

        3. What are the incidences of osteopenia and osteoporosis in elective spinal fusion
           patients based on a Dexascans in patients over 50 undergoing spinal fusion surgery by
           Dr. Daniel Fassett, MD, MBA, Neurosurgeon?

        4. Do the patients' demographic information, such as age, sex, BMI, and family history
           influence the outcome measures (Vitamin D deficiency, Osteopenia, and Osteoporosis)?
    
  