
    
      As the push for more minimally invasive and economical procedures increases, special
      attention will be paid to reasons why patients experience complications, unanticipated
      outpatient visits or require prolonged recovery times or even unplanned hospital admissions.
      Insufficient pain control is one of the prime reasons for increased level of care (16, 17),
      with pain defined as a "conscious unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with
      actual or potential tissue damage" (12). Appropriate pain control may advantageously affect
      length of hospital stay and related expense, decrease chronic pain syndromes, improve patient
      experience and result in fewer complications in the postoperative period (12).

      Multiple methods of analgesia are employed to improve pain control after procedures,
      including intravenous medications, regional anesthesia and local injections (12, 16, 17).
      Laparoscopic procedures typically involve general anesthesia, and in an effort to improve
      recovery in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) anesthesiologists employ shorter acting
      agents (2). Patients who received short acting anesthetic agents were more likely to bypass
      the PACU, particularly patients undergoing gynecologic surgery (2). This does not alleviate,
      and in fact may intensify, the need for adequate pain control in the immediate postoperative
      period.

      Several strategies have been tested in an effort to improve analgesia in this critical time
      period, including intravenous, regional and local anesthesia (12). Multiple types of pain
      medications have been used to improve postsurgical pain. Opioids are commonly used, however
      may be associated with multiple negative affects including nausea and vomiting, delayed
      gastric emptying, sedation and respiratory depression (12). Postoperative nausea and
      vomiting, pain control and drowsiness were all factors contributing to prolonged recovery
      room stays (15). Other medications may be used to decrease opioid consumption, even the most
      common analgesics. Acetaminophen has been found to decrease opioid requirements
      postoperatively up to 20% (12). Postoperative NSAID use is quite common (12). With respect to
      NSAIDs in particular, ketorolac has been utilized due to its ability to improve pain control
      and lessen the amount of opioid medication given (12). Ketorolac offers advantages over
      opioids, particularly with respect to avoidance of and decrease in opioid associated side
      effects (4). These advantages have implications for both patient comfort and length of
      hospital stay following surgery. The use of adjunct non-opioid medications may lead to
      shorter PACU stays, decreased discharge times and fewer adverse effects such as respiratory
      depression and postoperative nausea and vomiting (4, 5, 15). Cassinelli et al demonstrated
      improved pain control when using IV ketorolac following lumbar decompression surgery, showing
      patients had decreased morphine requirements with improved pain scores following surgery.
      Coloma et al compared intravenous versus local ketorolac versus normal saline following
      anorectal surgery and found use of ketorolac in any form decreased pain scores. This was
      clinically significant in that it decreased the requirement for oral pain medications without
      a concomitant increase in side effects or complications. That group found that although both
      IV and local ketorolac provided pain relief following surgery, only local administration gave
      statistically significant lower pain scores on arrival to the PACU and had a shorter time to
      discharge compared to controls. In addition, a study by Ben-David found administration of 30
      mg ketorolac locally had improved pain scores than when 60 mg was given intramuscularly (22).
      A comparison during orthopedic surgery of local vs systemic administration of ketorolac
      showed improved pain scores with local administration (23). These beneficial findings were in
      no way universal. Kardash et al compared ketorolac use in patients undergoing hernia repair
      and found no difference in pain levels postoperatively whether patients had ketorolac
      injected either at the site of the incision or peripherally (in this case a subcutaneous
      injection in the contralateral abdominal wall). These findings were mitigated somewhat due to
      lack of a control group, omitted primarily because the authors felt NSAIDs were a routine
      part of postoperative pain control and could not be ethically withheld. Ketorolac does have
      drawbacks in the form of suspected hematologic impact affecting platelet aggregation and
      bleeding time and must be used with cautiously in patients with renal compromise (12).

      The source of pain is multifactorial, including not only intra-abdominal discomfort from the
      procedure itself but also from the skin incision as well (3). Multiple studies have compared
      local anesthesia injected at the site of laparoscopic incision to a normal saline control.
      Khaira et al examined normal saline vs. bupivacaine injections at the surgical incision site
      early in surgery and found a decrease in parenteral opioid use in patients who received the
      anesthetic injection. Cansino et al compared oral NSAID combined with a lidocaine
      paracervical block to oral placebo and a paracervical block that included both lidocaine and
      ketorolac during first trimester surgical abortion. They found improved pain control with the
      combined paracervical block particularly during cervical dilation, although the remaining
      pain scores were not significantly different. Mohair et al examined the effects of
      infiltration with pain medication in postoperative pain control in patients undergoing breast
      augmentation. They did this by infiltrating normal saline, ketorolac, bupivacaine or both
      ketorolac and bupivacaine into the breast pocket following dissection. Their results
      suggested the combined medication improved pain levels immediately postoperative and through
      the time of discharge at their outpatient surgery center. Each pain medication alone also
      improved pain scores although to a lesser extent. It is unclear if the statistical
      significance translates to a clinical significance. A follow up to the initial study of pain
      medication infiltrated into breast pockets in breast augmentation followed longer term pain
      scores in postoperative patients who had either normal saline or the combination ketorolac
      and bupivacaine infiltrated during surgery. Results showed improved pain scores over the
      first five postoperative days as determined by the visual analogue scale and amount of pain
      medication used when the analgesic solution was infiltrated during surgery. Again, it remains
      unclear whether this is clinically significant, as the amount of pain medication utilized
      differed by approximately one to two tablets daily. Mahabir et al theorized the possible
      benefit of ketorolac over bupivacaine could stem from the difference in pKa in the two
      medications. The pKa of ketorolac is 3.5, indicating a higher activity in acidic tissues,
      such as those that are damaged and inflamed, relative to a medication such as bupivacaine
      with its more basic pKa of 8.1 (16).

      Not only is the type of analgesia in question but also the timing in administration:
      preincisional vs. at surgical closure. Einarsson et al specifically investigated local pain
      control in laparoscopic port sites using patients as their own controls. This study compared
      pain control in patients with bupivacaine and normal saline infiltrated at port sites, using
      each patient as their own control and found postoperative administration of bupivicaine
      resulted in better pain control. Ke et al examined efficacy of pain control with respect to
      both medication administered as well as timing when they compared infiltration of wounds with
      either bupivacaine or normal saline before initial incision or at incision closure. The
      results indicated pre-incision injection provided better pain control with longer lasting
      analgesic effects, however the study was limited by a small sample size leading to possibly
      less significant results. Lam et al also investigated local pain control at laparoscopic port
      sites with a placebo controlled trial using either lignocaine or normal saline at the initial
      incision or at closing the case. Their results advocated for using analgesia at the time of
      closure, showing decreased pain scores for up to 24 hours postoperatively in that group, and
      only minimal improvement with preemptive analgesia. These results may not be clinically
      significant because despite the decreased pain scores, amount of pain medication utilized was
      the same. Despite some studies indicating improved pain control with local anesthesia,
      multiple randomized, placebo controlled, double blind studies have not shown any significant
      difference between saline and bupivacaine with respect to post operative pain (18-21).
    
  