
    
      Background:

      1. Introduction Coordinated by the Swiss Eosinophilic Esophagitis Research Group and in close
      collaboration with The International Gastrointestinal Eosinophil Researchers (TIGERS), we
      plan to conduct a series of related studies in order to develop an Activity Index (AI) for
      adult and pediatric patients with Eosinophilic Esophagitis (EoE).

      EoE is an emerging disease, with rapidly growing clinical relevance and research activities.
      A validated assessment instrument is therefore urgently needed.

      The purpose of this project is to develop within a representative group of pediatric and
      adult EoE-experienced gastroenterologists and EoE-experienced pathologists an AI for this
      chronic inflammatory esophageal disease. The project is investigator initiated, but funding
      from different sources will be necessary. The project will be conducted in compliance with
      this protocol, with the ICH guideline E6 on Good Clinical Practice, the FDA perspectives on
      patient-reported outcomes to support medical product labeling claims (1,2), and the
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      As EoE is a new disorder we include below a comprehensive description of the disease.

      1.1. Characterization of Eosinophilic Esophagitis Definition: EoE is rapidly emerging as a
      distinctive disorder in pediatric and adult gastroenterology. EoE is a chronic-inflammatory
      esophageal disease, characterized clinicopathologically by the presence of esophagus-related
      symptoms and by a dense esophageal eosinophilia, both of which persist despite prolonged
      treatment with proton pump inhibitors (3). Epidemiology: EoE is diagnosed 2-3 times more
      frequently in males than in females.

      The disease is found mainly in industrialized countries such as the United States, Canada,
      Europe and Australia. EoE is likely to be a 'young' disease: it had not been seen prior to
      the early 1980, and there is strong evidence to suggest that its prevalence is increasing
      (4)(5). A population-based study performed in Switzerland suggested an increase in prevalence
      from 2 per 100000 to 40 per 100000 inhabitants over a 19-year period (6). Clinical Symptoms:
      As in many other diseases, symptom presentation differs significantly between children and
      adults. In infants and toddlers, food refusal is a common symptom of EoE. Children often
      suffer from GERD-like symptoms, vomiting and abdominal pain. Dysphagia and food impaction are
      reported increasingly with proceeding age. Adolescents and adults present mostly with
      dysphagia for solids and food impaction (5-7). Endoscopy/Histology:
      Esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) is the first diagnostic step in the evaluation of an
      individual with suspected EoE. A broad spectrum of endoscopic features associated with EoE
      have been described, but the endoscopic suspicion needs confirmation by histology. The key
      diagnostic criterion for diagnosing EoE is an increased number of intraepithelial eosinophils
      in patients with lack of responsiveness to high-dose proton pump inhibition or normal
      pH-monitoring of the distal esophagus. In a consensus conference a cut-off value of =15
      Eos/HPF (peak eosinophilic count in 400 fold magnification) in any biopsy was recommended as
      diagnostic criterion (3). Treatment: The optimal treatment for EoE is not yet clear, as
      experience has been limited largely to case series and small controlled trials. So far
      topically and systemically administered corticosteroids, several types of allergen-reduced
      diets, immunosuppressants and IL-5 blocking agents have been shown to be efficacious (8-11).

      1.2. Rationale for the planned Studies In the clinical setting the current status of a given
      disease is often reported as "mild", "moderate" and "severe", and the course of the disease
      over time is described with terms such as "stable", "progressive", "in remission" or
      "flare-up". None of these terms has so far been clearly defined for EoE. However, an
      increasing number of phase 3 therapeutic multi-center trials and natural history studies in
      patients with EoE will be performed in the near future. In order to set up standardized study
      protocols and to compare results between different studies a standardized definition of
      disease activity is a necessity. Taken together, for clinical and for research purposes it is
      indispensable to define the terms mentioned above by a suitable, reproducible and validated
      score, which reflects the disease activity as precisely as possible. The necessity for such a
      score has repeatedly been discussed by the TIGERS and has been underscored by several
      publications (12).

      Objective

      The planned research program has the aim to develop and validate an AI for EoE (EEsAI) for
      adult (adEEsAI) and pediatric (pedEEsAI) patients, which can be used in future clinical
      trials and observational studies. According to the characterization of EoE, the AI will
      likely contain clinical and histopathological items. Laboratory and endoscopical parameters
      may be part of the score, but in a subsidiary role.

      Methods:

      The development and validation of a disease activity index is a research program involving
      several related studies. Broadly speaking, it involves 3 main steps: Step I Item Generation
      and Reduction through a Delphi process with an international expert group (Development phase
      A). Step II Item Weighting and Activity Index Derivation, using data from a first cohort of
      adult and a first cohort of pediatric patients (Development phase B).

      Step III Evaluation of the Activity Index using data from a second independent cohort of
      adult and pediatric patients respectively. This involves also assessment of test-retest
      reliability and responsiveness of the score, using longitudinal data from the same patients.
    
  