
    
      Once each patient legal guardians has signed the informed consent document and it has been
      verified that the inclusion criteria are met, participants will be assigned the same
      identification number (ID) that is related to its Clinical History (CH) by simple coding;
      custody of the file with the relationship of each ID with its CH will be the responsibility
      of the principal investigator. The method of blinding in the allocation will be carried out
      by choosing envelopes sealed by an external investigator to the study. The contents of the
      envelopes will be randomized by computer using the numerical randomization sequence generated
      with R ver 5.3.1 (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Institute for Statistics and
      Mathematics, Welthandelsplatz 1, 1020 Vienna, Austria) based on stratified sampling for
      homogeneity , in two groups: nebulization with 3% hypertonic solution (group A) and in the
      nebulization group with 0.9% saline solution (group B).

      None of the participants who make up both the control and intervention groups will be
      prohibited from regular pharmacological treatment as prescribed by their doctor, such as
      Ventolin. It will be collected in the investigator's notebook the medications that each
      patient has prescribed by their doctor. But applying a bronchodilator is not part of the
      protocol, because physiotherapists cannot prescribe or administer a drug. Before receiving
      the usual and standard manual techniques of respiratory physiotherapy, patients receive
      nebulization, group A with hypertonic serum 4 ml 3% and group B with a single-dose saline
      (0.9 NaCl) physiological serum 5 ml for 8 minutes, both with nebulizer Philips® vibrating
      mesh. The effects of both are similar in effects, in terms of secretions and their osmotic
      effects. The aim of this study is to evaluate if the type of serum affects the results of the
      manual physiotherapy that is later carried out on children, but there is no clinical problem
      for randomly giving one serum or another, as to what is the effect of the serum on itself.

      The intervention ends with a 20-minute session of Respiratory Physiotherapy based on slow
      expiratory flow: a passive technique of expiratory aid applied to the participants by means
      of slow thoracic-abdominal pressure that begins at the end of a spontaneous expiration and
      continues until the residual volume. The physiotherapist through assisted cough or
      stimulation of the trachea achieves expectoration of sputum. Care must be taken during the
      maneuvers to maintain a supine position of the patient in a 30-degree incline, to avoid
      episodes of gastroesophageal reflux and decrease the risk of vomiting.

      Both groups will receive 3 evaluations by an investigator who will be blinded on the
      treatment and the objectives. The evaluations will be carried out at the beginning of the
      session (T0), immediately after the nebulization (T30) and 10 minutes after the end of the
      20-minute physical therapy intervention (T60). This same treatment and evaluation sequence
      will be carried out every month for 6 months.

      The main variables will classify the participants according to the initial clinical severity
      score proposed by Wang (WS), the Wood-Downes Scale modified by Ferres (WDF-S) and the
      Pulmonary Score (PS) in addition to the measurement of Sp2 and heart rate (FC) measured
      through a pulse oximeter (Radical Touchscreen from Massimo®, Masimo Corporation, Irvine, CA)
    
  