
    
      Rotator cuff tears are a frequent cause of shoulder pain and disability in the elderly
      population.33Typically, when conservative measures fail, surgery is often advised. A
      successful clinical outcome is felt to be heavily predicated on healing of the tendon to the
      bone. Despite numerous surgical and technical advancements over the past two decades not all
      repairs heal with re-tear or failure to heal remaining the number one complication associated
      with rotator cuff surgery.4-32 This in turn creates a hefty economic burden on society
      whereupon surgeries are being performed with poor eventual outcomes and ultimately wasted
      resources. 1

      While reasons for failure are multifactorial, a strong correlation has been associated with
      advancing age.3,13,27-30, 32 In an observational study on the natural history of rotator cuff
      disease, patients younger than 50 years old rarely had rotator cuff tears whereas those
      greater than 60 had a statistically significant greater incidence of unilateral and bilateral
      tears. 25 Advancing age is believed to alter and change the intrinsic properties of the
      tendon leading to stiffness, hypovascularity and overall impairment of the biology of tendon
      healing. Furthermore, when repairs fail, they typically do so within the first four months of
      surgery. 34 Means, therefore, to enhance the zone of the repair by increasing the cellularity
      immediately following surgery may improve the overall healing and lessen failures.

      Recently, nanofiber scaffolds have demonstrated the ability to mimic the extracellular matrix
      and help structure, organize and proliferate cellular material. 35-37 They do so by working
      in essence like a sponge when incorporated into the repair site and help to bind, organize,
      and promote cell migration. This in effect, creates a less haphazard arrangement and induces
      better organization of healing tissue at the cellular level. Rotium, is an FDA approved
      nonwoven microfiber matrix composed of PLCL (poly L-lactide-co-caprolactone) and PGL
      (polyglycolide) that is indicated for use in rotator cuff repair to enhance healing at the
      bone tendon interface. The implant is inserted under the rotator cuff tendon and placed on
      top of the greater tuberosity at the time of surgery and typically positioned over a suture.
      In a recent animal study performed at Colorado State University, a nearly 75% increased
      strength of repair was demonstrated at twelve weeks in those tendons treated with the graft.
      This will be the first prospective randomized clinical study in humans assessing for a
      difference in healing and strength in a population of patients considered at high risk for
      postoperative failure of the repair.

      Study Objectives

      Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, this study seeks to evaluate if there is
      a difference in post-operative healing, strength, and functional outcomes in patients older
      than 55 years with rotator cuff tears treated with and without the nanofiber scaffold.

      Primary Aims & Objective

      Aim 1: To determine if the use of the nanofiber scaffold reduces the occurrence of
      postoperative rotator cuff repair (RCR) failure in patients older than 55 years

      Hypothesis: There will be a minimum of a 50% reduction in failure among patients treated with
      the nanofiber scaffold, as compared to the control group (standard repair without nanofiber
      scaffold).

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, patients treated with and
      without the nanofiber scaffold will be followed clinically for 24 months postoperatively. MRI
      will be obtained at 6 months to assess healing. Ultrasound will be obtained on all patients
      at 12 and 24 months postoperatively to assess the long-term repair integrity and determine
      rate of failure.

      Secondary Aims & Objectives

      Aim 2: To determine if the use of the nanofiber scaffold improves postoperative isometric
      muscle strength following RCR.

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the nanofiber scaffold will demonstrate greater isometric
      muscle strength as measured objectively with a muscle dynamometer (Lafayette Manual Muscle
      Tester) at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months postoperative visits, as compared to those patients treated
      without the nanofiber scaffold.

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, isometric strength will be
      measured in abduction with 90 of elevation with the arm in the plane of the scapula as well
      as external and internal rotation measure at zero degrees of elevation. Measurements will be
      obtained preoperatively on all patients and then postoperatively at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months
      postoperatively.

      Aim 3: To determine if there is a difference in clinical and functional outcomes of patients
      with rotator cuff tears treated with and without the nanofiber scaffold.

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the nanofiber scaffold will demonstrate greater improvement
      in clinical and functional outcomes than those patients not treated with the nanofiber
      scaffold during RCR surgery.

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, patients will complete ASES
      (American Shoulder and Elbow), SANE, VR-12, VAS (Visual Analogue Scale) Pain, and range of
      motion (ROM) evaluations preoperatively and postoperatively at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months,
      and 24 months. Comparisons between patients treated with and without the nanofiber scaffold
      will be performed.

      Study Design

      The study design is a randomized single-blinded randomized controlled trial.

      Research Design

      Patients undergoing RCR surgery will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: control or
      intervention. The intervention group will include the insertion of a nanofiber scaffold
      during RCR surgery whereas the control group will undergo RCR surgery but will not receive
      the nanofiber scaffold. Patients greater than 55 years old that have failed conservative
      management for a rotator cuff tear will be approached for enrollment and consent to be
      included in the study. This is a multicenter study. Six fellowship trained orthopedic
      surgeons skilled at in office ultrasound will conduct the study at six separate sites. Each
      clinician will enroll a total of 40 patients. For each site, half the patients (20) will be
      delegated to the control group and the other half (20) will be assigned to the treatment
      group. 40 envelopes for each location will be created and randomly assorted with half
      containing the treatment grouping and the other half indicating control grouping. A total of
      240 patients will be enrolled at all four site: 120 control group and 120 treatment group. At
      the time of surgical scheduling, an independent person (surgical scheduler) will pick one
      envelope and assign that sealed envelope to the patient. This envelope will be brought the
      day of surgery by the treating clinician and will be opened at the beginning of surgery. No
      patient information will be in the envelope and just the designation of "control" or
      "intervention" group. Patients will be blinded to the designated treatment group.
      Unfortunately, it would not be feasible to blind the surgeon to the treatment group. All
      patients will be treated with a double row rotator cuff repair technique by all
      co-investigators.

      Data Collection will occur preoperatively and postoperatively. Patient outcome measures will
      be collected and deidentfied. . Data collection postoperatively will occur at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months. Data collected will include VAS Pain,
      VR-12, ASES and SANE scores, and ROM. Strength measurements will be collected postoperatively
      at 3, 6, 12 and 24 postoperatively using a Lafayette Manual Muscle Dynamometer. Isometric
      measurements will be taken with the arm abducted in the scapular plane at 90 degrees and then
      with the arm in neutral position to measure internal and external rotation. MRI scan
      consisting of T2 sagittal and coronal will be obtained on all subjects at 6 months. All
      images will be independently interpreted by a musculoskeletal radiologist for healing and
      integrity. Ultrasound will be obtained at 12 and 24 months postoperatively to assess the
      repair. Video clips of the repair in both short and long axis will be saved and archived.
      Clips will be independently evaluated for review to determine healing or failure.

      Data Management

      Patients upon enrollment will be assigned an ID to allow for data tracking within the
      application. Primary data will be collected via the web-based system and stored
      electronically and encrypted under password protection. The principal investigators will only
      have access to the database. At the conclusion of the study, the data will be exported to a
      password-protected encrypted Excel file on a password-protected computer. Once the data have
      been checked for accuracy and prior to statistical analysis, patient identifiers will be
      removed from the data set. The de-identified password-protected Excel spreadsheet will be
      provided to a statistician who will import the file into SPSS for analysis.

      Study Agent, Device, and/or Intervention Description

      The nanofiber scaffold that will be used during the RCR surgery is the intervention in this
      study. This nanofiber scaffold is inserted at the time of surgery by placing over a suture
      and shuttling it down the arthroscopic canula. It is positioned below the tendon and above
      the bone. The graft size is 2cm x 2 cm. This nanofiber scaffold has received FDA approval for
      the use outlined in this study. The use of the nanofiber scaffold is the only difference
      between the control and the intervention groups.

      Control Group Intervention Group RCR surgery without nanofiber scaffold RCR surgery with
      nanofiber scaffold

      Sample Size

      RCR surgery among patients over the age of 55 years has a failure rate of approximately 25%.
      With the use of the nanofiber scaffold, it is estimated the RCR failure will be 10% (a
      decrease of 60% compared to the controls). Thus, to compare the proportion of failure between
      the control and intervention groups, a sample size of 200 (100 patients per group) would be
      required, assuming 80% power and a two-tailed alpha level of 0.05. However, to account for an
      attrition rate of approximately 20%, a total of 240 patients (120 patients per group) will be
      enrolled.
    
  