
    
      BACKGROUND:

      REDS-I was established to address important blood safety issues involving human retroviruses.
      On July 17, 1989 the NHLBI awarded contracts to five major blood centers and a coordinating
      center to develop a major multicenter epidemiologic study of the human retroviruses HIV-1,
      HIV-2, HTLV-I, and HTLV-II in volunteer U.S. blood donors. The original mission of REDS-I was
      to initiate and facilitate investigations of human retroviruses in volunteer blood donors
      from areas of the country at varying risk for HIV. During the course of the project, NHLBI
      expanded the original REDS-I mission to investigate critical questions posed by the blood
      banking and transfusion medicine communities that were essential to ensuring an adequate
      blood supply without compromising blood safety. The overall REDS-I program includes
      epidemiologic, laboratory, and clinical investigations, and provides a comprehensive
      framework for monitoring U.S. blood donations, and more recently transfusion recipients, for
      infectious disease markers. The operational and database structure of REDS-I, specifically
      designed to study U.S. blood safety and availability, has also provided a framework for rapid
      analytical response to other research questions of significant importance to the safety of
      the blood supply. Since its inception, investigators have made major contributions in
      assessing: the risk of contracting transfusion-transmitted infectious agents; HIV and HCV
      test screening; donor characteristics and behaviors; and ways of reducing HIV risk from
      transfusion. REDS-I investigators work closely with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Office of the Secretary, Department of
      Health and Human Services (DHHS) to provide data and analyses for important policy decisions.
      Liaisons with test manufacturers have enabled the rapid study of test procedures of critical
      importance to blood safety and availability.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The objectives of the Retrovirus Epidemiology Donor Study-II (REDS-II) are to conduct
      epidemiological, laboratory, and survey research on volunteer blood donors within the United
      States to ensure the safety and availability of the United States' blood supply. This
      includes monitoring known blood-borne infectious agents, rapidly evaluating the impact of
      emerging pathogens, assessing the safety implications of changes in laboratory and/or blood
      donor screening protocols and examining blood supply and availability issues. Addressing
      issues concerned with the safety and availability of the United States' blood supply will be
      the cornerstone of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Retrovirus Epidemiology
      Donor Study. These issues include: a) the risks of transfusion-transmissible infections and
      their trends through time--these include infectious agents currently undergoing laboratory
      screening as well as new and emerging agents such as West Nile Virus (WNV) which is about to
      be screened for in the U.S. under experimental protocols; b) ways to reduce the risks of
      transfusion-transmissible infections; c) HIV, HTLV, HCV, and HBV test screening
      methodologies; d) donor characteristics, behaviors, and donation return patterns of U.S.
      blood donors; and e) the effectiveness and safety of various strategies implemented to
      increase the U.S. blood supply.
    
  