
    
      People with spinal cord injuries suffer from numerous comorbidities, linked in particular to
      immobility and sedentariness. Studies have shown the benefits of training and reconditioning
      to adapted effort in spinal cord injured people. Among other innovative techniques,
      functional electrical stimulation (FES) is aimed primarily at mobilizing as many muscles as
      possible. Concerning electro-stimulated pedaling on a tricycle, it would allow individuals
      with paraplegia or tetraplegia to practise physical activity in perspective of experiencing
      pleasure during training.

      In 2016, our team carried out a pilot study aiming at using a recumbent tricylce powered by
      the lower limbs of a person with complete paraplegia under electrostimulation. The
      participant was trained for 12 months, whit the objective to participate at an international
      competition (Cybathlon 2016). This first study has opened up prospects and identified avenues
      for improvement.

      The main objective of this study is to significantly improve, over a limited period of time,
      the pedalling performance on a tricycle by using electrical stimulation of the sub-lesional
      muscles of people with spinal cord injuries. Secondary focusses will be: physical and
      psychological tolerance to training; influence on pain, cardio-respiratory functions, body
      composition regarding muscle trophicity and bone metabolism; psycho-social impact; impact of
      modification of stimulation parameters (frequency, phase width, intensity, waveform, contact
      location) in performance optimization and delay of muscle fatigue; performance impact of
      mechanical modifications performed on the tricycle.

      This is a prospective case study: patients suffering from a complete traumatic injury and
      followed at the Centre de Rééducation et de Réadaptation Fonctionnelle (CRRF) La
      Châtaigneraie (Menucourt) will be recruited by the investigating physician during a
      consultation for a period of approximately 6 months. The centre specialised in the management
      of acute and chronic neurological lesions. The eligibility criteria are predefined to ensure
      the participants safety. After verification of the criteria and before the start of the
      programme, an exercise test (monitoring of the evolution of VO2max) will be carried out in
      the Sports Medicine department of the CHI of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The first phase (V1)
      consists of a one-month home-based isometric muscle training programme by electrostimulation
      followed by a two-month programme (phase V2) of home-based muscle training by
      electrostimulation on an ergocycle including one training per week at the CRRF. The home
      ergocycle electro-stimulation muscle training, will be continued once or twice a week and
      complemented in the third phase (V3) by training at the CRRF on a tricycle for one month.
      Only the patient selected to participate in the Cybathlon 2020 will continue with the final
      phase (V4), which includes, over a period of 2 to 4 months, muscle training by
      electrostimulation on an ergocycle at home, electrostimulation sessions on a tricycle up to 3
      times a week at the CRRF. In this phase, the optimization of the stimulation and electrical
      patterns and the mechanics of the tricycle will take place in order to maximize the pilots
      overall performance. Finally, the pilot will take part in the tricycle FES-Cycling race at
      the Cybathlon 2020 in Zurich, i.e. an international competition and technological challenge,
      requiring to master 1200 metres in a maximum time of 8 minutes. The different training
      programs are based on sport-scientific principles and a physiotherapist will follow up on the
      home sessions. The collaborating teams (engineers and researchers from INRIA, the French
      National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control) will measure performance in
      a bimonthly frequency.

      This research should demonstrate that the safety, acceptability, satisfaction, self-esteem
      and quality of life induced by the practice of FES-assisted pedalling, opens a new way of
      training in rehabilitation centres and at home with the perspective of improving certain
      physiological functions in the long-term.
    
  