
    
      In the "optimization" Phase A, the study will conduct randomized trials to assess
      effectiveness, fidelity and cost and improve context-specific "fit" of prevention and
      treatment interventions. Phase A will evaluate dynamic treatment packages tailored to the
      needs of heavy alcohol users and mobile populations. Phase A will evaluate dynamic choice
      prevention delivered in the context of antenatal/family planning clinics, the outpatient
      department, in youth hubs, and in the community delivered by village health teams. Phase A
      will evaluate a linkage intervention for patients with hypertension. Combining effectiveness
      with implementation, costing and modelling outcomes, the study will optimize intervention
      packages with context-specific adaptations in structured consultation with stakeholders.

      In the "evaluation" Phase B, the study will evaluate the effects of Dynamic Prevention and
      Dynamic Treatment intervention packages based on data from Phase A and new advances from
      outside the study, alone and in combination, on prevention coverage, population-level viral
      suppression, and HIV incidence, as well as other health outcomes, in a 2x2 balanced,
      community randomized factorial design. Phase B will measure outcomes within longitudinal
      cohorts of residents living within study communities. Phase B will evaluate population-level
      intervention implementation outcomes, elucidate mechanisms of action and component
      intervention effects, and estimate incremental costs and gains. Finally, the study will use
      the HIV Synthesis Model to model outcomes and costs of Phase B results over a period of
      decades to inform policy and stakeholder decisions to adopt successful strategies to achieve
      and sustain HIV epidemic control.

      Structured stakeholder consultations are formally incorporated in the study design and
      leverage regular and ongoing collaborations the study team has with the HIV, non-communicable
      disease and general health leads in Kenya and Uganda Ministries of Health and PEPFAR
      implementing partners at the national and the regional level.
    
  