
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and feasibility of malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous
      dendritic cell vaccine (autologous dendritic cell [DC] / allogeneic glioblastoma multiforme
      [GBM] culture lysate vaccination) in glioblastoma patients at first or second recurrence.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To document survival and progression-free survival in glioblastoma patients at first or
      second recurrence receiving autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination and
      compared to historical data.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the ability of autologous DC / GBM culture lysate vaccination to generate
      multiple tumor-associated antigen (TAA)-specific immune responses in GBM patients at first or
      second recurrence.

      II. Assess the relationship between ability tumor induced TAA-specific immune responses and
      evidence of immunosuppression (peripheral blood immunophenotyping by flow cytometry)
      following autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination in GBM patients at first
      or second recurrence.

      III. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival,
      tumor response) and tumor-associated antigen immune response following autologous DC /
      allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination

      IV. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival,
      tumor response) and evidence of immunosuppression at baseline and over time with autologous
      DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine
      intradermally (ID) on days 1, 3, and 5 of courses 2 and 3, and on day 1 of subsequent
      courses. Treatment with malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell
      vaccine repeats every 21 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  