
    
      ABSTRACT Smoking and secondhand smoke (SHS) are responsible for nearly a half-million
      preventable deaths in the United States every year. Parent(s) who stop smoking incur health
      benefits, model non-smoking (and quitting) to children and stop exposure to SHS in the home,
      car and other locations. National initiatives from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the
      American Academy of Family Physicians urge healthcare providers to screen children for a
      history of SHS exposure and to recommend that parents stop smoking and restrict smoking at
      home, but compliance with these guidelines is poor and more than 25% of children in the U.S.
      continue to be involuntarily exposed to SHS in the home. Effective systems are needed to
      increase parental smoking cessation and implement home smoking restrictions. We propose
      preliminary studies to evaluate a novel intervention to accomplish these objectives. We
      hypothesize that a clinic system that routinely measures and reports levels of tobacco
      toxicants (tobacco-specific carcinogens, nicotine and cotinine) found in the urine of
      children exposed to SHS will 1) increase provider delivery of tobacco treatment, 2) increase
      parental participation in tobacco treatment, 3) increase parental smoking cessation and 4)
      reduce childhood exposure to secondhand smoke. We propose formative work among healthcare
      providers and parents to develop the intervention and to pilot test the effects of the
      intervention on providers and parents. We will conduct focus groups among staff to identify
      training needs, develop methods to integrate the intervention with office practice and assess
      barriers to implementation. We will also conduct focus groups among parents to assess
      willingness to provide urine specimens, optimal feedback format and reactions to biomarker
      data. Results from focus groups will be used to develop the experimental treatment protocol.
      We will test the intervention in a two-group randomized pilot study in the University of
      Minnesota Primary Care Clinic. We will recruit 80 children age 0-12 with a parent who smokes.
      We will provide brief behavioral counseling in healthy lifestyle options to all parents. One
      provider team will implement the experimental intervention in 40 parent-child pairs and the
      other team will serve as the control. Children who see providers in the experimental group
      will provide a urine sample to test for nitrosamines (a tobacco-specific carcinogen),
      nicotine and cotinine. We will communicate laboratory results to providers using the
      electronic medical record and incorporate these results in parental tobacco counseling
      designed to promote smoking cessation and home smoking restrictions. The primary outcome will
      be provider delivery of smoking cessation treatment. We will also measure effects on parental
      engagement in treatment, smoking cessation and institution of home smoking restrictions in
      both the experimental and control groups. The research team brings extensive experience with
      novel tobacco interventions, health services research and biomarker assessment to the
      project. Routine documentation of tobacco toxicants in children's urine has potential to
      dramatically alter clinical care for families at risk from smoking.
    
  