
    
      Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) is
      increasing in incidence and has an improved prognosis compared to other head and neck
      malignancies when treated with standard combination chemoradiation.

      The current standard regimen of high dose cisplatin and Radiation Therapy (RT) for head and
      neck cancer patients results in significant toxicity and is at the limits of tolerance. The
      excellent prognosis of patients with HPV-positive OPSCC raises concerns about overtreatment
      with the current standard of care, resulting in unnecessary acute and late morbidity.

      Therefore, investigation of chemo-sparing or chemo-modified regimens with RT for
      HPV-associated OPSCC that do not compromise efficacy is warranted. A number of regimens less
      intensive than high dose cisplatin are being used in clinical practice for patients with good
      prognosis HPV OPSCC, but no comparative trials have been performed in this population. The
      trial population will be restricted to low risk HPV-associated OPSCC.

      Trial Arms:

      A- RT (70 Gy in 35 fractions, 5 days a week over 7 weeks) with weekly Cetuximab (400 mg/m2
      loading dose IV prior to radiation, followed by weekly cetuximab 250 mg/m2 for the duration
      of the radiotherapy) B- RT(70 Gy in 35 fractions, 5 days a week over 7 weeks) with weekly
      Cisplatin (40 mg/m2 IV for the duration of the radiotherapy)

      Hypothesis: In patients with locally advanced HPV-associated OPSCC, those treated with weekly
      cetuximab and conventionally fractionated radiotherapy will experience less acute symptom
      severity than patients receiving weekly cisplatin and conventionally fractionated
      radiotherapy.

      Patients will be followed weekly during treatment, then at 1, 3, 5, 9, 13 weeks
      post-treatment and at months 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 28, 32, 36, 42, 48, 54, and 60
      post-completion of treatment. Follow-up for the trial will cease when the last patient
      accrued has a minimum of 2 years follow-up i.e. has attended the 24 months post-treatment
      review.
    
  