
    
      This study is designed as a randomised, controlled, non-blinded multicenter trial with two
      parallell study groups, intervention and control. The primary endpoint of recovery is
      measured within 12 months after surgery.

      After randomisation, participants in the intervention group will be scheduled for an
      individual consultation with the physiotherapist, where the are advised to increase their
      Daily physical activiy level with an additional 30 minutes. The added physical activity is
      registered in an exercise diary daily.

      All included participants will be asked to complete questionnaires at inclusion (I), 4 weeks
      (+/- 1 w) postoperatively (II) and 12 months (+/-1 month) postoperatively (III).

      Data regarding patient characteristics, surgical details, postoperative events, complications
      according to Clavien - Dindo and additional treatment will be collected using eCRF: (I) 30
      Days postoperatively, (II) 90 days postoperatively and (III) 12 months postoperatively. Data
      will also be retrieved from the Swedish National Breast Cancer Register, the Swedish Social
      Insurance Agency and the Swedish National Death Register.

      Patrticipants who wish to be excluded from the study will be asked if already collected data
      may be analysed in the study.

      The code for the study cohort will include personal identity as well as a study specific
      code. This is placed on a server, with limited access, at Sahlgrenska University Hospital.
      The database is placed on a server within the University of Gothenburg system accessible with
      username and code. The database includes only the study specific code for each participant.
      Data from questionnaires will be entered manually. Length of hospital stay will be acquired
      from the hospital registries and then entered manually into the database. Data from CRF
      (I-III) will be entered in the same database, as well as data retrieved from the Swedish
      National Breast Cancer Register, the National Death Register and Swedish Social Insurance
      Agency.

      In all a high security standard with automatic back up of server data is present as well as
      firewalls against external violation. A data manager, employed by the SSORG unit will be
      responsible for the database.

      The investigators plan to perform an interim analysis for the first 100 patients included, in
      order to make a more exact estimate of the power needed. An external monitoring committee
      will be appointed for the interim analysis, and the question to the committee will be limited
      to a recalculation of cohort size.The participants will be analysed according to
      randomisation (intention to treat-type of analysis).
    
  