
    
      This is a prospective clinical trial with intentional sample selection, which will last 18
      months and will be developed at the General State Hospital of Goiânia Alberto Rassi (HGG).

      The present study aims at gastric bypass surgery modified for the purpose of ensuring
      endoscopic access to the excluded remaining stomach, as well as monitoring the clinical
      conditions of comorbidities and the patient's quality of life; evaluating the loss of excess
      body weight of 50% (EBW50%), as recommended by the World Health Organization and the
      Brazilian Society of Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery, to comparing weight loss before and
      after surgery; comparing the incidence and control of comorbidities associated with excess
      body weight, if the patient has any, before and after the surgery analyzing the nutritional
      characteristics of the patients before and after the surgery and its relationship with the
      obesity of their comorbidities; evaluating and comparing patients' quality of life before and
      after bariatric surgery;measuring and comparing lung function, respiratory muscle strength
      and endurance, physical fitness and functional capacity. The estimated sample size was
      calculated in the Epi Info Software (version 7.2.3.1) considering a 95% Confidence Interval,
      average volume of bariatric surgeries performed in the last year at HGG (p = 288) and an
      occurrence of bile reflux after RYGB 1.9%. When considering an estimated margin of error of
      5%, the total value of twenty-six patients was found to compose the sample.

      Predicting the occurrence of possible losses from follow-up throughout the study, a margin of
      30% was added to the calculated value, ending with a total of 33 patients to compose the
      sample. Free-demand patients at the State Hospital of Goiânia Alberto Rassi, who have an
      indication for bariatric and / or metabolic surgery confirmed by the medical and
      multidisciplinary team, will be selected as potential participants in the research. The
      patient will be invited to participate in the study, receiving complete information about the
      planned procedures, risks and possible benefits.

      The patient's refusal to participate in the research will not result in discontinuation of
      treatment. The baseline clinical parameters of the selected patients (age, weight, BMI, blood
      pressure, presented comorbidities, cardiovascular history, previous clinical treatments for
      the control of DM2 (Type 2 diabetes Mellitus), eating habits and physical activity) will be
      collected and inserted in clinical records during preoperative multidisciplinary
      consultation.

      Data on food consumption will be collected in the preoperative period and in the
      postoperative period of 6, 12 and 18 months, through the application of the Food Frequency
      questionnaire.

      In addition to collecting this information, the patient will be referred for preoperative
      exams, which will also be recorded in the patient's medical record. After fulfilling the
      criteria and after signing the Informed Consent Form, thirty-three patients will be selected
      who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria to perform the modified RYGB technique to
      maintain gastro-gastric communication for endoscopic study after surgery.

      Patients will undergo a consultation with the multidisciplinary team, when they will receive
      nutritional, psychological and physiotherapy team guidance. Once the date of the surgery is
      scheduled, the participants must follow the following regimen: absolute fasting of 8 hours
      before surgery, prophylactic dose of anticoagulant 12 hours before the surgery. Patients will
      be admitted 24 to 48 hours before the surgical procedure.

      The surgery will be performed at the General State Hospital of Goiânia Alberto Rassi. After
      the preoperative procedure, the patient will be submitted to general anesthesia.
      Prophylactically, the patient will receive a single dose of 2 to 3 grams of kefazol 1 hour
      before the procedure, and to allergies 600 to 900 mg of intravenous clindamycin, and
      pneumatic socks and leggings will be provided to prevent thromboembolic events. For safety
      reasons, the patient will be monitored throughout the surgical procedure using
      multiparametric electronic monitors and bladder catheterization.

      Initially, a median laparotomy will be performed with the measurement of the length of the
      entire small intestine, followed by an approach to the small curvature of the stomach, where
      it will be performed.
    
  