
    
      Control of the global HIV pandemic will require the development of a safe and effective
      vaccine. Many HIV preventive vaccines that are in development use a recombinant adenovirus
      serotype 5 (rAd5) vector as a way of delivering the vaccine into cells. However, the majority
      of people, particularly in the developing world, have immunity against the Ad5 vector, which
      means the vaccine will not be effective at preventing HIV infection. This study will use a
      rAd26 vector as part of a HIV vaccine, as research has shown that relatively few people have
      immunity against this vector. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and
      immunogenicity of a rAd26 vector preventive HIV-1 vaccine.

      This study will enroll healthy, HIV-uninfected people. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive either the rAd26 vaccine or a placebo vaccine. All vaccines will be injected into
      the upper arm. At the vaccination study visit, participants will undergo a medical and
      medication history review, physical examination, and a rectal sampling procedure. They will
      then receive their assigned vaccine. After receiving the vaccine, participants will remain in
      the clinic for at least 30 minutes for observation and monitoring of side effects.
      Participants will receive counseling on HIV risk reduction and pregnancy prevention. For 7
      days after the vaccination, participants will monitor their temperature and side effects.
      Additional study visits will occur at Days 1, 3, 7, 14, 28, 61, 168, and 365. At these
      visits, participants will undergo a medical history review, physical examination, counseling,
      and blood collection. At the Day 14 and 168 visits, a rectal sampling procedure will be
      performed. Participants will attend a study visit or be contacted by study researchers by
      telephone or e-mail 18 months after receiving the vaccine for follow-up health and safety
      monitoring. Participants may elect to attend optional follow-up visits for blood collection
      at Years 2, 3, 4, and 5.
    
  