
    
      Research Protocol

      Study Design: Randomized Control Trial This is a randomized control trial comparing the
      usefulness of impedance cardiography (ICG) directed therapy in treating severe range
      hypertension (systolic BP >160 OR diastolic BP >110) in patients greater than 20 weeks
      gestation. All patients in the study will receive standard of care medication within the
      suggested timeframe by the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG). All patients
      will receive a hemodynamic assessment prior to receiving and after receiving medications. The
      treatment patients will receive either labetalol or nifedipine therapy for hypertension based
      on their hemodynamic parameters. The control group will receive medication based on provider
      preference (which is the usual plan of care).

      Study Population:

      Patients presenting to Labor and Delivery at Cabell Huntington Hospital being treated for
      severe range blood pressures. Consent will be obtained prior to randomization to standard
      care or ICG directed care. Patient age range will be from age 15 to approximately 45.

      Schedule of Assessment:

      An interval assessment will be performed after 20 patients have been assessed. The goal is
      for a total enrollment of 150 patients, 75 to the ICG directed treatment group and 75 to the
      control group.

      Study Procedures:

      If a patient presents to Labor and Delivery at Cabell Huntington Hospital and consents to the
      study, she will be randomized to either the ICG directed therapy group or provider preference
      group. Patients from each group will receive a non-invasive hemodynamic assessment via the
      NICaS system. The NICaS system uses impedance cardiography which provides a reliable
      assessment of cardiovascular, respiratory, and fluid parameters. The vasodilator nifedipine
      will be initiated for increased systemic vascular resistance. Elevated cardiac output will be
      treated with beta blockade via IV labetalol. ACOG recommends either of these medications as
      first line therapy for elevated blood pressure, and offers no guidance on which medication
      should be used first. All patients who are being treated will receive the standard of care
      treatment, however the ICG group will receive therapy based on their hemodynamic parameters.

      Study Analysis The control group will be compared to the ICG directed treatment group.
    
  