
    
      Phase I The study will plan to enroll 3 patients in an initial cohort, to receive the dose
      level 1 of lenalidomide (10 mg PO) on days 1-14 of a 21-day cycle, and pembrolizumab (200 mg
      IV) on day 1. Patients will be evaluated for toxicities after initiation of treatment. If
      there are no DLTs for the initial 3 patients after one cycle, the next dosing cohort will
      open, with another 3 patients. Similarly, if the second cohort of patients receives the dose
      level 2 of lenalidomide (15 mg) for one cycle without DLT, then the third and final cohort
      will open. When the third cohort testing the dose level 3 of lenalidomide (20 mg) has
      completed one cycle, the phase I component of the trial will be completed. Standard phase I,
      3 + 3 design rules will be utilized as follows: if 1 out of 3 patients experiences a DLT at
      certain dose level, then 3 more patients will be enrolled at the same level. If 2 out of 6
      patients experience DLT at a certain dose level, 3 additional patients are added at the next
      lower level. Dose reduction is continued until at most 1 of 6 patients experiences DLT. The
      highest level with at most 1 of 6 patients DLT will be declared MTD. If no dose level
      achieves this criterion the trial will be discontinued for excess toxicity.

      Phase II A pre-treatment (archival) and fresh tumor sample will be needed for participation
      in trial. PD-L1 expression levels in both samples will be determined to assess the role of
      chemotherapy on expression level and pattern of this biomarker. Baseline blood samples will
      be collected for immunologic correlates prior to treatment on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and post
      treatment at 2, 4, 24 hours. Samples will also be collected prior to treatment on Day 1 of
      Cycle 2, and at time of progression. Baseline CT scan of the chest and abdomens will be
      obtained within 30 days prior to the initiation of cycle 1. CT scan with contrast or MRI with
      contrast of the brain will also be obtained within 30 days prior to the initiation of cycle
      1. Time to progression will be measured with disease imaging following every 2 cycles of
      therapy with a three-day window (+ or -). Patients will continue treatment until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity or two years of therapy. Overall survival will be
      assessed every 3 months during long term follow up
    
  