
    
      WHAT IS INVOLVED IN THE STUDY? Before participating in this study, there will be a screening
      process.

      Administration:

      Gemcitabine will be received directly into the cerebrospinal fluid (fluid that circulates
      around the brain and spinal cord) through an Ommaya reservoir (or other similar type of
      reservoir). An Ommaya reservoir is a surgically implanted catheter that is used to inject
      medication or to withdraw cerebrospinal fluid from the fluid chambers in the head.

      All patients will be hospitalized overnight following their first dose of gemcitabine. If the
      first dose is well tolerated, further doses of gemcitabine will be administered in the
      outpatient clinic with close observation for a minimum of 2 hours after administration.

      Weeks 1-6 Cohort 1a (first three patients):

      Gemcitabine will be given once a week for 6 weeks. Patients may continue therapy if the
      disease has not worsened.

      Weeks 1-6 (all other patients enrolled on this study):

      Gemcitabine will be given twice a week for 6 weeks. Patients may continue therapy if the
      disease has not worsened.

      Weeks 7-12:

      Gemcitabine will be given once a week for 6 weeks.

      Weeks 13-29 (approximately):

      Gemcitabine will be given twice monthly for 4 months.

      Weeks 30-52 (approximately):

      Gemcitabine will be given monthly for the duration of the study.

      For safety reasons, the first patients treated in the study will receive a low dose of
      gemcitabine. If that dose does not cause severe side effects, the next group will receive a
      higher dose of gemcitabine than given to the earlier group, or may receive a lower dose if
      side effects occur. In addition, the first three patients treated on this study will receive
      the gemcitabine once weekly. If this is tolerated, subsequent patients will receive the
      medication twice weekly.

      Following the first dose of gemcitabine investigators would like to draw special blood and
      spinal fluid samples to help learn how much of the drug is in the blood and spinal fluid.
      These studies are called pharmacokinetics. A total of 10 samples will be collected. The blood
      samples may be collected from an intravenous catheter or a central venous catheter. The
      spinal fluid samples may be collected either via Ommaya reservoir or lumbar reservoir.

      In addition to intrathecal gemcitabine, the patient may receive other chemotherapy, not given
      directly into the fluid surrounding the brain and spine, as recommended by his or her doctor
      for the treatment or prevention of cancer outside the lining of the brain and spinal cord.

      The maximum length of treatment with gemcitabine is one year. However, at the end of the
      study, monthly check-ups are required to monitor the disease and to make sure that any side
      effects from the study drug have stopped.
    
  