
    
      The purpose of the following study is to observe the effectiveness of group Exposure and
      Response Prevention verses individual Exposure and Response Prevention on patients with OCD
      for the use of future publications.

      A total of 70 individuals will be recruited through different methods. The primary
      recruitment sources will be through BCM Psychiatric Clinic patient flow. Although it is
      anticipated that most of the study recruitment will occur through normal BCM Psychiatric
      Clinic patient flow, study advertisements will also be circulated through several relevant
      sources (e.g. BCM OCD Program website, Peace of Mind Foundation website and listserv, social
      media pages and OCD organizations and groups). The investigators will also contact clinicians
      and professionals working with OCD patients (e.g., private clinics, community organizations)
      in the community to distribute advertisement flyers to potential participants.

      Enrollment will occur in person at Baylor College of Medicine after obtaining informed
      consent.

      Pertinent clinical information will be collected from paper or electronic medical records.
      Demographics (race, ethnicity, gender, education, employment status), and health history
      (concomitant medical history) will be collected and entered in the database. Data entered in
      the database will be coded. Patient identifying information such as name, address, telephone,
      date of birth, and medical record number will be extracted from the medical record. A study
      ID will be assigned to each subject. The code linking the consented subjects' clinical
      information to their study ID will be stored in a password protected database. The code
      linking key containing patient identifying information will be kept separately from the
      database. Any relevant paperwork, including videos, will be stored in a locked file cabinet
      in the PIs office.

      Prospective data collection will continue for those subjects that consent to participate in
      the study.

      Investigators wishing to utilize the information collected in this database must show proof
      of an IRB approved protocol that will be reviewed by the PI of this database registry before
      information can be released. Depending on the purpose of the research, data will be shared
      without identifiers if possible. If requested, data can be sent coded to the investigator.
      Only those subjects that fit inclusion criteria for the proposed research and specify that
      they consent to be contacted about other research will be shared with the other requesting
      investigators. Other investigators will not have access to the document that links coded data
      to identifiers.

      Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive either individual therapy (i.e., 12
      individual ERP sessions, each 45-60 minutes, offered twice weekly for a total of six weeks)
      or group therapy (a total of 6 group ERP sessions, each 120 minutes, offered weekly for 6
      weeks). Sessions will be led by an ERP trained mental health professional or trainee under
      the supervision of a licensed mental health professional. Both the individual and group
      participants will receive a total of 12 hours of ERP over the span of six weeks. However,
      those assigned to group therapy will meet for 2 hours weekly versus those assigned to
      individual therapy will meet for 1 hour twice weekly. Each session will consist of completed
      measures and therapy involving ERP for the entirety of the six weeks. Participants assigned
      to the group therapy protocol will be placed in groups, each consisting of 5-8 individuals,
      with two therapists per group.

      In the groups, Session 1 will focus on psychoeducation about ERP and OCD. Sessions 2-5 will
      involve ERP tasks. Session 6 will focus on relapse prevention strategies. In individual
      treatment, Session 1 will focus on psychoeducation, sessions 2-10 on ERP, 11-12 on relapse
      prevention.

      All patients will voluntarily participate in assessments with the researcher while also
      completing self-reported measures. All clinician-rated assessments will be conducted with an
      independent evaluator (IE). The demographic data will be collected at the beginning of
      treatment, Baseline. The Y-BOCS and self-report Y-BOCS will be administered at Baseline and
      Post-treatment. The Clinical Global Impression-Severity, OCD Identity Questionnaire, Sheehan
      Disability Scale, Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) Item Version and the Quality
      of Life (Q-LESQ-SF)-21 will be administered at Baseline, Mid treatment and Post-treatment to
      track patient symptomology. The weekly feedback measure will be administered every session to
      participants to collect data on their thoughts of how treatment is going. The following list
      of measures will be administered.

      Researcher Administered:

        1. Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS)

        2. Self-report Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale

        3. NIMH Global Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (NIMH-GOCS)

        4. Clinical Global Impression-Severity/Improvement *

      Self-Administered:

        1. Demographic Form - Baseline

        2. Sheehan Disability Scale- Baseline, Mid treatment and Post-treatment

        3. OCD Identity Questionnaire- Baseline, Mid treatment and Post-treatment

        4. Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - 21 Item Version (DASS-21) - Baseline, Mid treatment
           and Post-treatment

        5. Quality of Life-21 (Q-LESQ-SF) - Baseline, Mid treatment and Post-treatment

        6. Weekly Feedback Measure - Every session

      The investigators will enroll all eligible subjects. A total of 70 individuals will
      participate. This number is anticipated based on group and individual dyad enrollment.

      Descriptive analyses of participant data will be ongoing for one year, the entire duration of
      the study. For this study, descriptive statistics and symptomology improvements/ regressions
      analyses will be used to analyze study variables. Measures will be analyzed for use of future
      publications surrounding ERP treatment for OCD in groups and individual settings.
    
  