
    
      Heart failure (HF) represents a major health burden, with 80% of the HF health care costs
      attributable to hospitalizations. In a pilot multicenter study funded by the VA Center for
      Innovation, the investigators demonstrated that multivariate physiological telemetry using a
      small wearable sensor has a high compliance rate and provides accurate early detection of
      impending readmission for HF. In this study the investigators will implement non-invasive
      remote monitoring within the VA system and perform a feasibility evaluation of the
      intervention and its programmatic effectiveness after implementation. Our hypothesis is that
      the implementation of this program will be feasible and acceptable to clinicians working in
      VA HF clinics. The investigators also hypothesize that algorithmic response to an alert
      generated by the predictive algorithm using a continuous stream of remote monitoring data
      will be feasible and provide the basis for further testing of this approach to decrease the
      risk of hospitalization for HF and improve other key clinical outcomes. The specific aims of
      our study are:

      Aim 1. Implement remote monitoring into the clinical workflow of HF care. Aim 1a. Design
      implementation strategies for non-invasive remote monitoring and algorithmic response to
      clinical alerts generated by the predictive analytics platform. In HF programs at five VA
      medical centers, eligible patients will be enrolled at the time of hospital discharge for HF
      exacerbation and receive a wearable monitor and a smartphone with cellular service. Data
      continuously uploaded to a secure server will be analyzed by the predictive analytics
      algorithm and a clinical alert will be generated when physiological derangements correlated
      with impending HF exacerbation are identified. A clinical response algorithm will provide
      instructions for management response to the alert, to include medication changes and/or
      urgent/non-urgent outpatient assessment. The intervention will include electronic health
      record integration. The investigators will design implementation processes for this program
      using the integrated Promoting Action on Research Implementation in Health Services
      (i-PARiHS) framework, adapted for the VA QUERI. The investigators will design 3 phases of
      implementation: 1) implementation intervention planning through workflow analysis, technology
      assessments, and recipient/stakeholder interviews; 2) formative evaluation of pilot
      implementation at two vanguard sites to test initial acceptability, reliability, and
      equipment performance; and 3) implementation fidelity monitoring by assessing consistency,
      safety and satisfaction.

      Aim 1b. Evaluate implementation outcomes, including clinician and patient perceptions and
      adoption of the use of ambulatory remote monitoring data. The investigators will use both
      quantitative and qualitative research methods to examine the eight core dimensions of
      implementation outcomes. Focus groups and semi-structured interviews will be done to assess
      clinician and patient perceptions of acceptability and feasibility. Adoption behaviors will
      be tracked including alert response rates and appropriateness of decisions. Fidelity of
      implementation will be monitored by assessing compliance with all aspects of the study
      protocol. Penetration and sustainability will be evaluated by assessing variation in
      implementation outcomes across the five study sites as well as participant perceptions from
      the qualitative work at the end of the study.

      Aim 2. Conduct a feasibility study of non-invasive remote monitoring in chronic HF.

      Aim 2a. Define key characteristics that will inform design of a pivotal trial of non-invasive
      remote monitoring aimed at reducing rehospitalization and improving quality of life in HF.
      The investigators will enroll 240 patients hospitalized for HF exacerbation. At enrollment,
      subjects will undergo 1:1 randomization to intervention or control arm. While all study
      subjects will use the monitoring device for 90 days after discharge, in the intervention arm,
      clinicians will be notified of clinical alerts and will follow the response algorithm to
      modify HF treatment and/or recommend urgent clinic visit/emergency room visit. In the control
      arm, information from the sensor will be collected, but clinical alerts will not be generated
      or communicated to providers. The main study outcomes will include the proportion of
      randomized patients who meet the algorithm's criteria for at least one alert, the proportion
      of time the remote monitor is in use and functioning properly, HF hospitalization rate,
      length of hospital stay, and health-related quality of life. Implementation factors
      identified in Aim 1 will help clarify the results of this aim.

      Aim 2b. Identify costs associated with implementation and clinical use of non-invasive remote
      monitoring in HF. Correct classification of costs associated with implementation of
      non-invasive remote monitoring will set the stage for cost-effectiveness analyses in a future
      pivotal trial.

      Recent advances in technology and in machine learning provide an opportunity for processing
      of new sources of real-time patient-level data to generate clinically actionable information.
      An important knowledge gap is how to best implement this technology-based approach into
      clinical practice. Our study addresses this critical question of clinical implementation, and
      will generate feasibility data for a design of a pivotal clinical trial of non-invasive
      remote monitoring with predictive analytics during the high-risk period after hospital
      discharge. This work has potential to result in changes to care of Veterans with HF and other
      chronic health conditions.
    
  