
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      The intervention is designed as a multi-center, randomized, controlled, clinical trial to
      determine the effects of periodontal therapy on the rate of preterm birth. Study participants
      will be assigned to one of two study arms. All pregnant women who present to the designated
      Obstetrical (OB) clinics are potential subjects for this study. A total of 1800 patients will
      be enrolled at 3 performance sites, enrolling about 600 subjects at each site at a rate of
      about 171 subjects/year at each site, randomly assigning these subjects to one of 2 treatment
      arms. Randomization will be performed using a computer-generated assignment scheme designed
      and performed in a masked manner by the data coordinating center. Each performance site will
      enroll about 300 subjects into each treatment group using the intent-to-treat principle,
      obtaining follow-up on all subjects. In treatment Group 1 participants will be assigned to
      standard localized periodontal therapy of scaling and root planning with subgingival
      polishing between three and six months of gestation. Group 2 will receive the same local
      periodontal therapy immediately following delivery.

      MASKING:

      The dental examiner will not be aware of the randomization treatment assignments of
      participants until after a complete baseline periodontal examination has been conducted. The
      study protocol allows the dental examiner to know the treatment assignment of participants
      but this knowledge will not affect the assessment of the primary obstetric outcome of the
      study. OB personnel or individuals collecting OB data will be masked as to dental treatments.
      At delivery the second dental exam will be made without the examiner knowing the pregnancy
      outcome.

      PRIMARY/SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome is preterm delivery at less than 37 weeks gestational age, as determined
      by ultrasound dating. Secondary outcomes include (1) preterm delivery less than 35 weeks, (2)
      weight for gestational age, and (3) neonatal morbidity/mortality. It is our central
      hypothesis that mothers with periodontitis that receive periodontal treatment during the
      second trimester of pregnancy will experience a lower rate of preterm delivery at <37 weeks
      and secondarily <35 weeks; that periodontal treatment of these pregnant mothers will result
      in an increase in the weight for gestational age of deliveries occurring less than 37 weeks
      gestational age and reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality. We will determine the effects of
      periodontal therapy on the rate of preterm birth at GA<37 weeks as the principal outcome and
      on mean birth weight among neonates with GA<35 weeks, as a secondary outcome adjusting for
      race, gender and gestational age.

      POTENTIAL CONFOUNDERS AND COVARIATES:

      There are many potential risk factors that relate to preterm birth and growth restriction
      that need to be considered in this investigation. There are also exposures, effect modifiers
      and covariates that influence periodontal disease status and preterm birth. Data will be
      collected on the major variables of interest to include race, age, smoking, previous preterm
      delivery, first births, bacterial vaginosis, chorioamnionitis, sexually transmitted diseases
      (STDs), antibiotic usage, socioeconomic status (SES) and substance abuse. In addition we will
      measure fetal fibronectin and collect vaginal smears to examine for potential subclinical
      vaginosis. Detailed information will be collected on these potential factors and used to
      assure that randomization has effectively balanced risk between treatment arms and to permit
      post-hoc assessments.

      PLAN FOR MONITORING:

      There will be an administrative Steering committee consisting of the Obstetric and
      Periodontal Principal Investigator(PI) from each clinical site, the NIDCR co-investigators
      and the Data and Statistical Coordinating Center (DSCC) investigators. The Steering committee
      will meet twice the first year and once a year thereafter. Study coordinators will also
      attend one of the two annual meetings. Data will be collected on dental, obstetric and
      neonatal outcomes by the data & statistical coordinating center, monitoring weekly for
      adverse events. The DSCC will be collating adverse events and safety data centrally to
      provide safety assessment reports to the DSMB. The DSMB will monitor outcomes and adverse
      events and assure maternal and infant safety and provide feedback to NIDCR every 6 months or
      as needed.

      ADVERSE EVENTS:

      The dental examiner will conduct a comprehensive oral soft tissue (cancer screening) and
      periodontal examination at baseline and at post partum. Following enrollment mothers will be
      followed up by, OB surveillance through parturition, a post-delivery dental follow-up and
      neonatal surveillance that includes chart review after discharge. All of these provide an
      opportunity to detect and monitor adverse events. All reported and observed serious adverse
      events will be documented on an adverse event case report form describing the onset,
      duration, severity, assessment of causality and relationship to treatment intervention. This
      will be followed until resolution. A member of the investigative team will review subject's
      OB charts on a weekly basis to note any adverse events or treatment provided (outside of
      routine). In addition all neonatal discharge summary findings will be collected to monitor
      any adverse neonatal morbidity such as neonatal sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis. Any
      dental treatment will be noted in the subject's clinical record to be reviewed by the dental
      examiner.

      PLAN FOR DATA ANALYSIS:

      The details of the analysis plan appear in the body of the protocol, and are summarized here.
      The incidence of preterm birth as the principal outcome will be evaluated using a chi-square
      test. Approximately 240 cases are expected at gestational age (GA)<35 weeks. Success of
      randomization for possible confounders will be evaluated by logistic regression models.
      Significance will be indicated by an alpha level of 0.05. Mean birth weight among preterm
      babies will be analyzed for correlations and significant differences between study arms using
      a non-parametric test (Kruskal-Wallis test) Parametric (regression) models will be used to
      adjust for gestational age and other factors.]. Analyses will be conducted using the intent
      to treat philosophy. Data will be collected on a series of potential risk factors,
      covariates, confounders and effect modifiers that may influence the primary and secondary
      outcomes or periodontal status. Any unbalanced distribution of risks or exposures will be
      included in the regression model analysis. Adverse event data will be reported regularly.
      Interim analyses for efficacy will be conducted after 600 and 1200 completed pregnancies.
    
  