
    
      Background

      Pulmonary embolism (PE) is the third most common cause of death in the U.S., with at least
      650,000 cases occurring annually. Its frequency is similar in Europe. With the new generation
      of multi-detector Computed tomography scanners it is possible to depict the pulmonary
      vascular tree with a single intravenous injection of iodinated contrast medium (CM) in one
      breath-hold. This non-invasive method can delineate pulmonary arteries to their third-fourth
      branches and its overall negative predictive value lies above 99%. Therefore, Computed
      tomography-angiography with multi-detector scanners (MDCTA) is nowadays the preferred
      modality over conventional angiography or nuclear scintigraphic ventilation-perfusion (V/Q)
      scanning of the lung to exclude acute Pulmonary embolism(PE).

      Unfortunately, Computed tomography uses ionising radiation and is already the largest
      contributor of radiation dose to the population in the Western countries. Most recent reports
      suggest that 1.5 to 2% of all fatal cancers are induced by Computed tomography in the U.S,
      equalling 25,420 cases per year. Furthermore, the rate of young adults with suspected
      Pulmonary embolism (PE) repeatedly examined with Multidetector Computed Tomography
      Angiography (MDCTA) is growing. Therefore, policies to reduce patient exposure are becoming
      more important in order to reduce the risk of developing cancer in the patients´ later life.
      On the other hand, elderly patients, who often has an impaired renal function or diabetes,
      may develop contrast induced nephropathy after the application of iodinated contrast media
      in, which is one of the most common causes of renal failure. Reducing iodine load in this
      patient group can efficiently prevent nephropathy, saving patients from dialysis and reducing
      medical costs.

      Computed tomography protocols using low x-ray tube potential are capable of lowering
      radiation exposure with simultaneous increase of signal from the contrasted vessels.
      Furthermore, the higher vessel signal makes a reduction of the injected iodinated contrast
      material possible. Thus, low-kVp pulmonary CTA is warranted for routine use not only in
      younger patients to reduce radiation dose but also in the elderly to reduce the risk of
      contrast induced nephropathy.

      In 2007 we reduced the tube energy of our routine pulmonary Multidetector Computed Tomography
      Angiography (MDCTA) protocol from 120 to 100 kVp which significantly reduced radiation dose.
      Our experience in more than 200 patients and results from a simulation study show that 80 kVp
      CTPA protocols using reduced radiation exposure by 40% and reduced volume of the injected
      contrast material by 25% provide an excellent image quality and a very good delineation of PE
      in patients weighing up to 100 kg. However, there is no clinical evidence based from
      prospective trials on the impact of low-dose CTPA on the detection of PE. Therefore, a large
      scale prospective randomised study comparing 100 kVp and 80 kVp protocols in respect
      sensitivity and specificity is warranted.

      Objective

      Assessment of diagnostic accuracy with normal-dose and low-dose CTPA in the detection of
      pulmonary embolism and to show the non-inferiority of the latter.

      Methods

      This is a monocentric, prospective randomised clinical study involving 500 patients with
      suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) undergoing CT pulmonary angiography. Examinations are and
      will be only performed if they are clinically indicated.

      All patients weighing less than 100 kg with indicated CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA)to
      exclude pulmonary embolism (PE) between September 2008 and December 2012 are regarded as
      possible study candidates. The patients, if eligible, are randomly examined using a
      normal-dose (100 kVp, 100 mAs, 100 mL CM @ 4 mL/s) or a low-dose (80 kVp, 150 mAs, 75 mL CM @
      3 mL/s) CTPA protocol. Patients characteristics are recorded. Studies will be analyzed for
      pulmonary embolism (PE) localization. Findings will be compared to results from sonography of
      the lower extremity veins and V/Q scan of the lungs, if these were indicated, to clinical
      scores (revised Geneva and Wells scores) and to PE related death/ medical evidence of
      pulmonary emboli(PE) in 90 days following CTPA.
    
  