
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in neonates.
      Especially neonates, who are smaller than 32 weeks of gestational, need transfusions during
      their hospital stay. Recent evidences suggest a relation between antecedent PRBC transfusions
      and an increase in necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). It has been reported that transfusion
      related NEC (TR-NEC) tend to occur immediately and up to 48 hours post-transfusion. Although
      the underlying mechanism of this relationship is still overinvestigation, altered oxygenation
      of the mesenteric vasculature during PRBC transfusion has been hypothesized to contribute to
      NEC development. But pathophysiology of this has not been cleared, yet. Nowadays, due to the
      increased risk of NEC during PRBC transfusion, different nutrition protocols are implemented
      in different units. These protocols contain permanent discontinuation, reducement or
      continuation of nutrition during the transfusion. As a result, there is still no evidence
      -based practice recommendation in this regard.

      "Restricted Transfusion Guidelines" will be used for the decision of transfusion in premature
      infants. Patients will be divided into three different groups, according to their feeding
      regimen during transfusion.

      Group 1: No enteral feeding before (two hours), during (3 hours) and after (two hours) red
      blood cell transfusion.

      Group 2: Enteral feeding is reduced by %50 before, during and after the red blood cell
      transfusion.

      Group 3: The same feeding volume will be continued without decreasing or stopping.

      Groups will be determined with randomization. It was targeted to be at least twenty infants
      in each group. In all patients, mesenteric oxygenation will be compared before-during and
      after blood transfusion. Mesenteric oxygenation will be measured with Near Infrared
      Spectroscopy (NIRS), that is a non-invasive NIRS conducted technology. Cerebral oxygenation
      and peripheral oxygen saturations will be measured at the same timeline.

      The investigators primary aim is to show the best method of feeding during transfusion that
      causes less feeding intolerance and NEC. The secondary outcomes will be the risk factors
      associated with feeding intolerance and NEC during PRBC transfusion, in premature babies.
    
  