
    
      Gaucher disease (GD) is a rare lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the gene
      encoding acid-Beta-glucosidase (Beta-glucocerebrosidase [GCase]) (Gba), the lysosomal enzyme
      that catalyzes the breakdown of the lipid glucosylceramide (glucosylcerebroside [GlcCer]).
      The resulting deficiency in GCase activity leads to an intracellular accumulation of the
      substrate GlcCer, primarily in macrophage cells. These lipid-laden macrophages, known as
      Gaucher cells, are the hallmark of the disease and their accumulation in the liver, bone
      marrow, and spleen elicits the clinical symptoms associated with GD.

      Pharmacological chaperone therapy is a novel approach to treat diseases due to protein
      misfolding/mistrafficking using small molecule ligands to rescue and increase the residual
      function of mutant proteins. For lysosomal storage diseases in which the causative mutant
      enzymes have residual activity, reversible inhibitors can act as pharmacological chaperones
      that specifically bind, stabilize, and facilitate the proper folding and trafficking of the
      mutant enzyme to the lysosome, thereby increasing its ability to degrade the accumulated
      substrate.

      AT2101 (isofagomine [IFG] tartrate) is an iminosugar that functions as a selective
      pharmacological chaperone of GCase that is less stably folded as a result of missense
      mutations. Current data suggest that AT2101 may work by stabilizing mutant GCase in the
      endoplasmic reticulum and promoting trafficking of the enzyme to the lysosome. In the
      lysosome, when the pharmacological chaperone is displaced, the enzyme can perform its normal
      function, which is the breakdown of glucocerebroside.

      This study is designed primarily to evaluate and characterize the effects of AT2101 on
      (GCase) activity and other markers of disease in lymphoblast and macrophage cell lines
      derived from patients with GD. Fifty subjects with a confirmed diagnosis of GD and a known
      Gba genotype will be enrolled in the trial.

      The study will consist of one study visit. Clinical information will be collected
      retrospectively. Collected information will include but not be limited to GD diagnosis,
      medical history, family history, assessments of clinical severity and genotype. Blood samples
      for a series of ex vivo assays will be collected. Blood cell lines will be derived from the
      subjects' blood samples and used for the ex vivo assays, which will be conducted at a central
      laboratory.
    
  