
    
      Bisphenol A (BPA) is utilized primarily in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastic and epoxy
      resins, which are widely used in the fabrication of baby bottles and food can linings.
      Consequently, human exposures to BPA are widespread. However, there is still uncertainty
      about the extent and nature of these exposures. This pharmacokinetic (PK) study is aimed at
      refining our understanding of the metabolism and excretion of BPA following two different
      routes of administration. This investigation is also intended to help resolve current
      controversies in BPA risk assessment. We will administer 100 microgram/kg body weight (bw) of
      deuterated BPA (d-BPA) orally and/or dermally (as an ethanol solution or a
      carboxymethylcellulose suspension), in up to 50 participants, with comparable numbers of men
      to women, and collect blood and urine for measurements of d-BPA and d-BPA conjugates at
      selected time points over a six day period post-dosing. The use of d-BPA will allow the
      detection of the administered BPA to be distinguished from background BPA. The primary
      endpoint of the study is detection of measurable d-BPA and d-BPA conjugates in blood and
      urine after administration of a single dose of 100 microgram/kg bw d-BPA applied orally
      and/or dermally (as an ethanol solution or a carboxymethylcellulose suspension). Participants
      will be given an option to complete either one or both phases of the study, the exposure
      visits separated by a period of at least 4 weeks. Dose selection was based on balancing the
      need for detectable levels of BPA in blood and urine to meet the objective and the need to
      minimize human subject risk. Data from the first 3 participants in the study, who received
      oral d-BPA, confirmed dosing during the oral pilot phase was sufficient in capturing
      measurable d-BPA in blood and urine and will continue at 100 microgram/kg bw of d-BPA for
      oral dosing. Dermal exposure will consist of a pilot phase for this route of administration
      comprising 4 participants to assess whether 100 microgram/kg bw of d-BPA applied to the skin
      is sufficient to obtain measurable d-BPA in blood and/or urine in order to establish PK
      parameters and to evaluate whether the time points are appropriate and necessary. If needed,
      the dermal pilot phase will be repeated using an ethanol solution rather than a
      carboxymethylcellulose suspension. The design includes sufficient sampling of blood and urine
      to define relevant PK parameters, including the rate of BPA absorption, plasma elimination
      rate, area under the curve (AUC) and apparent clearance, half-life, the urinary excretion
      rate, and the fractional metabolic clearance of the glucuronide and sulfate conjugates.
    
  