
    
      The purpose of the study is described in the "Brief Summary" section.

      Patients scheduled for ACL reconstruction at the Section of Arthroscopic Surgery and Sports
      Traumatology M51, Department of Orthopedics, Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital are eligible
      for this study Eligibility criteria are described in the "Eligibility" section.

      The patients are scheduled for ACL surgery at consultation with a doctor from the Section of
      Arthroscopic Surgery and Sports Traumatology after usual, clinical criteria. The doctor
      informs the patient about the project, gives the patient the written patient information, and
      if the patient shows interest in the study, an appointment is scheduled with one of the
      surgeons involved in the project.

      At this appointment the patient is informed about the project by the surgeon. The patients
      will be granted the reflection time they need before consenting or rejecting.

      Before the day of surgery muscle power, muscle coordination and functional tests are
      performed, and objective tests and PROMs are completed.

      Surgery is performed by one of two surgeons experienced in all three methods of surgery as
      described in the "Arms and Interventions" section.

      After the patient is put under general anaesthesia the method of ACL reconstruction is chosen
      by opening a sealed envelope.

      Outcome measures are recorded at 1-year and 2-year follow-up.

      All three methods of reconstruction are believed to have the same risk for basic
      complications: infection (approx. 1%), stiffening of the knee (approx. 2%) and deep venous
      thrombosis (approx. 1 %)

      It is assumed that a 20% difference in a patient reported outcome score (KNEES-ACL)
      represents a clinically relevant difference. Based on standard deviations for the outcome
      score, and with a 90% power, significant differences of 20 % can be shown in a sample of 20
      patients. Significance level is set at 5%. The investigators aim for 30 patients in each
      group, considering potential drop-outs.
    
  