
    
      Nowadays, Y-chromosome microdeletions are one of the most common causes of male infertility.
      With a frequency of 8-20% in non-obstructive azoospermic men and 3-14% in severe
      oligozoospermic men, is the most usual chromosome anomaly associated with failure in sperm
      production, although the frequency seems to change due to differences in the experimental
      designs, the ethnic differences, the genetic background, or even environmental influences.

      The absence of some genes located on certain regions in the long arm of the human Y
      chromosome, known as the azoospermia factor region (AZF), causes spermatogenic failure, while
      spermatozoa has been found in either the ejaculate or the testicle of most patients.
      Detection of deletions is crucial for the medical treatment of these patients, since it has a
      prognostic value in predicting potential success of testicular sperm retrieval in azoospermic
      patients with certain microdeletions, and allows avoiding invasive techniques in
      oligozoospermic patients whose sperm production could result in progressive worsening.

      The development of assisted reproduction techniques, such as intracytoplasmatic sperm
      injection (ICSI), together with testicular or epididymis sperm retrieval for azoospermic men
      has allowed these patients to become fathers using their own gametes. Although the effect of
      Y-chromosome microdeletions on ICSI outcome is controversial, the ability to vertically
      transmit that genetic defect, and so the infertility, to the offspring has been accepted.
      Until recently, no clinical consequences other than infertility were supposed in the
      ICSI-conceived sons of fathers with deletions. However, different studies in the last years,
      suggest other potentially risks transmitted to the offspring, such as the development of
      sexual dysfunction due to sex chromosome abnormalities (Turner or Klinefelter syndromes,
      etc.) or other somatic disorders with worse health implications caused by chromosome
      aberrations outside the AZF regions or in autosomes that has been associated to Y-chromosome
      microdeletions. No major clinical complications than infertility has been described in the
      offspring born from fathers with deletions to date, but it is important to remember that the
      first generation of those babies, mainly obtained by ICSI, has just reached maturity.
      Moreover, the mentioned chromosome anomalies, could stop embryo development or increase
      miscarriage rate. Few studies focused in the incidence of miscarriages in these couples but
      microdeletions have been detected more frequents in men from couples with recurrent pregnancy
      loss.

      In order to offer fully genetic counseling to these couples, further studies focusing on the
      relationship between Y-chromosome microdeletions and other chromosomal abnormalities, which
      also provide information about their consequences in their embryos, are required. Thus, the
      actual risk of transmitting different anomalies associated to microdeletions to those embryos
      will be clarified, increasing the chances of a successful pregnancy and live birth.

      In this study, investigators assess, using Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (FISH) and
      Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH) arrays for Preimplantation Genetic Screening (PGS),
      the incidence of aneuploidies in spermatozoa and embryos from infertile men with and without
      microdeletions who undergo assisted reproduction in their clinics.
    
  