
    
      A. Objective

      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a heritable neurodevelopmental disorder
      with a reported male predominance that persists into adulthood and leads to significant
      morbidity in affected individuals. ADHD is currently hypothesized to reflect central
      dopaminergic dysfunction. Evaluation of human dopaminergic dysfunction using in vivo
      neuroimaging has been limited to studies of receptor localization and quantification, and
      dopamine synthesis, rather than direct measurement of the functional status of receptor
      signaling. There exists a need to thoroughly elucidate mechanisms underlying aberrant
      dopaminergic neurotransmission downstream of receptor activation in signaling processes. We
      have developed an in vivo method to measure neuroreceptor-initiated signal transduction
      involving activation of phospholipase A(2) to release the second messenger, arachidonic acid
      (AA). We propose to use positron emission tomography (PET) to quantitatively image
      dopamine-initiated signal transduction via AA in ADHD patients and healthy volunteers, in
      subjects administered the dopaminergic agonist, apomorphine, and to measure regional cerebral
      blood flow (rCBF) as well. We hypothesize that signaling and flow responses to apomorphine
      will be elevated, demonstrating hypersensitivity of the dopamine signaling mechanism.

      B. Study population

      18 healthy male volunteers between the ages of 18 and 55, will be recruited for this study
      (see justification for recruitment of males only in Study Design and Methods).

      C. Design

      All subjects will have up to four study-related visits to the Clinical Center in Bethesda
      over a one-year period, including an overnight stay. Participants will also be asked to
      complete an initial comprehensive telephone questionnaire to elicit whether they meet
      criteria for study participation, followed by on-site visits to NIH to complete a modified
      battery of neuropsychiatric screening tests related to symptom presence and severity.
      Questions relating to medical, family, psychiatric and developmental histories and lifestyle
      will be asked. In addition, visits will include a physical exam as well as blood and urine
      collection, and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head. Subject
      participation will culminate with sequential subcutaneous administration of a single dose of
      control vehicle solution (control) followed by the dopamine agonist apomorphine (after
      appropriate pre-medication with the anti-emetic, trimethobenzamide) or two sequential
      injections of vehicle for PET scans with attendant radiolabeled compounds.

      D. Outcome Parameters

      This study has four specific aims. First, regional cerebral blood flow will be quantified in
      response to an acute challenge with apomorphine s.c. and compared between study groups
      (ADHD/non-ADHD). Second, dopamine D(2)-like receptor signal transduction will be evaluated by
      PET in response to an acute challenge with apomorphine s.c. and compared between study groups
      (ADHD/non-ADHD). Third, baseline esterified and unesterified serum fatty acids will be
      compared between patients and control subjects. Lastly, we will examine the acute effect of
      apomorphine in the stimulation of serum growth hormone in all subjects, as confirmatory
      evidence for stimulation of central dopaminergic receptors.
    
  