
    
      Type I diabetes is one of the most common diseases of childhood and its incidence has been
      increasing worldwide. By age 18, 1 in 300 children will be affected by Type 1 Diabetes1. Not
      only are children diagnosed with diabetes met with significant morbidity due to their
      disease, but they are also expected to be active participants in daily often complicated
      treatment regimens. As children with Type 1 diabetes grow older and eventually spend time
      away from their parents or caregivers, they are forced to manage their own care. Over the
      last several years, health systems in the United States have become more patient-centered and
      have focused on autonomy and patient preference. With the advent of technology that makes
      self-directed education possible, this patient-centered approach needs to be applied to
      children diagnosed with Type I diabetes.

      When clinicians are at the center of educating patients with diabetes, they often communicate
      more directly with parents, who then use the information they receive to manage their child's
      care. This model, however, does not account for the fact that children with diabetes will one
      day need to manage their own care and that patients who are active participants and who
      understand their disease process will be more likely to cooperate with treatment regimens and
      lifestyle interventions. It is often difficult for any patient, child or adult, to process
      educational information provided verbally in a physician's office, especially immediately
      after they have been diagnosed with a life-long disease. Educational tools therefore need to
      focus on incorporating methods that best serve the patients being educated.

      Since individuals learn in different ways and at different paces, interactive educational
      tools can help patients and their families learn in a way that can be individualized and
      private and can also be fun and creative. As our patients are growing up surrounded by
      technology, the use of this technology for education might provide a sense of normalcy to
      children and teenagers already overwhelmed by processes that are often difficult for them to
      identify with or understand. We hope that patients and families who are given the opportunity
      to learn independently will become better equipped to manage self-care and will develop a
      sense of involvement in their treatment. Interactive tools will also help patients and
      families become more actively engaged in understanding their disease process and can help
      them to become more active participants in their care.
    
  