
    
      While significant progress has been made toward identifying effective interventions for
      preschool-age children with autism (National Research Council, 2001), few scientifically
      rigorous studies have compared active ingredients of these interventions or examined outcomes
      focused on core deficits. To address these areas of need, this collaborative, multi-site
      project combines the expertise of investigators experienced in randomized controlled clinical
      trials (RCTs), in the study of core deficits in young children with autism, and in data
      management and analysis of multi-site clinical trials.

      The goal of this project is to compare the efficacy of two interventions for improving spoken
      language and reducing symptoms of autism: (1) Discrete trial training (DTT)--an applied
      behavior analysis approach emphasizing highly structured teaching of school readiness skills
      (match-to-sample, imitation, functional play, and receptive and expressive language) and (2)
      Interpersonal developmental approach (IDA): a visually supported, child-focused, flexible
      engagement, social communicative engagement approach on joint attention, symbolic play, and
      the use of conventional symbols within socially valid communicative contexts.

      Children will be randomly assigned to DTT or IDA. In each condition, children's ongoing early
      intervention programs will be augmented with two 30-minute sessions daily of the study
      intervention (DTT or IDA) conducted by supervised therapists for 4 months, with transition to
      home therapy for 2 months.

      Potential moderators (e.g., initial mental age and language age) and mediators (e.g. parent
      synchronization of joint attention and changes in parental expectancies) on treatment outcome
      will also be examined.

      The assessment measures will include diagnostic and developmental measures. There are three
      sets of assessments. The first set of assessments is to determine whether the child is
      eligible for the study. If the child is eligible, we will complete the next set of
      assessments, which are completed at three points: (1) prior to entry into the treatment (this
      is a baseline measurement conducted just before the start of the treatment phase); (2) at
      exit; and (3) at a 6 month follow-up. Several assessments will also be completed after 2
      months, 4 months, and 6 months.
    
  