
    
      Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common peripheral vestibular
      disorder, accounting for 20% of all vertigo cases. It was first described by Barany in 1921,
      and later described in more detail by Dix and Hallpike in 1952. Common practice by ED
      physicians is to rule out serious medical causes for their symptoms. It is presently common
      for ED physicians to treat these patients mainly with benzodiazepines, antihistamines, and
      anticholinergic medications, especially if the history and physical is consistent with BPPV.
      This method of treatment has had questionable success. Several reviews of the management of
      vertigo have shown that no medication in current use has well established curative or
      prophylactic value or is suitable for long-term treatment.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of vestibular rehabilitation vs.
      conventional therapy in ED patients who present with vertigo. The objectives to be determined
      in this study are as follows:

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the improvement of vertigo in patients diagnosed with BPPV in the ED.

        2. To evaluate disposition time for those patients receiving vestibular rehabilitation in
           the ED compared to those patients who receive conventional therapy.

        3. To demonstrate the long-term improvement of symptomatology utilizing vestibular
           rehabilitation versus conventional therapy.

        4. Compare patient satisfaction between those patients who receive standard care vs. those
           who receive vestibular rehabilitation.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Subject is a male or female >18 years of age.

        2. Subject has presented to the Emergency Department Monday through Friday during the hours
           of 8 AM to 4:30 PM or possibly extended into the evening and weekend hours if research
           or physical therapy staff is available, and is diagnosed with BPPV.

        3. Subject has positive findings of vertigo and nystagmus when the Dix-Hallpike maneuver is
           performed during physical examination. A Dix-Hallpike maneuver will be considered
           positive when the patient experiences nystagmus but resolves or fatigues in less than 60
           seconds

        4. Informed consent can be obtained for participation in this study.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Subject has taken any antihistamines or anticholinergics within the past 12 hours.

        2. Subjects who are unable to ambulate.

        3. Subjects with severe cervical spine disease or known cerebral vascular disease.

        4. Any positive findings during the neurological exam during physical examination.

        5. Subjects who have negative finding of vertigo and nystagmus when the Dix- Hallpike
           maneuver is performed by the Physical Therapist or research staff even if the subject
           had a positive finding of vertigo and nystagmus when the Dix-Hallpike maneuver was
           performed by the physician or resident.

        6. Subjects with a known history of Meniere's Disease.

        7. Any cardiac complaints during physical examination or subject has experienced a positive
           loss of consciousness.

        8. Subject has been previously enrolled in this study.

        9. Subjects with mental conditions that render them unable to understand the nature,

       10. Subjects who are unlikely to comply with the study such as subjects with uncooperative
           attitude, unlikely to complete follow-up visits, or unlikely to complete the study.

       11. Any other condition which would confound or interfere with evaluation or prevent
           compliance with the study protocol.

      Statistical Considerations/Data Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be completed under consult with Health Studies Research.
      Inter-Rater Reliability analysis will be completed by the physical therapists and nurse
      researchers prior to the study using video analysis of nystagmus and post-test of technique
      by a physical therapist certified in vestibular rehabilitation. After enrollment of these
      subjects a data peak power analysis will be conducted to calculate exact sample size needed
      to complete this study. This will also give us an indication of the length of time needed to
      conduct this study.
    
  