
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of conducting a randomized controlled trial, in terms of
           recruiting and retaining participants, to a study of healing touch (HT) as supportive
           care in patients receiving chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia or acute
           lymphoblastic leukemia.

        -  Examine potential barriers to participation and ascertain reasons for study drop-outs in
           these patients.

        -  Demonstrate whether these patients will comply with treatment sessions and remain in the
           study.

        -  Obtain preliminary data on the effectiveness of HT on psychological distress and
           treatment-related symptoms focusing on fatigue and sleep disturbances in these patients.

        -  Determine if the HT protocol needs to be refined, modified, or eliminated, based on
           pilot participant feedback, for a randomized clinical trial.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

      Within 1 week of admission to the hospital, patients are interviewed by a research assistant
      about previous use of complementary or alternative medicine therapies, knowledge of healing
      touch (HT), previous experience with HT, willingness to participate in a study of HT for
      acute leukemia patients, and willingness to be randomized in a HT study. The first 12
      patients interested in undergoing HT undergo a 30-minute session of HT therapy 3 times a week
      during weeks 2, 3, and 4 of induction or reinduction chemotherapy. Patients are also asked to
      rate current distress, pain, fatigue, and nausea before and after the second HT session
      during weeks 2, 3, and 4. Patients also complete self-report questionnaires at baseline,
      during week 5 of induction or reinduction chemotherapy or prior to discharge from the
      hospital, and during the first week of consolidation chemotherapy (approximately week 9-13).

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  