
    
      TMS measurement and clinical outcome measurement will be performed on 119 stroke subjects
      with upper limb impairment with FMA score at 0-45 at within 1 month from stroke, 6-8 weeks
      post-stroke, 6 months post-stroke. It is important to know the cortical excitability as well
      as clinical outcome measurement at the same time point, at different stages of stroke
      including acute phase, which enables us to know the interaction between brain activity and
      functional outcome. In addition, studies have shown both TMS (Pennisi et al, 1999) and
      clinical outcome measurement (FMA)(De Weerdt and Harrison 1985; Bernspang et al. 1987; Feys
      et al. 2000) are measurable at acute phase after stroke.

      Subjects will be recruited from the existing patients on the study physician's cohort of
      patients and from referrals from attending physicians. During the initial screening visit,
      FMA will be administered by trained research staff, the questionnaire of MMSE will also be
      administered by trained research staff for subject's cognitive assessment. Subjects'
      eligibility will be verified by self-report from the participants as well as their medical
      records accessed by participating physicians. It will be ascertained that subject fulfills
      criteria for participation and informed consent will be obtained by study staff. Subjects
      will be fully briefed in detail regarding the experimental procedure, risk and benefits
      involved and their responsibilities during the study. Subject will continue with their
      routine rehabilitation training when they are in the trial.

      For patients whose MEP could not be induced by single pulse TMS stimulation, they will be
      randomly divided into 2 groups with one group receiving 1mA tDCS stimulation for 20 minutes
      to the primary motor cortex of cortical representation of the hand, while the other group
      will receive sham stimulation of tDCS.

      A research staff supervised by a physician will apply the tDCS to subjects whose MEP could
      not be induced by TMS stimulation to the corresponding cortex area. Direct current will be
      transferred by a saline-soaked pair of surface sponge electrode (35cm2) and delivered by a
      battery-operated, constant current stimulator with a maximum output of 10mA, through a
      non-metallic conductor rubber electrode. Stimulation will be conducted at the intensity of 1
      mA and last for 20 minutes. The anode will be placed over the affected primary motor cortex
      (M1) of cortical representation of the hand, while the cathode will be used as reference
      electrode and placed over the forehead of the unaffected side. The same stimulation
      parameters as tDCS treatment will be employed for the sham stimulation. However, the current
      will be applied for 30 seconds only, to give subjects the sensation of the stimulation.
      Current intensity will be increased and decreased gradually (0-1mA) to decrease perception.
      It is postulated to recruit 20 subjects for each intervention group. The real or sham tDCS
      intervention will be conducted daily for 10 days after the first and before the second TMS
      assessment, i.e., between 2 to 6 weeks after the stroke onset. And the real or sham tDCS will
      be conducted before the daily traditional rehabilitation training, if any.

      A research staff supervised by a physician will apply TMS measurement of the cortical
      excitability and intracortical inhibition/facilitation to the subject. Patients will be
      seated comfortably and instructed to remain as still as they can. A tight swim cap will be
      worn by the subject. The vertex will be marked on the cap. Singe pulse TMS was delivered
      using Magstim Bistim² stimulator via the coil of figure of eight. The coil position was
      maintained manually by an assistant and the handle of the coil point to posterior with an
      angel of 45 degree to the sagittal plane. Surface electromyography (EMG) electrodes are
      attached to the abductor pollicis brevis muscle (APB) for EMG recording. The "hot spot" of
      the motor evoked potential (MEP) from APB is first identified and marked for both left and
      right side. This spot will be used for all recordings on that side. The lowest intensity
      needed to elicit a MEP response of at least 50µV amplitude and that has been elicited in 50%
      of 8 successive trials will be recorded as resting motor threshold (RMT).

      For intracortical inhibition/facilitation recording, a first subthreshold conditioning
      stimulus (80% of RMT) will be applied, followed by a second suprathreshold stimulus (120% of
      RMT) with a variable interstimulus interval (ISI). The following ISIs - 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10,
      12, 15 ms will be used. The percentage of change for each ISI before and after TMS will be
      calculated from the MEPs and will therefore provide a measure of change in intracortical
      facilitation and inhibition. Both single- and paired-pulse paradigms will be performed on the
      affected and unaffected hemisphere.

      Clinical outcome measurement includes a battery of upper limb motor tests: Fugl-Meyer
      Assessment, Modified Ashworth scale for spasticity, manual muscle testing and box and block
      test, which will be performed by a trained research staff.
    
  