
    
      The investigators propose to conduct a multi-center open-label randomized controlled trial to
      assess if early intervention (12.0-14.0 weeks) (study group) improves the outcome of TRAP
      sequence as compared to late intervention (16.0-19.0 weeks) (control group). The
      investigators will randomly assign women diagnosed with TRAP sequence diagnosed between 11.6
      and 13.6 weeks (1:1) to an early or late intervention group, using a web-based application
      (www.sealedenvelope.com) with a computer-generated list with random permuted blocks of sizes
      2 or 4, stratified by gestational age at inclusion (11.6 -12.6 weeks versus 13.0-13.6 weeks).
      Analysis will be by intention-to-treat. Outcome will be adjudicated blinded to group
      allocation.

      All interventions will be done under local anaesthesia and/or conscious sedation in sterile
      conditions by an experienced operator. They must be performed within 1 week after
      randomisation and at the latest at 14.0 weeks in the early group and 19.0 weeks in the late
      group. In the early group, only intrafetal coagulation will be used. Intrafetal ablation will
      be performed under ultrasound guidance using an 18-gauge (1.27 mm) to 20-gauge (0.91 mm)
      needle with a free-hand technique. The needle is introduced into the pelvis/abdomen of the
      TRAP mass close to the intra-abdominal portion of the feeding vessel, while avoiding puncture
      of the placenta and pump twin sac. The procedure is considered successful when there is
      complete cessation of reverse flow into the TRAP mass on intraoperative color-flow mapping.

      In the late intervention/control group either intrafetal coagulation or fetoscopic laser
      coagulation will be performed of the cord and/or anastomosing vessels, unless the flow has
      stopped spontaneously or demise of the pump twin has occurred in the meantime. Intrafetal
      coagulation is done as described above by using a 17-gauge (1.47 mm) to 20-gauge needle.
      Alternatively, fetoscopic laser coagulation of the cord or anastomosing vessels can be
      performed through a 17-gauge to 7 French trocar with 1-1,3 mm fetoscope and 400 μm laser
      fiber. The rationale not to standardize the technique in the late intervention group is that
      several techniques have been reported for treatment after 16 weeks without any significant
      differences in outcome. Also, it is usual for the surgeon to adapt the technique to the
      requirements of each individual case, e.g. for a posterior placenta, the surgeon may prefer
      fetoscopic rather than intrafetal coagulation. Not restricting the technique to only 1 option
      will therefore more truly represent current practice and increase the generalizability of the
      trial's findings.

      Patients will be discharged the same day or 1 day after the procedure. Management and
      follow-up will be similar for the study and the control or current practice group. A
      follow-up scan is usually performed 1 week after the intervention to check for fetal
      well-being and exclude anemia. A detailed ultrasound scan will be arranged in a fetal
      medicine center at 20 and 30 weeks to assess the heart and brain anatomy. Some centers may
      offer an MRI scan at around 30 weeks as part of the protocol for monochorionic twin
      pregnancies that underwent an intrauterine intervention. Antenatal, peripartum and postnatal
      care of the mother will be similar to that of a singleton pregnancy and at the discretion of
      the referring physician. Intrauterine intervention for TRAP sequence is not an indication for
      cesarean or elective preterm birth.
    
  