
    
      This is a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled
      study in adults who are scheduled for unilateral inguinal hernioplasty via open laparotomy
      (tension-free technique). Patients will receive either 3 XaraColl Bupivacaine Implants each
      containing 100 mg of bupivacaine hydrochloride, for a 300 mg total dose; or 3
      placebo-sponges.

      Three test article sponges will be implanted according to the patient's blinded treatment
      assignment. Following surgery, patients will be transferred to a postanesthesia care unit
      (PACU) and/or other postoperative recovery area for observation where they may receive
      parenteral morphine as needed (rescue medication for breakthrough pain) and on request for
      pain control. Once patients can tolerate oral medication, they will commence a standardized
      oral analgesic regimen with additional PRN medication to manage breakthrough pain only when
      it occurs.

      Patients will assess their postoperative pain intensity (PI) using an 11-point numerical
      rating scale (NRS) from 0 hour through 72 hours postoperatively.

      Patients will be observed postoperatively for a minimum of 3 hours and may be discharged at
      any time following completion of their 3-hour vital sign and PI assessments. Patients will be
      contacted at approximately 6, 24 and 48 hours after implantation to ensure protocol
      compliance and to perform safety assessments (including AEs and concomitant medications). At
      72 hours, patients will return to the clinic to perform their final PI assessment, complete a
      categorical assessment of their overall pain control, and for follow-up safety assessments.
      They will also be asked to record the incidence of any ongoing or subsequent AEs (and any
      associated treatment) through Day 7. Additional follow-up assessments for safety will be
      performed at postoperative Day 7 (telephone call) and Days 15 and 30 (clinic visits).
    
  