
    
      The aims of the study Quite many people use music during exercise for example while jogging
      or in the gym. Anyhow some mothers might have difficulties to exercise when they have small
      children and thereby importance of physical activity at home increases. Consequently, there
      is a need to perform an experimental study which combines the understanding of the benefits
      of music, objective physical activity measurement in decreasing sedentariness and thereafter
      transgenerational obesity.

      Main objective of the current study is to decrease sedentary behavior and increase physical
      activity among mothers and their offspring by using music-to-movement video program.

      Specific aim is to study effectiveness of intervention with accelerometer use only or with a
      combination of accelerometer plus music-to-movement video program for mother-child pairs.

      Research questions:

      I. Are there changes in sedentary time and physical activity while using accelerometer and
      movement-to-music video program? Hypothesis: Movement-to-music video program developed for
      mother-child pairs decrease sedentary time more than wearing accelerometer only. There are no
      changes in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, although amount of light intensity
      physical activity increases.

      II. How does motivational effects of music affect to physical activity? Hypothesis:
      Movement-to-music video motivates mother-child pairs increase physical activity and decrease
      sedentary behavior.

      III. Is there any relationship between mothers' musical background and physical
      activity/sedentary behavior? Hypothesis: Mothers' musicality motivates them exercise more
      with video program than mothers' without musical background.

      Research methods Accelerometer measures and pretest. Main aim of the project is to reduce
      sedentariness among women and their children. Accelerometer measures continuously tri-axial
      acceleration caused by any movement and permits accurate individual assessment of both
      physical activity and sedentary behavior. Data on physical activity and sedentary behavior
      will be collected with tri-axial accelerometer (Hookie AM 20, Traxmeet Ltd, Espoo, Finland).
      The data will be collected in raw mode and analyzed as the mean signal amplitude deviation
      (MAD) of acceleration, which permits accurate individual assessment of both physical activity
      and sedentariness. The algorithms used in the present study are based on pilot studies
      conducted at the UKK Institute.

      Accelerometers were pretested with eleven 2-9 years old children. Children did different kind
      of free movements, play, and games in test track field during one hour. That was done to find
      out how scurry-like movements appear in accelerometers. Another test in running track tested
      different speeds from the slow walking to the maximum rate of running. In addition
      accelerometers piloted with ten 4-7 years children during one week. On the basis of these
      tests acceleration signal acted as expected.

      Movement-to-music DVD production and pretest. There will be three separate movement-to-music
      video programs prepared by the Sibelius-Academy music education students in the specific
      course for children's music programs during spring 2014. Directors, Soili Perkiö and
      Eeva-Leena Pokela are children's music professionals. The student group is called
      Mutaveijarit (The Mud Mates). Video programs were produced for this study. First and second
      videos last about 10 minutes including two songs and their movement preparation. There are
      three songs altogether, because the title song Mutaveijarit is in both tracks. The third
      video includes all songs together without their movement preparation.

      To rate the motivational qualities of these three songs, a panel of 8 physiotherapists (all
      female) assessed each song by using Brunel Music Rating Inventory-2 (BMRI-2; BMRI-3). Another
      reason for pretest was to find out the influence of visual stimuli on the responses to the
      music. BMRI-2 was translated in Finnish by investigators of this study.

      Each song was rated by indicating one number between 1 (strongly disagree) and 7 (strongly
      agree) for six statements about how much the song would motivate a person during exercise.
      The possible range of scores is 6-42, wherein scores below 24 mean low/oudeterous, middle
      range 24-35 moderately and scores over 36 mean highly motivating ratings.

      Video group (n=4, mean age 41 years, SD 16,2 years) was first watching DVD and assessed all
      three songs separately using BMRI-2. Then they listened music only (without illustration) and
      rated the motivational qualities of each song. Music group (n=4, mean age 42,8 years, SD 15,8
      years) assessed first only the motivational qualities of the songs. After that music group
      was watching DVD and appraised the music and illustration together. In addition both groups
      moved to DVD and rated the motivational qualities of music during movement. All songs were
      rated moderately motivating (ratings between 31,4 and 34,6).

      The rhythm, style, melody, tempo and beat motivated movement more in video group than in
      music group. Music group assessed sound motivated them more than sound did in video group.
      During movement rhythm, style, and beat motivated video group more while melody, tempo, and
      sound motivated music group. As expected in both groups music and picture together motivated
      movement more than music alone.

      Data collection. Objective measurements of sedentary behavior and physical activity of the
      mothers and their children will be collected at first, second and eighth weeks of the
      intervention by using accelerometer. Body weight of the mothers will be measured at baseline.
      Information on current physical activity, screen time, diet, and self-reported weight, as
      well as information on quality of life will be collected at the baseline by using same
      questionnaires as in the NELLI 5-years follow-up study (based on one-year follow-up
      questionnaires of the NELLI cohort). At 2 and 8 weeks after baseline information on physical
      activity, screen time, self-reported weight and motivation to exercise by using
      movement-to-music video program will be collected by questionnaires. Information of the
      children's physical activity and screen time will be collected at baseline, 2nd and 8th weeks
      after baseline by questionnaires.

      Statistical methods. Effect of the intervention will be analyzed following the
      intention-to-treat principle by comparing the changes in the main outcomes between
      intervention and control group participants. Multivariate methods corresponding to analysis
      of covariance and logistic regression will be used. Non-paramet¬ric methods will also be
      utilized if needed. In the analysis physical activity, sedentary time and body weight of the
      intervention and control group will be compared. Subgroup analysis in intervention group will
      be conducted for mother's motivation to exercise with movement-to-music video program and
      effects of musical background.

      Research materials Participants of the Moving Sound -study will be recruited from the cohort
      of the original NELLI-RTC. Mother and child -pairs (n=837) will be invited to NELLI 5-years
      follow-up study and to Moving Sound -study from 14 municipalities of Pirkanmaa area. We
      expect to get involved 30-40 % of the original cohort, which will be 251-335 mother and child
      -pairs, altogether.

      Randomization will be done for 2:2 ratios, which means two mother-child pairs to intervention
      group per two pairs of control participants. For allocation of the participants an
      appointment order list for NELLI 5-years follow-up study will be used. Mothers will be
      randomized to intervention or control group by using sealed envelopes in contact of sampling
      for NELLI-study.

      Power calculations for the study show that approximately 91 mother and child -pairs are
      needed, if there are 80 % sedentary women at baseline and the anticipated difference in
      sedentariness is 25 % between the ACC (accelerometer) and ACC + DVD (accelerometer plus
      movement-to-music video program) groups after intervention. If the anticipated difference
      between groups is smaller (than 25 %), the number of pairs needed is 135 per group. In this
      study sedentary women are defined as being sitting or in reclining posture more than 76 % of
      waking hours.
    
  