
    
      I. Protocol design:

      The current protocol is designed to compare:

        -  Group 1: nasal swab, cough swab and spontaneous expectorated sputum in expectorating CF
           patients

        -  Group 2: nasal swab, cough swab and induced sputum in non-expectorating CF patients

        -  Group 3: nasal swab, cough swab, induced sputum and BAL in both expectorating and
           non-expectorating CF patients requiring clinically indicated bronchoscopy

      II. Flow chart:

        1. Nasal swab obtained by the physiotherapyst (PT)

        2. Patient rinses his mouth with water, followed by autogenic drainage

        3. Cough swab obtained by the PT

        4. Obtainment of 3rd (4th) sample:

             -  Group 1: Sputum sample voluntary expectorated by the patient

             -  Group 2 and 3: Induced sputum sample --> voluntary coughed up and expectorated by
                the patient after inhalation of 4ml of HS OR

             -  Group 3: BAL -->obtained by the pulmonologist during bronchoscopy

        5. Filling out questionnaire on acceptability of the different sampling methods by patients
           >6 years of age (not in Group 3)

      III. Analysis of the samples:

      (Induced) Sputum samples, cough and nasal swabs are aseptically collected in the appropriate
      disposable and are immediately sent to the Laboratory for Microbiology and Infection Control
      of the Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, where analyses are carried out within 24h
      post-sampling.

      These analyses include:

        -  Culture and identification of respiratory pathogens on selective and non-selective media

        -  Each type of colony will be identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, completed by
           other identification tests if needed

        -  When appropriate, susceptibility tests will be performed on the isolated bacteria

      IV. Statistical analysis:

        -  Determination of sensitivity, specificity, positive predicted value, negative predicted
           value of the different sampling methods

        -  Preference for one method over another: crosstabs, Chi-square test

        -  Pain experienced with any method (Yes/No): Student's t-test

        -  VAS-scale pain per method: ANOVA
    
  