
    
      Sedentary behavior (SB) is an emerging health risk, especially for older adults, as it is
      associated with chronic disease, loss of function, and increased disability and frailty.
      Older adults in assisted living (AL) are less active than their peers living independently.
      Recent evidence demonstrates there are substantial health benefits from light physical
      activity (LPA) and the newly published Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans recommends
      that older adults replace SB with LPA. An intervention to increase LPA and reduce SB has
      potential to reduce health risks, slow functional decline and frailty, and delay residents'
      needs for higher-level care such as a nursing home. We propose to test the feasibility and
      acceptability of a self-efficacy based intervention, "Active for Life," with the goal of
      increasing PA and decreasing SB of AL residents.

      Active for Life is a 12 week intervention. Key components include (a) exercise with
      functional circuit training (FCT), walking, and stretching, (b) a behavioral component with a
      structured self-efficacy enhancing intervention that includes self-regulation strategies, and
      (c) education that addresses principles of exercise, the distinct health benefits of LPA, the
      negative consequences of too much sedentary time, and strategies for overcoming barriers to
      physical activity. It is important to test the feasibility and acceptability of the
      intervention for AL residents because this population will be more frail than previously
      tested populations. The intervention has been modified to be appropriate for AL residents
      based on guidance from AL experts and individual interviews conducted with AL residents. We
      will enroll 27 participants from approximately four AL facilities. Outcomes will be measured
      at baseline and at conclusion of the intervention. The primary outcomes are feasibility and
      acceptability of the intervention, but we will also examine preliminary evidence of outcome
      measures of objectively-measured sedentary behavior and physical activity, self-efficacy for
      exercise, value of physical activity, self-rated health, physical function, anxiety,
      depression, pain interference, and fatigue. This study is innovative because there are no
      well-established evidence-based interventions to promote PA in the AL setting and none that
      focus on increasing LPA and decreasing SB.
    
  