
    
      Basic information:

      Lipogems: Lipogems® system is a disposable device for liposuction, processing and adipose
      tissue reinjection. Procedure takes place in a single surgical time. It's a disposable device
      that progressively reduces adipose tissue clusters size, washing completely pro-inflammatory
      oil and blood debrides through a minimal manipulation "free enzyme" in a aseptic closed
      system completely preﬁlled by room temperature physiological solution.

      Lipogems product is a non-expanded and microfractured fat tissue ready for autologous
      settings.

      SalveColl-E: Salvecoll® is sterile bioplastic, equine derived, type I collagen material with
      a fully preserved fibrous structure (non-reconstructed) that ensures the regeneration of
      affected tissues. Type I collagen has zero risk of transmitting viral or microbial
      infections.

      Rationale for the trial: To evaluate the efficacy of the use of ACSS in crohn related
      perianal fistulas. The aim of the study is to improve fistula healing at 1 year from 25% to
      65%.

      Treatment of subjects At the time of fistula diagnosis the patients will be screened for
      eligibility and a informed consent will be administered . All patients will be underwent a
      loose seton placement after antibiotics prophylaxis administration with Ciprofloxacin and
      Metronidazole to obtain a pelvis sepsis resolution at time 0.

      At week 4 a surgical procedure will be performed. In general anesthesia a antibiotics
      prophylaxis will be administrated and subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue will be collected
      by LIPOGEMS system to prepare ASCS.

      In the infiltration step, adrenalin in a saline solution (2 μg/ml final concentration) is
      infiltrated using a 19-cm specially designed disposable blunt cannula.

      The vasoconstriction together with the blunt point of the cannula avoids any accidental
      intravascular injection and facilitates the subsequent lipoaspiration. Three hundred to 500
      ml are usually injected in the chosen area for fat harvesting (usually the lower abdomen),
      making the tissue really "filled" with the injecting solution. The aspiration step
      (lipoaspirate) is performed by a luer lock syringe connected to a disposable 19-cm blunt
      cannula (3 mm OD), with 5 oval holes (1 ´ 2 mm). A few strokes using a standard liposuction
      technique are enough to harvest 6-10 ml of fat tissue. Vacuum while aspirating can be
      obtained manually or by clamping the syringe plunger with a clamp instrument. Up to 1,000 ml
      can be harvested in less than 15 min, and 1-2 min are enough. The harvested lipoaspirate can
      be progressively put into the device using multiple 10-cc syringes.

      Subsequently, in lithotomy position, a seton will be removed and a fistula tract will be
      thoroughly curetted and irrigated. After a mucosal flap preparing round the internal opening,
      cells will be injected in the perianal adipose tissue.

      Between 40 and 130 ml of lipoaspirate (ideally 100 ml) are processed at each time in the
      standard 225-ml device. To avoid cell damage, no air should be in the device during all
      procedural steps and the device should be prefilled with saline before beginning the
      processing. The aspirated fat should be always surrounded by a liquid environment: this is
      essential to obtain healthy smaller fat clusters instead of oil and adipose tissue debris.
      The first cluster reduction was obtained by pushing the aspirated fat from the syringe into
      the device and through the first size reduction filter while allowing the corresponding
      quantity of saline to exit towards the waste bag. The final Lipogems product is then
      collected into 10-ml syringes connected to the upper opening of the device. The final
      Lipogems product is now ready for the injection in the perianal fistula.

      After a SALVECOLL-E paste injection into the fistula tract the mucosal flap will may be
      closed with an absorbable interrupted sutures. A external opening will be sealed with
      Dermabond Mini.

      The patients will receive a intravenous infusion of Infliximab (Remicade) at a dose of 5 mg
      per kilogram of body weight at weeks 8, 10, 14 and every 8 week for a total of nine doses.

      Rationale for treatment The ASCS injection in the perianal adipose tissue in association with
      Infliximab therapy, would improve a crohn related perianal fistula healing.

      This association could be reduce a recurrence and reintervention rate with an improvement of
      quality of life.

      Trial population Number of subjects to be studied Planned number of subjects to be screened:
      10 Anticipated number of trial sites: 1

      Withdrawal criteria The subject may withdraw at will at any time. The patient may be
      withdrawn from the trial at the discretion of the investigator for safety concerns. If the
      patient withdraws or is withdrawn at any time after receiving trial product, final safety
      information will be obtained.

      Patients who are deemed during surgery not suitable included in this protocol will be
      withdrawn from the study. In case a subject is being prematurely withdrawn from the trial the
      Investigator will ensure that the procedures for the last visit are undertaken, if possible.
      The primary reason (adverse event, non-compliance with protocol or other) for discontinuation
      must be specified in the CRF.

      A patient withdrawn from the study will be analyzed according to evaluability of Subjects for
      Analysis.

      Methods and assessments Visit procedures

      The study comprises of the following visits:

        -  Visit 1: Diagnosis, baseline visit and first surgery procedure: Screening of patient,
           Baseline examination, Pre-surgery and surgery assessment, Informed consent.

        -  Visit 2: Treatment visit: Surgery

        -  Visit 3: Medical treatment: start Infliximab administration

        -  Visit 4, 5, 6, 7,8,9: Medical treatment follow-up

        -  Visit 10: end of study: last infliximab dose

      In case of any premature discontinuation of the trial, the patient will, if possible, be
      called in for a last visit. Even if the patient is not able to attend, the End of Trial Form
      must be completed.

      The Investigator must keep a subject screening log and a subject enrolment log. These can be
      combined in one document.

      Subjects enrolled in the trial will be provided with a documents stating that he/she is in a
      trial, contact address and telephone numbers.

      In case a subject is being prematurely withdrawn from the trial the Investigator will ensure
      that the procedures for the last visit are undertaken, if possible. The primary reason
      (adverse event, non-compliance with protocol or other) for discontinuation must be specified
      in the CRF.

      All patients will be classified according to the American Society of Anesthesiology Physical
      Status Classification as described below. No restriction regarding to ASA status will be
      applied in this trial.

      Patient Compliance The investigator will reinforce compliance with the protocol by ensuring
      that only patients willing to follow the trial procedures are enrolled in the trial.

      Definitions adverse events

      Adverse event (AE):

      Any untoward medical occurrence in a subject or clinical investigation subject administered a
      pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with
      this treatment.

      An adverse event can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (e.g., including an
      abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a
      medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product.

      Note: This includes events from the first trial related activity after the subject has signed
      the informed consent and until post treatment follow-up period as defined in the protocol.

      The following should not be recorded as AEs:

        -  Pre-planned procedures unless the condition for which the procedure was planned has
           worsened from the first trial related activity after the subject has signed the informed
           consent.

        -  Pre-existing conditions found as a result of screening procedures. These should be
           recorded as medical history/concomitant illness.

      An AE can also be a clinical laboratory abnormality regarded as clinically significant i.e.
      an abnormality that suggests a disease and/or organ toxicity and is of a severity which
      requires active management (i.e. discontinuation of trial product, more frequent follow-up or
      diagnostic investigation).

      The following events will not be recorded as adverse events, as such discomforts are expected
      to be related to the surgical procedure:

        -  Post operative nausea/vomit

        -  Post operative sore throat due to intubation

        -  Post operative pain due to surgical intervention within 3 months from the operation.

      Serious adverse event (SAE):

      A SAE is an experience that at any dose results in any of the following:

        -  Death

        -  A life-threatening* experience

        -  In-subject hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        -  A persistent or significant disability/incapacity

        -  Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening*, or require
           hospitalization may be considered a SAE when, based upon appropriate medical judgment,
           they may jeopardize the subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to
           prevent one of the outcomes listed in this definition.

             -  The term "life-threatening" in the definition of SAE refers to an event in which
                the subject was at risk of death at the time of the event. It does not refer to an
                event which hypothetically might have caused death if it was more severe.

      Non-serious adverse event:

      A non-serious AE is any AE which does not fulfil the definition of a serious AE.

      Severity assessment definitions:

        -  Mild - No or transient symptoms, no interference with the subject's daily activities.

        -  Moderate - Marked symptoms, moderate interference with the subject's daily activities.

        -  Severe - Considerable interference with the subject's daily activities, unacceptable.

      Relationship to trial product assessment definitions:

        -  Probable: good reasons and sufficient documentation to assume a causal relationship

        -  Possible: a causal relationship is conceivable and cannot be dismissed

        -  Unlikely: the event is most likely related to an aetiology other than the trial product

      Outcome categories and definitions:

        -  Recovered - Fully recovered, or by medical or surgical treatment the condition has
           returned to the level observed at the first trial related activity after the subject
           signed the informed consent.

        -  Recovering - The condition is improving and the subject is expected to recover from the
           event. This term should only be used when the subject has completed the trial.

        -  Recovered with sequelae - As a result of the AE the subject suffered persistent and
           significant disability/incapacity (e.g. became blind, deaf, paralyzed). Any AE recovered
           with sequelae should be rated as an SAE.

        -  Not recovered.

        -  Fatal.

        -  Unknown - This term should only be used in cases where the subject i
    
  