
    
      The cervical cancer is the most common malignant gynecological tumor in the developing area.
      From 1999, the concurrent chemoradiotherapy has been established as the standard treatment
      for local advanced cervical cancer. The modern radiotherapy techniques, such as 3 dimensional
      conformal radiotherapy(3D-CRT), intensity modulated radiotherapy(IMRT), image guided
      3-dimensional brachytherapy(3D-BT), was widely used for the treatment of cervical cancer. The
      recently clinical outcome showed that the 3 year local and regional control was more than
      90%［1-3］. The distant metastasis has proved to be the main cause of failure and death,
      especially for the patient with pelvic lymph node metastasis, large volume of tumor and
      advanced FIGO stage. the data showed that the 3 year distant metastasis free survival and
      overall survival were 64.7% and 64.6% respectively for the patient with huge pelvic lymph
      node metastasis and FIGO stage III- IVA. The system treatment pointing at the distant
      metastasis has become to be the topic of clinical investigation.

      Dueñas-González A'［4］ study demonstrated that the 3 year progress free survival and distant
      metastasis free survival has increased by 8.9% and 8.3% by the radial radiotherapy combined
      with concurrent chemotherapy with weekly gemcitabine and cisplatin and adjuvant chemotherapy
      with triweekly gemcitabine and cisplatin. Ryu SY［5］ also reported the triweekly concurrent
      cisplatin with 3 cycles improved survival outcomes compared with weekly concurrent cisplatin.
      Retrospective studies by Tang and Jelavić-TB［6-7］ suggested that the adjubant chemotherapy
      after CCRT has better DMFS and OS.

      The aim of present study is to prospectively investigate the efficacy and safety of
      concurrent and adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and docetaxel for patients with local
      advanced cervical cancer, especially for those with FIGO III-IVA with or without pelvic lymph
      node metastasis and the FIGO IB2-IIB with pelvic lymph node metastasis.
    
  