
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      One of the common presentation of low back pain and lower extremities pain is lumbar
      radicular pain which may be caused by a herniated intervertebral disc exerting a pressure on
      nerve roots, resulting in pain, functional disability, opioid use for pain relief and
      consuming health resources (1,2). Radicular pain has a typical shocking, lancinating, or
      electric character traveling into the lower limb along a narrow band. In approximately 90% of
      cases, radiculopathy is mainly due to a prolapsed disc causing nerve root impingement (3).
      Different modalities of treatments are used in managing chronic low back pain and
      radiculopathy. Most of the patients will respond well to conservative management. But after
      the failure of this conservative treatment, either surgical or nonsurgical modalities such as
      epidural injections are going to be considered in the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy (4).
      Transforaminal epidural injection (TFEI) is a known approach for treatment of spinal nerve
      root pathology. A transforaminal epidural directs medications at the nerve root as it leaves
      the spinal cord at the ventrolateral aspect of the epidural space whereas a conventional
      (interlaminar) epidural results in a small amount of medication over a wide area at the
      posterior epidural space (5). A transforaminal epidural gives us the opportunity to allocate
      the medications where they are required (6). Transforaminal epidural injections under
      fluoroscopic guidance have emerged as the preferred approach to the epidural space (7). Many
      drugs have been proven to be effective in managing low back pain when they are injected in
      the epidural space by transforaminal approach such as local anesthetics, steroids and
      adjuvants (7). Magnesium is a physiological blocker of the NMDA receptors (8) because it
      blocks NMDA channels in a voltage-dependent manner, and such NMDA antagonist effect can
      inhibit the induction of central sensitization from peripheral nociceptive stimulation
      (9,10). Magnesium may suppress neuropathic pain (11), enhance morphine analgesia, attenuate
      morphine tolerance (12), and improve fentanyl analgesia when magnesium is given intrathecally
      (13). Magnesium deficiency produces hyperalgesia (14) and has been related to cause some
      acute medical and surgical conditions in which pain or stress is present (15). Magnesium is
      proved to be injected safely within the nervous tissue in animals (16) and in 2002 Asokumar
      and his colleagues proved that magnesium is safely injected Intrathecal in human (17).
      Because of the results of a previous study that indicates that intrathecal administration of
      sulfate sault in magnesium has a risk of neurotoxicity (18), investigators preferred to use
      preservative free magnesium in our study. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy
      of magnesium sulphate as an anti-neuropathic drug in relieving unilateral lower limb
      radicular pain due to disc prolapse when it was injected with lidocaine and steroids in the
      anterior epidural space using the transforaminal epidural approach. Our primary outcome was
      to assess the improvement of pain score post-injection, while, the secondary outcome was to
      evaluate the improvement of the functional ability and the satisfaction level of the patients
      after the procedure.

      Patients and Methods:

      Firstly, The study IS approved by the local ethics committee (Fayoum Faculty of Medicine
      Research Ethics Committee R139 ). This prospective, controlled, randomized, double-blinded
      study is going to be carried out in the pain management department of Fayoum University
      Hospital. Written consents are going to be taken from all patients. The randomization is
      going to be performed via sealed opaque envelopes. All procedures are going to be performed
      by one investigator who is blind to the injected drugs used in this study. Inclusion criteria
      are patients of both gender, aged from 20 up to 70 years old, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status grade I and II (19), admitted for pain management of
      their unilateral lower limb radicular pain due to lumbo-sacral disc prolapse confirmed by
      lumbo-sacral magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) after failure of conservative treatments in
      the form of drug therapy and physiotherapy to control the pain for 6 weeks. Exclusion
      criteria are patients with axial back pain without leg radiation, patients with motor
      neurological deficits, previous spine surgeries, allergy to the study drugs used,
      uncontrolled diabetes mellitus or hypertension, local or systemic infection, pregnancy, and
      patients with any other neurological deficits as cauda equina. This study is going to be
      conducted on 100 patients. Patients are going to be divided according to the injected drugs
      into two equal groups (50 patients each):

        1. Group (C): where all patients will receive through the transforaminal epidural approach
           2 ml of bupivacaine (0.5%), 1ml of methylprednisolone (40 mg) and 1 ml of normal saline
           (0.9 %) with a total volume of 4 ml.

        2. Group (M): where all patients will receive through the transforaminal epidural approach
           2 ml of bupivacaine (0.5%), 1ml of methylprednisolone (40 mg) and 1 ml of preservative
           free magnesium (200 mg) with a total volume of 4 ml. Methylprednisolone which is used in
           this study is going to be supplied from E.I.P.I.C.O pharmaceuticals -Egypt under license
           of UPJOHN s.a Puurs-Belgium (Depo-Medrol). Preservative free magnesium which is used in
           the study is prepared in McGuff Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Laboratories and supplied in 50 ml
           vials containing magnesium (200 mg/ml).

      All patients are going to be evaluated pre-operatively by medical history, clinical
      examination, and lumbosacral spine MRI. The severity of pain is going to be assessed using
      the visual analog scale (VAS) where 0 and 10 were marked on a 10cm linear scale (0- 4 mm = no
      pain, 5-44 mm = mild pain, 45- 74 = moderate pain, 75-100 = severe pain) (20). Patients are
      going to be evaluated for effective pain relief (defined as ≥50% reduction of pain perception
      post-intervention by VAS. Functional assessment is done using Modified Oswestry Disability
      Questionnaire (MODQ), which is formed of a10 item scale with six response categories each.
      Each item scores from 0 to 5, higher scores being worse, which is transformed into a 0-100
      scale. The ten items include pain intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting,
      standing, sleeping, work, social life and traveling. Patients with scores between 0 to 20
      have Minimal Disability, between 21 and 40 have Moderate Disability, between 41-60 have
      Severe Disability, 61 to 80 are crippled and 81 to 100 are bed-bound or exaggerating their
      symptoms, this questionnaire has been designed to give us information about how back or leg
      pain is affecting the ability to manage in everyday life (21). VAS and MODQ are going to be
      assessed immediately pre-intervention and at 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months
      post-intervention.

      The demographic data for all patients as regards to age, gender, weight, and height are going
      to be recorded and compared between the studied groups. Also, the pre-intervention clinical
      examination data of all patients as regards to the level, the site of disc prolapse, and the
      side of radiculopathy are going to be recorded and compared between the groups. The
      occurrence of side effects is going to be recorded and compared between both groups
      post-intervention.

      The level of the intervention (affected nerve root) and the right versus the left sides of
      radiating pain are going to be determined by both clinical examination and radiological
      findings. Pre-intervention, an intravenous (IV) cannula is going to be inserted with
      initiation of normal saline (0.9%) at a rate of 10 ml/kg to prevent hypotension. Emergency
      drugs as atropine and ephedrine are going to be prepared. All patients are going to be
      monitored throughout the procedure by electrocardiogram (ECG), noninvasive blood pressure,
      and pulse oximetry throughout the procedure and during the post-interventional time for 2
      hours. Patients are going to be placed in a prone position with a pillow under their abdomen
      (between the iliac crests) to decrease the lumbar lordosis. Mild sedation is going to be
      given with 0.02 mg/kg of midazolam intravenously. TFEIs are going to be done under full
      sterile technique using fluoroscopic guidance. After fluoroscopic detection of the desired
      intervertebral level, the entry site is identified, and the skin is anesthetized with local
      infiltration of 3 ml of lidocaine 1%. TFEI approach is performed under biplane fluoroscopic
      guidance. While a patient lying in the prone position, the tube is rotated obliquely
      approximately 10-30° toward the affected side to ensure injection at the neural foramen. The
      goal of positioning is to allow a perpendicular needle tract toward the classic injection
      site below the pedicle (22).

      Sample size calculation:

      The required sample size has been calculated using the G*Power version 3.1.9 Software (Faul
      et al., 2007) (23). The primary outcome measure is the proportion of patients achieving
      satisfactory response at 12 weeks after the procedure. Satisfactory response is defined as
      reduction of the pain score by 50% or more from the pre-procedure value. Since no previous
      study has compared the effect of adding magnesium sulfate or steroid to local anesthetic for
      transforaminal block in patients with chronic LBP, investigators considered that a medium
      effect size corresponding to a Cohen's ω of 0.3 would be clinically relevant. So,
      investigators calculated that a sample size of 44 patients in either study group would
      achieve a power of 80% to detect statistical significance for an effect size equivalent to
      Cohen's ω of 0.3 regarding the proportion of patients achieving satisfactory response at 12
      week after the procedure using a two-sided chi-squared test with an alpha error of 0.05.
      Considering a drop-out rate of around 10%, 50 patients will be recruited in either group.
    
  