
    
      Methods:

      Patients were diagnosed by clinical examination and according to the initial CT brain after
      the onset of ICH.

      Intensive management of blood pressure (BP) started once the diagnosis of intracerebral
      hemorrhage was established. Systolic blood pressure targeted 140 mm Hg by IV drug that lower
      BP like nicardipine or diltiazem. Oral antihypertensive medications like (Angiotensin II
      Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Ca-blocker), after 24 h of hospitalization, was utilized in
      combination and step by step changed from intravenous administration.

      Patients were exposed to:

      A) Complete history taking and complete clinical assessment including neurological and
      general examinations.

      B) Initial Glasgow Coma Scale score at admission to hospital and patients according to GCS
      score were classified to 3 groups I (13-15), II (5-12), and III (3-4 ) according to Hemphill
      et al 2001.

      C-Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) is a profoundly valid and reliable measure of disability and is
      broadly utilized for assessing stroke outcomes and degree of disability. We characterized a
      favorable outcome as mRS ranging from zero up to two, while unfavorable outcome ranging for 3
      up to six].

      D- Routine laboratory examinations including CBC, blood sugar, coagulation tests, renal and
      hepatic functions.

      E- CT brain was accomplished for all patients at onset of admission to hospital to decide the
      characters of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The volume of the intracerebral
      hemorrhage was determined utilizing the ABC/2 method (A is the most great diameter on the
      most large ICH cut, B is the diameter perpendicular to A, while, C is the number of axial
      cuts of ICH multiplied by the thickness of cuts. Additionally, the location ICH (regardless
      of whether infra or supatrentorial), and if there is IVH or not, also, if there is shift of
      midline structure or hydrocephalic changes were determined. Regarding ICH volume, patients
      were partitioned into two groups (< 30 cm3 and ≥30 cm3).

      Statistical analysis

      SPSS version 19.0 was utilized for statistical analysis. Data were collected and displayed as
      numbers proportions, mean ± standard deviation, and range. Favorable and unfavorable groups
      were compared by chi-square measurement. For variable with ordinary distributions and
      homogeneous variances, Student's t-test was utilized to check the significant difference
      between the mean ± standard deviation values in the two groups. P value <0.05 were considered
      of statistical significant results.

      Multivariate logistic regression analysis was accomplished for the independent variables or
      factors that were accompanied by better outcomes: like younger ages, GCS at admission,
      diastolic blood pressure one hour after admission, systolic BP 6 h after admission, and
      systolic blood pressure 24 h after admission.
    
  