
    
      This prospective, multicentre, randomised, evaluation-blinded, crossover, pilot study, will
      include different treatment cycles: a control cycle (toxin alone) and a study cycle (toxin +
      splinting).

      It will be conducted in two sites: CHU de Reims and UGECAM de Charleville Mézières.

      The study population will include patients with upper limb spasticity associated with
      functional impairment and/or pain. To be included, the patients must be non-naïve to
      botulinum toxin, with a period of at least 4 months since the last toxin injections.

      Each patient will be given botulinum toxin injections in the hypertonic muscles of his/her
      upper limb at the beginning of each cycle, i.e. on D0 Phase 1 (D0P1) and D0 Phase 2 (D0P2).
      This means each patient will receive two sets of injections at 5-month interval for the whole
      duration of the study.

        1. If the effect of the toxin is still present at 5 months (W20), the visit for the
           following cycle may be delayed to ensure that both cycles are comparable (as per routine
           practice).

        2. If the effect is still present at the end of the second cycle, the patient follow-up
           will be extended until the end of the effect.

      As this is the first study of its type, the required number of subjects cannot be calculated
      and the decision was taken to conduct a pilot study. The required number of patients has been
      set at 30 for reasons of clinical relevance and study site capacity.

      The patients will be randomised centrally into two arms of 15 patients each:

        -  Arm A: control cycle (toxin alone) followed by study cycle (toxin + splinting)

        -  Arm B: study cycle (toxin + splinting) followed by control cycle (toxin alone) The
           second set of toxin injections will be performed 5 months after the first set. As the
           effect of the toxin lasts 12 to 20 weeks maximum, this interval ensures that the effect
           of the first injections will have worn off before the second set of injections is given.

      Botulinum toxin will be administered under electrical stimulation guidance to improve the
      accuracy of the injections in the muscles. Dysport® doses will be adjusted to the muscle
      group being treated.

      The post-injection rehabilitation protocol will be identical for both cycles, and include 10
      sessions of physiotherapy to stretch the injected muscles (as per routine practice). The
      prescription of these sessions will be standardised. These daily sessions will start the day
      following the botulinum injections, and continue 5 times a week for 2 weeks for both
      treatment phases.

      For the study cycle, the splint will be worn only at night (8.00 pm to 8.00 am) for 4 weeks,
      starting on the first evening after the toxin injection.

      Any previous and on-going drug treatment will also be recorded. Concomitant oral antispastic
      treatments will be authorised provided they were initiated prior to the patient's inclusion
      in the study, and that dosage regimens remain unchanged.

      The investigator performing the evaluations will be blinded to the treatment cycle, i.e.
      he/she will not know which treatment cycle the patient is currently in. Therefore, the
      evaluating, injecting and splint-referring physicians will be three different people. To
      limit potential biases, these 3 persons will remain the same during all the study for all the
      patients included.
    
  