
    
      Viscosupplementation by intra-articular injection of hyaluronate products has recently gained
      popularity as a treatment modality of gonarthritis. Hyaluronic Acid is responsible for the
      elasticity and viscosity of the synovial fluid, protecting the joint. Biopsy studies show
      that besides the gain in pain and function, viscosupplementation may lead to structural
      changes of the cartilage. Currently there are several studies on the effect of
      intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid in gonarthritis. There is not, however, a
      consensus on the best method. Regarding the substance to be injected, corticosteroids alone
      exhibit rapid results, but poor durability. Viscosupplementation shows more consistent
      results. However, especially when using derivatives with higher molecular weight hyaluronan,
      there is a significant number of patients that present an acute synovial reaction to
      viscosupplementation specially in the first cycle of three injections. The association
      triamcinolone injection with hyaluronic acid decreases the complaints in the first month of
      treatment. Our objective is to evaluate what is the best dosage of viscosupplementation with
      hyaluronic acid (OSTEONIL®) associated with 1 ml (20 mg) of triamcinolone hexacetonide by
      comparing two groups of patients with knee OA, the first with a single application of 3
      ampoules and second with three applications, one per week for three weeks. One hundred and
      four knee osteoarthritis (KOA) patients, which are currently in usual care for KOA at the
      Osteometabolic Group - Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology - University of São Paulo
      General Hospital - will be assessed. After signing the informed consent, participants will
      respond WOMAC™, Lequesne™, VAS, SF-36 (quality of life) and subjective IKDC (International
      Knee Documentation Committee). The questionnaires and functional assessment will be performed
      before the procedure infiltration with 1month, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year of
      intervention.Twenty Patients will be submitted to evaluation using force platform and balance
      NeuroCom ®, with the following tests: weight support during the squat (weight bearing squat
      (WBS), one-leg support (unilateral stance (U.S.), from sitting to foot (sit to stand - STS).
      Previously, at 1 month, 3 month, 6 month and 12 months after the intervention.

      Frontal weight-bearing, profile and axial radiographs will be performed to radiologically
      assess participants' knees.Patients will be randomly divided into two groups of 54 patients,
      (groups 1 and 2). Patients in group 1 (G1) will be submitted to viscosupplementation with 1
      application of 3 vials of hyaluronic acid 20mg/2ml (OSTEONIL®) and 1 ml (20 mg)
      triamcinolone, whereas group 2 patients will be submitted to viscosupplementation with three
      applications of one ampoule of hyaluronic acid 20 mg/2ml (one per week for three weeks), with
      the first application of OSTEONIL® with 1 ml (20 mg) triamcinolone.
    
  