
    
      It is very important that the respirators detect the child's breathing efforts. This makes it
      possible to reduce the pressure used by the respirator to push air into the child's lungs, to
      improve oxygen distribution throughout the child's body and reduce the level of sedation
      Typical systems do not really detect changes in breathing efforts, but rather volumes of
      exhaled air. Therefore, the respirator is not always synchronized with patient's respiration
      and there may be a delay between breathing cycles and the ventilator's, which leads to an
      increase in his respiratory effort.

      Assessing respiratory work is a key element in improving the management of ventilatory
      support and the adaptation of ventilatory parameters. At this time, routinely used
      measurements do not include quantitative measurement of the respiratory work, as it requires
      the installation of probes with pressure heads.

      There is new technology known as Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) that employs a
      probe inserted into the stomach that detects the electrical activity of the diaphragm
      (primary breathing muscle).The probe is connected to the respirator and triggers respiratory
      assistance through diaphragm electrical activity, thereby ensuring respiratory assistance
      that is adapted to the child's needs. This artificial ventilatory mode has already been
      widely used during invasive ventilation in adults and for short periods of time in infants,
      children and premature newborn. Health Canada has authorized the use of the NAVA ventilatory
      mode within the context of this study.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether there is a relation between the electrical
      activity of the diaphragm and respiratory work. This will enable the use of diaphragm
      activity that can be recorded daily at the child's bedside as an element of respiratory
      monitoring and allow early detection of dangerously high or low respiratory levels.

      The study plans to recruit 20 patients at the CHU Sainte-Justine, which is the only hospital
      taking part in the study.

      The investigators will replace the probe placed in the stomach of any child under artificial
      ventilation with the study probe. The probe is changed regularly as part of routine care. The
      study probe is equipped with microelectrodes to measure diaphragm activity as well as a very
      fine balloon to measure pressure. The patient's diaphragm activity and respiratory work will
      then be assessed over a 2-hour period under two different ventilatory conditions (the NAVA
      mode and the conventional mode) in random order. The investigators will perform a random draw
      to determine the initial ventilator mode.

      The two periods, each lasting 60 minutes, will proceed as follows:

      The conventional ventilation period: the ventilation parameters are adjusted by the care team
      based on the practices in effect within the department; the researcher will not intervene.

      The NAVA mode period: the initial settings are determined to target support that is similar
      to that prescribed by the care team and after that are adjusted based on NAVA clinical
      protocol in effect within the department During the final 30 minutes of each period, a
      computer will record ventilation parameters, diaphragm activity and respiratory effort. These
      data will be recorded using a simple connection to the ventilator and no change in the
      patient's equipment will be required.

      If the study naso-gastric tube is still in place at the time of extubation, 3 additional
      measurements (10 minutes each) will be taken to assess changes in diaphragm activity and
      respiratory work around extubation:

      An initial recording during the hour before extubation; A second one at extubation; and; A
      third one two hours after extubation.

      The investigators will follow patient progress for another 48 hours after extubation.

      Data will be collected in the child's medical record for the purposes of the study.
    
  