
    
      1. All procedures were performed under local anesthesia in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
           Department, Alexandria University.

        2. Using nonalcoholic solution after makeup removal, a single surgeon performed the
           procedures under complete aseptic technique (Lee, Min et al. 2018).

        3. All patients wore a disposable cap to contain hair.

        4. We examined before treatment: the facial anatomy, mimic muscular contraction, facial
           expression, and any pre-existing asymmetry(Wilson 2006).

        5. Immediately after taking the photographs, both the length and width of the forehead
           wound were measured directly on the patients using a digital vernier caliper by a single
           plastic surgeon blinded to the study condition.

        6. Pain at the injected sites was minimized before each injection by applying topical
           anesthetics and cold iced devices.

        7. Micro fine 1.0 ml insulin syringes with a 29-G or 30-G needle were used.

        8. The dosages of the preparations are related to biological activity and are given in
           biological units (U). The units are termed according to the manufacturer as Speywood U
           (SU) for Dysport

        9. The drugs used were AboBotulinumToxin A Dysport (500 Speywood U) is to be reconstituted
           with 2.0 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) injection solution. This results in a
           clear solution containing the 500 Speywood units of the active ingredient in a
           concentration of 250 units per 1.0 mL of the reconstituted solution. The reconstitution
           is to be performed in accordance with the rules of good clinical practice, particularly
           with respect to asepsis and within 15 day of reconstitutin.(Hexsel, Rutowitsch et al.
           2009, Scaglione 2016, Lee, Min et al. 2018).

       10. The total dose is approximately 105 SU.

       11. The total dose is divieded into 75 SU injected by a (1-ml, , 30-gauge needle) insulin
           syringe along the scar length at the rate of approximately 12.5 SU (0.15 ml) per cm of
           wound length, in a linear pattern on either side of the wound. , with the needle prick
           positined approximately 5 mm from the edge of the wound, The injection was repeated
           every cm throughout the entire wound length and 30 SU are injected into frontalis
           muscle.(Wilson 2006, Hu, Zou et al. 2018, Kim, Lee et al. 2019)

       12. Injections were determined by a skin marker and done under the supervision of a
           qualified licensed supervisor.

       13. due to muscles contraction The injections were carried out on skin folds and are
           performed at different levels (intramuscular, subcutaneous, or intradermal) in more
           points for each region. The injections were administrated directly into the point of
           intense muscular contraction. On the other hand, where the contraction was weak, the
           injection was done at a deep or superficial intradermal level. Depth depends also on the
           effect we want to achieve: an extreme effect for intramuscular, a soft effect for
           subcutaneous or intradermal.(Iozzo, Tengattini et al. 2014)

       14. To prevent eyebrow ptosis, the drugs were not injected around the supraorbital rim.(Kim,
           Lee et al. 2019).
    
  