
    
      Construction of an ostomy is a radical treatment with permanent physical signs of body
      alteration. It leads to loss of a central and very personal bodily function (excretion of
      faeces through the rectum) and there is a significant change in personal hygiene.

      Having a colostomy is not a uniform state but is characterized by many different factors:
      Several types of ostomy, several underlying causes that lead to stoma creation such as
      cancer, several individual psychosocial profile, which naturally affect individuals
      differently. Patients are forced to living with a changed body image, a change in daily
      routines, and for some there will also be changes in lifestyle, social standing and their
      sexuality will be affected. At the same time patients experience a break when they are
      discharged from the hospital, and they may lack the practical and emotional support.

      The training and education of patients is increasingly being carried out by stoma nurses both
      in Denmark and internationally. The primary role is to inform and prepare patients before
      surgery and to keep the contact with patients after surgery to ensure the fulfillment of the
      patient´s independent and meaningful life after ostomy construction. It is assumed that
      ostomy nurse's intervention and involvement are important for the patient's quality of life,
      but there are no studies that uniquely identifies the type of education that has the greatest
      effect, which applies both to content and methods.

      Quality of life measurement in health care is a merging method to ensure the patient´s
      perspective on health treatments.It is greatly needed to test the efficacy of nursing
      interventions on patients' quality of life. Pressure on health services increase which makes
      it imperative also to include analysis and calculation of economic effect of the
      intervention.
    
  