
    
      Participants will be randomized into one of the study groups-Arm A: Vitamin D (standard dose
      of 400 IU/day), FOLFOX and Bevacizumab or Arm B: Vitamin D (higher dose of 8000 IU/day for 2
      weeks followed by 4000 IU/day), FOLFOX and Bevacizumab.

      Study Treatment (A cycle of treatment is 14 days):

      Vitamin D

      Cycle 1: You will take two capsules of Vitamin D orally, once a day (at the same time), every
      day. Participants randomized to Arm A will be taking one capsule with 400 IU of Vitamin D and
      one capsule with placebo (pills with no medicine) so that neither you nor your doctor will
      know what group you have been assigned to. Participants randomized to Arm B will be taking
      two capsules of 4000 IU each.

      Subsequent Cycles: You will take one capsule orally, once a day (at the same time), every
      day. Participants randomized to Arm A will be taking one capsule with 400 IU of Vitamin D.
      Participants randomized to Arm B will be taking one capsule with 4000 IU of Vitamin D.

      FOLFOX and bevacizumab

      FOLFOX and bevacizumab will be given intravenously (IV, through a vein in your arm) on Day 1
      of every cycle for all participants in both Arms A and B. The infusions will take several
      hours, in addition to your doctor's visit, so you should plan on being in clinic most of the
      day. Note that the 5-FU is given bolus on day 1 (given as one dose), and is then given as a
      continuous IV infusion over 2 days. You will need to have a port-a-cath placed. A port-a-cath
      is a medical device that is placed under the skin. The continuous infusion is delivered by a
      pump that is inserted into the port-a-cath. The pump will be carried in a pouch that you can
      hook around your waist. Arrangements will be made for you to have the pump disconnected after
      2 days. You may need to return to clinic to have it disconnected.

      While on study, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

      Cycle 1, Day 1

        -  Questions about your health, current medications and any allergies.

        -  Physical exam, including vital signs

        -  Performance status

        -  Routine blood tests to evaluate your health

        -  Urine test

      Subsequent Cycles, Day 1

        -  Questions about your health, current medications, allergies and any side effects you may
           be having.

        -  Physical exam, including vital signs

        -  Performance status

        -  Routine blood tests to evaluate your health

        -  Urine test

        -  Review of your study drug diary (please bring with you every visit).

      Every 4 cycles (approximately every 8 weeks): An assessment of your tumor by CT scan or MRI.

      Additional blood samples for research: Samples will be drawn (a little more than 1 teaspoon
      of blood) after Cycle 4, Cycle 8 and then every 8 Cycles thereafter.

      You will continue to receive treatment as long as your disease does not get worse and you are
      tolerating the treatment.

      End of treatment

        -  Questions about your health, current medications and any allergies.

        -  Physical exam, including vital signs

        -  Performance status

        -  Blood tests (routine blood tests to evaluate your health and a blood sample for
           research)

        -  Urine test

        -  An assessment of your tumor by CT scan or MRI

      After the final dose of the study drug:

      You will be followed for safety reasons for 30 days after the last dose of study drug. If you
      are experiencing side effects, you may continue to be followed until the side effects resolve
      or until you start another treatment.

      If you discontinue study treatment for reasons other than disease progression (for example,
      side effects), you will be asked to continue to get tumor assessments every 8 - 16 weeks
      until your disease worsens as demonstrated by a tumor assessment or until you start another
      therapy to treat your cancer. These assessments may coincide with your routine follow-up, in
      which case they would not need to be repeated.

      We would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of your life. We would
      like to do this by reviewing your medical records and/or by calling you on the telephone
      every 3 months to see how you are doing. Keeping in touch with you and checking on your
      condition helps us look at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  