
    
      Objectives and justification of the project In Spain, cancer is the second cause of death
      after cardiovascular diseases. However, if it is divided by sex, cancer is the leading cause
      of death for men and the second cause for women. In recent years there has been an increase
      in new cases of cancer due to population growth and aging, since 2/3 of cancer patients are
      older than 65 years. In addition to the impact of this disease on people's quality of life, a
      high economic cost has been estimated for the health system. For example, the total cost of
      cancer in 2015 in Spain was 7,168 million euros. This situation represents an important
      public health problem and therefore implies that research on the factors that can prevent or
      alleviate this disease should be considered as a priority.

      In this regard, there is increasing scientific evidence of the physical and psychosocial
      benefits of exercise both during and after the treatment of this disease. Nevertheless, only
      30-40% of cancer survivors perform the necessary physical activity (PA) recommended by the
      main medical institutions. In fact, a significant number of patients are obese (33%) and have
      a low cardiorespiratory condition (45%). Despite this, PA continues to decrease after
      diagnosis and only 5-10% of patients are physically active during treatment and 20-30% after
      treatment. Therefore, the development of intervention programs aimed at promoting PA should
      be a fundamental objective in the fight against cancer and its physical and psychosocial
      consequences. In this line, our general objective will be to develop a motivation PA program
      for colorectal cancer patients. Specifically, and considering the gaps existing in the
      current literature, our general objective is subdivided into the following specific
      objectives:

        -  To evaluate the physical, psychosocial and behavioural effects, in the short and medium
           term, of a physical exercise program in which motivational strategies based on
           self-determination theory are applied.

        -  To explore qualitatively the benefits of the physical exercise program, as well as the
           troubles encountered in its implementation.

        -  To develop an educational guide and an intervention protocol to encourage motivation and
           adherence to PA of colorectal cancer patients.

      Methodology This study will require a sample size of 34 patients. This calculation was made
      through the G*power software, by means of an analysis of variance (ANOVA), adjusting the
      values to p <.05, with a statistical power of 80% and an effect size of 0.5. The patients
      will be recently diagnosed with colorectal cancer in phases II-III by the oncology service of
      the Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro de Majadahonda. Inclusion criteria include to be
      between 18 and 75 years old, to be undergoing chemotherapy treatment, and to not have any
      type of associated pathology that prevents them from performing PA. A intervention with an
      experimental group and a control group will be conducted, where 17 patients will be assigned
      to a control group, and 17 patients will perform a supervised motivational exercise program.

      Measures Cardiorespiratory fitness. Stress tests adapted to the characteristics of the
      patients will be performed, both in the type of ergometer and in the protocol. We will use
      electrocardiographic recording and gas exchange analysis. Aerobic and anaerobic exercise
      thresholds will be established.

      Quality of life. The validated Spanish version of the EORTC-QLQ-CR30 will be used for
      patients with colorectal cancer.

      Body composition. Anthropometries will be carried out to estimate body composition
      parameters.

      Biological parameters. The usual analytics carried out in the hospital during the treatment
      will be used to check the patient's health status and the side effects of the chemotherapy
      treatment.

      Anxiety. The validated version in Spanish of the Hamilton Anxiety Scale will be used.

      Depression. The Spanish version of the Hamilton Depression Scale will be used. Autonomy
      support. The Spanish version of the Perceived Autonomy Support for Exercise Settings will be
      used.

      Perceived barriers to do PA. This scale will be translated and validated to the Spanish
      context.

      Basic psychological needs in exercise. We will use the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise
      Scale.

      Basic psychological needs in life. The Spanish version of the Basic Psychological Need
      Satisfaction and Frustration Scale will be used.

      Types of motivation. To measure motivation towards PA, the Behavioural Regulation in Exercise
      Questionnaire will be for PA levels. The Spanish version of the IPAQ questionnaire will be
      used. On the other hand, PA will be measured in a direct and objective way through portable
      GT3X accelerometers.

      Design, procedure and data analysis The intervention program will be carried out at the
      Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro of Majadahonda. The program will last 6 months, with
      three weekly one-hour sessions, and will comply with the recommendations established by the
      American Cancer Society and the American College of Sports Medicine. The safety precautions
      and contraindications identified by these institutions for colorectal cancer patients will be
      especially considered. The program will include aerobic sessions at moderate and vigorous
      intensities, as well as strength work. Patients will be monitored to model exercise loads
      individually.

      The measurements will be made just before starting the PA program (T1) in the case of the
      experimental group, at an initial time of the equivalent treatment in the case of the control
      group. The same measures will be carried out 6 months later (T2). For PA levels, instead of
      measuring them just after the end of the program, we will wait another month so that patients
      have been able to recover their usual PA levels after the shock that can mean for them to
      face the end of our program. In the control group, PA levels will also be evaluated one month
      after T2. To test the effects of the program, all measurements will be performed 6 months
      after T2 in both groups (T3).

      Additionally, qualitative methodology will be used, so that the 17 patients of the
      experimental group will be interviewed to know the factors related to their adherence to the
      PA program and the benefits perceived by them with their participation. Qualitative data
      collection will be reinforced with field notes compiled in research diaries by observers who
      will be present during the development of the program. Relatives and health professionals
      will also be interviewed to learn their perspective regarding the benefits of the program and
      adherence to it in these patients.

      In order to promote adherence to the program and to educate in autonomous PA habits when it
      ends, motivational strategies based on the self-determination theory will be used. Specific
      strategies will be developed for this group, based on previous works and educational guides
      for colorectal cancer patients. The instructor in charge of directing the program will be
      trained in several sessions to use motivational strategies based on this theory. Once the
      program is finished, an educational guide of motivational strategies for the promotion of PA
      in patients with colorectal cancer will be developed and published from the perspective of
      self-determination theory.
    
  