
    
      Residual limb (RLP) and phantom limb pain (PLP) affects most amputees at some point in their
      life1. The incidence of PLP has been estimated to range between 50 - 80%. RLP prevalence has
      been estimated to be 43%. The peak of onset is bimodal and often appears within the first
      month and second year after amputation. RLP is more common in the first year after
      amputation, with PLP becoming the predominate amputee pain complaint after one-year
      post-amputation.

      Both RLP and PLP fall under the umbrella term "post-amputation pain." While these conditions
      are frequently found in combination, their clinical features and underlying causes are
      distinct. PLP is a painful sensation in the distribution of the missing limb. Following
      amputation, abnormalities at multiple levels of the neural axis have been implicated in the
      development of PLP; changes include cortical reorganization, reduced inhibitory processes at
      the spinal cord, synaptic response changes and hyperexcitability at the dorsal root ganglion,
      and retrograde peripheral nerves shrinkage.

      Residual limb pain has been called "neuroma pain" and is mechanistically distinct from PLP11.
      Neuromas may form as early 6-10 weeks after nerve transection, and are thought the produce
      ectopic neural discharges resulting in severe pain. Evidence suggests RLP and PLP commonly
      co-occur and patients may struggle to differentiate between these pain types. Risk factors
      include female sex, upper extremity amputation, pre-amputation pain, residual pain in
      contralateral limb, and time since amputation.

      Depression, anxiety, and stress are known to exacerbate PLP / RLP. Patients experiencing PLP
      and RLP also experience a higher incidence of indecisiveness, suicidal ideation, and thoughts
      of self-harm8. Current guidelines for treatment of PLP and RLP are not standardized.
      Treatments includes pre-operative analgesia, neuromodulation mirror therapy, imagery,
      acupuncture, transcranial stimulation, deep brain stimulation, and medications (including,
      but not limited to: TCAs, SSRIs, gabapentinoids, sodium channel blockers, ketamine, opioids,
      and NSAIDs). Many agents have been injected in neuromas. These include local anesthetic,
      phenol, alcohol, and botulinum toxin. These oral, intravenous, and nonpharmacological
      modalities have demonstrated limited success in the treatment of PLP / RLP. Neuroma
      cryoablation has been used, but this method of neural destruction poses technical challenges
      related to cumbersome needle placement and the requirement for time-intensive freeze-thaw
      cycles.

      Conventional RFA has been studied on RLP. Zhang et. al treated 13 patients with painful stump
      neuromas. The study started with alcohol neurolysis before using ultrasound-guided RFA for
      refractory cases. The frequency of sharp pain was reduced in all RFA-treated patients. Kim
      et. al described a case in which ultrasound-guided RFA was successfully used to treat a
      sciatic neuroma of an above-knee amputee.

      No outcome literature on the effectiveness of C-RFA technology has been published. C-RFA is
      similar in mechanism to conventional RFA: a thermal lesion is created by applying
      radiofrequency energy through an electrode placed at a target structure. In C-RFA, a constant
      flow of ambient water is circulated through the electrode via a peristaltic pump, maintaining
      a lowered tissue temperature by creating a heat sink. By removing heat from tissues
      immediately adjacent to the electrode tip, a lower lesioning temperature is maintained,
      resulting in less tissue charring adjacent to the electrode, less tissue impedance and more
      efficient heating of target tissue. The volume of tissue heated, and the resultant thermal
      lesion size is substantially larger with C-RFA, conferring an advantage over conventional
      RFA. Further, given the spherical geometry and forward projection the C-RFA lesions beyond
      the distal end of the electrode, the RFA probe can be positioned at a range of possible
      angles and still capture the target neural structure, whereas more fastidious, parallel
      positioning is required with conventional RFA. These technical advantages increase the
      probability of successful denervation of neural pain generators that have variability in
      anatomic location. Additionally, a longer lesion of the RLP-generating nerve may be more
      reliably achieved with C-RFA compared to conventional RFA.

      As such, the present study aims to define the attributable effect of cooled RFA on pain,
      physical function, and health-related quality of life in patients with post-amputation
      neuroma-associated residual limb pain. This prospective single-arm pilot study is intended to
      inform a future properly powered randomized controlled trial.
    
  