
    
      Introduction:

      Overall, 10 - 15% of couples seek specialist help once in their lives when a spontaneous
      pregnancy does not occur. These couples are defined subfertile when there is at least one
      year of unprotected intercourse without conceiving. Subfertility can have different causes. A
      basic fertility work-up focuses on the reproductive system of the couple. After this basic
      fertility work-up the subfertility remains unexplained in 16-24% of the couples. The
      investigators hypothesize that cardio-metabolic and hemodynamic abnormalities reducing
      cardiovascular reserves relate to circulatory redistribution at the expense of uterine
      perfusion and with it women's fertility. This could especially be important in the subgroups
      with an unexplained subfertility and a decreased ovarian reserve. For all possible assessed
      abnormalities, proven effective treatments are available such as primarily life style
      corrective actions. Furthermore these interventions could lead to better results in fertility
      treatment, better obstetric outcome and reduced lifelong health risks.

      Objective:

      The overall objective of this study is to examine specific cardio-metabolic and
      cardiovascular parameters in women of subfertile couples. This study protocol is divided into
      3 studies to evaluate several cardio-metabolic/cardiovascular parameters in different
      subgroups of female subfertility compared to fertile women.

        -  Study 1 "The metabolic syndrome and female subfertility": The prevalence of metabolic
           syndrome in all women who are assessed for subfertility compared to fertile women.

        -  Study 2 "The cardiovascular profile in female subfertility": The cardiovascular profile
           of women with female subfertility classified as unexplained subfertility or "expected"
           decreased ovarian reserve compared to fertile women. For this study 4 measurements will
           be performed: the uterine artery pulsatility index (PI) as measure of uterine perfusion,
           the plasma volume as measure of venous reserve capacity, the intima media thickness of
           the carotid arteries as proxy of chronic strain and the endothelial function, measured
           by flow mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery.

        -  Study 3 "The cardiovascular profile of women with a poor ovarian response": The
           cardiovascular profile of women who had an In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) population with
           a "proven" decreased ovarian reserve

      With these different studies, the investigators hope to identify possible
      cardio-metabolic/cardiovascular causes for female subfertility. This can lead to new
      treatment options for female subfertility, enhancing reproductive and obstetric outcome, and
      a risk assessment for later in life.

      Study design:

      We want to perform cross-sectional studies.

      Study population:

      Study 1:

        -  Study group: subfertile women between 18 and 41 years who visit the fertility clinic in
           the Maastricht University Medical Centre with a primary or secondary subfertility,
           independent of the cause of their subfertility

        -  Control group: women with a history of an uneventful spontaneous pregnancy

      Study 2: Women who finished the basic fertility work up and are diagnosed with:

        -  an unexplained subfertility: study group 1

        -  an "expected" decreased ovarian reserve: study group 2 Control group: women with a
           history of an uneventful spontaneous pregnancy

      Study 3: Women who received an IVF treatment in the period of 2010 - 2012 and:

        -  study group: had a "proven" decreased ovarian response, defined as retrieving 3 oocytes
           or less at an ovum pick-up, despite maximal ovarian stimulation

        -  control group: received and IVF/Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) treatment
           because of a severe male subfertility

      Main study parameters:

      Study 1: Prevalence of metabolic syndrome in subfertile women compared to fertile controls.

      Study 2: The cardiovascular profile, in women with an unexplained subfertility or an
      "expected" decreased ovarian reserve, consisting of:

        1. The uterine artery pulsatility index as measure for uterine perfusion

        2. The plasma volume as measure for venous reserve capacity

        3. The intima media thickness (IMT) of the carotid arteries as proxy for chronic strain

        4. The endothelial function of the vascular system (FMD)

      Study 3: The cardiovascular profile, in women with a poor ovarian response, consisting of:

        1. The uterine artery pulsatility index as measure for uterine perfusion

        2. The plasma volume as measure for venous reserve capacity

        3. The intima media thickness (IMT) of the carotid arteries as proxy for chronic strain

        4. The endothelial function of the vascular system (FMD)
    
  