
    
      With this observational, uncontrolled prospective study we aim to observe any clinical
      modifications (concerning weight and other health indicators) achieved by a group of
      overweight and obese persons who underwent a therapy treatment by means of
      "self-empowerment".

      The study will include all adults, with a Body Mass Index (BMI) above 25, entering the new
      "therapy groups" of the project, named "Diamo Peso al Benessere" ("Let's Give Weight to
      Well-Being") an NGO located within the Local Health Unit 4 Medio Friuli, Mental Health
      Department.

      The added value of the strategy proposed by this association is relevant because it is mainly
      directed to the the improvement of the capacity building of each obese participant instead of
      focusing only to the food intake. General practice trainees will be dedicated to the
      evaluation and monitoring of the health status of a group of obese patients included into
      self-empowerment groups will be assessed for the following year. Major health indicators will
      be assessed: Body weight, height, waist circumference, brachial blood pressure (two
      measurements), non-invasive oxymetry.

      Some questionnaires will be utilized: Antonovsky's sense of coherence scale, 10-point Likert
      scale about empowerment, Likert scale about perceived health, Berlin test, Hamilton rating
      scale for depression.

      Blood tests will also be observed. Statistical Analysis A descriptive analysis of all the
      parameters collected, both the baseline data and those from the 6 and 12- month follow-ups.

      For continuous variables (age, weight, BMI…) indicators will be calculated such as the mean,
      standard deviation, minimum, median and maximum values. The categorical data will be
      presented by means of frequency tables (n, %).

      The changes in the parameters and in the distribution of categorical variables pertaining to
      the main and secondary outcomes will be assessed by comparing the baseline data collected and
      those from the 6 and 12-month follow-ups. McNemar's test will be used on the categorical
      variables, with a level of significance for the p-value fixed at < 0.05. This will allow to
      record any differences in the distributions of the main factors of interest. T-tests will be
      used for paired data for assessing changes in the categorical variables.
    
  