
    
      This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Dentistry (13/18a). This
      study included 58 patients aged between 18 and 76 years who attended the Operative Dentistry
      Clinic at the Dental School from the Local University and were eligible for bleaching (see
      eligibility criteria in the next item). Dental bleaching, free of charge, was suggested to
      the patients as a way to improve the patient's smile. The patients were informed about the
      benefits and possible side effects of the procedure in a standardized manner.

      Eligibility criteria for dental bleaching Participants were evaluated in a dental chair and
      after prophylactic dental treatment with pumice and water. To be eligible for dental
      bleaching, participants should have good general and oral health. Each subject should have at
      least one central incisor shaded A2 or darker, assessed by comparison with a value-oriented
      shade guide (Vita classical; Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany). Patients who had
      undergone previous dental bleaching procedures, under orthodontic treatment, who were
      pregnant or lactating, or who had bruxism habits were not eligible for dental bleaching.
      Participants with restorations on the labial surfaces of their anterior teeth, non-carious
      cervical lesions, veneers, full crowns, gingival recession, spontaneous tooth pain, internal
      tooth discoloration, and teeth with endodontic treatment or fluorosis were also not included
      as they could not be immediately eligible for dental bleaching.

      Bleaching Procedure For the participants who were bleaching procedure, we made alginate
      impressions of each subject's maxillary and mandibular arches, and these were filled with
      dental stone. We did not apply block-out material to the labial surfaces. A 1-mm soft vinyl
      material, provided by the manufacturer (FGM Dental Products, Joinville, SC, Brazil) was used
      to fabricate the custom-fitted tray to hold the bleaching gel. The bleaching tray was trimmed
      1 mm beyond the marginal gingiva and we delivered a 10% carbamide peroxide (CP) gel
      (Whiteness Perfect, FGM) to each participant. We give them verbal instructions to apply the
      product 1 hour daily for 3 weeks. After each application, the patient should remove the tray,
      wash it with water, and brush teeth as usual. Verbal instructions for oral hygiene were also
      given, encouraging regular brushing with fluoridated toothpastes that did not contain
      whitening components.

      For these participants, the OHIP-Esthetics, PIDAQ and OES surveys were applied before , one
      week and one month after the end of the bleaching procedure, and the patient was also given
      30 minutes to complete it.

      Color Evaluation Color evaluations were performed using subjective and objective methods. For
      the subjective evaluation, the 16 tabs of the Vita shade Classical guide Vita classical (Vita
      Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany) were arranged from highest (B1) to lowest (C4) value and
      used to determine tooth color. Although this scale is not linear in the truest sense, it was
      treated as continuous with a linear ranking. Two calibrated evaluators with an agreement of
      at least 85% (using weighted kappa statistics) recorded the shade of the middle area of the
      labial surface of the upper central right incisor according to the American Dental
      Association guidelines. Color was registered at baseline and during treatment (after the
      first, second, and third week of bleaching), and one week and one month after the end of the
      bleaching protocol to corroborate the effectiveness of bleaching procedure. The color change
      between baseline and each recall time was calculated as the change in the number of shade
      guide units (ΔSGU), which occurred toward the lightest end of the value-oriented list of
      shade tabs. In case the operators disagreed on the color, a consensus was reached before
      dismissing the patient.

      In the objective evaluation, a digital spectrophotometer (Vita Easyshade, Vita Zahnfabrik)
      with a reliability of 97% was used. An impression of the maxillary arch was taken with dense
      silicone paste (Coltoflax and Perfil Cub, Vigodent, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) and a window was
      created on the labial surface of the silicone guide using a metal device with a radius of 6
      mm to allow adaptation of the tip of the spectrophotometer device and to standardize the
      spectrophotometric color evaluation across all recall periods.

      The color coordinates (L*, a*, and b*) were recorded. The value for L* represented the value
      from 0 (black) to 100 (white), and a* and b* represented color along the red-green axis and
      yellow-blue axis, respectively. The difference between baseline and each recall period (∆E)
      was calculated using the formula (CIE, 1978) ∆E = [(∆L*)2+(∆a*)2+(∆b*)2]1/2.

      Tooth Sensitivity Evaluation Patients were asked to keep a daily record of whether they
      experienced tooth sensitivity (TS). The participants were instructed to indicate their daily
      pain using a visual analog scale (VAS).3, 6, 7 This scale is a 10-cm horizontal line labeled
      no tooth sensitivity at one end and unbearable tooth sensitivity at the other end. The
      patient should mark with a vertical line across the horizontal line of the scale the
      intensity of the tooth sensitivity. Then, the distance in mm from the zero end was measured
      with the aid of a millimeter ruler.

      Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP-Esthetics) questionnaire Satisfaction was measured using the
      OHIP-Esthetics questionnaire validated in Chilean Spanish .The questionnaire was administered
      by a research operator at baseline, at one week, one month and nine months (before
      prophylaxis) after bleaching. Each statement was accompanied by a Likert-type scale, which
      generated a score ranging from 4 to 0 (very often = 4, fairly often = 3, occasionally = 2,
      hardly never = 1, never = 0). These individual scores were added together to give a summary
      score ranging from 0 (minimum) to 56 (maximum). The outcomes were considered the sum of the
      OHIP-Esthetics and dimension scores. The internal consistency was evaluated using Cronbach's
      Alpha test.

      The Psychosocial Impact of Dental Esthetics Questionnaire (PIDAQ) questionnaire The
      questionnaire consisted of 23 items grouped into four components using factor analysis: 1)
      dental self-confidence ; 2) social impact ; 3) psychosocial impact ; and 4) esthetic concern
      .9 The first factor, dental self-confidence, consisted of six items from the self-confidence
      scale. The second factor, social impact, contained eight items from the social aspects scale
      of the quality of life questionnaire. The third factor, psychosocial impact, was derived from
      six formulated items relating mainly to the psychosocial impact of dental esthetics. The
      fourth factor was the esthetics. The patient was asked to evaluate the items using a
      five-point Likert scale with numerical values 0 = "not at all", 1 = "a little", 2 =
      "somewhat", 3 = "strongly" and 4 = "very strongly". The questionnaire was administered by a
      research operator at baseline, one week, one month, and nine months (before prophylaxis)
      after bleaching and was validated in Spanish with a confidence reported by Cronbach´s alpha
      of 0.90.10 The outcomes were considered the sum of the PIDAQ questionnaire and factor scores;
      the internal consistency was evaluated using the Cronbach's Alpha test.

      Orofacial Esthetic Scale (OES) The Orofacial Esthetic Scale was originally developed in the
      Swedish language, the OES-S. For international use, the OES-S was translated into
      English,resulting in the OES-E . The OES consists of eight questions, assessing the
      appearance of the face, profile, mouth, tooth alignment, tooth shape, tooth colour and gums,
      as well as an overall impression of oro-facial aesthetics. Answers to the eight questions are
      scored on 11-point numeric rating scales, ranging from 'Very dissatisfied' (score 0) to 'Very
      satisfied' (score 10). The scores of the first seven items are added to a summary score.
      Therefore, the OES summary score ranges from 0 (worst score -patient is very dissatisfied
      with all aesthetics items) up to 70 (best score - patient is very satisfied with all
      aesthetics items). The score of the eighth item (overall impression score) is judged
      separately, thus ranging from 0 (worst score - patient is very dissatisfied on global
      assessment) up to 10 (best score - patient is very satisfied on global assessment). Hence,
      lower scores imply more impaired self-perceived oro-facial aesthetics.

      Sample size calculation Based on previous study we considered a difference of 4 units in any
      of the domains to be clinically important. With a significance level of 5% and a power of
      90%, a minimum sample size of 58 participants per group would be required to detect a
      difference of 4 units in one of the domains of the questionnaires on before and after
      comparisons.

      Data collection and statistical analysis Data from the OHIP-Esthetics PIDAQ and OES were
      collected on a spreadsheet and analyzed by a psychologist that was blind to the group
      assignment.

      Normality of the data bleaching and the homogeneity of the variance-covariance matrix were
      evaluated with the Kolmogórov-Smirnov test. As data was not normally distributed, treatment
      efficacy (ΔE and ΔSGU) was evaluated with respect to color change using the Wilcoxon Signed
      Rank test.

      The mean intensity of tooth sensitivity in VAS scale was reported as mean and standard
      deviations. The percentage of patients who experienced tooth sensitivity at least once during
      the bleaching therapy was considered the absolute risk of tooth sensitivity, reported as
      percentage with the 95% confidence interval.

      All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 22.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) at a
      level of significance of 5% (α = 0.05).
    
  