
    
      Human studies reported by SJ Holmes et al, 1993, AM Richards et al, 1993 and M. Yoshimara et
      al, 1991 show that administration of externally produced hBNP produces vasodilation;
      antagonism of the hormone system that helps regulate long term blood pressure and blood
      volume in the body; and an increase in urine output containing large amounts of salt. These
      studies suggest hBNP may be a potent agent for the treatment of acute congestive heart
      failure (CHF) with a unique combination of desirable effects on the flow of blood throughout
      the body; the hormones secreted by the nervous system; and support of copious salt outputs by
      the renal system not provided by currently available therapies. Plasma hBNP levels are
      elevated in CHF and hBNP may be one of the body's natural compensatory mechanisms to augment
      cardiac functions in a failing heart. NATRECOR® hBNP is Scios' proprietary form of hBNP and
      it is identical to the amino acid sequence in the naturally occurring hormone. This is a
      randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter study to determine the efficacy
      of two distinct doses of NATRECOR® hBNP in patients with symptomatic, decompensated
      congestive heart failure to decrease pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, as measured by a
      blinded comparison to placebo after 6 hours of treatment. Patients are randomized to receive
      either a placebo or one of two doses (0.015 or 0.03 µg/kg/min) of NATRECOR® hBNP. The study
      hypothesis is that NATRECOR ® hBNP is well tolerated and an effective agent for the
      short-term management of hospitalized patients with symptomatic, decompensated CHF. Patients
      are randomized to receive either a placebo or one of two doses (0.015 or 0.03 µg/kg/min) of
      NATRECOR® hBNP. Doses are administered one time only, an intravenous loading bolus, followed
      by continuous intravenous infusion for 6 hours.
    
  