
    
      Study Overview. The overarching aim of this proposal is to conduct a 4-arm RCT to test the
      separate and combined efficacy of monthly food vouchers to farmers market and monthly mailed
      food stock boxes layered upon diabetes education in improving glycemic control in low income,
      food insecure, AAs with T2DM using a 2x2 factorial design. 300 patients will be randomly
      assigned to four groups of 75 patients each: 1) diabetes education alone; 2) diabetes
      education plus food vouchers; 3) diabetes education plus mailed stock boxes; and 4) diabetes
      education plus combined food vouchers and mailed stock boxes. Each patient will be followed
      for 12 months, with study assessments at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months. Primary aim is
      efficacy of separate and combined interventions on HbA1c at 12 months post-randomization.
      Secondary aims are efficacy of separate and combined interventions on BP, LDL and QOL as well
      as cost-effectiveness at 12 months post-randomization. Exploratory analyses will evaluate
      intervention effects on self-care behaviors and the role of diabetes empowerment and
      self-efficacy as mediators of intervention effects on HbA1c, BP, LDL and QOL.

      Patient Randomization. A permuted block randomization method will be used to assign subjects
      to one of the four intervention groups (cells within the 2x2 factorial design): Group 1
      (Diabetes Education Only); Group 2 (Diabetes Education Plus Monthly Food Vouchers); Group 3
      (Diabetes Education Plus Monthly Stock Boxes); and Group 4 (Diabetes Education Plus
      Combination of Monthly Food Vouchers and Stock Boxes). Block size will be varied to protect
      blinding. The randomization will be stratified by baseline HbA1c levels (8-10% vs. >10%).
      Using REDCap, RAs will collect eligibility information and enter the information into the
      study database via the secured study website. Once eligibility is confirmed, intervention
      assignment will be made by a pre-programmed randomization scheme.

      Description of the LIFT-DM Intervention After enrollment and completing the baseline
      assessment, each subject will have a face-to-face meeting with the study nurse. The primary
      purpose of the face-to-face visit is to randomize subjects to one of the four (4) treatment
      groups outlined below. In addition, during this visit the nurses will go over the study in
      detail, obtain contact information, primary and alternate telephone numbers, and establish
      guidelines for the study group that the subject has been assigned to.

      Group 1 - Diabetes Education Only: Individuals assigned to this group will receive diabetes
      education and skills training but will not receive food supplementation.

      Group 2 ??? Diabetes Education Plus Monthly Food Vouchers: Individuals assigned to this group
      will receive diabetes education and skills training and monthly food vouchers for use at
      local Farmer???s markets mailed to their home.

      Group 3 - Diabetes Education Plus Monthly Stock Boxes: Individuals assigned to this group
      will receive diabetes education and skills training and monthly stock boxes with diabetes
      appropriate food items mailed to their home.

      Group 4 - Diabetes Education Plus Combination of Monthly Food Vouchers and Stock Boxes:
      Individuals assigned to this group will receive diabetes education and skills training,
      monthly food vouchers for use at local Farmer???s markets mailed to their home, and monthly
      stock boxes with diabetes appropriate food items mailed to their home.

      Diabetes Education: The diabetes education portion of the intervention will use materials
      developed by our group and that has been tested in prior R01 studies in African Americans
      with T2DM (R01DK081121; R01DK098529). It consists of culturally tailored diabetes education
      and skills training modules delivered by telephone. Modules were developed based on American
      Diabetes Association guidelines for diabetes education. Content was developed based on the
      principles of adult learning theory and was designed to be relevant, person centered, and
      using language at or below a seventh-grade level. Education modules were reviewed by an
      endocrinologist, primary care physician, diabetes educator, and nurse practitioner and
      revised based on feedback. Weekly sessions cover: 1) Overview of ABC's of diabetes; 2) Self
      Blood Glucose Monitoring; 3) Medications; 4) Basics of Eating; 5) Meal Planning; 6)
      Carbohydrate Counting; 7) Exercise; 8) Blood Pressure; 9) Cholesterol; 10) Foot and Skin
      Care; and 11) Stress. The twelfth session provides a summary of prior session materials.
      Behavioral skills are addressed through individualized problem-solving and self-monitoring
      strategies. Sessions will stress four behaviors ??? physical activity, diet, medication
      adherence, and glucose self-monitoring. Using the participant???s current barriers and
      preferences, target behavior goals will be set and each of the behaviors will be covered in 3
      sessions over the course of the intervention. Twelve 30-minute weekly sessions will be
      delivered via the telephone, with two 30-minute booster sessions at months 6 and 9.

      Monthly Food Vouchers to Local Farmer???s Markets: Monthly food vouchers are intended to
      provide additional access to healthy food beyond that which participants currently have.
      Individuals will not be prevented from obtaining food from other programs such as WIC, SNAP,
      or food pantries, but the supplementation from the intervention will not be increased to
      cover family size. Vouchers will be limited to purchasing food at local farmer???s markets.
      Specifying use of vouchers for purchase of food at farmer???s markets is intended to support
      increasing purchase of fruits and vegetables. Farmer???s markets are available in the
      Milwaukee area year-round, with winter farmer???s markets located indoors rather than
      outside. However, given the limited access, during winter months vouchers will also be
      redeemable at local grocery stores for the purchase of fresh fruits and vegetables. Kroger
      grocery stores currently work with Hunger Task Force to provide access to fruits and
      vegetables through vouchers, and focus group participants were familiar with WIC programs
      that use vouchers to farmer???s markets during summer months. Vouchers for $50 will be mailed
      monthly for 12 months.

      Monthly Stock Boxes: Monthly shipments of pre-packaged food boxes are intended to provide
      additional access to healthy food beyond that which participants currently have. Individuals
      will not be prevented from obtaining food from other programs such as WIC, SNAP, or food
      pantries, but the supplementation from the intervention will not be increased to cover family
      size. Stock boxes will have foods selected based on ADA diet guidelines to include fresh
      produce, whole and unrefined grain products, low sodium canned vegetables, sauces, and soups,
      low-fat dairy, lean meats, and beans. Items such as spices, cooking oil, and utensils for
      cooking will also be included in boxes to facilitate individuals introducing new products
      into their diet. The research team has established a collaborative relationship with Feeding
      America of Southeastern Wisconsin who has previously created stock boxes for diabetes
      specific diets. In addition, we have partnered with local pantries that have piloted small
      studies to test feasibility of creating stock boxes. Stock boxes with foods valued at $50
      will be mailed monthly for 12 months.

      Combined Monthly Food Vouchers and Stock Boxes: Monthly food vouchers and stock boxes are
      intended to provide additional access to healthy food beyond that which participants
      currently have. Individuals will not be prevented from obtaining food from other programs
      such as WIC, SNAP, or food pantries, but the supplementation from the intervention will not
      be increased to cover family size. Vouchers will be limited to purchasing food at local
      farmer???s markets to support increasing purchase of fruits and vegetables. During winter
      months vouchers will also be redeemable at local grocery stores for the purchase of fresh
      fruits and vegetables. Stock boxes will have foods selected based on ADA diet guidelines to
      include fresh produce, whole and unrefined grain products, low sodium canned vegetables,
      sauces, and soups, low-fat dairy, lean meats, and beans. Items such as spices, cooking oil,
      and utensils for cooking will also be included in boxes to facilitate individuals introducing
      new products into their diet. Vouchers for $25 and stock boxes with food valued at $25 will
      be mailed monthly for 12 months. In essence, the combined group will still receive $50 worth
      of food supplementation monthly as combination of $25 vouchers and $25 mailed stock boxes.
    
  