
    
      The ARIES Bordetella Assay is a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based qualitative
      in vitro diagnostic test for the direct detection and identification of Bordetella pertussis
      (B. pertussis) and Bordetella parapertussis (B. parapertussis) nucleic acid in nasopharyngeal
      swabs (NPS) specimens obtained from individuals suspected of having a respiratory tract
      infection attributable to B. pertussis or B. parapertussis.

      Clinical nasopharyngeal swab specimens collected using nasopharyngeal swab in transport media
      will be processed according to the routine procedure followed at the clinical collection site
      and as ordered by the referring physician. The leftover specimen will be blinded and assigned
      a unique clinical study specimen number. In order to preserve the confidentiality of
      subjects, the following procedures will be implemented at each site:

        -  Clinical specimens will be individually numbered by an honest broker who is not involved
           in investigational testing so that the identity of the subject may not be readily
           ascertained by the investigator, investigational testing staff, or study Sponsor.

        -  Available clinical information accompanying the specimens will be provided in such a way
           that it does not make the specimen source identifiable to the investigator or any other
           individuals associated with investigational testing, including the Sponsor.

        -  No personal identifier (protected health information) will be included on the case
           report form (CRF) so that the confidentiality of each subject is protected.

      Multiple aliquots of each left-over specimen will be generated. One aliquot of each specimen
      will be shipped to a laboratory where the reference method (two validated real-time PCR
      methods for each, B. pertussis and B. parapertussis) will be performed. A second aliquot of
      each specimen will be used by the clinical sites for ARIES Bordetella Assay testing.
      Additional aliquots of each specimen will be stored frozen (-65 to -95°C) at the clinical
      sites and sent separately on dry ice to the Sponsor upon Sponsor's request.

      The prospective data set will be supplemented with banked, pre-selected clinical specimens
      and contrived specimens that tested positive by a comparator method for B. pertussis and B.
      parapertussis. If contrived specimens are required, these specimens will be prepared then
      blinded, aliquoted, randomized and frozen (-65 to -95°C) until distributed to the clinical
      testing sites by the Sponsor.

      The clinical data will be automatically generated from the ARIES System software. The system
      will report the specimen as B. pertussis and B. parapertussis positive (Co-infection), B.
      pertussis positive, B. parapertussis positive, B. pertussis and B. parapertussis negative or
      Invalid. Invalid results will be retested and both the original data and the retest data will
      be reported. The clinical data will be compared to the reference data and recorded in the
      clinical study reports.
    
  