
    
      Fifty consecutive (25 per arm) patients undergoing unilateral or bilateral breast
      reconstruction with tissue expanders will be administered intraoperatively in a standardized
      manner with either bupivicaine HCl (control group) or liposomal bupivacaine/Exparel
      (experimental group). Pain will be assessed qualitatively through the use of: 1) numeric
      rating scale during rest (NRS-R) and activity (NRS-A), 2) brief pain inventory (BPI)
      questionnaire, and 3) postoperative analgesia patient satisfaction scale. Furthermore,
      investigators will record the use of rescue analgesics for each patient. This part of the
      study will provide quantitative data that investigators can then use in comparison to the
      qualitative measurements (NSR, BPI, patient satisfaction scale rate). In turn, this will
      allow us to objectify patient's pain, thereby increasing the validity of our results. More
      importantly, this aspect of the investigation will enable us to study the impact that
      liposomal bupivacaine has in reducing the postoperative usage of opioid medications in this
      patient population. As this is a pilot study, a sample size of 50 total patients (25 per
      treatment group) is planned. This sample size should provide estimates of potential effect
      sizes and variability in the present setting to allow for future study planning. This study
      should provide adequate evidence of whether pain decreases of 15% or more are unlikely in
      this setting.

      Investigators aim to evaluate the effectiveness of DepoFoam Bupivicaine (Exparel®) to reduce
      postoperative pain in breast reconstruction patients compared to the current standard
      treatment (bupivacaine HCl). Investigators hypothesize that patients undergoing breast
      reconstruction with tissue expander will achieve greater control of post-operative pain and
      longer lasting analgesia with the use of liposomal bupivacaine.
    
  