
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of topotecan with a fixed dose of etoposide
           phosphate as a component of a multicourse high dose chemotherapy regimen supported by
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with persistent or recurrent
           ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

        -  Evaluate the response, time to progression, disease free survival, and overall survival
           in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of topotecan.

      All patients receive induction therapy consisting of 1 to 2 courses of mobilization therapy.
      Subcutaneous filgrastim (G-CSF) is given beginning 24 hours after induction dose. Following
      induction therapy, peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested. After patients receive
      high dose paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy, a portion of the PBSC are reinfused. When
      patients recover from the paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy the administration of topotecan
      and etoposide phosphate begins. Topotecan is administered, as a 72 hour continuous infusion,
      according to a dose escalation schedule with a fixed dose of etoposide phosphate. A second
      portion of PBSC are reinfused after topotecan/etoposide phosphate chemotherapy. A course of
      thiotepa is given along with the final portion of PBSC after treatment with topotecan and
      etoposide phosphate.

      Dose escalation of topotecan continues until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.
      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 or more patients experience dose
      limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and every 4 months thereafter to determine
      progression free and overall survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25-30 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of
      this study, and 25 more patients will be accrued for the phase II portion.
    
  