
    
      The study design was a prospective and single-blinded randomized controlled trial. 36
      participants with MCI were recruited and demographic data (age, gender, education level
      /years of education, marriage status etc.) were also collected. The MCI participants
      underwent the comprehensive review at baseline including neuropsychological assessment and
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging or Computerized Tomogram. Randomization treatment assignment will
      be generated by the random number table and assign the patient's intervention group
      accordingly. Sealed opaque envelopes containing the CCT group, or the dosage-matched control
      group sheets will be prepared and given to the therapists.

      Based on the t-test effect size of index d 1.00 indicates, an estimated 17 participants in
      each group will be required for a power of 0.80 with a two-sided type I error of 0.05.
      Considering the 5% (q) drop rate, we will need to recruit 18 participants (N/1-q) for each
      group. The participants were randomly allocated to either the CCT group (18 participants) or
      the dosage-matched control group (18 participants) with individualized intervention for 30
      minutes a day, 3 times a week for 4 consecutive weeks. Clinical outcome measures, and the
      imaging of the MEG were administered at pre- treatment, post-treatment and 1-month follow-up
      for further analysis.

      Statistical analysis was performed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
      version 19.0. In statistical testing, two-sided p value ≤ 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant. The distributional properties of continuous variables were expressed by mean ±
      standard deviation (SD), categorical variables were presented by frequency and percentage.
      The differences in the distributions of continuous variables, categorical variables between
      the treatment and control groups were examined using two-sample t-test, Wilcoxon rank-sum
      test (or Mann-Whitney U test), and chi-square test. In addition, the minimum norm estimates
      (MNE), source-based time-frequency analysis, cross-frequency coupling, and functional
      connectivity were used to explore the differences of the activation of brain functions in
      participants between different treatment groups. The t-test was used to explore the
      differences of reaction time, rate of correction, and physical signals in stimulus reaction
      test of the MEG between in participants between different treatment groups. The correlation
      statistics was used to explore relationships between the scores of outcome measurements and
      the physical signals.
    
  