
    
      Participants will be recruited from the screening program, and are living on the main island
      of Funen. Persons with a positive FOBT who have been offered and have accepted a colonoscopy
      will be contacted by telephone and informed about the project by the project nurse.

      The persons who accept participation and meet the inclusion criteria will be contacted by the
      study nurse for scheduling the capsule endoscopy according to the planned colonoscopy, which
      has to bee within 9-13 days after the result of the FOBT test.

      The nurse will instruct the person to take the standard colon preparation 2 days before the
      colonoscopy, and stay from solid food until after the colonoscopy has been performed
      according to standard procedure. Thus the period with food-restrictions has to be extended by
      one day. A visit by the home services nurse the day before the colonoscopy will be arranged.
      The nurse will assist and supervise the intake of the video capsule and assists with the
      attachment of the monitor in a belt around the person's belly. Afterwards the questionnaire 1
      (appendix 1) will be fulfilled by the patient with assistance from the nurse.

      When the capsule has passed anus the monitoring equipment must be disarmed by the patient and
      stored according to the instructions. The patient will bring the recorder to the hospital the
      following day and deliver it to the study nurse, who will take care of data-transmission to
      the institute in Hamburg. After the colonoscopy and recovery period, the patient and the
      project nurse will fulfill the 2. questionnaire (appendix 2) and the colonoscopist will
      fulfill a standard report on the findings and treatment at colonoscopy (appendix 3), which
      will be added to the electronic database by the project secretary. The results form the
      colonoscopy will be the only information, that will be retrieved form the patients record.

      Trained specialists in the Diagnostic Centre in Hamburg will perform the evaluation of the
      CCE and the data will be entered in a standard diagnostic report (appendix 4). The Diagnostic
      Centre will not have access to the results of the colonoscopy.

      The CCE report must be available within 3 days, and the project responsible will evaluate the
      result according to the reported findings at colonoscopy. Any disagreement will be evaluated
      and discussed with the patient. In case of significant disagreement defined as a neoplasms of
      > 9 mm found at CCE and not detected by colonoscopy the patient will be offered additional
      diagnostics in the form of repeated colonoscopy within 2 weeks or a CT colonography upon the
      decision by the patient.

      Participants have to stay on a fluid diet for one day more than for the conventional
      investigation. This might be uncomfortable for some patients, but is without any
      health-related risk. Another side effect could be increased fecal content in the bowel at
      colonoscopy due to the extended time from bowel preparation to colonoscopy. In some cases
      this could result in an incomplete colonscopy, which then has to be repeated. The risk of
      this side effect is unknown but is considered to be below 5%.

      The most significant complication to the CCE will be the risk of impaction of the capsule
      within the intestine, which may lead to surgery. The risk is minimized by the exclusion
      criteria and according to daily clinical experience the risk will be less than 0.5%, and will
      mainly occur in persons with an unknown intestinal pathology, which in the majority of the
      cases would necessitate surgical treatment anyway. There is no known risk with the monitoring
      equipment.

      In the case of significant disagreement between the results form capsule endoscopy and the
      conventional colonoscopy the patient may risk further investigations, but on the other hand
      this could be an advantage for the patients in case of missed lesions at the colonoscopy. The
      risk of missing cancer or large polyps by colonoscopy is in the range of 1-2%.
    
  