
    
      Detailed Description:

      The aim of this study is to investigate the response of recognized vitamin B12 biomarkers
      (serum total vitamin B12; serum holotranscobalamin; plasma methylmalonic acid; plasma
      homocysteine) to intervention with supplemental vitamin B12 at doses within and beyond the
      range of typical dietary intakes in younger and older adults.

      The sample size will be estimated by using typical variances from published studies on plasma
      homocysteine responses to vitamin B12 supplementation in adults. The calculations are based
      on changes in plasma homocysteine, as it is considered a functional indicator of vitamin B12
      status. The typical standard deviation of change will be set at 2µmol/L (Clarke et al. 1998;
      McKinley et al. 2002) with the minimal detectable difference being 1.5µmol/L at 80% power and
      a significance level of 5%. Calculations determined that 40 subjects would be required for
      each of the three treatment groups plus placebo in order to show significant differences in
      plasma homocysteine concentrations.

      Participants will be recruited by posters, advertisement, emails and organized meetings to
      promote the study among staff and students at Ulster University, Coleraine, workplaces,
      social and sporting clubs and sheltered accommodation for older adults in the surrounding
      local community. Those interested in the study will receive a participant information sheet
      and further details about the study. A signed informed consent will be obtained from all who
      are willing to participate in the study. A screening questionnaire and a non-fasting blood
      sample will be taken to identify those eligible to take part in the study. Exclusion criteria
      will be: history of gastrointestinal, hepatic, renal, vascular or haematological diseases or
      diabetes; those taking medications that interfere with folate or vitamin B12 metabolism (e.g.
      methotrexate, proton pump inhibitor drugs); use of B vitamin supplements; pregnancy; plasma
      creatinine concentration > 130 µmol/L; those with hypochlorhydria (diagnosed serologically by
      pepsinogen I to Pepsinogen II ratio < 3); those individuals with the 677C→T polymorphism in
      the MTHFR gene and those aged 60 years and over who scored <25 on Folstein's Mini-Mental
      State Examination (a cognitive function screening test).

      All eligible participants will undergo a pre-treatment phase with 400 µg/day folic acid (FA)
      for 11 weeks; the treatment with FA will continue until the end of the trial. At the end of
      the pre-treatment phase, participants will provide a non-fasting blood sample (baseline
      sample) and will be stratified within each age category (<60 years and ≥60 years) according
      to their homocysteine concentrations and subsequently randomized in a 1:1:1:1 allocation
      ratio to one of the four treatments for 16 weeks: 400 µg/day FA + placebo, 400 µg/day FA + 2
      µg/day vitamin B12, 400 µg/day FA + 10 µg/day vitamin B12 or 400 µg/day FA + 50 µg/day
      vitamin B12. A non-fasting blood sample will be collected at the end of the intervention.
      Blood samples at baseline and post-intervention will be analyzed for biomarkers of folate and
      vitamin B12 status. In order to encourage maximal compliance, participants will be contacted
      regularly and provided with supplements in 7-day pillboxes every 4 weeks during the
      pre-treatment phase and the intervention, and will be asked to return the used pillboxes; the
      number of unused capsules will be recorded to monitor compliance. The intervention will be
      conducted on a staggered basis and both study participants and researchers will be blind to
      treatment allocations. Dietary intake of participants will be assessed using a four-day food
      diary (based on 2 weekday and 2 weekend day intakes) and a food frequency questionnaire
      regarding specific intake of foods fortified with vitamin B12 and FA.

      Anthropometric measurements as height and weight for each participant will be taken by using
      portable approved scales.
    
  