
    
      According to estimates (1), 30% to 60% of the school day is spent performing tasks involving
      handwriting. It is also in this period that the formal learning of handwriting begins (2).
      However, not all children are able to develop proficient handwriting (3-4).

      According to Alhusaini, Melam and Buragadda (5) 12% to 30% of children present difficulties
      in handwriting, with negative consequences for school success (6).

      Children who fail to develop proficient handwriting are entitled to "poor writers" or
      "dysgraphics" (7-8).

      Dysgraphia refers to a "disturbance or difficulty in the production of written language
      related to the mechanics of writing" (9). Ajuriaguerra (8) defines it as a writing whose
      quality is deficient, without any neurological or intellectual deficit explaining it.
      Generally, handwriting is less legible and organized, contains more erasures and corrections,
      and exhibits a slower speed (9).

      In addition, this is one of the main reasons for referral and consultation in psychomotricity
      in school-age (10), for this reason it is fundamental to bet on the prevention of them.

      The need for prevention and early intervention is indisputable (11). Several studies indicate
      that both the benefits of late intervention are well-known, because the time is often
      difficult to correct handwriting difficulties (12-13).

      Most of the existing studies focus on remediation of handwriting (14). There is evidence of
      its efficacy in handwriting improvement, depending on its duration, frequency and method of
      treatment (5, 7, 15).

      There are few studies dedicated to the prevention of handwriting difficulties (14). In
      addition, to my knowledge, there is no study whose intervention is based on a psychomotor
      approach. Based on this, a graphomotor intervention program with a psychomotor approach was
      developed, by Matias and Vieira (16), who will apply in this study to children in the second
      grade of elementary school.
    
  