
    
      Childhood obesity is a significant public health problem. In the last three decade, there has
      been a marked increase in the prevalence of childhood obesity. Currently, 23% of preschoolers
      (2-5 years) in the United States are overweight or obese, a critical period to target in
      hopes of reversing this trend. The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of a novel
      obesity intervention program for preschool-aged children. Emerging consensus indicates that
      excessive, intrusive, overt control in feeding or a chaotic non-structured feeding
      environment are risk factors for childhood obesity. The 2007 Expert Committee Recommendations
      on the Prevention, Assessment, and Treatment of Childhood Obesity specifically identified
      maternal feeding practices as important, categorically stating there is consistent evidence
      to support "avoiding overly restrictive feeding behaviors." The guidelines emerged from a
      growing body of literature indicating that overly controlling caregiver feeding behaviors, in
      particular, significantly increase children's obesity risk.

      Despite the evidence for the importance of feeding dynamics, no childhood obesity
      interventions focused on this area have been rigorously tested. The Feeding Dynamic
      Intervention (FDI) is a 12-week educational intervention. The intervention will be delivered
      in a closed group setting and will consist of 6 intervention sessions lasting 90 minutes
      each. We will recruit 84 mothers with 3- to 5-year-old obese children, randomly assigned to
      either the FDI or a comparison to a waiting list control group (WLG). At the end of the 6
      month study we will assess knowledge and behavioral changes between the groups on (i)
      maternal self-reported feeding practices; (ii) improving energy compensation (COMPX),
      decreasing Eating in the Absence of Hunger (EAH) and increasing mother-reported satiety
      responsiveness in their child. Finally, we will investigate an exploratory hypothesis that
      children in the FDI group, compared to children in the wait-list control group, will
      demonstrate a lower increase in body mass index (BMI) z-score over 6 months.
    
  