
    
      ET is a myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) characterized by a high platelet level. Increased
      occurrence of thrombosis and hemorrhages are the main complications in ET. In this regard,
      the key factors defining high risk ET include age over 60 years, past history of thrombosis,
      platelet > 1500 109/L and to a lesser degree cardiovascular risk factors. These criteria
      currently serve as therapeutic guidelines for the use of cytoreductive therapy, with
      hydroxyurea (HU) being the treatment of choice in the first line setting.

      The use of antiplatelet agent i.e. low-dose aspirin is also generally recommended. However,
      the benefit of aspirin has never been formally demonstrated in ET. Only indirect evidence
      come from the ECLAP study that enrolled patients with polycythemia vera (PV). Of note in the
      ECLAP study, the efficacy of aspirin was assessed only at diagnosis but not correlated
      thereafter with the hematological response on cytoreductive therapy.

      In general non-MPN population studies, primary prophylaxis with aspirin has been associated
      with a risk reduction of major vascular events, but an increased risk of hemorrhage,
      especially considering age and prior gastrointestinal history. In a recent retrospective
      study, the combination of aspirin and cytoreduction was reported to prevent thrombosis but
      concomitantly increase the bleeding risk when compared to HU alone , especially in patients
      older than 60 years, thus questioning the benefits of long term use of aspirin therapy. These
      data raise the question of the actual benefit of aspirin maintenance, once patients have been
      efficiently treated with cytoreductive therapy.

      Hence, investigator propose a prospective randomized study to assess the benefit / risk ratio
      of aspirin maintenance in high risk ET patients, in hematological response (modified by
      amendment 1/03/2017) on Hydroxyurea. Patients for which Aspirin interruption will not be
      possible because of extra-ET indications will be enrolled in the control observational arm.
    
  