
    
      Objectives

      The purpose of this study is to determine how the subjective sense of willing and initiating
      an action is altered in schizophrenic patients. One proposed explanation for characteristic
      symptoms of schizophrenia ("passivity phenomena") is a defect in the forward model of
      movement that the brain receives as the motor signal is generated. We propose to examine this
      forward model using Libet's paradigm, in which normal subjects gave evidence for a forward
      model in their anticipatory reports of initiation of movement. We intend to determine the
      times associated with willing (W), initiating (M), and
      electroencephalographic/electromyographic (EEG/EMG) measures of movement.

      Study Population

      We intend to study adult patients with a Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders diagnosis of schizophrenia. These patients provide a unique population for this
      study because they often do not have the sense that they direct their own movement or author
      their own thoughts (passivity phenomena). Studies have shown that schizophrenics have
      movement-related cortical potentials on EEG, but it is not known when the subjective sense of
      initiating movement occurs for these patients. As the order of mental events in time has been
      shown to contribute to the sense of agency, it is important to know how the timing of
      voluntary movement is altered in schizophrenia.

      Design

      We will ask patients to look at a fast-rotating clock on a computer screen and note when
      their movements were willed, instigated by an external agent if they have such delusions, and
      were initiated. Patients will also report the time of a somatosensory stimulus. Surface EMG
      will determine the time of actual movement, and EEG will record brain potentials associated
      with movement. Eligible patients with schizophrenia and passivity phenomena will be recruited
      from the Clinical Brain Disorders Branch, NIMH.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure of this study is the absence of time W in some schizophrenics,
      the latency of W in other schizophrenics compared to normal subjects, and the latency of M in
      schizophrenics compared to normals. Any effect of medication status or symptoms on
      performance in the study will be considered exploratory data.
    
  