
    
      Serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) - sub-study

      In this sub-study 120 patients will be randomly assigned to one of four groups:

      SAPB group A 30ml of Ropivacaine 7,5mg/ml is injected above m. serratus anterior after
      thoracoscopic lung surgery. Injection is done under ultrasound guidance.

      SAPB group B 30ml of Sodiumchloride 0.9 is injected above m. serratus anterior after
      thoracoscopic lung surgery. Injection is done under ultrasound guidance.

      SAPB group C 30ml of Ropivacaine 7,5mg/m is injected above m. serratus anterior after
      thoracoscopic lung surgery. Also a multi-holed catheter is left in place. Through catheter
      20ml Ropivacaine 2mg/ml is injected every 12 hours after surgery.

      SAPB group D A multi-holed catheter is placed in single intercostal space under thoracoscopic
      visualization. 20ml of Ropivacaine 7,5mg/ml is injected after application of the catheter,
      also a continuous infusion of ropivacaine 2mg/ml is started. Rate of the infusion is
      determined by patients weight.

      Subpectoral Interfascial Plane block (SIP) - sub-study

      In this sub-study 80 patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:

      SIP group A 20ml of ropivacaine 7,5mg/ml is injected under both pectoralis major muscles
      before medial sternotomy. Injection is done under ultrasound guidance.

      SIP group B 20ml of sodiumchloride 0.9 is injected under both pectoralis major muscles before
      medial sternotomy. Injection is done under ultrasound guidance.

      Every patients postoperative pain is treated with intravenous ocycodone PCA-pump.

      The investigators will evaluate post operative pain based on the Numeric rating Scale, 24
      hours oxycodone consumption. The investigators will also evaluate post operative chronic pain
      using three questionnaires: EQ5D, STAIT-TRAIT and Pain Detect. In SAPB sub-study the
      questionnaires are done three weeks and 6 months post. operatively. In SIP sub-study the
      questionnaires are done 6 months and 12 months post.operatively.
    
  