
    
      Background:

      Hand foot and mouth disease (HFMD) is a common infectious disease caused by a variety of
      enteroviruses. A small proportion of those infected with enterovirus 71 (EV71) develop
      neurological and systemic complications that may prove fatal. Over the past 15 years EV71
      related HFMD has caused increasing epidemics of HFMD across Asia; in 2011, in excess of
      100,000 Vietnamese children were diagnosed clinically with HFMD and 164 died. The
      neurological problem of most concern is brainstem encephalitis, causing autonomic nervous
      system (ANS) dysregulation that may progress rapidly to cardiopulmonary failure. Management
      of ANS dysregulation is difficult even in sophisticated western intensive care units. The
      phosphodiesterase-3 inhibitor, Milrinone, was reported to control hypertension and support
      myocardial function in a small informal study of severe HFMD compared to historical controls,
      but in practice treatment remains largely empirical. ANS dysregulation also occurs in severe
      tetanus and there is a body of evidence indicating that intravenous magnesium sulphate (Mg)
      is effective in controlling tetanus-associated cardiovascular instability. Mg is also used
      widely for eclampsia, severe asthma and pulmonary hypertension, and there are reports of
      rapid control of life-threatening autonomic hyperreflexia in patients with spinal lesions.
      Formal safety data in children are limited, but adverse effects appear to be infrequent. In a
      series of 24 severe EV71 confirmed HFMD cases managed recently at the Hospital for Tropical
      Diseases, Ho Chi Minh City, Mg was added when hypertension remained poorly controlled despite
      high-dose Milrinone. In all cases the blood pressure (BP) reduced within 30-60 minutes and
      remained stable subsequently on a continuous Mg infusion for 48-72 hours.

      Hypothesis and Aims:

      We hypothesize that early intervention with Mg, when ANS dysregulation first becomes
      apparent, will control cardiovascular instability and prevent progression to severe disease.
      The main aims are as follows:-

        -  To evaluate the effects of Mg on hypertension and ANS dysregulation in severe HFMD

        -  To evaluate the effects of Mg on outcome (death or neurological sequelae) in severe HFMD

        -  To evaluate changes in plasma/urine catecholamine levels, cardiac output and systemic
           vascular resistance (SRV) in severe HFMD, and to assess the impact of Mg on these
           parameters.

      Study Design:

      We plan a randomized double blind trial comparing intravenous Mg with placebo in children
      admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit with clinical HFMD, ANS dysregulation, and
      Stage 1 hypertension. Patients will be eligible for enrolment if the arterial blood pressure
      exceeds the 95th centile for age, gender and length/height for at least 30 minutes while the
      child is not distressed, they exhibit at least one other criterion for ANS dysregulation, and
      a parent/guardian gives written informed consent. Specific renal and cardio-respiratory
      exclusion criteria will apply.

      A loading dose of 50mg/kg of either Mg or identical placebo will be given over 20 minutes
      followed by a maintenance infusion for 72 hours according to response, aiming for Mg levels
      2-3 times normal in the treatment arm. All staff involved in clinical care will be blind to
      the treatment allocation, and Mg levels will be monitored and adjusted by independent doctors
      from another clinical facility.

      The primary endpoint will be a composite endpoint of disease progression defined as
      occurrence of any of the following within 72 hours: specific blood pressure criteria
      necessitating addition of milrinone, need for ventilation, development of shock, or death.
      Secondary endpoints will include presence of neurological sequelae at discharge in survivors,
      and various measures of cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance, catecholamine and
      cytokine levels.

      Based on 1:1 randomization, an anticipated relative reduction of the risk of progression of
      50% (from 50% in the control arm to 25% in Mg recipients, information from our case series
      plus indirect evidence from studies on severe tetanus), 90% power and a two-sided 5%
      significance level, 85 patients per treatment group are required. To allow for some
      violations of our assumptions and losses to follow-up, we plan to recruit 190 patients (95
      patients per treatment arm) into the study.

      Potential Impact:

      Given the very large numbers of HFMD cases being seen in hospitals in Asia currently, if Mg
      is shown to be effective in controlling ANS dysregulation and preventing severe HFMD
      complications this would be of major importance for paediatric care throughout the Asian
      region. Mg is cheap, readily available and safe whereas milrinone is expensive, has a
      significant side effect profile and is often not available outside major centres.
    
  