
    
      Lung Cancer continues to have high morbidity and mortality, and it is estimated that in 2014
      in Taiwan there were approximately 11692 new cases and 9167 deaths from lung cancer, which
      was the first leading cause of cancer deaths. Because 70% of lung cancer patients in Taiwan
      were diagnosed at late stage, only palliative treatment could be given and prognosis was
      poor.

      Owing so, screening and early detection of early stage lung cancer is of paramount
      importance. In 2012, the National Lung Screening Trial demonstrated that screening for lung
      cancer with chest computed tomography (CT) results in a 20% reduction in mortality. Low dose
      CT(LDCT) has been acknowledged as the most powerful tool for early lung cancer detection.
      With the increasing use of CT, it is expected that many patients with small lesions (< 2 cm),
      enlarging lesions, and partially solid lesions that are suspicious for cancer will be
      discovered and will require surgical resection.

      It is well known that video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery(VATS) is preferred to open surgery
      for lung tumor resection because of the use of smaller incisions and optimized postoperative
      recovery, including a shorter length of hospitalization. Studies have shown decreased
      operative and post-operative morbidity with decreased operative times. While this procedure
      speeds up recovery and potentially reduces complications, the loss of natural vision and
      tactile sensing makes it difficult for the surgeon to locate the nodules, especially in cases
      of non-superficial, ground-glass opaque, and small lesions. The yield rate for nodules < 1 cm
      can be below 40% as studies show. And a more significant resection (more healthy tissue is
      resected than actually necessary in order to avoid missing the lesion.) or conversion to
      thoracotomy is occasionally needed to ensure complete resection. In order to improve nodule
      localization, a variety of methods have been proposed and described to mark lung nodules for
      easier identification of small nodules and help guide resection during VATS. These ranged
      from percutaneous image guided injection of a dye (methylene blue) or radio-opaque material
      such as barium sulphate, to percutaneously placed hookwires and micro-coils in the radiology
      suite prior to surgery. All these preoperative CT scan guided localization procedures were
      carried out "outside" operation room and under local anesthesia.

      However, there remain certain concerns. First, there are the difficult logistics in
      minimizing the time between the hookwire procedure and the subsequent surgery. Second, there
      is concern for patient safety, in particular pneumothorax, during transfer to and from the
      ward to the radiology department and in the frequent delays and waiting in reception areas
      prior to transfer to operating theaters. Finally, interdepartmental transfers and delays can
      also increase the risk of hookwire dislodgement.

      Theoretically, the aforementioned disadvantage could be solved by performing the localization
      procedure and the lung surgery in the same hybrid operating room environment(i.e. Hybrid OR).
      A hybrid operating room is a surgical theatre that is equipped with advanced medical imaging
      devices such as fixed C-Arms, CT scanners or MRI scanners. These imaging devices enable
      minimally-invasive surgery, which is less traumatic for the patient.

      Hybrid operating rooms are currently used mainly in cardiac, vascular and neuro-surgery, and
      could be suitable for a number of other surgical disciplines, such as thoracic surgery.

      Using advanced intra-operative imaging in the OR helps to precisely locate and resect the
      lesion in a potentially tissue-sparing and quick fashion. In order to be able to use image
      guidance during VATS, rotational angiography has to be performed before the introduction of
      ports, thus before the lobe in question deflates. This way the lesion is visible through the
      natural contrast of air. In a second step, hook wires, thread needles, or contrast agent
      (Lipiodol, Iopamidol) are introduced into or next to the lesion to ensure visibility on the
      angiogram after lung deflation. Then, the conventional part of VATS starts with the
      introduction of thoracoscope. The imaging system is used in fluoroscopic mode now, where both
      the inserted instruments and the previously marked lesion are well visible. A precise
      resection is now possible. In case contrast agent has been used to mark the lesion, it will
      also drain into the regional lymph nodes, which then can be resected within the same
      procedure.

      Reviewing the literature, there are several studies reporting the efficacy of Hybrid OR in
      localization of the lung nodule with good result and acceptable radiation exposure. However,
      there was no study so far comparing the efficacy of intraoperative localization and
      preoperative CT guided localization.

      In the current study, the investigators will perform intraoperative lung tumor localization
      in CGMH hybrid OR(Room 51) equipped with the Siemens Artis Zeego system with DynaCT imaging
      capabilities. The system provides images equivalent to a 16-slice spiral CT scanner in a
      single 6-s sweep. Through a randomized study design, the advantages, disadvantages, and
      important considerations of this combined approach will be compared with traditional
      preoperative CT scan guided localization protocol.
    
  