
    
      Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, also called Machado-Joseph disease (SCA3/MJD), is an autosomal
      dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion (CAGexp) on ATXN3. Over 20
      years after the identification of the causal mutation, no form of prevention or treatment for
      this incapacitating condition was discovered. Similarly to other polyglutamine (polyQ)
      diseases, SCA3/MJD has a slow progression. Changes detected by clinical scales are small and,
      therefore, long intervals are needed to document disease progression. Clinical trials using
      clinical scales as primary outcomes should be very long, what makes them hardly feasible. In
      this context, the discovery of disease biomarkers is of utmost importance. Biomarkers
      associated with disease progression and/or with therapeutic intervention might be more easily
      verified than the changes measured by clinical scales. Seminal studies have demonstrated that
      oculomotor alterations and vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) impairment may be present even
      during presymptomatic periods. Our primary hypothesis is eye movement parameters including
      VOR, saccades, smooth pursuit and fixation measured by video-oculography could be biomarkers
      of SCA3/MJD disease progression. Besides that, the investigators aim to test if the candidate
      biomarkers present changes before disease-onset and if their responsiveness will be better
      than those of clinical scales, with more noticeable variations during a shorter period of
      time. The study will consist of a prospective observation of subjects in a natural history
      design. The investigators will monitor disease progression of the CAGexp carriers through
      clinical scales and video-oculography. At least 75 adult subjects from Rio Grande do Sul will
      be invited to participate in the study, and at least 50 of the participants will be
      asymptomatic subjects, at 50% risk of carrying the mutation. The study design will allow the
      subjects who wanted and the evaluators to stay blinded to subjects' genotypes. Participants
      will be stratified in three groups: ataxic carriers, pre-ataxic carriers and non-carriers
      (controls). Genotypes will be recorded separately to guarantee double blindness. For every
      pre-ataxic carrier, time until the disease-onset will be estimated by an equation previously
      built, in which individual age and CAGexp are the determinants. The following clinical scales
      will be applied in all subjects at baseline and at months 12 and 24: SARA, SCAFI, CCFS,
      NESSCA, INAS and ICARS. Oculomotor function will be registered in video and analyzed using
      the EyeSeeCam device. Progression rates of all variables will be estimated by mixed models,
      including as covariates age, groups and their interactions. Progression rates, effect sizes
      and responsiveness to change will be established for all parameters and results will be
      compared between candidate biomarkers.
    
  