
    
      Treatment structure analysis and recruitment (phase 1):

      In a first step, data on care facilities, that treat patients with CLL or MM in Germany is
      obtained.

      In phase 1 all centers in Germany that potentially treat patients with the CLL or MM are
      contacted and data of its facility care level and its num-ber of treated patients is recorded
      using a one-sided pen-to-paper form. In addition, the willingness of care facilities to
      become involved in pa-tients' documentation is elicited (phase 2).

      Patient documentation (phase 2)

      To achieve a reliable, representative sample of patients treated in Ger-many, the
      distribution of cases to be documented is specified in the in-dividual indications amongst
      the facilities involved. This is done using the facilities' data on patient numbers and
      treatment structure obtained in phase I:

      The participating centers are assigned to clusters based on key distin-guishing features
      (facility type, care level and number of patients treated). This sample is modulated
      according to the previous treatment structure analysis. By taking this approach, the actual
      percentages of the various care facilities in an indication area can be reflected
      proportion-ally in the patient documentation sample.

      In phase 2 a multiple-page electronic case record form (eCRF) is com-pleted in order to
      collect the original patient and treatment data, which are relevant to the purpose of the
      study. All data is gathered retrospec-tively and anonymously using the patient files. Patient
      and disease re-lated variables (age, general condition according to the Eastern Cooper-ative
      Oncology Group (ECOG), relevant comorbidity, staging and rele-vant mutations), systemic
      antineoplastic treatment (chemotherapy, an-tibodies, kinase-inhibitors, relevant
      co-medication etc.) are recorded. Also, data on diagnosis of Ig-levels (IgG, IgA, IgM),
      therapy of secondary immunodeficiencies as well as the number and severity of occurred
      in-fections and their treatment is collected. Clusters for classification of in-fections will
      be developed (e.g. life-threatening, need for hospitalization).

      In order to ensure data quality, the scientific project lead will provide training for two
      employees of the commissioned institute on matters re-garding the content of the study. This
      knowledge will be incorporated into the programming of the user interface and the patient
      databases so that the program will check for completeness and, as far as possible,
      plausibility, on the basis of defined requirements and constraints. These checks accompany
      the process of entering data into the eCRF and allow for validating data instantly. If
      inconsistencies, mistakes or omissions are detected, data will be validated by an integrated
      query management system.

      Physicians questionnaire (phase 3)

      In an additional step and alongside the patient documentation, the at-tending physicians in
      participating centers will be surveyed (phase 3) on their competency profile, their
      assessment of guideline quality and their approach to avoid infections of CLL and MM
      patients.
    
  