
    
      This three-arm randomized controlled trial will compare the effects of a martial arts
      intervention vs. aerobic exercise vs. an attentional (non-exercise) control condition. The
      martial arts intervention will consist of a partnered, coordinated sensitivity exercise drawn
      from south-east Asian martial arts, known as Hubod (also spelt hubud and hubad). Participants
      will be trained in the fundamental movements of Hubod. Participants will also have the
      history, cultural significance, risks and purpose of Hubod explained to them throughout the
      study.

      The aerobic exercise comparator group will use a stationary bicycle to match the duration and
      exercise intensity of the martial arts intervention group, under the supervision of trained
      research assistants. Participants will also receive information on aerobic exercise and the
      Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans 2020.

      Participants in the Videos Control group will watch educational videos on martial arts,
      physical fitness and exercise for the same duration as the intervention and exercise
      comparison groups. All participants, regardless of group, will be assessed for martial arts
      and exercise experience once at baseline.

      All participants will be tested for cognitive performance change. Baseline and follow-up
      computerized cognitive testing will take place at a specified testing facility and
      psychosocial questionnaires will be delivered remotely via a Qualtrics-powered survey. After
      baseline testing, participants will attend 5 sessions, approximately 30 minutes each.
      Follow-up testing will be administered more than 48 hours post-intervention to minimize
      established acute adaptive responses to exercise.

      The investigators hypothesize the martial arts training intervention group will exhibit a
      greater increase in performance of cognitive tasks when compared less complex movement
      patterns involved in the aerobic exercise group or videos control group.
    
  