
    
      The design is a single-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial to test the feasibility of
      the trial design assessing the ability of a Comfort Talk® app to nonpharmacologically reduce
      anxiety, pain, and periprocedural drug use in individuals 18 years of age and older
      undergoing outpatient treatment in the Craniofacial Pain Center of the Tufts School of Dental
      Medicine.

      The trial is a single-site pilot trial to assist in sample size estimation in a pivotal trial
      to test the hypothesis that listening to a Comfort Talk® app with calmative content reduces
      pain, anxiety, and post-procedural medication use.

      Eligible patients at the Craniofacial Pain Center at the Tufts School of Dental Medicine
      (TUSDM) will be randomized to listen to a tablet containing a calmative Comfort Talk® app or
      app with white noise on an intent-to-treat basis. Their anxiety and pain measures will be
      recorded on validated 0-10 scales and before listening, at the end of the waiting room
      period, and every 10 minutes while on the dental chair.

      All patients will be given a packet with diary cards to record their levels of anxiety, pain,
      and drug use daily for 7 days after their visit and asked to send those back. Subjects will
      be mailed a $25 check upon returning their diaries.

      Patients randomized to the Comfort Talk® app will receive a download coupon for the app
      before leaving TUSDM, those randomized to the control condition (white noise) will receive a
      download coupon after they send in their diary cards.

      Interventions and Duration

      Approximately 1 hour and 15 minutes (Up to 30 minutes more than the scheduled standard of
      care visit, which will typically last up to 45 minutes):

      Patient will be asked to come in ½ hour early before an already scheduled appointment. They
      will be taken to a private area, report their demographics, and if eligible consented and
      fill out a NIDA Quick Screen.

      The participant will then be verbally asked to indicate his/her pain and anxiety levels on
      validated 0-10 scales. The research assistant will then hand the participant a tablet
      containing, depending on the group attribution, either the app (App Group) or white noise
      (Control Group) and will be shown how to operate the tablet.

      Participant will then return to the clinic waiting area with the tablet and wait for their
      regularly scheduled appointment. The patient will be at liberty to when and for how long to
      listen. At the end of the waiting room period the participant will be queried again for their
      levels of pain and anxiety.

      After the participant enters the treatment room, he or she will be able to continue to listen
      to the app or white noise on the tablet. The research assistant will ask the participant
      every 10 min to indicate their pain and anxiety levels. The research assistant will note the
      duration of chair time, the amount of lidocaine given, if any or which other medications were
      given during the appointment, and whether the dental practitioner prescribed opioid,
      prescription or non-prescription drugs at the end of the visit.

      Before leaving home, the participant will be asked to fill out a satisfaction survey based on
      a modified Press Ganey Template. The participant will then receive a diary card on which to
      note pain, average and maximal pain as well its location, use of non-prescription,
      prescription, and opiate drugs, use of the app, and be provided pre-stamped envelopes.
      Patients will be asked to complete the diary daily before bedtime for 7 days.
    
  