
    
      Aim of the project

      Since year 2003, Glostrup/Herlev Hospital has devised a novel technique, urethral pressure
      reflectometry (UPR), for measurements of pressure and cross-sectional area in the female
      urethra. UPR has been able to separate continent women from women with stress urinary
      incontinence (SUI, defined by involuntary leakage during increased abdominal pressure). The
      method has been validated and used in five DMSc and Ph.D. theses and stands alone in its
      field. (1-5)

      A great percentage of women undergoing surgery for genital prolapse (characterized by a
      portion of the vaginal canal protruding from the opening of the vagina) develop SUI after
      surgery, researchers have yet to find the answer to why this occurs. Thus, there is a great
      need for knowledge regarding the mechanism of continence in women with genital prolapse.

      The hypothesis is that UPR may be used to uncover the changes in the female urethra before
      and after genital prolapse surgery, revealing significant differences in the parameters in
      women who develop SUI after surgery.

      Background

      Genital prolapse is a common problem for women. A Scottish study has revealed that 9.5 % of
      all women undergo genital prolapse surgery during their lives. (6) Unfortunately, SUI is
      frequently seen after this operation. A randomized study conducted amongst women with genital
      prolapse, without preoperative SUI, showed that 32 % developed SUI after the operation. (7)
      The sunken bladder, seen in genital prolapse of the anterior (front) part of the vagina, is
      believed to mask SUI as it leads to a kinking of the urethra and/or compression of the
      urethra and since the bladder is sewn into place during surgery, the kinking or compression
      is eliminated. (8) Urinary tract symptoms are traditionally associated with anterior genital
      prolapse; however, a Danish study has revealed that SUI is just as common in women after
      repair of genital prolapse of the posterior (back) part of the vagina, maybe even due to the
      same mechanisms (compression of the urethra). (9) Efforts have been made to predict the
      likelihood of a patient developing SUI after genital prolapse surgery, however, the most
      common test, has shown disappointing positive predictive values ranging from 23 % to 53 % and
      negative predictive values from 74 % to 86 %. (10;11)

      A mid-urethral sling is gold standard for treatment of SUI. (12) To avoid SUI after genital
      prolapse surgery, some clinics choose to treat all their patients with a sling,
      simultaneously. However, not all patients with SUI require surgery. To avoid one patient from
      undergoing surgery for SUI, six to ten patients must be treated with a sling during their
      genital prolapse surgery. (13) A Dutch study conducted on 907 women, showed that 39 % of
      those women who already had preoperative SUI, actually experienced an improvement in their
      condition. Therefore, they believe it may be reasonable to await the effects of prolapse
      surgery instead of performing concomitant anti-incontinence surgery. (14) Also, the
      mid-urethral sling is associated with some risks and complications; a survey conducted on 809
      women, showed that 20.9 % had postoperative complications, such as bladder injury and
      bleeding. (15) There is no international consensus on the use of mid-urethral slings in women
      undergoing genital prolapse surgery. (13;16-18) Therefore, there is great need for knowledge
      and know-how regarding the mechanism of continence in women with genital prolapse, before and
      after surgery.

      UPR

      UPR measures pressure and cross-sectional area simultaneously by means of acoustic
      reflectometry. A very thin and highly flexible polyurethane bag is placed in the urethra; the
      bag is connected to a probe by a PVC tube. A digital signal processor generates sound, which
      is sent from the probe into the bag. The reflections from the bag are recorded and relayed to
      a computer where they are converted to profiles of the urethra.

      At the moment the device only exists as 3 prototypes.

      Material and methods

      The suitable women are expected to be included and examined over a two-year period. The
      participants will be informed about the study in our outpatient clinic, by a doctor. To
      qualify as a participant there are a set of inclusion and exclusion criteria that must be
      met.

      With a drop-out rate of 15 %, a sample size of 30 will ensure sufficient statistical power.

      Women with either anterior or posterior genital prolapse will be examined, and each group
      will consist of 30 women. The POP-Q system (pelvic-organ-prolapse quantification system) will
      be applied for grading of the genital prolapse, and the patients will be asked to complete
      ICIQ-SF questionnaires (International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form).
      The patients will be examined with UPR while relaxing, squeezing and straining, before and
      six weeks after surgery. The preoperative measurements will be conducted with and without the
      anterior/posterior part of the vagina held in place by a vaginal pessary. A stress test,
      where the women are asked to cough three times after their bladders are filled with 300 ml of
      saline, will also be conducted, also with and without the anterior/posterior part of the
      vagina held in place by a vaginal pessary.

      In order to investigate the reproducibility of measurements, all preoperative examinations
      will be repeated in 15 women with anterior genital prolapse and 15 women with posterior
      genital prolapse.
    
  