
    
      Study design: This is a nationwide observational cohort study using prospectively obtained
      individual-level register data from five main sources; the BOA Register, the Swedish Hip
      Arthroplasty Register (SHAR), the Swedish Knee Arthroplasty Register (SKAR), Statistics
      Sweden and the National Board of Health and Welfare, Sweden. By using the personal identity
      number (PIN) that is unique to all citizens in Sweden, data will be merged together to create
      a research database that will be used for answering the following research questions in the
      study:

        1. What are the differences between the population included in the BOA Register and the
           general Swedish population regarding health and socioeconomic factors?

        2. What factors that predicts replacement surgery can be identified at the first
           registration in the BOA Register in patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis?

        3. What factors that predicts outcome after replacement surgery can be identified at the
           first registration in the BOA Register in patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis?

      Study population:The study cohort consists of all patients with a first registration
      (baseline) in the BOA Register between 2008 and 2016 (approximately n=75 000). These patients
      have sought treatment for knee and/or hip pain in primary health care in Sweden and been
      referred to the standardized core treatment of education and supervised exercises after
      confirmed clinical and/or radiographic osteoarthritis diagnose.

      A control cohort (approximately n=225 000) covering the general Swedish population, who never
      have been included in the BOA register, will be recruited from the Swedish population
      register at Statistics Sweden and matched (1:3) to each patient in the study cohort by the
      same year of birth, gender and residence (as for the study cohort at baseline).

      Data sources: In the study the investigators will collect the following data from the five
      registers: from the BOA Register: data reported by patients (e.g. most affected joint, pain,
      symptoms, health-related quality of life and physical activity level) and physiotherapists
      (e.g. earlier examinations and treatments) at baseline (the first registration before the
      standardized core treatment), and three and 12 months after. From the SHAR and the SKAR:
      patient-related and procedure-related data on all hip- and knee replacement surgeries in
      Sweden, including patient-reported outcomes (PROM) such as joint pain, health-related quality
      of life and satisfaction with treatment before surgery and one year postoperatively. From
      Statistics Sweden: data on socioeconomic factors and vital events such as birth, death,
      residence and marital status. From the National Board of Health and Welfare: data on
      comorbidity, health care consumption and expenditures of prescribed drugs.
    
  