
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE

           The live attenuated Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine protects against
           extrapulmonary infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and against leprosy [1, 2]. It
           has been shown that vaccination with BCG also leads to non-specific protective effects:
           early administration of BCG vaccination could lead to reduced child mortality, mainly as
           a result of reduced neonatal sepsis, respiratory infection, and fever. [3-5]
           Furthermore, BCG has also been used in patients with bladder cancer, to induce an
           improved reaction of the immune system, which prevents tumor progression and dead. [6]
           Recently, it was shown that BCG vaccination can induce epigenetic changes in human
           monocytes, which result in higher pro-inflammatory cytokines response upon restimulation
           with non-related pathogens in vitro. [7] The observed effects are proposed to be due to
           modulation of the human innate immune system, in a process called 'trained immunity'.
           Upon stimulation with a pathogen, the innate immune system becomes primed and is able to
           react faster and more efficient to a secondary (and non-related) stimulus. [7, 8]

           Considering these beneficial effects of BCG on innate host defense, it is reasonable to
           hypothesize that it would be helpful to generate a 'trained immunity status' in hosts
           defective in T- and B-cell immunity, as they are more vulnerable to infections. However,
           because of their immune compromised status, these patients cannot be vaccinated with
           live attenuated vaccines (e.g. BCG). [9] Vaccination with y-irradiated BCG would be
           possible, but it is not known whether the γ-irradiated vaccine has the same protective
           non-specific effects on innate host defense. In recent in-vitro experiments, the
           investigators have demonstrated that y-irradiated BCG can train monocytes in vitro (not
           published). Therefore, the aim of this study is to determine whether γ-irradiated BCG is
           able to train the human innate immune system of healthy volunteers in-vivo, just as
           shown before with the live attenuated BCG vaccine [7].

        2. OBJECTIVES

           Primary Objective: To determine whether γ-irradiated BCG can train the innate immune
           system in vivo, by comparing cytokine production upon ex-vivo restimulation with
           pathogens before, 2 weeks and 3 months after vaccination with y-irradiated BCG.

        3. STUDY DESIGN

           An explorative intervention study with a duration of three months will be performed. 15
           Healthy volunteers will be recruited to receive a vaccination with γ-irradiated BCG.
           After informed consent, 40ml of blood will be drawn before vaccination and at 2 weeks
           and 3 months post-vaccination.

        4. STUDY POPULATION 4.1 Population Healthy volunteers, 18 - 55 yr old. 4.2 Inclusion
           criteria The subjects must be healthy adults, aged 18 - 55 years old. 4.3 Exclusion
           criteria Subjects are excluded when they are from tuberculosis endemic countries, if
           they have been in contact with tuberculosis patients or if they already have been
           vaccinated with BCG. The subjects are excluded from the study if they suffer for any
           disease, including intercurrent infections. Subjects are not allowed to use any
           medication except oral anticonceptive agents.

           4.4 Sample size calculation This is an explorative trial, for which sample size
           calculation is not possible.

        5. TREATMENT OF SUBJECTS 5.1 Investigational product/treatment Subjects will be vaccinated
           with a y-irradiated BCG vaccine (BCG-Vaccin SSI [Nederlands Vaccin Instituut]), which is
           purchased from Radboud Apotheek B.V.

           γ-Irradiation of the BCG vaccine will be performed by Synergy Health Ede B.V., Ede, The
           Netherlands (registered by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs). The BCG vaccine was
           radiated in the original packaging with an average dose of 32.2kGy in a JS6500 Tote Box
           Irradiator. This dose is based on an in the literature accepted minimal dose of 25kGy,
           which has been proven to be sufficient to kill M. tuberculosis [10, 11] . After
           irradiation the vaccine will be returned unopened in the original packaging. During the
           irradiation a dosimeter is included, so each irradiated batch will come along with a
           certificate with the exact irradiation dose used.

           5.2 Use of co-intervention Subjects are not allowed to use any medication, except for
           oral anticonception.

        6. INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT 6.1 Name and description of investigational product(s)
           y-Irradiated BCG vaccine (BCG-Vaccin SSI [Nederlands Vaccin Instituut]) Danish strain
           1331.

           6.2 Summary of findings from non-clinical studies The efficacy of killing by
           γ-irradiating of the BCG vaccine was verified by culturing the y-irradiated BCG in
           special tuberculosis culture medium. No growth was detected after six weeks.

           6.3 Summary of findings from clinical studies A related study with a comparable study
           setup, in which 20 healthy volunteers were vaccinated with live attenuated BCG vaccine
           has already been accomplished. [7] The investigators study will use the same study
           protocol. The only difference is that instead of the live attenuated BCG vaccine a
           y-irradiated BCG vaccine will be used.

           6.4 Summary of known and potential risks and benefits There are no clear benefits for
           the volunteers. Potential risks are very small, as BCG is considered a safe vaccine. BCG
           vaccination can cause pain and scarring at the site of injection just as fever and
           headache, and very sporadic occurring side effects as syncope, convulsions and allergic
           reaction. Local hematoma formation can occur at the site of the blood drawing.

           6.5 Description and justification of route of administration and dosage Administer at
           the upper arm slowly, in about 10 seconds, intracutaneous 0.1ml of the suspended
           vaccine, which accounts for 0.075mg of Mycobacterium bovis.

        7. METHODS 7.1 Study parameters/endpoints Before the vaccination and at two different time
           points after vaccination with γ-irradiated BCG (2 weeks and 3 months) blood will be
           drawn, from which PBMCs will be isolated by density centrifugation over Ficoll-Paque.
           Monocytes will be restimulated ex-vivo with different pathogens (M. tuberculosis
           (1µg/ml), S. aureus, C. albicans (both 1 x 10^6 microorganisms/ml), and E. coli LPS
           (10ng/ml). Cytokine production will be assessed after 24h (TNFa, IL 1b and IL-6), 48h
           (IFN, IL-10) and 7 days (IL-17, IL-22) stimulation, and compared with cytokine
           production before vaccination.

      7.2 Study procedures Subjects will be vaccinated with y-irradiated BCG vaccine. Before and
      twice after vaccination, 40ml of blood will be drawn.

      7.3 Withdrawal of individual subjects Subjects can leave the study at any time for any reason
      if they wish to do so without any consequences.

      7.4 Replacement of individual subjects after withdrawal Each withdrawn subject will be
      replaced, in order that in total 15 subjects will complete the follow-up.
    
  