
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the 2nd leading cause of cancer death in the US, though CRC death
      can be reduced by screening. In the NCI-funded UT Southwestern-Parkland PROSPR Center (U54
      CA163308), mailed FIT-based outreach doubled the proportion of patients up-to-date with
      screening compared to usual care. Investigators are now conducting a comparative
      effectiveness trial to evaluate the effect of a mailed invite offering a choice of FIT or
      colonoscopy (n=2,000) on one-time CRC screening completion compared to mailed FIT-based
      outreach (which does not offer an explicit choice of screening modality (n=8,000.)
      Randomization will be stratified based on whether or not patients completed a FIT within the
      prior 18-month period. Patients randomized to FIT outreach will receive: a) low-literacy
      educational letters, b) mailed screening outreach invitations, c) a one-sample home FIT kit
      and return mailer with prepaid postage, d) telephone reminder calls including one-on-one
      education, and e) centralized patient navigation for follow-up of abnormal screening results,
      and treatment for patients newly diagnosed with CRC. Patients randomized to the "choice" arm
      will receive the same materials described above; however, the educational letter will explain
      and offer the additional choice of screening by colonoscopy (instead of completing the mailed
      FIT kit). The mailing will include a low health literacy one-page option grid outlining the
      pros and cons of FIT vs. colonoscopy. We will not recommend a particular test as preferred
      but instead emphasize that both are good choices, and the patient should choose the screening
      option that seems right for them. Patients choosing colonoscopy will be provided a telephone
      number to schedule the procedure. During scheduling, patients will be triaged by study staff
      with a structured history and physical form to "direct access" colonoscopy or a
      pre-colonoscopy clinic visit. Patients choosing FIT can return the one-sample mailed FIT kit
      using the return envelope with prepaid postage.
    
  