
    
      Palliative care has been proposed to help meet the needs of patients who suffer progressive
      non-cancer conditions but this has not been tested. Multiple sclerosis is a chronic disease
      affecting the central nervous system affecting over 2.5 million people worldwide, and is the
      commonest cause of neurological disability in adults under 60 years. It is associated with a
      wide spectrum of physical symptoms, including loss of function of legs, arms and in many
      instances bladder and bowel dysfunction, pain, spasms, swallowing and communication and
      cognitive difficulties, many of which are as severe as among patients with cancer. Therefore
      it seems appropriate to try to develop palliative care services for this group of patients.

      Our design followed the MRC Framework for the Evaluation of Complex Interventions. The
      investigators modelled a new palliative care and neurology service for patients affected by
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) by conducting qualitative interviews with patients, families and
      staff, plus a literature review to model and pilot the service. Then the investigators
      started to offer the service and designed a delayed intervention randomised controlled trial
      to test its effectiveness as part of phase II of the MRC framework. Inclusion criteria for
      the trial were patients identified by referring clinicians as having unresolved symptoms or
      psychological concerns. A disability of scoring greater than 8 on the Expanded Disability
      Scale was identified as a benchmark. Consenting patients newly referred to the new service
      were randomised to either receive the palliative care service immediately (fast-track) or
      after a 12-week wait (standard best practice). Face to face interviews were conducted at
      baseline (before intervention), and at 4-6, 10-12 (before intervention for the
      standard-practice group), 16-18 and 22-24 weeks with patients and their carers using standard
      questionnaires to assess symptoms, palliative care outcomes, function, service use and open
      comments. The investigators choice of outcomes was based on a systematic literature review of
      outcome measures.
    
  