
    
      Scientific Summary

      Background Cognitive frailty is the simultaneous presence of both physical frailty and
      cognitive impairment, excluding concurrent dementia. This condition confers a greater risk of
      incident cognitive impairment and decline, dementia, falls and disabilities compared to
      either condition alone. Current definitions of co-existent frailty and cognitive impairment
      exist, including the International Academy on Nutrition and Aging (IANA) and the
      International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (IAGG) consensus for cognitive
      frailty. There is also an analogous construct known as the motoric cognitive risk syndrome
      (MCR) associating slow gait speed and subjective cognitive impairment (SCI). Current
      operational criteria identify individuals later in the trajectory of frailty and cognitive
      decline, which may be too late for effective interventions. The researchers propose to define
      a new and early condition in the spectrum of Cognitive frailty known as
      "cognitive-prefrailty", which is a combination of prefrailty stage and SCI.

      Overall objective This study aims to determine and compare (1) the prevalence of
      cognitive-prefrailty, cognitive frailty (IANA/IAGG consensus definition) and MCR syndromes,
      (2) the incidence and predictive ability of these three syndromes for adverse health outcomes
      including cognitive impairment and decline, dementia, physical functional impairment and
      decline, falls, hospitalization and mortality in older community dwellers.

      Methods This study will use the database of the "Nutrition as a determinant of successful
      aging: The Quebec longitudinal study" (NuAge) study, which is a population-based
      observational cohort hat recruited healthy community-dwellers with age ranged from 67 to 84
      years (51.8% women) between November 2003 and June 2005, and followed them during 4 years.
      Cognitive-prefrailty, prefrailty and MCR will be defined using information collected at the
      baseline assessment. Incident adverse health outcomes including cognitive impairment and
      decline, dementia, physical functional impairment and decline, falls, hospitalization and
      mortality have been recorded during the 4-years follow-up period.

      Anticipated results Prefrailty (an intermediate and potentially reversible stage between
      robust and frailty) and SCI occur upstream in the continuum of frailty and cognitive decline
      and hence constitute more suitable targets for screening and early intervention in older
      adults.
    
  