
    
      Specific Aim:

      Validation that intermedin represents an estrogen-regulated vasoactive hormone from the
      pituitary

      Hypothesis:

      Intermedin is a mediator of the vaso-regulatory effects of estrogens.

      Rationale:

      In the Preliminary Study, we showed that intermedin is a pituitary-derived hypotensive factor
      signaling through CRLR/RAMP receptor complexes in vessel endothelium. Based on studies of
      related hormones, adrenomedullin and CGRP, intermedin likely reduces blood pressure by
      exerting a vasodilator effect on vascular beds. Earlier studies have shown that the
      neuropeptide αCGRP is predominately produced in the sensory neuron, and serotonin can
      selectively reduce CGRP secretion by activating the endogenous serotonin (type 1 5-HT1)
      receptor through the calcium signal pathway. Deletion of the CGRP gene in mutant mice
      (αCGRP-/-) leads to the elevation of mean arterial pressure, heart rate, peripheral vascular
      resistance and sympathetic nervous activity as compared to wild-type mice. The other related
      peptide, adrenomedullin (ADM), initially identified from pheochromocytoma, has been shown to
      be expressed in various tissues including adrenal medulla, cardiovascular tissues, lung,
      kidney and placenta. Plasma ADM is elevated in various conditions including cardiovascular
      and renal disorders and septic shock, and it has been hypothesized that ADM may be involved
      in the control of circulation and body fluid dynamics in various organs. Studies of mice
      deficient for ADM showed that ADM is indispensable for cardiovascular development. The
      homozygous knockout ( Adm-/-) mice exhibited an embryonic lethal phenotype.

      Earlier studies of the ADM gene promoter have revealed that, in addition to two transcription
      factors, nuclear factor for interleukin-6 expression (NF-IL6) and activator protein 2 (AP-2),
      the ADM gene expression is regulated by the hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1). Under hypoxia
      conditions, HIF-1 binds to the hypoxia response elements (HRE) in the ADM gene promoter to
      promote ADM gene expression. Although outside the focus of the present study, we have also
      detected putative HRE sequences in the intermedin gene promoter and demonstrated that hypoxia
      conditions stimulate intermedin gene promoter activity, suggesting that HIF-1 could play a
      role in the regulation of intermedin gene expression. Unlike intermedin, the expression of
      CGRP and ADM is not actively stimulated by estrogens, suggesting that these two related
      peptides are not directly associated with the cardiovascular effects of estrogens. In
      females, 17β-estradiol produced by ovaries is the chief circulating estrogen which increases
      vasodilatation and inhibits the response of blood vessels to injury. Studies by Mercuro et
      al. have shown that surgical-induced menopause causes an increase in peripheral vascular
      resistance and blood pressure. Likewise, a cross sectional study showed that there is a four-
      fold increase in the incidence of hypertension in postmenopausal women as compared to
      premenopausal individuals (40% in post menopausal women vs 10% in premenopausal women). The
      rise in systolic blood pressure per decade was around 5mmHg greater in perimenopausal and
      postmenopausal women as compared with premenopausal women . In addition to demographic
      studies, studies have shown that estrogen could dilate coronary and brachial arteries in
      postmenopausal women. A part of vasodilatation and hypotensive activities of 17β-estradiol
      could be explained by its ability to modulate the expression of genes known to influence
      vascular tone and structure, such as ACE, rennin, and angiotension type I (AT1) receptors.
      However, none of these genes have been shown to be specific direct targets for estrogen
      receptors and are responsible for the vasoprotective effects of estrogens. Based on our
      findings that intermedin is a hypotensive factor and contains putative ERE sequence in the
      promoter region, we propose that intermedin is a pituitary-derived blood pressure modulating
      factor directly regulated by ovarian estrogens. Based on this understanding, we further
      hypothesize that the down regulation of intermedin in aging individuals with estrogen
      deficiency could be responsible for postmenopausal hypertension. Because there is no
      established animal model suitable for the study of naturally occurring menopause, we will
      test our hypothesis by studying the relationship between plasma intermedin concentration and
      blood pressure among women in difference reproductive stages.

      Case Selection, Measurement and Analysis of Biophysical and Biochemical Characteristics

      Premenopausal and Postmenopausal Group:

      Eligible women who visit OB/GYN physicians will be invited for an interview. They will be
      questioned about general characteristics, lifestyle habits (smoking, alcohol consumption,
      physical activity), and medical history. During the interview, blood pressure will be
      measured three times on the right arm, while the participant is seated. A woman is considered
      as post menopausal if her menses have naturally ceased for 12 months (or more), or if she has
      bilateral oophorectomy or hysterectomy without bilateral oophorectomy and aged more than 55
      years. Office BP will be measured using a mercury sphygmomanometer according to the
      recommendations of the American Society of Hypertension (average the three BP readings after
      5 min of quiet sitting position). Biophysical and biochemical characteristics will be
      measured including the last menses period, age, BMI, serum glucose (AC and PC), serum and
      urine creatinine, plasma total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglycerides, FSH, LH, 17β-estradiol,
      progesterone, TSH, intermedin, and prolactin. Blood specimens from individual subjects will
      be analyzed in a single assay to minimize variations. Odds ratios (ORs) of elevated blood
      pressure and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be computed after
      allowance for age. Furthermore, in order to take into account potential reciprocal
      confounding effects of variables considered, factors significantly related with elevated
      blood pressure risk in the age adjusted analysis will be subsequently included in multiple
      logistic regression models fitted by the method of maximum likelihood. Women asking for
      annually regular pap smear examinations without any medical disease will be eligible for this
      study group.

      The reproductive stages will be assigned as:

        -  Premenopausal: no reported change in menstrual cycle pattern;

        -  Early peri-menopausal: reported change in menstrual cycle frequency in preceding year
           with a bleed in the preceding 3 months;

        -  Late peri-menopausal: no menses in the preceding 3-11 months;

        -  Postmenopausal: no menses in the preceding 12 months.

      Surgically-Induced Menopausal Group:

      This protocol will include fertile women who suffer from ovarian pathology without other
      medical disease and are scheduled to undergo bilateral oophorectomy associated with or
      without hysterectomy. Patients who suffer from uterine pathology and undergo hysterectomy
      only will serve as controls. Blood pressure and all biochemical characteristics will be
      measured one week before surgery and 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after operation. All individual
      measurements will be blinded as to the hysterectomized/oophorectomized status of the
      patients. The entire data group will be reported as mean ± SE. Differences in vascular
      parameters between oophorectomized women and controls and between values recorded prior to
      and following surgery will be assessed using paired and unpaired Student's t-tests.

      ART Group:

      Women in ART treatment due to male or tubal factor will be included. The day 3 hormone level
      (E2, progesterone, FSH, LH, TSH, prolactin, inhibin A, inhibin B and activin) and blood
      pressure will be measured one month before ART treatment. After gonadotropin administration,
      all the hormone and blood pressure changes will be measured and recorded at day 3, day 7 and
      the day before hCG injection as well as the day of oocyte retrieval. All biophysical and
      biochemical characteristics will continue to follow up on the 15th day after embryo transfer
      and to the end of the first trimester in the pregnancy group.
    
  