
    
      Background

        -  Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) is a rare papillomatous disease of the
           aerodigestive tract that is caused by the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV).

        -  RRP can progress to cause airway compromise, fatal pulmonary lesions, and invasive
           cancers.

        -  There is no effective systemic therapy for RRP. Patients typically require repeated
           interventional procedures for disease control.

        -  A recently completed phase II clinical trial investigating avelumab in subjects with
           aggressive RRP demonstrated an acceptable safety profile from Avelumab and a high rate
           of partial responses.

        -  RRP is characterized by frequent expression of PD-L1 and transforming growth factor beta
           (TGF)-beta in the tumor microenvironment.

        -  This clinical trial will evaluate the activity of M7824, a novel bifunctional fusion
           protein composed of a fully human Immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody against
           human PD-L1 (avelumab) fused, via a flexible glycine-serine linker, to the soluble
           extracellular domain of human TGF- B receptor II (Transforming growth factor, beta
           receptor II (TGF-BRII), which functions as a TGF-B trap. This drug was selected for its
           demonstrated activity in a variety of cancers and for its acceptable safety profile.

      Objective

      - Determine the complete response rate for M7824 in the treatment of patients with RRP.

      Eligibility

        -  Histologically confirmed diagnosis of RRP.

        -  One of the following:

             -  A Derkay anatomic score of 10 or greater and a history of two or more endoscopic
                interventions in the last 12 months for control of RRP.

             -  Pulmonary RRP with pulmonary disease that is measurable by computed tomography
                scan.

             -  Tracheal involvement with RRP that has required either two or more endoscopic
                interventions in the last 12 months or a tracheostomy.

        -  Age 18 years or greater.

        -  Eastern Oncology Cooperative Group Performance Score of 0 or 1.

      Design

        -  This is a phase II clinical trial with two cohorts that will enroll simultaneously.

        -  Cohort 1 will consist of subjects who have not been treated previously with an immune
           checkpoint inhibitor. Cohort 2 will consist of subjects whose disease has been treated
           previously with andrefractory to an immune checkpoint inhibitor. Each cohort will have a
           Simon optimal two-stage design with initial enrollment of 12 patients and expands 21
           patients if one or more complete response(s) is/are observed in the initial patients.
           With amendment D, dated 7/24/2019, cohort 2 will be closed to further enrollment.
    
  