
    
      Up to nowadays, a standard induction therapy for acute myeloid leukemia(AML) has consisted of
      cytarabine 100-200 mg per square meter of body surface area(BSA) per day continuous infusion
      for 7 days with idarubicin 12 mg per square meter or daunorubicin 45 mg per square meter of
      BSA per day for 3 days. This standard therapy induces a complete remission(CR) in 50-75% of
      young adults and 40-50% of older adults. Recently two cooperative groups prospectively
      compared 45 mg per square meter of daunorubicin to 90 mg per square meter of BSA. They
      reported high-dose daunorubicin, as compared with a standard dose one, resulted in a
      significantly higher CR rate and improved overall survival(OS) up to age 65 without
      additional toxic effects.

      Daunorubicin has been more commonly used anthracycline; however, idarubicin has a longer
      intracellular retention time and has shown more rapid clearance of marrow blasts. In the
      early 1990, three prospectively randomized studies showed that a combined regimen of
      idarubicin and cytarabine was superior to one of daunorubicin and cytarabine for the
      induction therapy of AML in adults. When they compared daunorubicin 45-50 mg per square meter
      with idarubicin 12-13 mg per square meter for induction therapy, there were no significant
      differences in hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities, including cardiac toxicity.

      Phase I studies of idarubicin in patients with acute leukemia and chronic myelogenous
      leukemia in blast crisis reported the dose-limiting toxicities(DLT) were stomatitis and
      anorexia at the maximum tolerated dose(MTD) of 15 mg per square meter of BSA per day for 3
      days. Based on the results of these studies, the investigators have generally administered
      idarubicin 12 mg per square meter per day for 3 days for the remission induction therapy of
      AML. Meanwhile Sanz et al. had administered idarubicin 12 mg per square meter per day for 4
      days in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, and Tedeschi et al. had done a single
      high-dose idarubicin 40 mg per square meter combined with high-dose cytarabine 3 g per square
      meter per day for 5 days in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with no significant
      increase of severe toxicity. The MTD of idarubicin should be reevaluated in the treatment of
      acute leukemia, especially in the era of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and better
      supportive care available.

      In this phase I study, idarubicin 12 mg per square meter of BSA per day for 3 days will be
      given to three patients at the first stage and then the idarubicin dose will be increased by
      3 mg per square meter of BSA each stage. The phase I study consists of 3 stages and the
      idarubicin dose will be increased up to 18 mg per square meter of BSA per day for 3 days
      unless DLTs do not develop in more than 33% of enrolled patients at each stage. In the
      subsequent phase II study, the MTD being determined from the phase I study or 18 mg per
      square meter of idarubicin will be given to the enrolled patients. There were three large
      studies which enrolled a total of 942 previously untreated adult patients with AML and in
      which idarubicin 12-13 mg per square meter of BSA per day for 3 days and cytarabine 100 mg
      per square meter daily for 7 days were administered intravenously. Therefore, the
      investigators can adopt them as historical control groups in terms of statistical assessment.

      In conclusion, the investigators desire to determine the safety and effectiveness of the
      intensified dose of idarubicin in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia through this phase
      I and II study.
    
  