
    
      Scientific context

      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer death worldwide. A
      transcriptomic classification (G1-G6) described by our lab have underlined the heterogeneity
      of HCC and identified relationship between transcriptomic group and clinical and genetic
      features. Recently, a diagnostic and molecular algorithm has been developed to perform the
      diagnosis of benign and malignant hepatocellular tumors and assess the prognosis of resected
      HCC. Whole-exome sequencing has also identified new oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes in
      HCC. However, these studies have focused on HCC treated by liver resection and they have to
      be validated in biopsy and surgical pieces in larges series of patients treated by resection,
      liver transplantation and radiofrequency ablation (RFA). In addition, next-generation
      sequencing allows to sequence circulating tumor DNA in plasma of patients with advanced
      cancer but it has never tested in patients with HCC.

      Description of the project The MUTHEC project involves 4 teams in France and aims to perform
      translation of molecular and genetic classification of HCC in clinical care.

      First, the investigators want to draw a genetic landscape of HCC in different clinical
      settings. The investigators will sequence 30 genes, previously identified by whole exome
      sequencing, in a series of 120 HCC treated by RFA, 200 HCC treated by liver transplantation
      and 40 advanced HCC. The investigators also aim to validate our diagnostic and prognostic
      molecular algorithm (56 genes including the prognostic 5-gene score using quantitative
      RT-PCR) in different clinical settings and test their uses in formalin-fixed,
      paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues. In addition, the investigators will test surrogate markers
      of genetic alterations and oncogenic pathways using immunohistochemistry in these series of
      tumors. All the HCC will be reviewed by expert pathologist in order to perform
      genotype/phenotype classification. Lastly, the investigators want to conduct a pilot study to
      sequence circulating tumor DNA. The investigators will use next generation sequencing to
      detect in the plasma the somatic mutation observed in tumor biopsy. It will allow a
      non-invasive diagnosis of tumor mutation in the plasma of patients before and after treatment
      by RFA.

      Expected results The investigators aim to extend our knowledge of HCC genetic alterations in
      the different types of curative treatment (resection, liver transplantation and RFA) and in
      advanced HCC. In addition, the investigators want to translate this classification using
      immunohistochemistry to facilitate it uses in routine. These results will be used in the
      future to identify subgroups predict to response to targeted treatment. In addition, the
      investigators will validate our diagnostic and prognostic molecular signature in different
      clinical situation and in FFPE samples. Assessment of prognosis after curative treatment will
      help to stratify adjuvant treatment in the future and guide therapeutic decision. Finally,
      sequencing circulating tumor DNA would allow monitoring somatic mutations ("liquid biopsy")
      after curative treatment and under the selective pressure of targeted therapies.
    
  