
    
      Participants will be randomized to receive either intravenous (IV) infliximab monotherapy
      (Top-Hold approach) starting at a dose of 5 mg/kg at Weeks 0, 2, and 6 and thereafter every 8
      weeks in Level 1, or classical Step-Up treatment starting with oral prednisolone (40 mg/day
      for at least 3 days and at most 2 weeks followed by 1 mg/kg/day for a minimum of 7 days and
      up to 2 weeks in the case the participant does not show an improvement in clinical symptoms
      under 40 mg/day treatment) + oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) at a dose of 2 g/day in Level
      1.

      Participants receiving Step-Up treatment who have not achieved adequate response during the
      first 4 weeks of prednisolone treatment will directly enter Level 3 treatment after endoscopy
      is performed to confirm treatment eligibility. Furthermore, participants that have not
      achieved response at Week 4 will also directly enter Level 3 and be switched to treatment
      with IV infliximab.

      If a participant experiences a first flare after initial response, participants in the
      Step-Up group will start prednisolone treatment at the last effective dose (i.e.,
      participants that previously responded to prednisolone 40 mg/day will receive a dose of 40
      mg/day for at least 3 days and up to 2 weeks; participants that previously responded to
      prednisolone 1 mg/kg/day will receive a dose of 1 mg/kg/day for a minimum of 7 days and up to
      2 weeks). If the last effective dose was 40 mg/day and the participant does not respond
      within 14 days, the dose will be adjusted to 1 mg/kg/day for a minimum of 7 days and up to 2
      weeks. In case the participant does not respond to prednisolone (i.e., does not return to
      their individual baseline partial Mayo score obtained at study Week 4), the participant will
      enter Level 3 and receive treatment with IV infliximab.

      If a participant experiences a second flare after initial response at Week 4 (Level 1), the
      participant will enter treatment Level 2. In Level 2, participants will receive a
      prednisolone induction at the same effective dose as previously used in Level 1 + maintenance
      treatment with oral azathioprine (AZA) at a dose of 2.0-2.5 mg/kg/day. Participants that do
      not respond to this treatment at Level 2 or that develop a further flare after initial
      response at Level 2 will enter Level 3 and will receive treatment with IV infliximab
      following endoscopy to confirm treatment eligibility.

      If at any time during treatment, a participant becomes prednisolone dependent (i.e., flare
      during tapering phase of prednisolone), the participant will enter Level 3 treatment with IV
      infliximab.

      Participants in Level 1 of the Top-Hold treatment group (IV infliximab at Week 0, 2, and 6
      and every 8 weeks thereafter) that have not achieved response at Week 4 will receive IV
      infliximab 5 mg/kg at reduced intervals of 4 weeks (Level 2) starting with the Week 10
      infusion. Participants suffering a flare after initial response in Level 1 will be switched
      to to Level 2. Participants that do not respond to treatment at reduced intervals after 3
      infusions (12 weeks), or that develop a further flare after initial response at Level 2, will
      be switched to treatment with oral prednisolone + AZA (Level 3) following colonoscopy to
      confirm eligibility.

      When a participant responds to treatment with IV infliximab in Level 2, they will return to
      treatment with IV infliximab every 8 weeks when response is achieved at 3 consecutive visits.
    
  