
    
      The cerebellum plays an important role in generating well-coordinated locomotion, voluntary
      limb movements and eye movements (Morton et al. 2004). It is particularly important for
      balance and limb coordination needed to generate a stable gait pattern (Morton et al. 2006).
      Specific roles of the cerebellum for gait include coordinating the two legs to produce a
      stable rhythmic pattern, dynamic regulation of balance, and adaptation of the pattern through
      practice (Morton et al. 2004). Though the core deficits of PD patients are largely different
      than those of cerebellar patients, they do show decreased bilateral coordination (Plotnik et
      al. 2008) and a fundamental disturbance in stride length regulation (Morris et al. 1998)
      during walking.

      Recent work has shown that the cerebellum is hyperactive in PD patients, though it is not
      known whether this activity is compensatory (i.e. reduces motor impairments) or pathological
      (i.e. causes motor impairments). One idea is that increased cerebellar activity, affecting
      cerebral motor areas, compensates for the reduced drive from the basal ganglia (Wu et al.
      2013). Alternatively, it is possible that cerebellar hyperactivity is pathological, as recent
      work suggests that cerebellar activity may be partially responsible for the generation of
      Parkinsonian tremor (Helmich et al. 2012). One approach to answer this question is to use
      non-invasive brain stimulation techniques to decrease the activity of the cerebellum in PD
      patients and determine if they improve or worsen their gait pattern.

      Non-invasive brain stimulation techniques, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
      and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) are able to alter the excitability of
      brain pathways. Applying these techniques over the motor cortex, improved motor function in
      different patient groups, including stroke and PD (Benninger et al. 2010). Only two studies
      have investigated the effect of modulation of cerebellar-motor cortex excitability on motor
      function in PD patients. That is, 1 Hz repetitive TMS (inhibitory rTMS) over the cerebellum
      improved gross arm movements, but worsened fine motor skills17. Furthermore, a two-week
      continuous theta burst stimulation TMS protocol decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesias (Koch
      et al. 2009). These studies only investigated the effects on the upper extremities. The
      cerebellum is also hyperactive during gait (Hanakawa et al. 1999; del Olmo et al. 2006), but
      whether modulation of cerebellar excitability can improve gait deficits in PD patients is
      currently unknown.

      Non-invasive brain stimulation can also be used to study the connection between the
      cerebellum and the motor cortex via using paired-pulse TMS. Specifically, cerebellar
      stimulation 5 ms before motor cortex stimulation leads to a reduction in the amplitude of
      motor-evoked potentials (MEPs), a phenomenon referred to as cerebellar-brain inhibition (CBI)
      (Pinto et al. 2001). This measure of CBI is abnormal in PD patients-it is reduced at rest,
      but increases with muscle contraction (Ni et al. 2010).

      Gait impairments in PD are often resistant to treatment, particularly as the disease
      progresses. Therefore, insight in the pathophysiology of gait disturbances is essential for
      improving treatment options and quality of life for PD patients. This study will answer the
      question of whether cerebellar hyperactivity alleviates or worsens gait deficits in PD
      patients. If cerebellar hyperactivity in PD is compensatory, anodal (i.e. excitatory) tDCS
      should improve gait in PD patients, whereas cathodal (i.e. inhibitory) tDCS will make matters
      worse. In contrast, if cerebellar hyperactivity is pathological, cathodal tDCS will improve
      gait and anodal tDCS will worsen it. Hence, this study will improve the fundamental
      understanding of gait pathophysiology in PD patients. The investigators will focus on the
      aspects of gait that are particularly affected in PD and associated with fall risk, such as
      stride length and gait speed (Paul et al. 2013). In this way, this study may identify the
      cerebellum as a potential new target for treatment, opening up new possibilities improving
      gait and balance disturbances in PD.
    
  