
    
      IRR-CT-901-2013-01 is a Phase IV, multi-center, prospective, randomized, controlled,
      comparator clinical trial. The study consists of 3 parts: a Screening Phase typically
      performed in the Emergency Department, a randomized, open-label Treatment (Perioperative)
      Phase, and End of Study, a 30-day Follow-up.

      Medical Centers throughout the United States will participate as research sites, enrolling
      eligible subjects 18 years of age and older who undergo open abdominal laparotomy for
      abdominal trauma or acute surgical abdomen. Subjects will be randomized in a 1 - 1 ratio to
      receive the IrriSept irrigation device or the institution's Standard of Care (SoC) prior to
      abdominal surgery.

      Exclusion criteria includes: known allergy to chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG), Abbreviated
      Injury Scale (AIS) score of six (6), American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status
      Classification (ASA) score of five (5) or greater, female subjects who are pregnant and/or
      breast feeding, those patients undergoing a damage control laparotomy, abdominal incision
      created prior to operating room, and patients enrolled in a concurrent, ongoing
      interventional, randomized clinical trial.

      Patient risk factors assessed at screening include chronic uncontrolled hypertension, chronic
      heart disease, chronic renal disease, chronic pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, HIV,
      chronic liver disease, a BMI of less than 18 or above 40, coagulopathy, current long-term
      steroid use, current smoker, and current cancer. Additional assessments include PATI
      (Penetrating Abdominal Trauma Index), AIS and ASA scores, and adherence to SCIP prophylactic
      antibiotic-specific guidelines. Other measures to be documented will include antibiotic usage
      and surgical skin preparation. The following "present on admission" (PoA) characteristics
      will be collected: shock, (systolic BP < 90 mm Hg), intubation, active infection, transfusion
      of blood/blood products and primary injury in trauma or primary organ(s) in the acute
      abdomen. Intra-operative SSI risk factors including drains, staple versus sutures, surgical
      time (skin to skin), blood/blood products, and body temperature below 36 degrees Celsius will
      also be evaluated and risk adjusted in the final analysis.

      Exploratory endpoints at study completion include: infection (superficial, deep, organ
      space), ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP), catheter associated urinary tract infection
      (CAUTI), central line associated blood stream infection (CLABSI), deep vein thrombosis (DVT),
      pulmonary embolus (PE), acute cardiac event, Clostridium difficile (C-diff) infection, MRSA
      infection, mortality and length of stay (LOS).

      The Standard of Care (SoC) arm subjects will receive routine surgical Standard of Care (SoC).
      It should be noted that routine SoC is at the sole discretion of the investigator and
      institution and may or may not involve surgical wound irrigation. If irrigation is used, it
      will be delivered by bulb syringe or pour method but not a pressure device, which can range
      from a syringe with a cannula to jet lavage.

      While the primary objective of this research involves surgical site infections, hospital
      readmission rates, hospital costs, and length of hospital stay will also be compared between
      the two study arms as secondary objectives.
    
  