
    
      Melanocytes (MCs) are melanin-producing cells of the skin that are derived from neural crest
      cells. Vitiligo vulgaris is a common depigmentation disorder resulting from destruction of
      functional MCs in the affected skin. Although this disorder affects all races and occurs in
      approximately 1% of the world population, its pathogenesis remains obscure. Recovery from
      vitiligo is initiated by the activation, proliferation, and migration of melanoblasts (MBs)
      to the epidermis. The subsequent maturation of MBs leads to production of melanosomes that
      will be transferred to the juxtaposed keratinocytes. The beam of a low-energy laser produces
      a temperature elevation of less than 0.5 ℃. Therefore, light-mediated reaction by such laser
      irradiation is referred to as biostimulation. Mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase is
      considered as a photoacceptor of low-energy laser. Low-energy He-Ne laser has numberous
      clinical applications. Our previous studies showed that He-Ne laser irradiation can induce
      repigmentation in vitiligo vulgaris. However, the exact mechanisms of He-Ne laser irradiation
      in repigmentation are not elucidated thoroughly. In the past, we have demonstrated the
      coexistence of both antikertinocyte (anti-KC) and antimelanocyte (anti-MC) IgG antibodies
      (Abs) in vitiligo patients and explored their potential roles in vitiligo. This current
      three-year proposal aims to clarify the mechanisms of melanocyte destruction and regeneration
      in vitiligo lesions using both traditional cell culture and skin equivalent model
      (organotypic culture). In the first year, we shall focus on the regeneration of MCs and MBs
      by He-Ne laser with or without the presence of anti-MC IgG antibodies from vitiligo patients,
      as well as the involved photodynamic mechanisms. Our goal for the second year is to
      investigate the regeneration of MCs and MBs by He-Ne laser with or without the presence of
      anti-KC IgG antibodies from vitiligo patients. In the final year of our project, we shall
      explore the effects of He-Ne laser combine antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) on
      the regeneration of MCs and MBs. Our results will provide more information for the
      effectiveness of He-Ne laser irradiation in treating vitiligo.
    
  