
    
      MEPHISTO is a pathophysiological, transverse, case-control, single-center study (university
      hospital, Clermont-Ferrand, France). No intervention (drug or nutritional) is conducted as
      part of this study and the participants are not subject to any exclusion period. Our
      objective is to investigate the effects of iron overload on monocyte/macrophage polarization
      and its relations with the cardiovascular risk factors.

      We study 60 subjects divided into 3 groups of 20 participants :

        -  group DIOS composed of subjects with dysmetabolic hepatosiderosis

        -  group M composed of subjects with metabolic syndrom without iron overload

        -  group T composed of lean subjects DIOS group participants were selected among patients
           recently diagnosed as DIOS, without any secondary hyperferritinemia and with hepatic
           iron overload proved by liver MRI.

      Recruitement of group DIOS was carried out in the internal medicine service. Subjects of
      group M and DIOS come from the file of volunteers from the center of clinical investigation
      (CIC-501, Clermont-Ferrand). Subject of group M to group DIOS are matched by age, gender (+/-
      5 kg/m²) and BMI. Subjects of group T to group DIOS are matched by age and gender. As no
      direct benefit is expected for the participants, they receive a lump sum compensation of 50
      euros.

      Each participant undergoes only a 1 hour consultation including a clinical examination and
      blood sample.

      We focus on clinical parameters of the metabolic syndrome (waist size, BMI, blood pressure)
      and on seeking exclusion factors (infection, neoplasia, anti-inflammatory drugs). Due to
      their potential influence on inflammation and oxidant stress, these factors, as same as
      smoking were excluded.

      Blood sample will be used to perform:

        -  classical laboratory test (blood count, reticulocytes, ASAT, ALAT, LDH, lipid profile,
           glycemia, insulinemia, TSH, , vitamin D, ferritin, transferrin saturation, CRP),

        -  specific dosages (IL-6, TNFalpha, hepcidine) by ELISA,

        -  monocyte phenotype ( CD14, CD16, CD 163, MR) by FACS (Fluorescence Activated Cell
           Sorting),

        -  measurement of the gene expression from monocytes and macrophages after culturing by
           real-time PCR.

      Our main analysis focus on ex vivo polarization of monocytes into alternative macrophages
      (M2) and phenotypic characterization. Before and after culturing monocytes with (to induce M2
      macrophage) or without IL-4 (to induce resident macrophage), we will measure the expression
      of phenotypic markers of polarization (MR, CD200R, F13A1, CD163, AMAC1, TGFb), inflammatory
      markers (TNFα , MCP- 1, IL-6) , oxidative stress markers (HO- 1 ), and markers of iron
      metabolism (ferroportin, ferritin, hepcidin). We use quantitative PCR microfluidic card
      (TLDA, Taqman Low-Density Array) to measure gene expression of monocytes and type M2
      macrophages. This technique allows screening of expression for 24 genes. Different phases are
      required: RNA extraction (RNeasy kit, Qiagen), the reverse transcription (RT-PCR kit, HighCap
      cDNA RT kit, Applied Biosystems), amplification (TaqMan Fast Advanced Master Mix, Applied
      Biosystems), and finally the study of gene expression (MFC TaqMan Array for GeneEx, Format
      24, Applied Biosystems). Our main outcome is capacity of polarization in M2 macrophages
      evidenced by expression of MR, CD200R, F13A1, CD163, AMAC1, TGFb. Evaluating the influence of
      iron overload on data from the clinical examination, the results of standard biology and
      monocyte gene expression is our secondary outcome.
    
  