
    
      The training program will be performed on 7 machinesin a circuit. The devices will be
      controlled by a pre-programmed chip card, so that they will automatically adjust their
      parameters, such as seat height or resistance to the patient, and it will be possible to
      monitor the training progress of exercising women and their presence during training. Only
      two people will be allowed in the room during the training. The planned duration of the
      exercises will be controlled (one minute for strength exercises, four minutes for endurance
      exercisesand a 30-second break between each exercise) and for each trainee the load will be
      dosed using the electronic resistance motor system. Exercises in the training program are
      planned in such a way that the different muscle groups of women exercising are loaded
      alternately, which will ensure comprehensive training of the whole body. The range of
      movement, exercise duration and breaks will be controlled automatically by the system and the
      software of the devices and will not require additional training attention.

      In the training group, one-repetition maximum exercise test (1RM) will be performed to
      determine the appropriate training load and later after the program to verify the increase in
      muscle strength.

      The HR max range will be determined for exercising women by the indirect method using the
      formula: training HR = 220 -subject age.

      The characteristics of exercises in the circuit:

        1. The training circuit starts with an exercise on a cycloergometer -"bike", which lasts 4
           minutes.

        2. The second exercise -"abdominal crunch", shapes the strength of the abdominal muscles
           and together with exercise number six, it not only improves muscle strength parameters,
           but also shapes balance and maintains the correct position of the body.

        3. The third exercisein a circuit-"leg curl", shapes the muscular strength of the back of
           the thigh (biceps femoris muscleand muscles adjacent to it).

        4. The fourth exercise -"lat pulldown", trains the strength of the latissimus dorsi muscle,
           shoulder girdle muscles and upper chest. In addition to improving the strength and
           function of the muscles mentioned above, the exercise also perfectly stimulates the
           auxiliary respiratory muscles.

        5. Fifth exercise -"crosswalker".This exercise trainsmost of the body's muscles, itlasts 4
           minutes and, like training on a cycloergometer, primarily shapes thephysical capacity.

        6. The sixth exercise -"back extension"trains the strength of the abdominal muscles,
           erector spinae and other muscles of a back.

        7. The seventh exercise -"legabductor", the last in the series, is an exercise that shapes
           the gluteal muscles, as well as hip adductor and abductor muscles. This exercise
           fulfills the function of shaping strength and securing the hip joint, by training the
           muscle parts less frequently used in everyday life, the more difficult to be kept fit as
           the years go by and the level of physical activity decreases.
    
  