
    
      Psilocybin shows promise as a safe, transformational therapeutic across several psychiatric
      conditions. However, little is know about its mechanism of action. This study aims to
      establish a neuroimaging paradigm for use in future clinical research testing the
      effectiveness of psilocybin in various clinical applications.

      In this study, we will assess both acute (during psilocybin exposure) and sustained (one week
      post-exposure) effects of 5-HT2A receptor agonism on brain circuits using resting state
      functional connectivity and precision functional mapping (PFM). Using a randomized,
      controlled crossover study design, a small number of healthy volunteers will receive either
      psilocybin or methylphenidate (MTP) and will undergo MRI (structural, task, blood flow,
      extended resting state). After two weeks, participants will return for a second exposure with
      the alternate of what they received in the first session. This study involves up to five
      separate imaging sessions.

      Functional connectivity will be measured using the following PFM approach:

        1. Extended functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) image acquisition

        2. Aggressive data cleaning

        3. Analysis designed to examine functional brain connectivity at the individual level

      This will allow us to map the effects of 5-HT2A receptor agonism on cortical and
      cortico-subcortical brain networks at the individual level with precision that is
      unparalleled in the current literature. This is the first step in developing a precision
      neuroimaging approach for mechanistic understanding of psilocybin's therapeutic effects.

      If successful, this pharmacoimaging paradigm will have potential utility across psychiatric
      conditions, allowing us to better understand whether and how psilocybin might "bend the
      curve" in treatment course, preventing persistent suffering, disability, and suicide.
    
  