
    
      High vacuum chest drainage was once considered inadvisable because of a possible suction
      injury to soft tissues, such as the lungs or mediastinum. Wakabayashi showed that excessive
      suction force generated by a high vacuum pressure was related to the surface area of the
      suction applied to the tissues and not the vacuum pressure itself1&2. He postulated that
      suction injury to the lung would not occur if the suction force of a chest tube is below the
      capillary blood pressure of 30 - 35 torr2. Based on this theory, Wakabayashi developed a
      double-lumen chest drainage tube3 (Trade name NO-NUMO™) and its clinical use was approved by
      FDA4 in 2002. A prototype 7-5Fr double-lumen chest tube was successfully tested in laboratory
      animals and three patients1&2 and the safety of high vacuum chest drainage was proven in a
      large number of patients undergoing uncomplicated thoracoscopic surgeries2. The unique design
      of the new drainage tube is the small diameter double lumen tube with hundreds of tiny holes
      that allows rapid drainage without damaging effects of high suction over a limited surface
      area. High vacuum suction is available on wall units already in place in the OR and ICU beds.
      To adopt this system for clinical use, a high vacuum gauge was needed (most don't go beyond
      200 torr) to monitor suction, and a high pressure battery powered vacuum pump for transport
      was necessary, so that drainage was maintained and blood clotting in the tube avoided during
      the period of prolonged transport from the OR and the setup in the ICU. Several brands of
      portable vacuum pumps on the market were evaluated before concluding that the Vario™ pump
      (Medela® Inc.) was superior. The maximal vacuum pressure that Vario pump can generate is 630
      torr or 84 kPa which is equivalent to -857 cmH2O.

      The NO-NUMO™ High Vacuum Body Cavity Drainage System consist of; (1) disposable NO-NUMO™ body
      cavity drainage tubes, (2) disposable Vario™ fluid management canisters and (3) Vario™
      portable vacuum pump. We evaluated this new system, using a 13Fr triple-tube set for the
      mediastinal drainage, a 13Fr single-tube for the left pleural drainage and two 13Fr NO-NUMO
      tubes for the drainage of the lower extremity subcutaneous wounds following the harvesting of
      the saphenous veins. The tubing was connected to a disposable liner of a Medi-Vac™ (Cardinal
      Health, Inc.) suction canisters, which was connected to a Vario pump at 300 torr (= 40 kPa)
      in patients following open heart surgeries.
    
  