
    
      Insomnia is one of the most common reasons for referral to mental health services in active
      duty personnel. Chronic insomnia often persists post-deployment, contributes to poor mental
      and physical health outcomes, and requires targeted interventions. Effective behavioral
      treatments of insomnia have not been adapted and tested for the treatment of chronic insomnia
      comorbid to combat-related mental disorders and stress reactions. In addition, effective
      behavioral insomnia treatments are typically delivered over an 8-week period. This format may
      not be easily exportable to primary and community care settings where military returnees and
      veterans seek help. The goal is to adapt and test the effects of a 4-week behavioral
      treatment that targets chronic insomnia (lasting >1 month) in service members returning from
      Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), and who present with the
      typical psychiatric comorbidities associated of combat-related anxiety and mood disorders and
      stress reactions. We call this intervention the Brief Behavioral Treatment of Insomnia for
      Military Veterans (BBTI-MV). The proposed study includes two phases. The specific aims of
      Phase II are: (1) To explore the effects of BBTI-MV on sleep and daytime symptoms of
      psychiatric distress. We anticipate that participants randomized to BBTI-MV will show a
      higher categorical response rate and remission for sleep symptoms than subjects randomized to
      IC. (2) To evaluate in a preliminary manner the durability of therapeutic gains and by
      conducting a naturalistic follow-up assessment six months post-treatment in responders. (3)
      To explore whether the nature of combat-related experiences, time since deployment and since,
      return to the US, deployment theater, medication use and change in dosage, mood and anxiety
      or disorders affect sleep treatment adherence and outcomes.
    
  