
    
      This was a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial. Two
      ultrasound-guided injections of either PRP (ACP®, Arthrex) or saline solution were performed
      at 4 weeks interval.

      Exclusion criterion was previous corticosteroid infiltration. All infiltrations were
      performed by Dr Bernard Montalvan. The selection of patients and the evaluation were
      conducted by Dr Patrick Le Goux who did not know which treatment had been allocated to which
      patient.

      In the facility, no one apart from the investigators had access to full patient data.

      An independent company represented by Mrs Amandine Ramseyer was hired to design, follow and
      carry the statistical analysis of the study. The data she got from the investigators were
      anonymous.

      Patients were monitored by an independent evaluator blinded to treatment at baseline and 1,
      3, 6 and 12 months follow-up.

      Secondary criteria were the Roles-Maudsley score and the assessment of pain on isometric
      contraction of the extensor carpi radialis brevis and of the extensor digitorum communis.

      The main evaluation criterion was the relative improvement from baseline to 6 months in pain
      score on visual analog scale (0-10).

      Intragroup and intergroup intention-to-treat analyses were performed using Student's t-tests,
      applying the last-observation carried forward method. Differences of proportions were tested
      using chi-square. The sample size calculated was 22 patients per group so that this study had
      a power of 90% with typeI error rate α=0.05 to demonstrate a significant greater improvement
      of the global pain score of at least 10%, in the PRP over the placebo group with a standard
      deviation of 0.10. A "p" value of less than 0.05 was considered to be statistically
      significant. The SPSS software (version 19 for Windows) was used to perform statistics.
    
  