
    
      African Americans living with chronic medical conditions are at high risk for depression and
      other mental health disorders yet are less likely to be diagnosed or receive treatment than
      their white counterparts. Left untreated, depression can increase disease severity and risk
      for mortality. One especially vulnerable group is patients with sickle cell disease (SCD), a
      genetic blood disorder that primarily affects people of African descent and
      disproportionately impacts those living in disadvantaged circumstances. Sickle cell causes
      severe acute and chronic pain, end-organ damage, and early mortality. In SCD, the transition
      from adolescence to adulthood is a tumultuous period, characterized by social vulnerability,
      increased medical complications, and high health care utilization. Young adults in this age
      group, 16-30, are at high risk for mental health disorders and suicide.

      Using mobile technology, the investigators can provide high-quality, evidence-based
      behavioral mental health treatment that reaches patients in under-resourced settings. Digital
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), also known as computerized CBT, is effective for treating
      depression and anxiety, and can be easily brought to scale at low cost. Several meta-analyses
      have found digital CBT effective for treating depression and anxiety in white adults. The
      investigators' group has shown in a large-scale trial that it is effective for treating these
      symptoms among African American patients at 22 primary care clinics. In two adult sickle cell
      clinics, the investigators have shown that routine mental health screening and digital CBT
      delivered as part of usual care can improve depressive symptoms and daily pain among adults
      with SCD. The investigators' group has also used this method to treat pain in pediatric SCD
      patients.

      Gap in evidence: Despite the promise of digital CBT, there are barriers to widespread use of
      this technology, particularly in low-resource settings serving minorities. Studies using
      digital CBT often suffer from high attrition and poor adherence. In real-world settings,
      uptake is poor even when the service is offered free of charge. These limitations affect
      patients living with SCD. The investigators will modify how a digital CBT program for mental
      health is delivered to these patient sat the patient, provider, and organizational levels, by
      adding references and content representing SCD, chronic pain, and stressors unique to African
      Americans. The investigators believe this approach will radically improve the implementation
      of mental health screening and treatment in low-resource settings such as clinics and
      community organizations serving adolescents and adults with SCD, and similar communities.

      Strategy and goals: Population-and setting-specific adaptations to interventions can lead to
      their successful implementation and wider use, yet no studies show how much adaptation is
      needed to effectively implement digital CBT in different settings. Qualitative data from The
      investigators' group and others show that cultural factors-lack of relatability,
      representation, and perceived stigma regarding mental health treatment-limit engagement with
      digital CBT programs. The investigators' proposal will devise changes to advertising,
      promotion, and health coach communications, that will decrease stigma and make digital CBT
      more relatable and relevant to young adults with SCD. The investigators hypothesize that
      low-cost adaptations to a digital CBT program will have better engagement than digital CBT
      with standard implementation strategy.

      Aim 1: Use implementation science (ImS) and human-centered design methods to define the
      barriers to delivering routine mental health screening and digital CBT to adolescents and
      young adults with SCD. By leveraging ImS theory, models, and frameworks, The investigators
      will systematically collect and analyze qualitative data to define and understand the
      problem, stakeholder needs, and cultural barriers to routine mental health screening and
      treatment in SCD clinics and the community. Specifically, the investigators will use the
      Behavior Change Wheel as a validated method for identifying the appropriate behavior change
      and implementation strategies.

      Aim 2: Rapidly iterate, test, and evaluate adaptations to the implementation strategy for a
      coach-enhanced digital mental health service. Based on findings from Aim 1, the investigators
      will systematically develop, test, and evaluate changes to how the CBT program is
      advertised/promoted, and introduced to patients and providers. The investigators will tailor
      the messages and multimedia content that health coaches send to patients.

      Aim 3: Demonstrate that a population-specific implementation strategy improves engagement
      with a digital CBT-based mental health service. The investigators will recruit 40 adolescents
      and young adults with SCD (ages 16-30) and comorbid depression and randomize them to either
      the off-the-shelf digital CBT program and standard implementation strategy that has no
      content or references to SCD, chronic pain, or the unique challenges facing minority groups,
      to adapted digital CBT with a SCD-specific implementation approach.

      Addressing mental health in SCD is a major step to delivering quality care and improving
      outcomes for this, and other hard-to-reach, minority populations. This study will generate
      the necessary data and infrastructure to conduct a large scale, R01-funded, multi-site
      pragmatic trial to determine how digital CBT can be used as an effective, low-cost, and
      scalable mental health treatment for adolescents and young adults with SCD.
    
  