
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common solid tumor and the second leading cause of cancer death
      among American men. While surgery, radiation and observation have all been deemed appropriate
      for newly diagnosed men, tremendous uncertainty remains regarding the optimal treatment.
      AHRQ's 2008 evidence report on the comparative effectiveness of therapies for localized
      prostate cancer concluded that "no one therapy can be considered the preferred treatment for
      localized prostate cancer due to the limitations in the body of evidence as well as the
      likely tradeoffs an individual patient must make between estimated treatment effectiveness,
      necessity and adverse effects." The existing literature is limited by its focus on older
      therapeutic modalities and failure to control for individual patient characteristics and
      provider/hospital characteristics that may influence outcomes (quality of care). To fill
      these evidence gaps, we propose to expand a network of state tumor registries and a national
      observational disease registry to establish a new population-based cohort of men newly
      diagnosed with localized prostate cancer. We will prospectively measure key patient-reported
      outcomes, such as health-related quality of life and side-effects of therapy at diagnosis and
      6 and 12 months later. We will also collect detailed medical record information, including
      clinical data, technical details of the interventions, complications, short-term cancer
      recurrence rates, and quality-of-care indicators.

      By using this approach, we will overcome limitations of the extant literature and achieve the
      following specific aims:

        1. To compare the effectiveness of contemporary surgical and radiation techniques for
           localized prostate cancer in the cohort described above in terms of the 6- and 12-month
           patient-reported outcomes, side-effects and complications of treatment.

        2. To identify patient level characteristics that may influence comparative effectiveness.

        3. To assess how the comparative effectiveness of the various therapies varies by quality
           of care received.
    
  