
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Improve the complete remission rate and progression-free survival and reduce
      the relapse rate of patients with poor-risk neuroblastoma using intensive multimodality
      therapy: cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/vincristine and cisplatin/etoposide, external-beam
      radiotherapy, and surgery (when feasible), followed by radioimmunotherapy with iodine I 131
      labeled monoclonal antibody 3F8 followed by autologous bone marrow transplant and
      immunotherapy with unlabeled 3F8. II. Identify biologic and clinical prognostic factors that
      may guide future modifications in treatment approaches for this malignancy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified by prior therapy (yes vs no). Patients undergo surgery
      either at diagnosis or after at least 4 courses of chemotherapy, then possibly again after
      completion of chemotherapy. Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 6 hours on days 1-2,
      and doxorubicin IV and vincristine IV over 72 hours on days 1-3 for courses 1, 2, 4, and 6.
      Cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-4 and vincristine IV over 2 hours on days 1-3 are
      administered as courses 3, 5, and 7. Courses are administered every 16-21 days. Autologous
      bone marrow is collected after 3 courses of chemotherapy providing marrow is negative for
      tumor cells. Patients undergo radiotherapy after the completion of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy
      is administered twice a day for 7 days. Patients then receive iodine I 131 labeled monoclonal
      antibody 3F8 (MOAB 3F8) on day -5 and again on days 1-5. Autologous bone marrow is reinfused
      on day 5 and filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered IV or subcutaneously beginning day 6.
      Patients who do not develop HAMA or an allergy to mouse proteins receive unlabeled MOAB 3F8
      IV over 1.5 hours, 5 days a week for 2 weeks. Treatment repeats every 1-2 months for up to 4
      courses. Patients are followed every month for 2 years, every 3 months for 1 year, then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 45 newly diagnosed patients will be accrued for this study within 5
      years.
    
  