
    
      Methods: Study participation will not influence any element of IVF treatment and all
      participants will be receiving the standard of care at Boston IVF. Potential participants
      will be identified by a member of the research team, who will review the appointment log and
      medical records to ensure eligibility. Eligible participants interested in participating in
      the study will have an abdominal ultrasound endometrial thickness measurement on the day of
      the participants embryo transfer (T2). This abdominal ultrasound is part of routine clinical
      care necessary for the embryo transfer. The eligible participant will provide verbal consent
      to a member of the research team prior to the ultrasound. Baseline demographic data will be
      obtained from the electronic medical record including: age, race, education level, partner
      status, height, weight, gravidity, and parity.

      Two groups of thaw cycles will be included: (1) exogenous hormone replacement thaw cycles and
      (2) modified natural thaw cycle. Both groups will follow the standard of care for cycle
      preparation at Boston IVF. Ultrasound measurements of the endometrial lining (T1) will only
      be used if they were within 1 day of the initiation of progesterone (group 1) or ovulation
      trigger injection (group 2). At T1, multiple endometrial lining measurements will be made per
      standard protocol, but only the optimal image and measurement will be saved. At T2, only a
      single endometrial thickness measurement will be measured by the sonographer and will be
      recorded on a study log. Images should include a longitudinal view of the endometrium and
      cervix. Measurements from the T2 ultrasound will be blinded from the participant and they
      will not be used to make any clinical decisions. Both groups will have a comparison of the
      difference in endometrial thickness measurement between T1 and T2.

      Sample Size Justification: Given the limited data on this specific topic, the study will be
      an observational pilot study. Given the available resources, the researchers will aim to have
      100 participants per cycle preparation group, for a total of 200 participants.

      Data Analysis: Descriptive data will be presented as the proportion, mean with standard
      deviation, or median with interquartile range. Comparisons will be made using the chi-square
      or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables and parametric or non-parametric tests for
      continuous variables based on data distribution. Logistic regression analysis will be
      performed for multivariate analysis. All data will be analyzed with SAS 9.4 (SAS Institute
      Inc., Cary, NC, USA). All tests will be two sided and a P value < 0.05 will be required to
      confer significance.
    
  