
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of trastuzumab deruxtecan
      (DS-8201a) in combination with olaparib, and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose
      (RP2D).

      II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of this combination in a dose expansion cohort in
      patients with uterine serous carcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity as measured by objective response rate (ORR),
      clinical benefit rate, progression-free survival (PFS), and duration of response (DoR).

      II. To measure baseline HER2 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in a central laboratory
      and correlate with response in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion.

      III. To evaluate the plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of olaparib and DS-8201a
      metabolites when administered in combination in the dose escalation and in the dose
      expansion.

      IV. To determine markers of DNA damage response (DDR) in tumor specimens at baseline and
      on-treatment in patients with uterine serous carcinoma in the dose expansion.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure baseline HER2 expression by immune-mass spectroscopy, and correlate with
      baseline central IHC and with response in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion.

      II. To measure the formation of topoisomerase I cleaved complex formation (TOP1cc) in blood
      specimens and correlate with response in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion.

      III. To measure the formation of TOP1cc in tumor specimens at baseline and on-treatment and
      correlate with response in patients with uterine serous carcinoma in the dose expansion.

      IV. To measure changes in HER2 expression over the course of treatment by IHC and immune
      multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (immunoMRM) and correlate with response in
      patients with uterine serous carcinoma in the dose expansion.

      V. To determine biomarkers of response and resistance in tumor specimens and blood specimens,
      including whole exome sequencing (WES) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and
      olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  