
    
      Study Rationale:

      Hepatitis B virus is a major cause of acute and chronic liver disease both in the United
      States and worldwide. In 2016, an estimated 862,000 people were living with HBV infection in
      the US with a total of 1,649 U.S. death certificates recorded as an underlying or
      contributing cause of death. Chronic infection may cause liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma (HCC). Since the introduction of the vaccine in the 1990s, there has been a
      significant decline in the incidence of HBV infection. Approved in November 2017, Heplisav-B
      uses a synthetic cytosine phosphoguanine oligonucleotide derived from bacterial DNA; it is
      thought to stimulate the immune system through activation of the toll-like receptor 9
      pathway, which induces the production of cytokines such as interleukines such as
      interleukine-12 and interferon-alpha. It has been shown to induce higher immunity in healthy
      individuals compared to conventional vaccines.

      The HBsAb titer should be checked 8 to 12 weeks after the administration of the vaccination
      series. Good responders were defined as those having the anti-HBs titer were ≥ 100 mUI/ml,
      poor responders having anti-HBs titer between 10 and 99 mUI/ml, and nonresponders having
      anti-HBs titer < 10 mIU/ml. The Seroprotection rate by age group in the healthy population is
      100% in the 18-29-year-old group, 98.9% in the 30-29 %-year-old group, 97.2% in the
      40-49-year-old group, 95.2% in the 50-59-year-old group, 91.6% in 60-70-year-old group.
      However, 5% of the general population will not mount a protection response.

      Response to HBV vaccine is variable among patients with chronic diseases, such as HIV
      infection, celiac disease, IBD, end-stage renal disease, diabetes. The immunogenicity of the
      hepatitis B vaccine is also lower in decompensated cirrhosis. Among cirrhotic patients, only
      45% who received Heplisav-B achieved immunity in investigator's previous retrospective
      analysis. The usual approach to HBV vaccine nonresponse is repeating the vaccine series in
      noninfected individuals.

      Investigational Plan

      *Study Design & Duration: Patients with cirrhosis or chronic liver disease presented to the
      hepatology clinic in Mercy Medical Center between 09/2020 and 07/2021 who do not have
      immunity against Hepatitis B (defined as anti-HBs titer < 10 mIU/ml) will be recruited.
      Patients will be stratified based on cirrhosis vs. no-cirrhosis and vaccine naive vs. vaccine
      experienced. Patients who had more than one vaccination series will not be included. Previous
      vaccination could be either Heplisav or Engerix; however, this information will be collected.
      The investigators' plan is to do the 1st part of the study is in treatment-naive patients and
      expand it to vaccine experienced.

      Investigators will randomize patients to receive Heplisav-B in 0, 4 weeks, or Heplisav-B in
      0, 4, 8 weeks. The HBV surface antibody titer will be checked 8 to 12 weeks after
      administration of the vaccination series and classified into good responders, poor
      responders, and nonresponders based on antibody titers.

      Investigators will collect basic data including age, MELD scores, etiologies of cirrhosis
      (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatitis C, alcohol-induced liver disease, autoimmune
      liver disease, primary biliary cholangitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, others),
      comorbidities (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
      coronary artery disease, renal failure, obesity), immunosuppressive drugs.

      Primary endpoint: Seroconversion or immunity is defined as HBsAb level ≥ 10 mIU/ml.

      Randomization process:

      Investigators will use the envelope allocation technique. At first, Investigators will create
      a sequentially numbered random group assignment. The supplies for the randomization envelopes
      include envelopes, back carbon paper, and white copy paper. On the white copy paper,
      Investigators will write the study ID. Investigators will wrap the white copy paper inside
      the black carbon paper, put those into the envelope, and seal it.

      The above data will be prospectively collected and entered into an excel database in a
      de-identified mode by giving them a coded number. Investigators will save data in a
      password-protected format and filed in the GI Research share drive and only the study staff
      will have access to the file to download for any study procedure or audit. It will be stored
      in a confidential manner, indefinitely in a secured Mercy share drive according to the 21 CFR
      part 11 guidelines.

      The sample size for both arms: total 200. The current seroconversion rate of the hepatitis B
      vaccine in cirrhosis is low, about 50%, with the conventional schedule, either Engerix 0, 1
      month, 6 months or Heplisav-B 0, 1 month. Investigators aim for the seroconversion rate of
      70% with Heplisav-B 0, 1 month, 2 months. The probability of type I error is 5% and the power
      is 80%.
    
  