
    
      The overarching hypothesis is that enhanced platelet cloaking of circulating tumour cells in
      obese men with prostate cancer, due to increased systemic inflammation, is a mechanism
      underlying worse prognosis of cancer in these patients.

      The investigators aim to test the following four hypotheses, dividing the experimental and
      analytical work into four separate projects.

        1. Platelet cloaking of circulating PrCa tumour cells is more prominent in men with obesity
           than without

        2. Regular exercise can ameliorate platelet cloaking

        3. The degree of platelet cloaking varies with levels of systemic and primary tumour
           inflammation and coagulability

        4. Expression of an obesity-associated lethality gene signature leads to variation in
           platelet cloaking

      For the first hypothesis, 200 men with metastatic PrCa will be recruited, and divided into
      exposed and non-exposed groups based on body mass index (BMI >25). The objective will be to
      enumerate CTCs and quantify the degree of platelet cloaking in exposed and non-exposed
      groups, and to draw meaningful comparisons between the two.

      For the second hypothesis, the objective will be to determine to what extent the number of
      CTCs and the degree of platelet cloaking varies in exposed and non-exposed groups following a
      supervised exercise intervention, and to compare this with a non-exercised comparison group.
      The exercise intervention will prescribe moderate intensity aerobic exercise that will be
      supervised once per week for 3 months and completed independently at home for a further 3
      months. Patients will wear Polar heart rate monitors to monitor exercise prescription and
      progression. Assessments including blood sampling and quality of life questionnaires will be
      completed at baseline, 3 months and 6 months.

      For the third hypothesis, the objective will be to build a serological, haematological and
      immunological picture of the state of systemic inflammation and coagulability, and the degree
      of inflammation within the prostate gland. Furthermore, the investigators intend to correlate
      and compare these variables with the results of the first and second objectives, in order to
      determine whether the number of CTCs and the degree of platelet cloaking varies with changes
      in the inflammatory / coagulatory milieu.

      For the fourth hypothesis, the objective will be to determine whether the expression profile
      of a number of lethality-associated genes, known to be associated with PrCa progression,
      coagulation and stem-cell like phenotype, correlates with the number of CTCs and the degree
      of their cloaking by platelets.

      CTC numbers and the degree of platelet cloaking will be common denominators which anchor
      these four objectives together and enable comparison between them.
    
  