
    
      Gastric cancer (GC), is a cancer developing from the inner lining of the
      stomach.Approximately half of the gastric cancer cases are diagnosed during advanced stages.
      One of the reasons for this is the invasiveness of esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) screening
      examinations that leads to patients avoiding necessary tests .

      The most common cause is infection by the bacterium Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori),which
      accounts for 60% of cases.

      The development of tools for the early diagnosis of gastric cancer and precancerous lesions
      of gastric cancer is important for reducing mortality, increasing survival rates, and
      improving quality of life.

      Endoscopy and biopsy are the reference standards for diagnosis and screening of gastric
      cancer, but their use is limited for population-wide screening due to their
      invasiveness.Subsequently, it is necessary to identify novel, simple, cost-effective and
      manipulable screening methods for gastric cancer.

      Human pepsinogens (HP) are proenzymes for pepsin, a digestive enzymes produced by gastric
      chief cells,biochemically and immunochemically classified into two groups: pepsinogen I (PGI)
      and pepsinogen II (PGII), humen pepsinogens considered promising serological biomarkers for
      the screening of atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer,serum pepsinogen test provides a
      valuable method for detecting gastric cancer and atrophic gastritis.

      The limitation of the pepsinogen test as a non invasive serologic biomarker screening method
      is that the optimal cut-off value could be affected by several factors, age, gender, and the
      test method itself.

      The trefoil factor family (TFF) of peptides comprises small (12-22kDa) molecules that are
      secreted by the mammalian gastro-intestinal tract. TFFs constitute a family of three peptides
      (TFF1, TFF2, and TFF3) that are widely expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the gastro-
      intestinal tract. Trefoil factor family 3 (TFF3) is expressed in the goblet cells of the
      small and large intestines as well as the intestinal metaplasia in the stomach.

      The trefoil factor family (TFF) plays a key role in the maintenance of mucosal integrity, and
      plays an impotant role in oncogenic transformation, growth, and metastatic extension of
      common human solid tumors, including gastric cancer.

      SerumTFF3 showed good diagnostic power in both of H. pylori positive and H. pylori-negative
      gastric cancer and its serum levels were significantly higher in patients with advanced
      gastric cancer than that in patients with early gastric cancer.

      H. pylori organisms live in gastric mucosa, and attach to epithelial cells of stomach
      .Because trefoil factor family 3 is not expressed in epithelial cells of the stomach and is
      only expressed in the intestinal goblet cells of the metaplasia of gastric cancer , serum
      trefoil factor family 3 levels are less influenced by H. pylori infection , eradication,
      aging, and sex ,therefore, serum trefoil factor family 3 is a more stable non invasive
      biomarker of gastric cancer risk even in early gastric cancer.
    
  