
    
      The clinical course of sickle cell disease (SCD) is very variable. Some patients experience
      vaso-occlusive disease infrequently, but other patients develop the complication recurrently.
      The reason for the difference remains unclear. Although erythrocyte sickling occurs due to
      factors such as dehydration, infections, extreme of temperatures, acidosis, and hypoxia,
      neutrophil adhesion and activation are crucial in eliciting the vaso-occlusive crisis in
      patients with SCD. Activated neutrophils upregulate the expression of various cellular
      adhesion molecules that increase their "stickiness" in vivo. A murine model of SCD
      demonstrated the importance of the intestinal microbiome in influencing the kinetics of
      ageing neutrophils. Depletion of the microbiota with prolonged courses of broad-spectrum
      systemic antibiotics resulted in a reduction of the number of these neutrophils and
      protection against LPS-induced fatal vaso-occlusive crisis in these mice.

      Intestinal barrier is a functional barrier that separates the gut lumen from the inner host.
      It consists of mechanical elements (mucus, epithelial layer), humoral elements (defensins,
      IgA), immunologic elements (lymphocytes, innate immune cells), muscular and neurological
      element. Although the normal intestinal microbiota is the main source of endogenous
      pathogens, it also contributes to the functional integrity of the intestinal barrier through
      its interaction with the other components of the barrier. Failure of any of these components
      will result in a breakdown of the protective intestinal barrier with the consequence of
      recurrent intestinal-derived bacteremia/septicemia. A breakdown of the normal microbiome has
      been implicated in the development of various pathologic states, including Clostridium
      difficile infection, inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal graft-versus-host disease
      following allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplant, colon cancer, and metabolic
      disorders such as obesity and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

      To explain the reason for the development of frequent vaso-occlusive crisis in some patients
      with SCD, the investigators' stepwise hypothesis is that, due to the sickling process and the
      consequent development of intestinal ischemia, patients with SCD, especially those with
      frequent vaso-occlusive crisis, are more likely to have altered microbiota than healthy
      individuals. If the normal microbiota is altered, the intestinal barrier will be compromised,
      rendering the patients more susceptible to recurrent bacteremia of intestinal origin. Since
      most SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis present without any obvious infections, it is
      likely that the compromised intestinal barrier facilitates an inoculum of bacteremia not high
      enough to cause overt infections but sufficient to activate neutrophils and elicit
      vaso-occlusive crisis. The first step towards testing this overall hypothesis is to test the
      sub-hypothesis that altered intestinal microbiomes correlate with increased number of
      activated neutrophils and frequent vaso-occlusive crisis in patients with SCD.
    
  