
    
      At initial attendance in Accident and Emergency, subjects that meet the inclusion criteria
      will be offered an information sheet, and will be asked whether they want to be included in
      the trial. If they agree, a consent form regarding being contacted about the study and an
      assessment form will be completed by the advanced nurse practitioner. The forms will be given
      to the primary researcher and filed securely to comply with The Data Protection Act. All
      patients, including those who do not wish to participate or don't meet the criteria will be
      given the standard advice and exercise booklet. This is usual for this group of patients.

      The lead researcher will contact each subject within 3 days to discuss the study, and arrange
      an appointment at 7-10 days to begin the study. This is necessary ethically in order to
      provide a 'cooling-off' period for the subjects to consider whether they wish to participate.
      It will also give time for radiology reports to be completed and any subjects with discounted
      radius fracture can be excluded.

      Potential subjects attending the initial appointment at 7-10 days in the outpatient
      physiotherapy department will be offered the full consent form. Those that do not attend or
      do not consent will be referred back to Accident and Emergency and return to usual care.
      Those that consent will be randomised into control or intervention group using a computerised
      random number generator. The control group will continue with maintenance exercises. Having a
      control group means that the intervention (imagined movements) can be isolated and tested
      with greater confidence. This helps to improve the quality of the study and this benefit to
      the study is believed to outweigh the small risk that having a control group would raise. By
      having the control group follow usual care as closely as possible further minimises ethical
      issues and potential risks. All efforts have been made to ensure this but it is recognised
      that all participants will need to attend two appointments that they would not normally
      attend on normal care. These are necessary to provide a cooling off period and collect data
      for the study.

      The intervention group will have the same exercises as the control group plus imagined wrist
      exercises. The exercises will be taught to the subject by reading through the booklet with
      them, this ensures the advice is standardised. As the intervention is targeting part of the
      brain involved in the control of movement, high frequency is considered important. The
      imagined movement programme, is amalgamated from two previous studies and will consist of
      imagined wrist movement in all planes. The frequency of 15 minutes every waking hour from one
      study is deemed impractical and another study suggests that 15 minutes of mental practice a
      day preserved range of motion. Therefore approximately 10-15 minutes, four times a day has
      been selected as a practical compromise and mirrors routine advice.

      An appointment will be arranged as soon as is practically possible, aiming for the same day
      or day after removal of plaster at approximately 4-8 weeks, (varies between teams). This is
      to reduce the chance of movement out of plaster affecting the outcome measures.

      At the 4-8 week appointment the primary outcome measures of dexterity using the Purdue
      peg-board, and secondary outcome measures of pain and active wrist range of motion will be
      measured and recorded in the outpatient physiotherapy department.

      The subjects will be randomised into control or intervention group which will reduce
      selection bias. Only standardised objective outcome measures are being used which reduces the
      chances of the researcher influencing responses. As this is a small, educational study there
      is no funding and therefore the researcher will be randomising the participants, providing
      the exercises, and assessing the outcome measures. It is recognised that this is a potential
      source of bias as the researcher is not blind to group allocation, however, as this is a
      pilot study this is felt to be an acceptable weakness and will be recognised in write up. It
      is also a valuable educational experience for the student researcher to be involved in each
      part of the study.

      Broadly the timetable will be two months of recruitment followed by data collection which
      will continue for up to eight weeks after recruitment has terminated. Data analysis and
      interpretation will commence whilst collection is ongoing and continue for approximately two
      to four weeks. The final reporting and write up will follow this.

      Sampling is planned to run for 2 months and all potential subjects meeting the criteria will
      be given the opportunity to participate. Metrics from the local departments, (after allowing
      for subjects not consenting or meeting the criteria), suggest this could produce a sample
      size of around 40. This is difficult to predict but one of the aims of this pilot study is to
      test these procedures. Recruitment will be initially undertaken by advanced nurse
      practitioners in Accident and Emergency.
    
  