
    
      This is a Phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study that will enroll up to 24 patients
      total, using a 3+3 dose escalation design, with 3 to 6 patients per dose level at up to 4
      sequential dose levels (0.16, 0.32, 0.64 and 1.28 mcg/kg/minute). At each dose level patients
      with moderately severe malaria will receive a single 60-minute intravenous infusion of sodium
      nitrite in 0.9% sodium chloride. Blood pressure and methemoglobin levels will be closely
      monitored during the infusion and for 24 hours post infusion.

      This study will allow a preliminary analysis of the safety of intravenous sodium nitrite in
      children with moderately severe malaria and is expected to provide preliminary data on its
      effects on endothelial function. The hypothesis is that sodium nitrite infusion will be safe
      at low dosage levels. Additionally, since deficiency of nitric oxide is linked to endothelial
      dysfunction in malaria, there is the hypothesis that sodium nitrite will result in improved
      markers of endothelial function.

      Children are the largest group affected by falciparum malaria. The study population will be
      male children residing in Tanzania, ages 4-10 years old diagnosed with moderately severe
      malaria, who have been hospitalized for treatment of their malaria at Hubert Kairuki Medical
      University in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Patients will receive standard anti-malaria and
      supportive care treatment. The study will enroll up to 24 subjects.

      Participants will receive a single intravenous infusion of sodium nitrite diluted in 0.9%
      sodium chloride. The infusion will be administered over 60 minutes with an infusion pump.
      Escala-ting doses of sodium nitrite will be administered to patients in 4 dose level cohorts.
      Patients will be sequentially enrolled starting at the lowest dose level. Individual patients
      at the same dose level will also be enrolled sequentially, such that the next patient will
      not receive treatment until completion of a 24- hour safety monitoring period for the prior
      patient. Dose assign-ment will be based on the order of study enrollment. The maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is the highest dose level wherein ≤ 1 of 6 evaluable patients
      experiences dose limiting toxicity (DLT). If the MTD is exceeded at the first dose level,
      then dosing will cease.
    
  