
    
      Cervicogenic headache is a unilateral headache stemming from the neck. Usually, there are no
      pathological findings on x-ray or MRI of the neck. It is supposed that pain may stem from
      various structures in the upper part of the cervical spine. Regardless of the source, it is
      often believed that the neck muscles may be involved in the pain generation, either primarily
      or secondarily.

      Treatment of cervicogenic headache is often difficult. The effect of drugs is usually
      limited. Various surgical techniques such as radiofrequency generation of the facet joints in
      the neck have been tried, but with little success (4).

      Botulinum toxin injection in muscles have for several years been used in conditions with
      pathologically increased muscle activity, such as spasticity and dystonias. Gradually, it has
      also been used in many pain conditions, among them headaches. One case history (5) and a
      randomized placebo controlled, double-blind study (6), have shown effect in cervicogenic
      headache. The latter study had some methodological weaknesses, since it was small, only 26
      patients, and the placebo group had prior to treatment only half as much pain as the group
      receiving botulinum toxin treatment. In addition, pain was not registered daily, but only
      before (prior) treatment and after 3 or 4 weeks. A review considers the documentation on
      treatment with botulinum toxin in idiopathic and cervicogenic headaches to be inconclusive
      (7).

      In our Department, we have tried this treatment on a few patients with typical cervicogenic
      headache with excellent effect and without side-effects. Therefore, it would be of
      considerable interest to perform a larger study with good scientific quality and a higher
      statistical power than the above-mentioned one.

      As the basis for our study we would adopt a conservative hypothesis (H0): Botox injections in
      cervical muscles is not superior to placebo in alleviating pain in unilateral cervicogenic
      headache.
    
  