
    
      The investigators performed an open label phase I clinical trial using two commercially
      available doses of Nilotinib (150 and 300mg capsules) in patients with advanced PDD and DLB.
      These indications have some overlapping pathologies and clinical symptoms and share common
      plasma and CSF biomarkers, including alpha-Synuclein, Abeta42/40, total Tau and p-Tau. The
      investigators obtained preliminary data showing that Nilotinib crosses the BBB and is
      detected in the CSF, suggesting Abl inhibition and downstream target engagement
      (alpha-Synuclein, Tau and Abeta) in the CNS (pharmacodynamics). Nilotinib increased CSF HVA
      levels as a downstream biomarker of dopamine metabolism. These data provide feasibility to
      test Nilotinib in a phase Ib clinical trial to demonstrate safety, tolerability and changes
      in disease biomarkers in patients with HD. The Huntingtin gene provides the genetic
      information for a protein that is also called "huntingtin" (Htt). Expansion of CAG
      (cytosineadenine-guanine) triplet repeats in the gene coding for the Huntingtin protein
      results in an abnormal protein, mutant Htt (mHTT), which gradually leads to protein
      accumulation within neurons and neuronal cell damage. Based on preclinical and clinical
      studies, the investigators hypothesize that Nilotinib will be safe and tolerable in
      individuals with HD. The level of HVA is significantly reduced in HD patients compared to
      controls (22), and the investigators expect Nilotinib to increase HVA levels. Nilotinib may
      also affect CSF level of total Huntingtin proteins and cell death markers, including NSE and
      S100B. The investigators further hypothesize that the investigators may see evidence of
      change in cognitive, motor or behavioral outcomes that will help us to build a better
      clinical development program going forward.

      Neurodegenerative diseases, including HD, are a group of genetic and sporadic disorders
      associated with neuronal death and progressive nervous system dysfunction. Cancer is also a
      collection of related genetic diseases, in which cells begin to divide without stopping and
      spread into surrounding tissues. Unlike neurodegeneration, in which no regeneration happens
      when damaged or aging postmitotic neurons die, damaged cells survive when they should die in
      cancer, resulting in uncontrolled mitotic cell division to form tumors. Cancerous tumors are
      malignant as they spread or invade nearby tissues by cellular contiguity or metastasize via
      blood and/or humoral transport. In neurodegeneration, the spread of disease by contiguity is
      supported by the hypotheses that toxic or "prion-like" proteins propagate along
      neuroanatomical pathways leading to progressive spread of disease and cell death. In
      neurodegeneration, failure of cellular quality control mechanisms leads to inadequate protein
      degradation via the proteasome or autophagy, resulting in intracellular accumulation of
      neurotoxic proteins. Consequently, these proteins are secreted from a pre-synaptic neuron and
      can traverse the synaptic cleft and enter a contiguous post-synaptic neuron. Secreted
      proteins may not penetrate an adjacent cell via the synapse but they may be re-routed into
      the cell and recycled via the endosomal system to fuse with autophagic vacuoles like the
      autophagosome or the lysosome. Microglia, the brain resident immune cells may also
      phagocytose and destroy toxic proteins. Accumulation of neurotoxic proteins, including
      alpha-Synuclein (Lewy bodies), beta-amyloid plaques, Tau tangles, Huntingtin, prions and
      TDP-43 are major culprits in neurodegeneration. These toxic proteins trigger progressive
      apoptotic cell death leading to loss of many central nervous system (CNS) functions,
      including mentation, cognition, language, movement, gastrointestinal motility, sleep and many
      others. The discoveries of toxic protein propagation from cell to cell, leading to
      progression of neurodegeneration triggered a series of pre-clinical and clinical studies to
      limit protein propagation via antibodies (active and passive immune therapies) that can
      capture the protein and destroy it en route to healthy neurons. This approach is fraught with
      difficulties, including failure to arrest neurocognitive decline and brain
      edema/inflammation. Manipulation of autophagy is a novel therapeutic approach that focuses on
      degradation of neurotoxic proteins at the manufacturing site in order to prevent their
      secretion and propagation. This novel strategy leads to unclogging the cell's disposal
      machine and degradation of toxic proteins, thus preserving neuronal survival via bulk
      digestion of abnormal proteins. Preservation of neuronal survival maintains the level of
      neurotransmitters that are necessary for cognitive, motor and other CNS functions, leading to
      alleviation of symptoms as well as arrest of neurodegeneration. As neurons are post-mitotic
      cells, pulsatile autophagy may promote protein degradation and provide an effective
      disease-modifying therapy for neurodegenerative diseases. Autophagy is a double-edged sword
      in cancer, either preventing accumulation of damaged proteins and organelles to suppress
      tumors, or promoting cell survival mechanisms that lead to tumor growth and proliferation.
      Leukemia and many other cancer treatments have been revolutionized by manipulation of
      autophagy, which leads to bulk degradation of unwanted or toxic molecules. For example in
      leukemia, genetic mutations and DNA damage can lead to large numbers of abnormal white blood
      cells (leukemia cells and leukemic blast cells) to accumulate in the blood and bone marrow,
      crowding out normal blood cells. Autophagy can lead to the degradation of the products of
      cancer-causing genes (oncogenes), tumor suppressor genes, damaged DNA and essential
      components of the cytosol, thereby controlling abnormal mitotic division and limiting tumor
      growth. Autophagy can also lead to self-cannibalization via promotion of programmed cell
      death, or apoptosis. Activation of the tumor suppressor p53 in response to DNA damage leads
      the cell to arrest proliferation, initiate DNA repair, and promote survival. However, if the
      DNA damage cannot be resolved by p53, it can trigger apoptotic death. Cell division and
      apoptosis are mediated by signaling mechanisms via the endosomal (early and recycling)
      system. Tyrosine kinases are activated via auto phosphorylation, triggering various signaling
      mechanisms that mediate cell division and/or apoptosis. Tyrosine kinase inhibition via
      de-phosphorylation leads to signaling via the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thus
      increasing autophagic degradation and tumor growth. TKIs have significantly improved the life
      quality and expectancies in many cancers, including CML. CML is characterized by the
      translocation of chromosomes 9 and 22 to form the "Philadelphia" chromosome resulting in the
      expression of a constitutively active Breakpoint Cluster Region-Abelson (BCR-Abl) tyrosine
      kinase. This oncogenic protein activates intracellular signaling pathways and induces cell
      proliferation. Our laboratory investigated TKIs that activate autophagy and are FDA-approved
      for CML, thus significantly reducing research and development efforts and cost by
      re-purposing for new indications. Abl is activated in neurodegeneration. A fraction of
      Nilotinib crosses the blood-brain-barrier (BBB), inhibits Abl and facilitates autophagic
      amyloid clearance, leading to neuroprotection and improved cognition and motor behavior. Mice
      treated with a much lower dose of these drugs (<25% of the typical CML dose) show significant
      motor and cognitive improvement and degradation of alpha-Synuclein, beta-amyloid, Tau and
      TDP-43 without evidence of increased inflammation. There was also significant reversal of
      neurotransmitter alterations, including dopamine and glutamate in several models of
      neurodegeneration. As a modulator of myeloid cells, Nilotinib may also positively regulate
      neuronal death and produce neuro-restorative effects via increased production of necessary
      growth factors and proliferation of myeloid-derived glia. Autophagic toxic protein clearance
      and production of growth factors may restore loss of neurotransmitters, leading to improved
      motor and cognitive functions. Nilotinib provides a double-edge sword via manipulation of
      autophagy to inhibit cell division and tumor growth in CML on one hand, and promote toxic
      protein degradation and neuronal survival in neurodegeneration on the other hand. The
      investigators propose to perform an open label, Phase Ib, proof of concept study to evaluate
      the impact of low doses of Nilotinib treatment on safety, tolerability and biomarkers in
      participants with HD. The investigators propose an adaptive design based on safety and
      tolerability of 150mg Nilotinib treatment for 3 months. The investigators will first enroll
      10 participants who will receive an oral dose of 150mg Nilotinib once daily (group 1) for 3
      months. If these participants tolerate 150mg dose of Nilotinib, i.e. with no exacerbation of
      chorea and behavioral symptoms and no other AEs (i.e. myelosuppression, QTc prolongation,
      liver/pancreatic toxicity, etc ), an additional 10 new HD participants (group 2) will be
      enrolled to evaluate the effects of 300 mg dose of Nilotinib for 3 months. The investigators
      will then compare baseline with the effects of 3-months Nilotinib treatment within each group
      and between groups (1 and 2). Participants (group 1 and 2) will return for a follow up visit
      one month after the termination of 3-months treatment with Nilotinib and results will
      compared to baseline visits and end of study visits. Ten (10) participants will receive an
      oral dose of 150mg Nilotinib once daily for 3 months (group 1). If this dose is tolerated
      another 10 participants will receive an oral dose of 300mg Nilotinib once daily (group 2) for
      3 months.
    
  