
    
      Contact lenses are frequently used as a part of the treatment in professional hospital eye
      care with indications such as visual aid in keratokonus and scarred corneas and as bandage
      lenses shielding the cornea in various corneal diseases. An indication of great importance is
      the providing the visual correction in infants following surgery for congenital cataract. In
      Sweden, approximately 40 children are born with congenital cataract every year and more than
      100 children develop cataract within the first years of life. The cataract can develop in one
      eye, unilateral cataract, or in both eyes, bilateral cataract. If the cataract is dense it is
      of great importance to remove the clouded lens as soon as possible to ensure the influx of
      light and to enable visual development. If the eye is big enough an intraocular lens (IOL) is
      inserted but if the eye is to small the child is left without an implanted lens. Visual
      development however requires not only light influx but a sharp image on the retina and to
      achieve good visual function contact lenses are fitted following surgery. After cataract
      surgery anti-inflammatory eye drops containing steroids are prescribed for several weeks and
      the drops are instilled in the eye with the contact lens in place.The effects of eye drops on
      the contact lenses and possible secondary effects on the eye are largely unknown. The
      ophthalmic solutions contain active ingredients as well as preservatives such as benzalkonium
      chloride. Benzalkonium chloride can increase the ocular permeability but also cause
      irritation at higher concentrations. The uptake of these substances by the lenses can impair
      the optical clarity of the lenses, cause discoloration, discomfort and irritate the eye. Some
      studies have shown accumulation of preservatives in the hydrogel contact lens matrix which
      could question their use in combination with ophthalmic solutions and have led to
      recommendations of frequent replacement of the lenses. The effects of ophthalmic solutions on
      the lens materials are not fully understood and most studies are performed in vitro. In
      collaboration with the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) methods for measuring drug and
      preservative uptake by silicone hydrogel contact lenses and to study the surface morphology
      changes for contact lenses were developed. An in vitro model study showed that active
      ingredients from eye drops together with preservatives were taken up by the lenses in
      significant amounts. The method was further implemented in an in vivo pilot study with
      contact lenses collected from patients treated with different ophthalmologic preparations
      with the contact lens in place. No traces of active ingredients or preservatives could be
      found on the worn and treated lenses. The surface morphology changes were minor regardless of
      the time the lenses were worn or the frequency of medication, which suggests that
      insignificant amounts of drugs were taken up and the drugs were probably mostly removed by
      tear drainage. The results are presented in a manuscript that will be sent for publication.
    
  