
    
      The emergence of smallpox as a potential agent of bioterrorism has heightened concern about
      the vulnerability of the population to infection with this agent, and has led to proposals to
      undertake large scale smallpox immunization of military personnel and "first responders" in
      the United States, including certain health care workers. A particularly promising vaccine
      approach to the development of an effective, yet less reactogenic vaccine to smallpox is the
      use of Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) as a vaccine. Despite the established efficacy of
      smallpox vaccination, the parameters of protective immunity against smallpox infection are
      incompletely understood. This is a phase I/II trial to be conducted under a placebo
      controlled double-blind, randomized allocation of study product. The purpose of this study is
      to assess the safety and immunogenicity of ACAM 3000 MVA in healthy vaccinia-naïve adult
      subjects. Participants will include 72 healthy, male or female, from the Boston metropolitan
      area. Six dose regimens will be studied initially: 10^6 or 10^7 tissue culture infectious
      dose 50 (TCID50) administered intradermally and 10^7 or 10^8 TCID50 administered
      intramuscularly or subcutaneously as 2 immunizations 1 month apart. Each arm will be
      comprised of 12 subjects, 10 of whom will receive ACAM3000 MVA and 2 of whom will receive
      placebo. A subsequent vaccinia vaccination will be offered to all patients. Consenting
      participants in Groups A and B will receive the vaccinia (Dryvax®) inoculation between 6 and
      15 months after the initial MVA / placebo vaccination. Consenting participants in groups C,
      D, E and F will receive the Dryvax® inoculation approximately 6 months after the initial MVA
      / placebo vaccination, coinciding with planned visit 13. Assessment of safety will be carried
      out by observation and measurement of acute clinical and laboratory evidence of reactions or
      toxicity; including clinical, electrocardiographic or laboratory evidence of myopericarditis.
      Assessment of immunogenicity will be carried out by the measurement of humoral and
      cell-mediated immune response to ACAM 3000 MVA and vaccinia, performed on blood samples
      obtained at various times prior to and after immunization over the one year period of the
      study. Response to vaccinia will be assessed clinically (effect on a "take") and the results
      will be correlated with immune responses to MVA. Subjects will be followed for
      reactogenicity. Clinical assessments and blood samples will be obtained sequentially for
      immunogenicity determinations.
    
  