
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients have very low physical function and high rates of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. The objective of the proposed research is to evaluate
      the effects of dietary supplementation with a pomegranate extract, that contains high amounts
      of antioxidants, on physical function and CVD risk. Patients with moderate to severe chronic
      kidney disease that are NOT yet on dialysis tend to have significantly reduced risk factors
      for cardiovascular disease (and other disorders) compared to dialysis patients. This includes
      significantly reduced systemic markers of oxidative stress and inflammation. As a result,
      therapies designed to reduce the risk of CKD co-morbidities may differ significantly in
      dialysis and pre-dialysis patients. For example, dialysis patients are recommended to
      INCREASE their intake of dietary protein, while pre-dialysis patients are recommended to
      DECREASE their protein intake, due to differences in the pathophysiology of the two
      conditions. The investigators have decided to recruit pre-dialysis patients in addition to
      dialysis patients in this study because the investigators believe this will help us determine
      if the efficacy of pomegranate differs between patients with different stages of CKD.

      CKD patients will be recruited under 2 phases: CKD patients not receiving dialysis treatment
      (pre-dialysis patients) will be recruited in the first phase. This will include patients with
      CKD stage 3-5 that are not yet on dialysis. In the second phase, only CKD patients on
      dialysis treatment will be recruited. To address these questions, CKD patients will be
      randomized to the following groups for 12 months: 1) no POM supplementation/control (CON),
      and 2) oral supplementation with purified pomegranate extract (POM). Patients in the POM
      group will ingest a 1000 milligram capsule of POM extract, 7 days per week. Patients in the
      CON group will receive a placebo capsule using the same protocol.

      On three occasions, at baseline, 6, and 12 months, each subject will have blood collected to
      measure plasma markers of oxidative stress (TBARS, lipid peroxides), blood lipid levels, and
      glucose and insulin levels. Arterial and cardiac structure and function will be measured by
      vascular ultrasound and echocardiogram, respectively. A 24-hour dietary recall will be used
      to assess the intake of nutrients. Leg strength will be measured on a resistance exercise
      machine. Bone density and body composition will be evaluated using dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA). Pre-dialysis subjects will undergo a maximal exercise test to assess
      their cardiorespiratory fitness level. In dialysis patients, instead of a maximal exercise
      test, physical function will be measured by a 6-item functional fitness assessment and a
      10-meter walk test.
    
  