
    
      The Study involves 3 visits and will in include 3 types of subjects - those who have
      irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation (IBS-C), IBS with diarrhea (IBS-D) and those
      who have no IBS symptoms or diagnosis.

      Visit 1

        -  Volunteers will read and sign this informed consent after all questions about the study
           have been answered

        -  This is a screening visit and we may determine that volunteers ineligible to continue to
           participate in the study.

        -  Volunteers will have a medical history taken including demographics, history of symptoms
           and illness

        -  Volunteers will be asked about all medications

        -  A physical exam will be performed by the physician.

        -  Vital signs will be measured.

        -  Urine Pregnancy test may be done for woman in the reproductive age range.

        -  Eligible participants will be provided with a take-home lasagna meal.

        -  Participants will be given instructions and supplies for collection, storage and
           transportation of stool for the next visit.

        -  Participants will be provided with instructions for a low fiber, high fat diet which
           should be consumed for 2 days before stool collection and during the 2 days of stool
           collection. Instructions will also come with materials to allow participants to record
           diet intake during these 4 days.

        -  Participants will be provided a bowel pattern diary to record bowel symptoms over the
           course of the study

      Day 1: this may be the same as Visit 1 or it may be a different day. It will depend upon the
      day that participants can make it back to the clinic for the Day 5 visit.

      Day 2-4 (at home):

        -  Participants record stool symptoms and patterns in a diary daily starting from Day 2 to
           Day 5.

        -  During this time, participants will be instructed to consume a low fiber diet, avoid
           alcohol, and start a 4-day 100 g fat diet.

        -  On the evening before Day 5, a standardized, completely digestible, and non-fermentable
           meal (lasagna) will be consumed which will be provided to you on Day 1.

        -  Participants will collect stool at home on Day 4 and 5 and store as per instructions
           provided on Visit 1. They will

      Day 5 (Visit 2):

        -  Participants return to the clinic on Day 5 after an overnight fast.

        -  You will receive a standard breakfast and lasanga meal with 10 g inulin (Orafti®) powder
           and 200 mL of water.

        -  Take-home meals will be provided (white bread sandwich with ham or cheese) to be
           consumed at 4 and 8 hours after breakfast.

      Day 6 (Visit 3):

        -  Participants will return to the clinic in order to return stool collections and the
           daily diaries.

        -  Participants may also submit diaries by fax or email.
    
  