
    
      To date, limited research has been conducted to determine if health information technology
      (HIT) is effective in improving the outcomes for patients with chronic diseases. Research is
      required to determine if interventions facilitated by an institutional EMR platform can be
      implemented such that they support patients with chronic diseases to achieve improved
      outcomes in a cost effective fashion.

      At the Cleveland Clinic Foundation (CCF) an ambulatory EMR has been implemented to foster
      patient safety and institutional best practice guidelines, to facilitate research, and to
      achieve efficiencies in practice management. Our EMR is the foundation of the CCF patient
      portal. One of the functions of the portal is to allow patients to enter specific data
      elements that become part of their permanent medical record. Diabetics can enter and review
      their home glucometer readings, and view alert messages based on their entries. The entries
      are transferred to the patient's primary care physician's EMR In-Basket for review.

      We recognize that some patients will be more predisposed to technology adoption and some will
      be more health behavior compliant than others. Therefore, in addition to studying our
      portal's efficacy in positive diabetic behavior change, we will test if interventions can
      assist less predisposed and less compliant patients to become more compliant and more
      inclined to adopt the technology.

      The goals of the proposed study are:

      1) to assess whether a web portal will improve care outcomes in diabetic patients; 2a) to
      describe the characteristics of patients whose health behavior improves over the study
      period; 2b) to describe the characteristics of patients who adopt the web portal-based
      disease management technology; 3) to develop and test targeted interventions to increase the
      adoption of the web portal and improve patient health behavior; 4) to monitor the ongoing
      costs associated with the web portal and patient healthcare resource utilization, and to
      monitor the incremental costs of the interventions designed to improve utilization of the
      technology and patient compliance with their diabetic regimens.
    
  