
    
      1. OBJECTIVES

             1. To determine if professional CGM improves glycemic control with less hypoglycaemia
                in insulin- requiring GDM

             2. To determine if professional CGM use alters management of insulin-requiring GDM

             3. To determine if professional CGM improves pregnancy outcomes in insulin-requiring
                GDM.

             4. To determine patient attitudes toward CGMS.

        2. HYPOTHESES

             1. Professional CGMS improves glycaemic control in women with insulin-requiring GDM
                with less hypoglycaemia

             2. Professional CGM use will alter management of insulin-requiring GDM

             3. Professional CGMS will reduce perinatal morbidity and mortality in patients with
                insulin- requiring GDM

             4. Third trimester CGMS parameters will correlate better with perinatal outcomes
                compared with conventional measures of glycaemic control in pregnancy i.e.
                fructosamine/ A1c/ FBS/ 2hrs PP glucose

      STUDY DESIGN

        -  This is a prospective, open-label, randomized controlled trial. We plan to recruit 80
           women with gestational diabetes at 28 weeks gestation or less from the UMMC antenatal
           clinic. These women should be insulin-naïve but require insulin therapy. 40 subjects
           (Group 1) will be selected to undergo professional CGM at weeks 28, 32, and week 36 and
           another 40 subjects individually matched with regards, to age, baseline A1c, BMI will be
           recruited to undergo usual antenatal care without CGMS (Group 2). The CGMS data will be
           uploaded and reviewed at weeks 29, 33, and 37 and changes made to the therapeutic
           regimen as required by the endocrinologist. All mothers will be required to measure
           their glucose levels at 7 standardized points in a day daily. These glucose readings
           will be recorded in a diary together with a food log. All subjects will also be required
           to keep a hypoglycaemia diary.

        -  The primary outcomes will be glycaemic control in the third trimester and maternal
           hypoglycaemia. We also plan to assess changes to management made by the endocrinologist
           based on the additional information on glycemic control obtained from professional CGM
           use. We also plan to compare hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia detection rates using the
           CGMS and fingerstick methods of glucose evaluation. Patient satisfaction in both groups
           will also be assessed. Written and informed consent will be obtained in accordance with
           the principles of the Helsinki Declaration
    
  