
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of concurrent definitive therapy followed by nivolumab compared
      with concurrent definitive therapy followed by observation in terms of progression-free
      survival (PFS). (Phase II) II. To assess the efficacy of concurrent definitive therapy
      followed by nivolumab compared with concurrent definitive therapy followed by observation in
      terms of overall survival (OS). (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further assess the efficacy of nivolumab compared with observation in terms of:

      Ia. The relationship of baseline PD-L1 expression to clinical outcome. Ib. To evaluate the
      association of 12 week post therapy fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) positron emission
      tomography(PET)/computed tomography (CT) with PFS and OS.

      Ic. To establish the prognostic value of standardized uptake value (SUV)max of primary tumor
      or neck nodal metastasis of baseline FDG PET/CT for OS (and/or PFS).

      Id. To correlate SUVmax of primary tumor or nodal metastasis of baseline FDG PET/CT with
      PD-L1 expression (positive vs. negative).

      Ie. To compare the PET based therapy response assessment (Hopkins criteria) to the Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 assessment at 12 week post chemoradiation
      therapy, for patients who have a PET/CT scan at 12 weeks.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to Arm A or Arm B. Patients in Arm B may cross-over to Arm C
      with clearly documented disease progression.

      ARM A: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes weekly and intensity
      modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days a week for 7 weeks for a total of 35 fractions.
      Within 4 weeks after completion of concurrent therapy, patients receive nivolumab IV once
      weekly over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes weekly and IMRT 5 days a week for 7
      weeks for a total of 35 fractions, and then go on observation. Patients will be offered the
      option to cross-over to Arm C if they have clearly documented progression within 12 months
      from the end of cisplatin/radiation therapy.

      ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for 12 months in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 3 years
      and then annually for a total of 10 years.
    
  