
    
      V(D)J recombination is essential for developing lymphocytes and the specific functioning of
      the immune system. Germline gene coding segments become rearranged to create functional
      immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor genes by this recombination. The process depends on
      site-specific cleavage of chromosomal DNA by RAG-1 and RAG-2 recombinase. Two
      recombination-activating gene proteins (RAG-1/2) in conjunction make up a complex of enzymes
      that join gene segments of B-cell and T-cell receptor genes. RAG-1 contains most of the V(D)J
      recombinase active site and RAG-2 is essential in joining DNA segments during V(D)J
      recombination. RAG-1/2 have similarity in action to other DNA transposases and HIV-1
      integrase. These similarities suggest that HIV-1 integrase inhibitors may have the potential
      to affect aspects of both B-cell and T-cell development.

      Induction of primary immune responses to neoantigens involves the generation of specific
      T-cells and immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibody secreting B-cells. As part of this process, T and
      B memory cells are also generated, which have specific cell surface receptors to the antigen.
      On repeat exposure to the antigen, these memory T- and B-cells are triggered to generate
      rapid and intense secondary responses. During this secondary response, B-cells secrete
      abundant specific IgG antibodies with greater affinity to the antigen than for the IgM
      isotope. This memory response is mediated by T-cells with CD45+ RO+ phenotype. These T-cells
      provide B-cells the help required to generate the specific IgG. Sub-optimal antibody
      responses are seen in both acquired and hereditary immunodeficiency, which are due to
      impaired T-cell function including poor T-helper responses to B-cells and defective
      neo-antigen responses.

      An established method to evaluate T-cell function involves testing antibody production to
      vaccination with phiX174, a stable bacteriophage of E. Coli that is critical in demonstrating
      T-cell competence. Antibody titers after primary and secondary immunization correlate with
      abnormal CD4 cell help. Patients with functional B-cells that lack T-cell help show a
      characteristic failure to switch from IgM to IgG, making this assay essential in the
      evaluation of V(D)J recombination.

      Currently, raltegravir is the only approved integrase inhibitor that targets the integration
      stage of the HIV-1 lifecycle. The clinical manifestations of raltegravir-related potential
      adverse effects on V(D)J recombination may be so rare that they may only be observed after
      large numbers of patients are exposed to this drug. Evaluating the direct in vivo interaction
      of HIV integrase inhibitors on RAG-1/2 is difficult, therefore the best approach may be to
      evaluate the potential negative effects on recombinase activity downstream by studying immune
      function. If gene rearrangements of immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor genes are altered by
      HIV integrase, then patient lymphocytes will fail to display normal responses to neo-antigen
      exposure. Since untreated HIV-infected individuals have an impaired ability to respond to new
      antigens, it is difficult to evaluate the responses to neo-antigens in these individuals.
      Therefore, to test this hypothesis, it would be best to choose patients with long-term
      control of HIV that have recovered immune function.
    
  