
    
      Against the background that interest organizations has identified a need for more knowledge
      about ASD both in adults with ASD and their significant others, a psychoeducational
      intervention Prisma was created.

      Prisma - the psychoeducational intervention The intervention consists of four 2-hour sessions
      (2 x 45 min lecture plus paus and time for questions). Two clinicians administer each course
      and follow a power point with detailed instructions. The goal is to increase knowledge and
      provide the participants with new insights into their diagnosis and that they get concrete
      tools that will help them handle obstacles in their everyday life. Another important aspect
      is to learn more about available support and services.

      This research project consists of three studies: An open feasibility study , a randomized
      controlled trail (RCT) including a three month follow-up, a moderation and mediation study
      including new outcome variables for stigma and participation.

      Study 1. The data collection for the open feasibility study was carried out during the fall
      of 2017. Data remains to be analyzed. n = 186

      Study 2. The RCT will include approximately n=80 in the experimental group and equally many
      wait-list controls. The RCT also include one significant other per patient which gives a
      total number of 320 in the RCT. Participants are randomized to be in either the experimental
      group or the wait-list/treatment as usual controls. The experimental groups receive Prisma
      according to the manual while the wait-list/TAU controls take part in Prisma approximately 4
      months later.

      Study 3. In order to expand the analyses beyond what is addressed in the RCT (study 2),
      researchers would like to investigate if increased knowledge of ASD via participation in
      Prisma will affect self-stigma and/or affiliate stigma. Importantly, stigma will be
      investigated both in adults with ASD (self-stigma) and in their significant others (affiliate
      stigma). Yet another expansion of this project that researchers will address in study 3 is
      the experiences of active participation and engagement during the Prisma program, and
      possible association between engagement and treatment results for the adults with ASD and
      their significant others.This study will include 150 adults with ASD and 150 significant
      others.
    
  