
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated doses of a rebeccamycin analogue and cisplatin with or
      without filgrastim (G-CSF) in patients with advanced malignancies.

      II. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of these regimens in these
      patients.

      III. Determine if the pharmacokinetics of a rebeccamycin analogue are affected by cisplatin
      and if there are sequence dependent pharmacokinetic effects.

      IV. Assess any antitumor effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study of a rebeccamycin analogue and
      cisplatin.

      Part I (previously untreated or minimally pretreated patients): The first patient of each
      cohort receives cisplatin IV over 1 hour followed 2 hours later by a rebeccamycin analogue IV
      over 1 hour on day 1. The second patient in the same cohort receives the same drugs in the
      reverse order. The drug sequence for each additional patient within the same cohort is
      alternated with reference to the preceding patient. During each subsequent course, the study
      drugs are administered to each patient in the reverse order as compared to the prior course.
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Dose escalation is initially performed without filgrastim (G-CSF). Cohorts of 4-6 patients
      receive escalating doses of a rebeccamycin analogue and cisplatin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) of each drug is determined. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which less
      than 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT). If 2 of the first 6 patients
      experience DLT, then dose escalation proceeds in combination with G-CSF treatment. Patients
      receive G-CSF subcutaneously daily beginning on day 2 and continuing until blood counts have
      recovered for 2 days or until approximately day 15. Cohorts of 4-6 patients receive
      escalating doses of a rebeccamycin analogue and cisplatin as above. The MTD is defined as
      above.

      Part II (heavily pretreated patients): Heavily pretreated patients receive a rebeccamycin
      analogue and cisplatin starting at 2 dose levels preceding the MTD from part I.

      Patients are followed for at least 30 days.
    
  