
    
      Actinic keratosis (AK) is caused by exposure to UV radiation and has the potential to regress
      to normal skin or to squamous cell carcinoma. AK treatment options include cryotherapy for
      solitary lesions and topical field therapy or photodynamic therapy for lesions in an area of
      sun-damaged skin. This prospective, non-interventional, multinational study aims to describe
      and compare in a real-life setting the treatment satisfaction, treatment adherence, resource
      utilization and quality of life during topical field treatment of AK with 5-fluorouracil,
      imiquimod, diclofenac and ingenol mebutate.

      Dermatology centres in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Canada, the United Kingdom and the
      Netherlands will aim to include a total of approximately 1600 patients, of which around 100
      in each country will be patients scheduled to receive treatment with ingenol mebutate. In
      each country patients will in addition be recruited for one or two of the other treatment
      arms, as appropriate in the country.

      Only adult patients scheduled to start treatment with imiquimod, 5-fluorouracil, diclofenac
      or ingenol mebutate who have given informed consent to use data from their medical records
      for the study and to report study data themselves will be included and followed for the
      duration of the scheduled treatment + 3-4 weeks.

      Physician will report patient demographics and AK characteristics at baseline. Patients will
      at baseline report AK Quality of Life, including general attitude regarding sun damaged skin
      at baseline, and, if applicable, treatment satisfaction and adherence with latest previous AK
      treatment. At 3-4 weeks after end of treatment, the patients will report treatment
      satisfaction, adherence, resource utilization, health related Quality of Life.

      Treating physicians report drug-related Adverse Events in accordance with national laws and
      regulations and normal clinical practice.
    
  