
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Sorafenib is a type of drug called a multikinase inhibitor. It is designed to interfere with
      the parts of cancer cells that are involved in the sending of chemical messages and helping
      the cells divide and grow, which may block the formation of tumors and cause cell death.

      Filgrastim promotes the growth of white blood cells, which help to fight infections.

      Plerixafor is designed to help move stem cells from the bone marrow to the blood.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, they will be assigned to a
      dose level and schedule of sorafenib based on when they joined this study. Up to 5 dose
      levels and schedules will be tested. Three (3) participants will be enrolled at each dose
      level for Phase I of the study. The first group of participants will receive dose level "0"
      of sorafenib. If unacceptable side effects are seen, a dose lower than level "0" will be
      tried. If no side effects are seen, the next group of 3 participants will be placed on a
      higher dose level, called Level "1." Each new group will either receive a higher or lower
      dose of sorafenib or take it more or less often than the group before it, based on whether
      intolerable side effects are seen. This will continue until the best tolerable dose and
      schedule of sorafenib is found. Once the best tolerable dose and/or schedule is found, the
      last 10 participants will be enrolled and will take sorafenib at that dose and schedule. This
      last group of 10 is considered the early Phase II part of the study.

      Each group will receive the same dose level and schedule of filgrastim and plerixafor.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Participant will receive filgrastim and plerixafor by injection through a needle under the
      skin on Day 1 (the day the study starts) and then every other day for a total of 7 doses. The
      injections will be given in the morning. After day one, the injections may be done at
      participant's home. Participant's study doctor will meet with them one-on-one to discuss how
      the drug will be given.

      On Day 1, participant will begin taking their dose of sorafenib by mouth every other day,
      once a day, or twice a day, depending on when they join the study.

        -  If participant is taking sorafenib every other day, during Cycle 1 they will start
           taking it 12 hours after the filgrastim and plerixafor injections (the next morning) .

        -  If participant is taking sorafenib every day, they will take it at the same time every
           morning. The first time participant takes sorafenib during Cycle 1 will be 12 hours
           after the first filgrastim and plerixafor injections.

        -  If participant is taking sorafenib twice a day, during Cycle 1 they will start taking it
           12 hours after the filgrastim and plerixafor injections and then every 12 hours.

      Participant will take sorafenib without food, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating.
      If participant misses a dose, they should not take double the dose next time to make up for
      the missed dose.

      These 28 days are one "study cycle".

      Participant is allowed to take hydroxyurea or other treatments to control high white blood
      cell counts.

      Study Drug Diary:

      Participant will be given a study drug diary that they will be expected to fill out whenever
      they take study drugs at home. A staff member will explain to participant how to fill out the
      diary. The study staff will review the diary with participant at every study visit and they
      will be given a new diary at the beginning of every cycle they start.

      Study Visits:

      Every week for the first 6 weeks and then every 4-8 weeks until participant leaves the study,
      the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam, including measurement of their weight, and vital
           signs.

        -  Participant will have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy done before treatment starts
           and once somewhere between day 14 and day 17 after the first Sorafenib administration.
           Another bone marrow sample will be collected between days 24 and 28.

        -  If participant continues on study, another bone marrow sample will be collected after
           the third cycle.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn every 2-4 days for routine tests while
           participant is taking the study drugs and once a week on days they are not taking the
           study drugs Plerixafor and Neupogen.

        -  During the first week, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check the status of the
           disease before each dose of the filgrastim and plerixafor combination and again 4 to 8
           hours after receiving the study drugs. If participant's doctor feels it is needed,
           additional blood may be drawn after the 2nd blood draw to check the status of the
           disease. If participant's doctor feels it is needed, these blood draws may continue
           after the first week if the disease is not responding.

      Length of Study:

      Participant may continue taking the study drugs for up to 6 cycles (about 6 months). If
      participant is in complete remission, partial remission, or complete remission with
      incomplete platelet count recovery after 6 months with no intolerable side effects, their
      doctor may discuss continuing on the study with them. Participant will be taken off study if
      the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Follow-up Visits:

      If participant is in complete remission, and if their doctor thinks it is in their best
      interest, they may have follow-up visits about every 3 months until the study closes.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Participant will have a bone marrow biopsy and/or aspirate to check the status of the
           disease.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Participant will have an end-of-study visit about 30 days after their last dose of the study
      drugs. At this visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam, including measurement of their weight and vital
           signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Participant will have a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to check the status of the
           disease.

      This is an investigational study. Sorafenib is FDA-approved and commercially available for
      treatment of advanced renal cell cancer (RCC) and hepatocellular cancer (HCC) that cannot be
      removed by surgery. Its use in patients with AML is investigational.

      Plerixafor is FDA-approved and commercially available for use in boosting the number of
      hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) for stem cell collection and transplants (in combination with
      filgrastim) in participants with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and multiple myeloma (MM). Its
      use in participants with AML is investigational.

      Filgrastim (NeupogenÒ) is FDA-approved and commercially available for use in boosting white
      blood cell production in participants with low blood cell counts caused by chemotherapy
      (nonmyeloid malignancies, acute myeloid leukemia, and bone marrow transplantation), treating
      severe chronic neutropenia (SCN-low blood counts), and boosting production of hematopoietic
      progenitor cells in patients undergoing peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collection.

      Up to 28 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  