
    
      Attention Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is the most widespread neurodevelopmental
      disorder (prevalence 3-7% in preschool age) and is characterized by persistent inattention
      and / or hyperactivity-impulsivity which results in significant impairment in at least two
      areas of operation (usually scholastic / working and relational) with consequent impact even
      on the child's self-esteem. It is estimated that one-third of children with ADHD continue to
      be affected in adulthood and that around one-third have remission of symptoms with persisting
      changes in functioning and development of psychiatric disorders in adulthood (eg anxiety
      disorders mood and personality). The pathogenetic model of ADHD is still poorly
      characterized: several biological, psychological and environmental causes have been
      identified that would seem to interact in a complex way in determining the pathology. Several
      studies have hypothesized and confirmed an association between streptococcal infections,
      increased titer of antibodies to the basal nuclei (ABGA), different neurological and
      psychiatric disorders (eg, Sydenham chorea, Tic Disorders, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder) and
      ADHD. ADHD is diagnosed in 40% of autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with
      streptococcal infection (PANDAS) and Sydenham Korea and a temporal connection between onset /
      exacerbation of ADHD and pharyngeal streptococcal infection has been described in literature.
      High titers of anti-streptococcal antibodies and larger size of putamen and pallidum were
      found in ADHD patients. However, the permanence of symptoms ADHD at a distance from
      streptococcal infection has led to hypothesize, as already done for PANDAS and Sydenham
      Korea, a miminking mechanism with consequent cross-reactivity towards host tissues that would
      support an autoimmune disorder characterized by the production of ABGA.

      According to some authors, therefore, ADHD and other ABGA-related neurological and
      psychiatric disorders (eg, Sydenham Korea, Tic Disorders, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder)
      would be different phenotypic manifestations of a common immunological disorder affecting the
      nuclei of the base, triggered from group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus. The search for ABGA
      in ADHD patients with Tic Disorders and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder has largely confirmed
      this hypothesis, however, the finding of ABGA titres in ADHD patients without comorbidities
      with other ABGA-related disorders is still controversial. A first study found no differences
      significant in terms of ABGA positivity frequency among ADHD patients without ABGA related
      disorders and controls while a more recent study conducted confirmed that children with ADHD
      without ABGA-related disorders are more frequently positive for ABGA than the control group
      (30% vs 4.8%; χ2 = 4.33; p = 0.04) and that, among these, those with Anti-Streptolysinic
      Title (ASLO) show significantly higher percentages of ABGA positivity (χ2 = 10.95; p <.001).
      On the other hand, greater susceptibility by ADHD patients to contracting streptococcal
      infections was confirmed by the finding of significantly higher titers of ASLO and anti-DNAse
      B in ADHD patients.

      The predisposition to infections and the high familiarity of ADHD (90% of cases have at least
      one affected parent), suggest an immune pathogenetic mechanism based on a genetic
      predisposition.

      Although several studies have established, in an inconclusive way, a relationship between
      ADHD and some regulatory genes, the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), such as HLA-DR4,
      HLA-DRB1 and C4B, to date no one has yet evaluated the role of Toll-type receptor (TLR)
      genes, which are more responsible for innate immunity, ie the recognition of pathogenic
      structural molecules. In particular, some variants of the TLR genes could affect the immune
      response to strepotococcus or other pathogens, favoring damage to the nuclei of the base
      which would in turn lead to ADHD symptoms. Recently, an association between susceptibility to
      serious or recurrent infections from group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus, Streptococcus
      pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenza and particular polymorphisms of TLR2, TLR4 and TLR9 has
      been demonstrated. The altered functioning consequent to these TLR polymorphisms could
      explain both the vulnerability to certain types of pathogens responsible for lesions to the
      central nervous system (among which the most studied so far is Group A beta-hemolytic
      streptococcus), whether the incongruous or excessive immune activation even in the absence of
      contact with pathogens producing autoantibodies against the nerve structures of the base
      nuclei.
    
  