
    
      Mortality from liver disease accounts for approximately 34,000-36,000 annualized deaths and
      represents 11.5 deaths per 100,000 persons in the United States(1). Liver transplant is the
      only established treatment for end-stage liver disease (ESLD) and advancements over the past
      decade have resulted in excellent long-term survival rates(2). Liver transplant is limited
      solely by organ availability, as the numbers of available organs for transplant has remained
      stagnant. Compounding this problem is the rising global public health problem of fatty liver
      disease, with projected increases in incidence of non-alcoholic liver disease (NASH), both in
      the West and in Asia(3). One potential source of liver grafts is donors with moderate to
      severe macrosteatosis, as grafts from these donors are routinely discarded due to greater
      associated patient morbidity and mortality(4-6). When these grafts are used for
      transplantation, the clinical metrics of preservation injury are directly correlated with the
      degree of steatosis(7). Steatotic liver grafts represent the single largest source of
      potential donor livers that currently remains unutilized and methods aimed at their
      successful use would directly lead to reduced mortality in patients with ESLD. Evidence from
      pre-clinical models indicates that complement-mediated mechanisms play a critical role in the
      pathogenesis of preservation injury, particularly in the presence of macrosteatosis(8, 9).
      Expansion of the donor pool using established, FDA-approved therapeutics that inhibit
      terminal complement offer an expedited and practical solution to this problem.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that complement activation downstream of C5 crucially
      mediates post-transplant liver allograft injury associated with preservation, ischemia and
      reperfusion (heretofore referred to as preservation injury) and that macrosteatosis enhances
      the graft's susceptibility to this complement-dependent injury. As a corollary, the
      investigators hypothesize that the anti-C5 mAb eculizumab will limit post-transplant
      preservation injury despite macrosteatosis, thereby decreasing early post-transplant liver
      dysfunction, and ultimately resulting in greater utilization of macrosteatotic livers for
      transplantation, with consequent reduction in mortality for patients with end-stage liver
      disease.

      This study will test safety and efficacy of complement inhibition with eculizumab in the ESLD
      population receiving macrosteatotic liver transplants. The study will also determine if known
      associations of hepatic lipid metabolism and innate immune responses are mitigated under
      conditions of complement inhibition.

      If an adverse reaction occurs during the administration of (IP), the infusion may be slowed
      or stopped at the discretion of the Investigator. If the infusion is slowed, the total
      infusion time should not exceed two hours. The adverse reaction will be considered an AE/SAE
      and needs to be reported.
    
  