
    
      The association between exposure to ambient air pollution and pulmonary disease has been well
      established. Recent studies have attempted to investigate the effect of air pollution,
      specifically exposure to PM 2.5, on cardiovascular outcomes. Acute exposure to PM 2.5 is
      associated with increased heart rate, decreased heart rate variability, and increased
      incidence of cardiac arrhythmia. Population based research from the United States and Europe
      has demonstrated increased rates of emergency room visits, hospitalization and cardiovascular
      morbidity in association with increased daily concentrations of fine particulates.

      To date no study has looked at the burden of cardiovascular disease in Israel and its
      relation to ambient air pollution. Standardized mortality ratios due to cardiovascular
      disease are significantly elevated in the Haifa Bay Area in comparison to the rest of the
      country; mortality due to MI is 13% above national average while total ischemic heart disease
      mortality is 29% above national average. The Haifa Bay Area has a long history of
      industrialization including possessing the nation's largest oil refineries, oil-fired power
      plant, agrochemical and cement producers, industrial incinerators and the Eastern
      Mediterranean's busiest port. The presence of industrial and mobile sources, combined with a
      basin effect has contributed to air pollution in the Haifa Bay Area and has raised concerns
      about potential health effects.

      Research Hypothesis- Fine particulate variation in the Haifa Bay Area is positively
      associated with emergency room visit,hospitalization rates and mortality rates secondary to
      cardiovascular disease.

      Study Methodology- Critical to any environmental epidemiology research is coordination
      between experts in exposure assessment and health outcomes. This study will be a two year
      collaborative effort between the School of Public Health at the University of Haifa and the
      Faculty of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the Technion. Exposure measures will come
      from the Haifa District Municipal Association for the Environment's (HDMAE) network of 15
      monitoring stations in the region. HDMAE also monitors a number of meteorological covariates
      (ie. maximum and minimum temperatures, mean humidity, and mean barometric pressure) which
      will be incorporated into exposure modeling.

      Primary outcomes of interest will be daily mortality rates and daily rates of cardiovascular
      related emergency room visits and hospitalizations at the Rambam Medical Center in Haifa
      Israel. Electronic medical record databases will be queried for ICD-9 codes of related
      cardiac (acute coronary syndrome, heart failure, dysrhythmia/conduction disturbance)
      diagnoses. A time-series analysis will be utilized to assess change in mortality and
      emergency room visit rates in relation to incremental change in PM2.5. Covariates in the
      model will include seasonal trends in disease incidence, daily concentration of
      co-pollutants, meteorological variables such as temperature and humidity. Calculation of
      relative risk will incorporate a 1 through 7 day lag into the model into to determine latency
      of effect.

      Contribution to Environmental Health in Israel- This research hopes to evaluate the
      contribution of ambient air pollution on the increased rate of cardiovascular morbidity in
      the Haifa Bay Area. In assessing effect modification in sub-groups we will contribute to the
      understanding of how environmental pollution impacts Israel's diverse population. In
      calculating the economic impact of associated morbidity and mortality we hope to contribute
      to the cost-benefit analysis of environmental regulation in Israel. Finally, by creating
      prediction models of daily cardiovascular emergency department visits based on air pollution
      and meteorlogical variation, we can potentially inform local medical facilities and public
      health agencies on how to predict and prepare for changes in disease incidence.
    
  