
    
      The PIpELINe trial will include older MI patients. All patients aged 65 years and older
      undergoing coronary angiography because of MI must be screened for eligibility. Patient's
      eligibility must be assessed after percutaneous revascularization of all lesions considered
      susceptible of treatment. After verifying inclusion and exclusion criteria and after
      eligibility is confirmed, written informed consent must be obtained prior to randomization.
      At the time of the discharge (T0) SPPB test will be performed; in case of a score between 4
      and 9, the patient will be evaluated 1-month after discharge at the inclusion visit (T1). If
      SPPB value is confirmed to be between 4 and 9, randomization will be performed. Key baseline
      patient characteristics (i.e., inclusion/exclusion criteria, demographics, medical history,
      details of cardiovascular anatomy and of revascularization, ECG and laboratory test results,
      echocardiographic data during the index hospitalization) will be recorded on the electronic
      Case Report Forms (eCRF). All angiographic and echocardiographic data will be collected and
      forwarded to a core lab for further assessment.

      Randomization will be performed during the inclusion visit (T1), 30 days after discharge.
      Randomization will be performed centrally using an internet-based system. The patient
      identification number (Patient ID) and the treatment allocation will be assigned by the
      central randomization system. Patients will be randomized to physical activity group or
      health education group by a 2:1 allocation. Treatment allocation will be assigned according
      to a computer-generated randomization list stratified by center. Randomization will also be
      stratified by sex and clinical presentation (ST-segment elevation vs no ST-segment elevation
      MI). All randomized patients are irrevocably in the study, whether or not they are
      subsequently found to be eligible, or actually receiving the allocated treatment. Therefore,
      all patients must be followed until the pre-specified study end date.

      The aim of the study is to demonstrate that the proposed exercise intervention reduces the
      composite endpoint of cardiovascular death and hospital readmissions for cardiovascular
      cause. The primary endpoint is at 1 year. The follow-up will be extended up to 2 and 3 years.

      The protocol includes 3 pre-specified substudies. The possibility to participate in the
      substudy is left to patient's decision and doesn't preclude the procedures of the main
      protocol.

        -  Anxiety and depression: previous studies reported an association between cardiovascular
           events and a subsequent appearance of mood disorders which could determine a lack in
           following secondary prevention recommendations. No data is available about these
           disorders in older adults. In order to assess depression after MI in older patients and
           the effect of physical activity intervention on mood disorders, this sub-study will be
           performed.

        -  Mitochondrial function: in both study groups the mitochondrial functional are
           investigated starting from blood samples and skin biopsy. Skin biopsy is performed to
           obtain fibroblasts. In-vitro assessment of the mitochondrial function is done on the
           fibroblasts of patients. The parameters obtained are related with the effectiveness of
           physical intervention and with the benefit obtained. A total of at least 30 patients is
           required.

        -  Lymphocyte and miRNA activity: taking into account the immunosenescence and the benefits
           of physical activity on the immune system, this sub-study aims to obtain data regarding
           T-lymphocyte function in older adults and to assess the effect of physical activity
           intervention on the function of the different groups of T-lymphocyte. Analyses of
           physical activity effects on micro ribonucleic acids (miRNAs) are also performed.
    
  