
    
      The investigators propose a multi-center observational study to assess the effect of
      artemisinin resistance (as defined by the presence of relevant Kelch13 mutations) on the
      efficacy of parenteral artesunate for the treatment of malaria, stratified for disease
      severity on admission.

      The patients will receive the standard intravenous treatment for severe malaria (parenteral
      artesunate). Primary endpoints will be the plasma lactate concentration at 12 hours as a
      proportion of the plasma lactate at the start of treatment. Secondary endpoints will be
      improvement of Glasgow or Blantyre Coma Scores and other indicators of neurological recovery
      or deterioration, parasite clearance rates, time until resolution of fever, development of
      new severity or neurological signs under treatment, development of severe anemia, renal and
      hepatic injury, total duration of hospitalization , outcome of pregnancy in pregnant female
      patients, mortality rates and the necessity to treat with antibiotics, need for renal
      replacement therapy, mechanical ventilation, blood transfusion and rescue treatments.

      On admission blood will be taken for the determination of genetic markers of antimalarial
      resistance (including Kelch13 mutations of known functional significance) and in vitro
      sensitivity tests to artemisinins and other antimalarials. Additional blood samples will be
      used for measuring plasma organic acid biomarkers of severe falciparum malaria measured by
      mass spectrometry. Difference in the kinetics of these acids will be an additional endpoint.
      Difference in the transcriptome of p. falciparum will be assessed by RNA measurements at
      baseline and 3 timepoints during treatment.

      The proposed sites in Vietnam and Cambodia have been chosen based on the prevalence of
      artemisinin resistant falciparum malaria, incidence of severe malaria and local experience in
      participating in clinical trials.

      Interim analysis:

      To ensure timely recognition of the effect of artemisinin resistance on the outcome in
      malaria treated with parenteral artesunate, an interim analysis will be performed after the
      inclusion of 60 patients or one malaria transmission season (whatever comes first). An
      independent Data Safety Board will assess whether the difference in outcome between
      infections with artemisinin resistant versus sensitive strains warrants early termination and
      reporting of the study.
    
  