
    
      All adult patients (18 years old and over) undergoing unilateral SLNDs either levels I-III,
      I-IV, or II-III, II-IV, or II-VA for oral cavity, oropharynx (if the resection does not
      connect to the neck), thyroid, salivary gland, parotid, and skin carcinoma by one of three
      Head and Neck Surgery faculty members at UCSF will be consecutively registered. A randomized
      packet containing the patient's research ID number will be pulled and included into the
      patient's chart. Randomization will be done at the initiation of the study by creating a
      randomization list with blocking and stratification by surgeon. An envelope containing the
      patients randomized group assignment will not be opened until the end of the case. The
      patients will be randomized to one of two groups; drains placed routinely and removed once
      output is less than 30ml over 24-hours or 15ml over 12-hours and drains placed routinely and
      removed on rounds the morning of postoperative day one if output is less than 100ml total and
      does not appear chylous. Exclusion criteria will be bilateral neck dissections, revision neck
      dissections (prior surgery in the ipsilateral neck including excisional lymph node biopsy),
      previous radiation, need for sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM) excision, need for internal
      jugular (IJ) excision, pectoralis major flap reconstruction of a ipsilateral skin defect, and
      anticoagulant medications other than routine deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis with either
      weight-based subcutaneous heparin or enoxaparin within 8 days postoperatively.

      The procedure and postoperative care will be standardized to the degree described as follows:
      One 10 French Jackson-Pratt drain will be used. All necks will be closed with 3-0 vicryl, 4-0
      monocryl, and 5-0 fast absorbing sutures. All patients will receive standardized
      postoperative orders including inpatient antibiotics not to exceed 24hrs (unless an infection
      is suspected) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis; either weight based subcutaneous
      heparin or enoxaparin. The chief resident will receive an email indicating when to remove
      drain. All patients will receive standardized postoperative instructions including wound care
      with and without drain. A standardized physical exam will be performed on all patients every
      day of inpatient stay by the chief resident and on postoperative appointment (5-8 days
      post-operatively) by the attending surgeon to evaluate for clinical evidence of seroma and
      hematomas.

      Physical exam will specifically include:

      Inspect and palpate for presence fluctuance. Inspect for color change, erythema or ecchymosis
      Palpate for tenderness

      All patients will be given a patient satisfaction questionnaire at their first postoperative
      visit to evaluate their overall satisfaction with their hospital stay, their recovery and
      healing of their wound, their comfort with home care, and level of pain. We plan to use the
      validated questionnaire, the measurement of quality of recovery (QoR-40).

      Outcome Assessment: The primary outcome of this study will be the presence or absence of
      hematoma or seroma. Secondary outcomes will be the hospital length of stay, the need for any
      additional procedures, and the quantitative outcome from the patient satisfaction
      questionnaire. We will also collect data on the number of lymph nodes removed from the
      pathology report, the presence of carcinoma in the lymph nodes, and the need for home health
      care.
    
  