
    
      In this study, we will prospectively enrol 120 Asian patients with relapsed myeloma after
      prior treatment with bortezomib and lenalidomide, and randomised them between PCD and PD (60
      in each arms). Centers in Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, and Hong Kong will participate in this
      study.

      Pomalidomide is a new immunomodulatory drug, which has been shown to be active in myeloma
      patients who relapse after bortezomib and lenalidomide. A recent phase III study comparing
      pomalidomide plus dexamethasone with placebo plus high dose dexamethasone in patients with
      prior exposure to bortezomib and lenalidomide, showed that the use of pomalidomide
      significantly improve the overall survival of these patients. In an Asian study, it appears
      that the addition of cyclophosphamide can induce further response in patients without a
      response to PD. In the United States, a small randomised phase 2 study of PCD versus PD
      showed that PCD have a higher response rates, produce deeper response and correspondingly
      longer progression free survival. Our hypothesis is therefore that PCD will be better than PD
      and should be the standard pomalidomide containing regimen for relapse myeloma patients. This
      combination will also be highly relevant to Asian patients because cyclophosphamide is a
      relatively cheap drug and the combination will be cost effective if proven to be better than
      PD.

      Rationale for the Study Purpose There is a relative lack of data on the efficacy and
      tolerability of PCD in Asian Patients. The current study will also allow us to test if PCD is
      better than PD in the treatment of relapse myeloma patients.

      Rationale for Study Population The study population will be myeloma patients who have
      relapsed following prior treatment with bortezomib and lenalidomide. Pomalidomide is the
      current approved treatment choice for this group of patients and a common indication for us
      in Asia.
    
  