
    
      Typhoid fever is an infection caused by a bacterium, Salmonella Typhi, that only causes
      disease in humans. It is transmitted faecal-orally and causes more than 22 million infections
      every year in developing countries, such as areas of Asia, Africa and South America, where
      access to clean drinking water and sanitation facilities is limited. Although typhoid fever
      is treatable with effective antibiotics, there are more than 200,000 deaths every year in
      these resource-limited regions.

      Salmonella Typhi could be eradicated but improving sanitation and living conditions in
      endemic regions is difficult. Vaccination to prevent the transmission of Salmonella Typhi
      could significantly reduce the burden of disease. The currently licensed typhoid vaccines are
      only moderately effective in preventing infection in people who have been immunised and no
      vaccines are licensed for use in young children. Novel typhoid vaccines have been developed
      to overcome these problems, but more research and information is needed to study how well
      these vaccines work before they can be routinely used.

      This study proposes to investigate the protective effect of a novel typhoid vaccine (typhoid
      Vi polysaccharide capsule - tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine) using a human challenge model
      of typhoid infection. Healthy adults will be vaccinated with the novel typhoid vaccine, a
      currently used typhoid vaccine (Vi polysaccharide capsule vaccine) or a control vaccine. One
      month after vaccination, participants will be exposed to live Salmonella Typhi by drinking a
      solution containing the bacteria. Participants will then be closely monitored to determine
      which participants develop infection and which are protected. In addition to assessing the
      protective effect of conjugated and unconjugated typhoid vaccines, the effect the vaccines
      have on the immune system and on the clinical course of typhoid infection will also be
      studied.

      It is hoped that the knowledge gained from this study will contribute to the use of vaccines
      against Salmonella Typhi to help control this preventable disease.
    
  