
    
      Pulmonary fibrosis can be secondary to connective-tissue disease, environmental exposure, or
      drug toxicity, but it can also appear sporadically without any known cause, i.e. idiopathic
      interstitial pneumonitis (IIP). Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the commonest IIP and
      usually follows a rapidly progressive course with a short median survival time.

      IPF pathogenesis is believed to be complex, including epithelial injury, resident
      fibroblast-myofibroblast transformation, recruitment of fibrocytes, macrophage activation,
      and release of numerous cytokines and chemokines. Several of these processes release
      potential biomarker proteins into the blood stream or onto the epithelial surface where they
      can be measured. Biomarkers have mainly two potential roles in IPF. Firstly, a diagnostic
      biomarker would distinguish IPF from other diseases with similar symptoms, facilitating
      diagnosis and possibly decreasing the need for risky procedures, such as surgical lung
      biopsy. Secondly, a prognostic biomarker would distinguish rapid progressors from slow
      progressors, which is difficult today.

      This study will prospectively include all patients at the two centres in Denmark where
      patients are treated for IPF and has thus a good opportunity to include the majority of
      incident cases of IPF in Denmark. The blood levels of several promising biomarkers will be
      measured at baseline and during up to 5 years follow-up. Patients will also be followed up
      through regular clinical examination and by querying national registries to determine disease
      progression, mortality, healthcare utilization and selected co-morbidities such as
      malignancy. The database will be used for determination of risk factors for the outcomes
      listed above. Sub-group analyses are planned in respect to sex, radiologic imaging at
      baseline (e.g. honeycombing), smoking status, co-morbidities (both pulmonary disease and
      extra-pulmonary disease), and disease severity at baseline.

      A research biobank with regular blood samples is established from the study population. This
      biobank, and the database of newly diagnosed IPF patients, will be used for future research
      in IPF.
    
  