
    
      Baseline Participants will report to the lab on day one to have basic anthropometry and
      clinical measures performed. Following measures of height, weight, blood pressure, blood
      lipids (fasting glucose), creatine kinase, high sensitivity C-reactive protein (HS-CRP) and
      interleukin-6 (IL-6) participants will be allowed to eat a small standardized snack.
      Participants will then have measures of baseline muscle soreness and leg strength measured
      prior to a VO2max test on a cycle ergometer.

      Muscle Soreness will be measured using a standard 10cm analogue scale and girth of the thigh
      will be recorded to account for possible alterations owing to local inflammation/oedema./
      Creatine Kinase (CK) will be tracked as a measure of damage.

      The test termination criteria for the VO2max will include: volitional fatigue, a participant
      rating of perceived exertion of 19-20 (on a scale from 0-20), a plateau in O2 uptake with
      increasing workload, or and RER of >1.15. The VT of each participant will be noted to compare
      with values post- training.

      Testing Day 2 - This day will occur at least 1 full day (48h) following VO2max testing.

      Participants will arrive at the lab having consumed a standardized breakfast. Prior to the
      downhill run, measures of pulse wave velocity (PWV), heart rate variability (HRV), flow
      mediated dilatation (FMD) will be collected according to the protocols to follow.
      Participants will then perform a 40 minute downhill run at a grade of -12 percent using a
      speed that elicits a VO2 of approximately 60% of the maximum value achieved during the max
      test.

      Arterial stiffness will be determined using a Sphygmocor CPVH pulse wave applanation
      tonomoter (Atcor Medical). This device measures arterial pulse waves non-invasively through
      the skin. By matching pulse wave arrival with heart beats (through a standard ECG tracing)
      and measuring the distance between points we can calculate travel time (or velocity). We will
      also use this same device to analyze the shape of the pulse wave, which will give us
      information about reflected pulse waves (and thus the stiffness of the arterial tree).

      Follow-up: At 24h, 48h, and 72h post exercise, participants will return to the lab to have
      all of the non-exercise measures repeated (see figure 1). This will allow temporal tracking
      over time.

      Hypotheses:

      1) The anti-inflammatory potential of Curcumin supplementation should improve post-exercise
      recovery. 2) Repeated bouts of eccentrically biased downhill running should produce a
      prophylactic effect and reduce arterial stiffness and recovery time
    
  