
    
      The MP3-Youth study will provide critical information for design and evaluation of
      combination HIV prevention intervention packages that are sensitive to gender-specific risks
      among this most-at-risk population in high-HIV burden African settings. Our team of
      biobehavioral and clinical scientists, mathematical modelers, and trial design specialists
      will:

      Aim 1: Identify gender (sex)-specific drivers of HIV acquisition risk, including pregnancy
      among females, for youth in sub-Saharan Africa, and interventions to best address those
      risks.

      Aim 2: Conduct mathematical modeling to select optimal combination intervention package
      components and to assess potential population-level impact.

      Aim 3: In partnership with a highly-productive nongovernmental organization (NGO) that is
      delivering PEPFAR-funded HIV prevention services, develop and pilot a combination HIV
      prevention package specific for female and for male youth - 'MP3-Youth' - in Nyanza Province,
      Kenya.

      Aim 4: Design a phase IV study protocol for testing the effectiveness of a gender-specific
      youth HIV prevention package in sub-Saharan Africa. We will disseminate these research
      protocol recommendations, and study instruments including the mathematical modeling tool, as
      a combination prevention intervention research toolkit.

      Design: Study activities comprise systematic review and meta-analysis of the HIV prevention
      literature for youth in sub-Saharan Africa; development of a mathematical modeling tool; and
      a community-based HIV combination prevention pilot that will take place in western Kenya.
      These activities will culminate in a testable combination HIV prevention trial protocol for
      youth, which is the main study deliverable.

      Population: Aim 1: Focus groups will be held with male and female youth, parents, teachers,
      religious and community leaders. Aim 3: Pilot study will include male and female youths (ages
      15-24) from Nyanza Province, Kenya.

      Deliverables: Study deliverables include selection procedures for a population-specific
      combination HIV prevention package; measurement instruments, mobile prevention delivery
      protocols, mathematical modeling tools, and a testable study trial protocol. The entire
      MP3-Youth Package will be placed on a web site for open access.
    
  