
    
      FDG PET/CT is very sensitive imaging tool for the detection of neoplasms. Neoplasm tissue is
      characterized by a much higher level of metabolism than healthy tissues, therefore a 95%
      cases of use the method regard oncology. Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is absorbed by patients'
      organism as glucose but it does not undergo metabolism. The increased degree of FDG
      accumulation in tissue means its higher metabolic activity. FDG accumulates in the tumor
      tissue and radiates enabling its detection but the substance has not been shown to be harmful
      to patient at doses used in the diagnostics.

      Tumor formation is a multi-stage process in which the phases of initiation, promotion and
      progression are distinguished. Neoplastic transformation of healthy cells is associated with
      disturbances of the cell cycle caused by mutations of proto-oncogenes (activation of cell
      division) and/or suppressor genes (blocking cell division) and mutator genes (protecting the
      DNA against damage or its repairing) under the influence of various factors. Increasing data
      indicate that one of the most important factors initiating neoplasm are reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) and oxidative stress. Mechanisms responsible for induction of oxidative stress
      in cancer cells are not fully explained. It is known that they are closely related to
      inflammation, as well as intense cellular metabolism associated with continuous
      proliferation, mutations in the genetic material and dysfunctions in the mitochondrial
      respiratory chain.

      In this study a number of markers of oxidative stress and inflammation are planned to be
      determined including: the activities of antioxidant and lysosomal enzymes, as well as
      concentrations of lipid peroxidation products and low molecular weight antioxidants. The
      PET/CT imaging will be performed as part of standard medical procedures related to the
      diagnosis and monitoring of cancer diseases at the Oncology Center in Bydgoszcz, Poland.
    
  