
    
      Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by progressive pancytopenia,
      congenital abnormalities, and predisposition to malignancy. Therapy is currently limited to
      allogeneic marrow transplantation; patients lacking a suitable donor usually die from aplasia
      or acute leukemia. Recently, mutation in a novel gene named FACC (Fanconi anemia
      C-complementing) has been identified as causing one type of FA. FACC mutations, which
      introduce splicing errors or stop codons, have been identified in 15% of FA patients. We have
      recently been successful in functional complementation of four FA cell lines using retroviral
      vectors to transfer a copy of the normal FACC gene. We also analyzed the ability of four
      viral vectors to functionally correct hematopoietic progenitor cells from a patient bearing a
      splice donor mutation. As for the lymphoid cell lines, these CD34 enriched cells were
      extremely sensitive to MMC. After injection of these progenitor cells with viral vectors
      bearing normal FACC, the progenitors gave rise to increased numbers of colonies both in the
      absence and presence of up to 5 nM MMC, whereas control cells were completely destroyed by 1
      nM MMC. In summary, we have demonstrated that: (1) retroviral vectors can be engineered to
      transfer a normal FACC gene to FA(C) lymphoid cell lines and primary hematopoietic cells; (2)
      introduction of a normal FACC gene into CD34+ progenitors markedly enhances their growth in
      the absence and presence of MMC.

      This study is designed to determine whether hematopoietic progenitors transduced with the
      normal FACC gene can be re-infused safely into FA(C) patients. CD34+ cells obtained from
      G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood will be transduced ex vivo over a 72 hour period in the
      presence of IL-3, IL-6, and stem cell factor with the FACC retroviral vector. These
      transduced cells will be re-infused into FA(C) patients. Patients will be monitored for
      toxicities as well as evidence of successful gene transfer and expression. The procedure will
      be repeated up to a total of 4 times with each treatment 2-4 months apart. Theoretically,
      these rescued stem cells should have a selective growth advantage within the hypoplastic FA
      marrow environment in vivo.
    
  