
    
      Cardiac arrest (CA) management remains challenging. As fewer than 20% of patients survive to
      discharge, early prognostication of functional outcome needs accurate prediction.Survivors
      outcome depends on initial CA conditions (cause, duration and severity of ischemic injury)
      that may lead to the post-cardiac arrest syndrome, associated with high mortality.
      Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is the second cause of poor outcome after CA. Indeed, most
      survivors remain comatose or in a vegetative state leading to decisions to withdraw life
      support. Thus, the American Academy of Neurology had proposed a decision algorithm for use in
      prognostication of comatose survivors published in 2006.Before the widespread use of
      therapeutic hypothermia (TH), predictor factors of neurological outcome were: serum
      neuron-specific enolase (NSE), N20 somatosensory-evoked potentials (SSEP), status
      epilepticus, pupil and corneal reflexes and Glasgow coma score motor response (GCS-M).
      Therapeutic hypothermia is recommended in the management of CA.It has been associated with
      improved outcome after ventricular fibrillation out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA).
      However, TH may interfere with clinical examination and electrophysiological predictors (EEG,
      SSEP) making prognostication of functional outcome hardiest.The use of sedative drugs and
      muscle paralysis during TH is another cause of delayed neurological assessment and
      prognostication.The NSE cutoff values to predict poor neurological outcome are not well
      defined and can be influenced by TH either.The present study aims at identifying clinical,
      electrophysiological and biological prognostication predictors of 6-month neurological
      outcome in survivors at day 3 after CA treated by TH. Neurological functional status was
      assessed using the 5-item scale Cerebral Performance Category (CPC). Neurological status was
      retrospectively assessed at 6 months: CPC of 1 or 2 was defined as good neurological outcome
      and CPC of 3 to 5 were defined as poor neurological outcome. Deaths in the first 3 days and
      decisions to withdraw or to withhold life support were also collected. The following
      prognostication factors were tested: neurological examination at day 3 and 7 including
      corneal and pupillary reflexes, GCS-M, status epilepticus, electro-encephalogram (EEG), SSEPs
      and NSE levels between day 2 and day 3.
    
  