
    
      In traditional IGRT the radiation treatment is planned and simulated on computers using x-ray
      computed tomography (CT) images alone or a combination of CT and MRI. The CT mostly provides
      information about attenuation of radiation beams needed for the dose simulations because most
      tumours are more readily identified and contoured with MRI. However, fusion of CT and MR
      images is prone to error and is a time-consuming process that cannot be automated reliably.
      Previous research (Stanescu et al.) has shown that the attenuation information can be
      obtained from MRI which, unlike CT, does not use ionizing radiation to create images.
      Eliminating the CT scan is therefore possible and beneficial to both the patient, who avoids
      an additional dose of diagnostic x rays, and to the health care system which saves resources
      that can be used elsewhere.

      Our new MRI acquisition and processing techniques (performed at 3 tesla i.e. 3T) enable:

        1. the extraction of 4 different quantitative parameters (hence "multi-parametric MRI",
           quantitative MRI or relaxometry) that are normally not accessible in traditional MRI,
           and

        2. the automatic classification of tissues (e.g. bone, air, adipose, soft tissue, etc.)
           which is needed for dose computation in IGRT planning

      In the first part of the study (dosimetry) these MRI methods will be used to generate a
      pseudo-CT to replace the traditional CT data. The hypothesis is that dosimetry can be
      accurately calculated for primary brain cancer patients using the pseudo-CT, thus allowing
      radiation treatment planning using MRI only. The IGRT treatments planned using qMRI will be
      compared to those planned conventionally.

      The second part of the study (treatment monitoring) aims to evaluate the ability of qMRI
      techniques to provide clinical information such as distinguishing between progression and
      pseudo-progression, assessing treatment effectiveness or prognosis. The hypothesis is that
      qMRI can provide increased sensitivity to biological changes in tumors associated with
      disease progression over conventional (T1- or T2-weighted) MRI. The reasoning is that by
      providing quantitative, rather than weighted, images, direct numerical comparisons can be
      made between images acquired at different time points or at different centres. With
      traditional MRI, only limited, qualitative comparisons of tumor morphology or relative
      intensity within the same image can be made. Therefore, 3 or more follow-up MRI scans will
      also be acquired 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment and at recurrence, transformation, or
      pseudoprogression to monitor the effectiveness of the treatment.

      These techniques will be tested on primary brain cancer patients undergoing IGRT, and the
      following data will be required:

        1. the patient's IGRT treatment plan, as well as the planning CT and MRI datasets, and

        2. additional scanning sessions approximately 45 minutes in duration to acquire MRIs of the
           patient with the new techniques at 3T. One of the sessions is prior to the beginning of
           the course of radiation therapy (first part of the study) and the remaining are after
           the completion of their radiation treatment (second part of the study).

      Traditional treatment and follow-up care are unchanged.
    
  