
    
      After administration of local anaesthesia, the tooth will be extracted by the principle
      investigator without raising flaps, as atraumatically as possible by using periotomes without
      disturbing the papillary tissues (minimal traumatic extraction technique). After the
      extraction of the tooth, the socket will be carefully cleaned to excavate the granulation
      tissue in the marginal and apical regions. Using standard implant system protocol preparation
      of the osteotomy will take place. Initial drill will be placed palatally till final drill
      reached. Placement of the implant without any raising of the flap will be performed in the
      correct implant position. Primary stability of the implant will be measured by rotational
      insertion torque value, to be ≥30Ncm (31). After implant placement, the allocation will be
      revealed to the practitioner for the type of the healing abutment to be used and whether
      connective tissue graft will be used or not.

      Thirteen implants (intervention 1) will receive screw- retained customized healing abutment,
      and thirteen other implants in the 2nd intervention group will receive the conventional
      healing abutment of same diameter of the implant. In both groups connective tissue graft will
      be used. Connective tissue grafts will be harvested from the hard palate and placed at the
      implant sites in a supraperiosteal partial dissection (pouch technique) prepared at the
      buccal aspect without using vertical incisions and without flap elevation. Sutures will be
      used to stabilize the graft in its desired place.

      The fabrication of the customized healing abutment is as follows; the temporary cylindrical
      abutment will be screwed to the implant then flowable composite will be injected at the
      gingival margin level to adapt to the screw-retained temporary cylindrical abutments that
      will be sand-blasted for mechanical retention of the composite, taking the shape of the
      socket at the marginal gingiva. A buccal groove will be made after the polymerization of this
      material for easier application. The abutments will be removed for final configurations of
      the apical part mimicking the emergence profile of the extracted tooth and finishing with
      laboratory discs and burs. The custom healing screw will then be screwed to the implant with
      the correct torque. Patients will be recalled for regular follow ups. Other thirteen implants
      (intervention 3) will receive screw- retained customized healing abutment, and for the
      control (the 4th group) group thirteen implants will receive the conventional healing
      abutment of same diameter of the implant. No connective tissue grafts are to be used in these
      two groups.
    
  