
    
      Each subject will be required to stay in the study for 6 weeks. If the participant tests
      positive for any of the three viruses at swab #1 or swab #2, they will continue the study
      until the end of Week 8.

      Participants will record acute respiratory illnesses and SARS-CoV-2 symptoms and voice data
      daily for up to a maximum of 8 weeks in both the well state and, should they become ill, the
      sick state, utilizing the Electronic diary on their Mobile application. Once enrolled, the
      participant will start recording symptoms and voice in the Electronic diary, with daily time
      commitment to this portion of the study expected to be 2-4 minutes. Two nasal self-swab
      collection kits will be ordered for delivery to the participant once they are enrolled in the
      study. The participant will be asked to self-swab when the test kit arrives (swab #1). The
      kit, including the specimen, will be returned to the central lab for RT-PCR
      SARS-CoV2/Influenza/RSV RT-PCR testing. The participant is expected to complete 3 phonemes
      and 5 lines of reading each day, in addition to score the self-reported symptoms in the
      Electronic diary. If participants become sick (self-report) with new or increased symptoms of
      respiratory illness including SARS-CoV-2 symptoms, they will be asked to self-swab (swab #2)
      and return the sample for central SARS-CoV-2/Influenza/RSV RT-PCR testing. If the participant
      does not develop any new or increased symptoms between swab #1 and end of Week 6, they will
      obtain a self-swab (swab #2) at Day 42.

      If the participant tests positive for any of the three viruses at swab #1 or swab #2, they
      will continue the study until end of week 8. If they test negative for the three viruses at
      swab #1 and swab #2, they will exit the study at approximately the end of week 6 when the
      test results are returned. The results of the RT-PCR testing will be shared with
      participants.
    
  