
    
      Feeding difficulty is the primary reason for delayed hospital discharge from the neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU), with increased hospital costs and a negative impact on
      neurodevelopment. Occupational or speech therapists typically start oral stimulation programs
      early, then feed infants by mouth (PO) daily to encourage safe feeding while learning this
      motor skill. Even after weeks or months of rehabilitation with therapists, many infants need
      a gastrostomy tube (G-tube) surgically placed for adequate nutrition. With improved survival
      rates of more critically ill neonates, the national rate of G-tube placement has doubled from
      2000-2012.

      Difficulty learning the motor sequence for oral feeding may be due to brain injury from
      infection, ischemia, and dysmaturity. In these infants, the normal integrative connectivity
      that occurs after birth between the cortex, basal ganglia, and brainstem may be disturbed,
      resulting in poor coordination and failure to learn the complex motor task of feeding, when
      it should be a normal reflex. Therapies that facilitate motor learning and enhance feeding
      skills would have a significant impact for infants who fail feeding rehabilitation.

      In neonates with brain dysmaturity or overt brain injury, neuromodulation of abnormal
      circuits may positively boost neuronal connectivity and enhance neuroplasticity. Vagus nerve
      stimulation (VNS) paired with motor activity facilitates cortical reorganization and
      neurogenesis, and improves motor function in animal stroke models. A noninvasive form of VNS,
      transcutaneous auricular VNS (taVNS), targets the auricular branch of the vagus nerve to
      activate vagal afferent and efferent networks. In adult patients with limb impairment after
      brain injury, pairing taVNS with motor activation is safe, enhances plasticity and improves
      functional motor recovery. This work in adult humans extends and supports the animal evidence
      that pairing VNS with a motor or behavioral intervention restores brain function.

      The study investigators applied the model of taVNS paired with a motor behavior to infants in
      the NICU in a prospective, open-label trial exploring the use of once and twice daily
      taVNS-paired rehabilitation training to enhance oral feeding in infants who are failing oral
      feeds and slated to receive a G-tube.

      After obtaining informed consent, MRIs are obtained before starting treatment, and at end of
      2-3 week treatment period. In a subset of 10 patients the study investigators also obtain
      modified barium swallows prior to and after the treatment period, with taVNS on and off
      during swallowing. Daily feeding volumes as well as the slope of change of po feeding volumes
      are recorded before and after starting taVNS.
    
  