
    
      This study is being done to see if 11C-PBR28 could be useful in diffuse Lewy body disease.
      Diffuse Lewy Body Disease refers to subjects with either Parkinson's disease dementia or
      dementia with Lewy bodies.

      The hypothesis is that 11C-PBR28 binding will be greater in patients with diffuse Lewy body
      disease than in controls, with largest differences in temporal and limbic regions of the
      brain.

      Participants will have a medical history and examination. This will include questions about
      thinking and memory. Participants will have blood drawn for routine lab tests. Blood will
      also be tested for a special genetic test to make sure the 11C-PBR28 scan will work. A
      special genetic blood test will also be done to see if participants have genes that are
      associated with dementia with Lewy bodies or other causes of dementia. Participants will not
      receive the results of these special genetic tests. Participants will also have a magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.

      If a participant still meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria after these procedures are
      done, then the participant will have one PET scan using 11C-PBR28. This scan will take place
      at the Columbia University Medical Center Kreitchman PET Center. On the day of the PET scan
      you will have an intravenous (IV) catheter (tube) placed in the participant's arm. The
      participant will also have an arterial catheter placed in an artery of your wrist.
      Participant will be asked to lay down on a PET scanner. A CT scan will be taken of the
      participant's head. A small amount of 11C-PBR28 will be injected into the IV. A member of the
      study team will draw blood from the arterial catheter. The PET scan will last 90 minutes. The
      participant will be asked to lay still during the scan.

      The amount of radiation from the 11C-PBR28 PET scan is up to 20 millicuries. Similar amounts
      of 11C-PBR28 have been given to over 100 human subjects in prior studies.
    
  