
    
      The cerebrovascular accident (CVA) is currently the leading cause of death in Brazil and it
      is estimated that there are about 62 million stroke survivors worldwide. Thus, the stroke
      sequels are a major public health problem not only in Brazil but in the world, with existing
      treatments often insufficient for complete recovery. Thus, the search for new treatments is
      necessary, as well as the need to optimize and individualize the existing treatments. Several
      approaches are being used in order to find predictors of the recovery of patients after the
      stroke, highlighting the most recent studies using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with
      tractography. However these studies have important limitations such as high cost, but mainly
      the low capacity of this technique to quantify brain plasticity known to play an important
      role in the recovery of stroke sequelae. Thus, techniques to measure brain plasticity theory
      offer the best potential to predict the resilience of post stroke injury, among which stands
      out transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).

      TMS is a noninvasive brain stimulation techniques suitable for measuring the motor cortex
      excitability which in turn is used as an indirect measure of brain plasticity. Another
      interesting approach is the combination of TMS with the study of neuronal function through
      the electroencephalogram (EEG). The EEG under the stroke, has also been suggested as sequelae
      recovery predictor, however in this scenario the association of these findings with TMS has
      not yet been explored. Thus this study aims to identify predictors of different responses
      from rehabilitation therapy through the evaluation of clinical and neurophysiological data
      performed before and after treatment. For the neurophysiological study will be used the
      association of electroencephalogram (EEG) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). This
      last one will be performed in the baseline and after a single Transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) session, aiming to leverage the ability of those technics to analyze the
      cerebral plasticity.
    
  