
    
      BACKGROUND: Eccentric resistance training demonstrated positive effects in ischemic
      cardiomyopathy patients in several studies. These studies were mainly set on device-based
      training interventions comparing eccentric-orientated and concentric-orientated training.
      Eccentric-orientated training induced comparable positive effects on cardiac and functional
      levels and even better effects on muscle strength improvement.

      RESEARCH AIMS: The aim of the study is to determine if eccentric-orientated body weight and
      manual resistance training in ischemic cardiomyopathy patients will allow a more significant
      improvement in maximum voluntary contraction force of the knee extensors compared to
      concentric training.

      In contrast to previous studies, these interventions will be set without use of training
      devices.

      In addition, changes in the muscle cross section of the quadriceps muscle will be calculated
      by skeletal muscle ultrasound. Functional changes and quality of life will be assessed using
      one minute sit to stand test, six minutes walking test and Kansas City Cardiomyopathy
      Questionnaire. Cardiac outcome parameters will be assessed by using body composition and
      hemodynamic parameters as well as echocardiography, laboratory values and specific biomarkers
      for sarcopenia / cachexia.

      METHODS: The investigators propose to run a monocentric, prospective, double arm, open,
      randomized controlled trial. Eccentric-orientated training will be delivered to 30 ischemic
      cardiomyopathy patients.

      These patients will be randomized into two groups at the beginning, followed by a 6-weeks
      observation phase (without intervention for internal quality control of the measurement
      parameters). The intervention-phase will consist of six weeks of three times weekly either
      eccentric or concentric-oriented training.

      Outcome measurements will take place after randomization, after 6 weeks of observation as
      well as after the intervention phase
    
  