
    
      The prevalence of obesity remains increasingly alarming in Brazil and worldwide. The most
      widely recommended therapy for obesity is lifestyle modification, however, implementing these
      changes that can lead to weight loss is difficult and maintaining a long-term weight loss is
      even more challenging. Consequently, an academic effort is required to understand the
      pathophysiology and treat obesity for the establishment of new approaches to reducing food
      intake.

      Recent evidence in the field of obesity and brain-based integration indicates a potential for
      designing new therapeutic interventions. Noninvasive neuromodulation of brain activity has
      been shown to be a technique that can help reduce food cravings and food intake and, more
      recently, body weight, offering a new way to treat obesity. However, recent studies have
      shown that this biomedical intervention could have a paradoxical effect related to COMT
      Val158Met polymorphism, which impacts dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex. The potential
      mechanisms underlying this effect are unclear and future studies are needed to promote this
      clarification.

      This study aims to verify the influence of the COMT Val158Met polymorphism on the density of
      dopaminergic transporters in the presynaptic membrane of dopaminergic neurons, exploring the
      3 dopaminergic pathways: via nigroestrital, mesolimbic and mesocortical. This investigation
      will be carried out through the cerebral SPECT using the radiopharmaceutical
      99mTecnécio-TRODAT-1 in young obese women with and without COMT Val158Met polymorphism. In
      baseline conditions, the investigators will compare the SPECT 99mTc-TRODAT-1 of obese women
      with and without the COMT Val158Met polymorphism with a database of non-obese volunteers.

      Our hypothesis is that the study will facilitate understanding of the variability of the
      individual response of carriers and non-carriers of the Met allele of the COMT Val158Met
      polymorphism, affecting dopamine levels in the brain and to design, in the future, for the
      treatment of obesity based on the individuals' genotypic differences.
    
  