
    
      Ample evidence suggests that a significant number of patients (52-77%) with chronic liver
      disease develop adrenal insufficiency in case of concomitant sepsis. This condition impairs
      hemodynamic integrity and probably worsens often encountered multiorgan failure. Different
      groups suggested that treating those patients with corticosteroids gives a faster reversal of
      hemodynamic instability and even lowers mortality compared to historical controls. However,
      most of the published data are retrospective and comprise small groups of patients. These
      data raise the possibility that corticosteroids at stress doses may be beneficial in
      hypotensive cirrhotics admitted to the ICU but as yet this has not been subjected to a
      large-scale multicentre randomized controlled clinical trial.

      The study will be a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial,
      involving tertiary intensive care units with expertise in management of patients with
      decompensated cirrhosis. Patients who satisfy inclusion criteria and do not present any of
      the exclusion criteria at ICU admission will be randomized into two groups:

        -  Group A: treated with intravenous hydrocortisone in addition to standard therapy (=
           treatment group)

        -  Group B: placebo (NaCl 0.9%) treatment in addition to standard treatment (= placebo
           group)

      If, after adequate fluid resuscitation, patients are still on norepinephrine at a dose of at
      least 0,1 mcg/kg/min for at least 4 hours, the patient can be randomized. Study drug can be
      started immediately after randomization but no later than 24 h after initiation of
      norepinephrine. Patients will receive an intravenous bolus of 50 ml of normal saline
      (placebo) or an intravenous bolus of 50 ml of normal saline containing 100 mg of
      hydrocortisone (double-blind) that will be followed by a continuous intravenous infusion of
      the study drug (hydrocortisone) or placebo. Treatment with study drug (hydrocortisone or
      placebo) at initial rate will be maintained until the start of day 4 and gradually
      discontinued (reduction of infusion rate with 0.5 ml/h/d) when 1) patients do not require
      vasoactive drugs anymore to maintain MAP(mean arterial pressure) > 60 mmHg or > 65 mmHg if
      associated with signs of hypoperfusion in spite of ongoing adequate fluid resuscitation or 2)
      in any case after a 7-day treatment period.

      Investigators, treating physicians, nurses and patients will be blinded to the intervention.
    
  