
    
      This is a randomized, double blinded placebo controlled study that will take place in the
      Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit, at Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) Hospital
      Center.

      This study will enroll 20 adult patients who have undergone implantation of a circulatory
      support device (10 TAH patients, 10 Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) patients). Patients
      will receive standard postoperative care, including anticoagulation, continuous hemodynamic
      monitoring with an arterial line and central venous line and hemodynamic support as determine
      by the cardiac surgery clinical team. We will exclude patients who are receiving renal
      replacement therapy at the time of device implantation or those that have had previous solid
      organ transplantation in order to remove the confounding influence of calcineurin inhibitor
      exposure on renal function. Patient unable to provide informed consent will also be excluded.

      Nesiritide Infusion

      The patients will be randomized (stratified by device type) to either the study drug
      (nesiritide at 0.005 mcg/kg/min without a bolus) or placebo. A fixed-dose infusion will be
      initiated 6 hours after the patients having come off of cardiopulmonary bypass and continued
      for 48 hours.

      Laboratory Measurements

      Acute and chronic effects of nesiritide on Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) and Renal Plasma
      Flow (RPF) will be measured by continuous infusion of iothalamate (IOTH) and phenylalanine
      hydroxylase (PAH), respectively. GFR and RPF will be measured at baseline (-3 to 0 hrs) and
      at 3 intervals during drug/placebo administration as follows: 0 to 6, 6 to 16 and 16 to 40.
      Intravenous catheters will be placed as needed for infusion of PAH and IOTH and for timed
      blood collections.

      Urine volume, creatinine, sodium excretion will also be measured. Neurohormones will be
      measured at all time points 3-6. Plasma renin activity will be measured with an automated
      chemiluminescent immunoassay (DiaSorin Liaison). Serum aldosterone concentration will be
      determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (Agilent, AB Sciex API 5000). Serum BNP
      concentration will be measured with a sandwich chemiluminescent immunoassay (Siemens
      Healthcare Diagnostics, ADVIA Centaur BNP immunoassay).

      Statistical Analysis Sample size was determined using urine output data from our preliminary
      observations. Power calculations showed that a total of 10 patients in this two-treatment
      parallel-design study to have 84 percent power to detect a change in urine output by 75 mL/hr
      at a two-sided 0.05 significance level (using standard deviation of 35 mL/hr for urine
      output). Thus 10 patient were included in each device arm of the study.Chi-square analysis
      was used to compare discrete variables.

      A two tailed Student's t-test was used to compare continuous variables. A repeated measures
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to compare changes in clinical variables laboratory
      measurements across time points. A P value < 0.05 was considered significant. For individual
      comparisons post-hoc testing was performed with a paired t-test analysis with Bonferroni
      correction for 2 comparisons and thus only a P value < 0.025 will considered significant for
      the repeated measures analyses. A Student 2-tailed paired t test will be used to compare
      placebo and active drug values for each individual time point.
    
  