
    
      Chronic urticaria (CU) is an inflammatory skin disease that is defined by the presence of
      urticaria (hives), on most days of the week, for a period of six weeks or longer. About 40
      percent of patients with CU have accompanying episodes of angioedema. It is classified as
      chronic inducible urticaria (CIU) in which urticaria is induced by one or more environmental
      stimuli (such as heat, cold, pressure applied to the skin, exercise, water, vibration, and
      sunlight) and chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) which refers to CU in which appearance of
      lesions is not triggered by consistent or identifiable factors. At any given time, CU affects
      up to 1 percent of the general population in the United States, and the prevalence is
      believed to be similar in other countries. So far, epidemiological studies for a Belgian
      population haven't been performed yet.

      It is generally proposed that patients with CU have defects in mast cell and/or basophil
      trafficking, signaling and/or function. Nevertheless more recently also other cells seem to
      be involved: lymphocytes, eosinophils, endothelial cells (ECs). The integrity of EC structure
      and function is important in the maintenance of the vessel wall and circulatory function. As
      a barrier, the endothelium is semi-permeable and controls molecular transport between the
      blood and the tissues. Under basal conditions, ECs are involved in maintaining the
      anti-thrombotic blood-tissue interface by regulating thrombosis, thrombolysis, platelet
      adherence, vascular tone and blood flow. In CU, mast cells are activated and histamine
      release occurs. This histamine binds to its receptor on the ECs causing vasodilation and
      extravasation. This endothelial function/dysfunction can be characterized by several
      biological markers from different signalization/activation pathways. Vascular injury induces
      release of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) to stimulate angiogenesis. Cytokine
      stimulation triggers the expression and release of adhesion molecules (e.g., E-selectin,
      ICAM-1, VCAM-1), making transendothelial migration of lymphocytes possible. In particular,
      E-selectin is expressed only by activated endothelium; however, its circulating form
      (sE-selectin) can be found in the plasma after enzymatic cleavage or from shedding by damaged
      or active ECs. Furthermore it is known for ECs to interact with mast cells through the
      production of Stem Cell Factor (SCF; c-kit ligand) to influence mast cell proliferation and
      differentiation. Asero et al (2003) determined serum SCF levels in 65 CIU patients and found
      no difference from those found in healthy controls. Nevertheless, the increase in mast cells
      in skin biopsy specimens, along with the absence of systemic eosinophilia in CIU patients
      suggests a possible role for stem cell factor (SCF) in CU pathogenesis.

      Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) normally have the ability to develop into fully mature EC
      and contribute to neovascularization by targeting sites of endothelial injury. Furthermore it
      is shown that acute exercise-induced nitric oxide production contributes to upregulation of
      circulating endothelial progenitor cells in healthy subjects. Since exercise is a known
      trigger for CU, it would be interesting to investigate the effect of exercise on EPC
      recruitment and EC activation in CSU.

      Microvascular damage and EC injury is described in multiple diseases such as diabetes and
      scleroderma. This can be evaluated by nail fold videocapillaroscopy (NVC). The integrity of
      vessel walls is compromised in CU, of which the appearance of wheals due to the extravasation
      process seems to be the most obvious symptom clinically. It would be interesting to examine
      if there are microscopical abnormalities on NVC that could help identify (certain subtypes
      of) CU. If present, correlations between these abnormalities and disease severity can be
      further investigated.

      The objectives of the study are:

        -  To determine the incidence of CU (CSU and CIU) in a Belgian city center hospital

        -  To investigate the role of ECs in CSU on a clinical and molecular level
    
  