
    
      The triple threat of rural geography, racial inequities, and older age hinders access to high
      quality PC for a significant proportion of Americans. Rural patients with life-limiting
      illness are at very high risk of not receiving appropriate care due to a lack of health
      professionals, long distances to treatment centers, and limited PC clinical expertise.
      Although culture strongly influences people's response to diagnosis, illness and treatment
      preferences, culturally-based care models are not currently available for most seriously-ill
      rural patients and their family caregivers. Lack of sensitivity to cultural differences may
      compromise PC for minority patients. The two major public health consequences of these
      problems are:

        1. Access-Rural patients have sub-optimal or no access to PC. Despite significant
           nationwide growth, access to PC is grossly inadequate for the 60 million US citizens who
           live in rural or non-metropolitan areas. There is low PC use in rural and minority
           populations. As a result, rural patients experience significant suffering from
           uncontrolled symptoms that PC expertise could alleviate.

        2. Acceptability-Even when palliative and hospice services are available, African Americans
           (AA), compared to Whites (W) are more likely to receive medically-ineffective, poor
           quality care due to a culturally-insensitive health care system and mistrust of health
           care providers. Making culturally competent PC available for diverse underserved and
           rural Americans is a national priority.

      This community-developed, culturally based Teleconsult Intervention specifically targets the
      gaps of PC access and acceptability. It was developed by and for rural, Deep South AA and W
      patients and providers, and uses state-of-the-art telehealth methods, to provide PC
      consultation to hospitalized seriously-ill patients and family. Using National Consensus
      Project guidelines, and the culturally-based, community-developed PC Tele-consult
      intervention, a remote PC expert conducts a comprehensive PC patient assessment, in
      collaboration with local providers. Following interdisciplinary PC team review, the remote
      clinician communicates recommendations. Two additional structured follow up contacts at Day 3
      and 6 ensure care coordination and smooth transitions that enable patients to receive
      guideline concurrent PC in their communities.

      Aims of the study and Hypotheses:

      Primary Aim: Determine whether a culturally-based PC Tele-consult program leads to lower
      symptom burden in hospitalized AA and W older adults with a life-limiting illness.

      Hypothesis 1: Intervention patient participants receiving a culturally-based PC Tele-consult
      program will experience lower symptom burden on Day 7 post-consultation.

      Secondary Aim: Determine whether a culturally-based PC Tele-consult program results in higher
      patient and caregiver quality of life, care satisfaction, and lower caregiver burden at Day 7
      post-consultation, and lower resource use (hospital readmission, emergency visits) 30-days
      post-discharge.

      Hypothesis 2: Intervention participants and their caregivers receiving a culturally-based PC
      Tele-consult program will experience higher patient and caregiver quality of life, care
      satisfaction, lower caregiver burden at Day 7 post consultation, and lower resource use (e.g.
      hospital admission, emergency visits) at 30 days after discharge.

      Exploratory Aim: Explore mediators and moderators of patient symptom and caregiver burden
      outcomes.
    
  