
    
      Invasive coronary angiography followed by percutaneous coronary intervention is the treatment
      of choice in patient presenting with STEMI-ACS1 and NSTE-ACS2. Up to 60 percent of these
      patients have multivessel disease on angiography3-5. Patients with multivessel disease have a
      worse prognosis compared with patients having culprit vessel disease only5. It has been
      debated whether a complete or culprit artery only revascularization strategy is better.

      Retrospective data in STEMI patients suggested a lower mortality in patients that were
      treated with culprit artery only compared with multivessel PCI during index procedure6. Since
      then, four randomized controlled trials have addressed this question in STEMI population; The
      Randomized Trial of Preventive Angioplasty in Acute Myocardial Infarction (PRAMI) trial (n =
      465, 23 months follow-up)7, the Randomized trial of complete versus lesion-only
      revascularization in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI
      and multivessel disease (CvLPRIT) (n = 296, 12months follow-up)8, the Complete
      revascularisation versus treatment of the culprit lesion only in patients with ST-segment
      elevation myocardial infarction and multivessel disease (DANAMI-3-PRIMULTI) trial (n = 627,
      27months follow-up)9, and the Fractional Flow Reserve-Guided Multivessel Angioplasty in
      Myocardial Infarction (Compare-Acute) trial (n = 885, 12 months follow-up)10. PCI of the
      non-infarct related artery was performed at the index procedure (PRAMI and Compare-Acute),
      staged before discharge (DANAMI-3-PRIMULTI) or at any time during hospitalization (CvLPRIT).
      Indication for PCI was significant stenosis as assessed by angiography (PRAMI and CvLPRIT) or
      FFR (DANAMI-3-PRIMULTI and COMPARE-ACUTE). There was a significant reduction in primary
      outcome in all four trials in favor of complete revascularization. However, there was no
      significant reduction in total mortality or myocardial infarction. Based on the results for
      these four trials, the 2017 ESC STEMI-ACS guidelines gave a class II, level of evidence (LOE)
      A, indication for routine complete revascularization in STEMI patients with multivessel
      disease, including those presenting with cardiogenic shock1. However, an important
      shortcoming of the abovementioned studies is the absence of a staged complete
      revascularization arm. As there is no data that compare immediate and staged complete
      revascularization, the guidelines don't advise on when to perform non-infarct related artery
      revascularization.

      Data regarding optimal treatment in NSTEMI-ACS are more scarce. In an observational study by
      Shishesbor and coworkers, they showed that nonculprit multivessel stenting reduced future
      revascularization rate but this was not associated with lower rate of death or myocardial
      infarction11. Recently, a substudy from the Bleeding complications in a Multicenter registry
      of patients discharged with diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome (BleeMACS) registry (N=4520
      patients, 1459 NSTEMI) was published12. They showed that in NSTEMI patients, complete
      revascularization was associated with a significant lower rate of death (4.5% vs. 8.5%;
      p=0.002), re-AMI (3.7% vs. 6.6%; p=0.016) and MACE (8.1% vs. 13.9%; p=0.001) at one year
      follow up. The 2015 ESC NSTEMI-ACS guidelines not specifically advise a culprit only or
      multivessel PCI strategy. Moreover, they advise to base revascularization strategy on
      patients clinical status and co-morbidities, as well as disease severity, Class II, LEO B.
      Interestingly, in contrast with the STEMI population, in NSTEMI population there is a small
      RCT investigating staged versus direct complete revascularization , the Single-Staged
      Compared With Multi-Staged PCI in Multivessel NSTEMI Patients: The SMILE Trial (N=584
      patients)13. There was a significant reduction in primary endpoint 1S-PCI: n = 36 [13.63%]
      vs. MS-PCI: n = 61 [23.19%]; hazard ratio [HR]: 0.549 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.363 to
      0.828]; p = 0.004) at one year follow up. This was mainly driven by a reduction in target
      vessel revascularization. There was no significant difference in cardiac death or myocardial
      infarction between the both groups. This finding deserves further investigation, because the
      TVR rate (15.4% at 1 year) in the multistage group was unprecedentedly high in the era of
      current-generation drug-eluting stents.

      There is no publication specifically addressing the patients with unstable angina regarding
      the subject of complete or incomplete revascularization or timing of revascularization.

      Considering such data, complete revascularization in ACS patients seems advisable, but timing
      of revascularization is unknown.

      Given this background no investigation so far provided a comprehensive evaluation of the
      complete revascularization strategies for patients with any type of acute coronary syndrome
      and multivessel disease. Therefore, the investigators aim to investigate in a randomized
      controlled trial the commonly used complete revascularization strategies for patients
      presenting with ACS: 1) Immediate complete revascularization 2) Culprit only plus staged
      complete revascularization within six weeks after index procedure, in terms of the primary
      endpoint, the composite of death from any cause, nonfatal type 1 myocardial infarction,
      revascularization, and cerebrovascular events at 1-year post intervention.

      Patients will be treated with one commercially available second-generation drug-eluting stent
      stent to ensure homogeneity of treatment among patients, abolishing the occurrence of bias
      due to different stent usage. The stents used will be the Biotronik Orsiro DES
      (Sirolimus-Eluting stent). The Orsiro DES is a second generation DES with a bioabsorbable
      polymer coating releasing sirolimus and was CE marketed in 2011. The bioabsorbable nature of
      the polymer could be associated with a reduction of the inflammatory response, reducing
      neo-intima growth compared to a durable polymer14, 15. The active drug sirolimus is a
      lipophilic molecule that inhibits mammalian target of rapamycine (mTOR) on smooth muscle
      cells, also preventing neo-intima hyperplasia16. The Orsiro stent has ultrathin cobalt
      chromium struts of 60-80micron (depending on stent size) enhancing deliverability and
      crossability without loss of radial strength or fatigue resistance. The Orsiro stent has been
      extensively studied in different study populations with more than 32.500 patients studied
      globally.
    
  