
    
      First part : creation of a screening tool. After detailed interviews with chronic pain
      experts and bibliographic research, a screening tool for mental disorders in chronically
      painful adolescents has been designed for use by the general practitioner. This tool is
      composed of 10 questions, making up a score of 10 points. The tool will be compared to two
      screening tools used in different clinical contexts, the HAD scale and the RPPS scale, in
      order to determine a positivity threshold. There is only one center participating in the
      research, the Centre de la Douleur et de la migraine de l'hôpital Trousseau (Trousseau
      Hospital Pain Center). Parents' consent is required for participation. For this assessment,
      the adolescents (between 10 and 18 years old) that see a doctor at the Centre de la douleur,
      will be asked to fill up the questionnaires in the waiting room. The filling of the
      questionnaire takes a few minutes. At the end of the appointment, the doctor will read the
      questionnaire to check that all elements have been addressed during the appointment.

      Second part : focus group on the questionnaire: 5 to 10 adolescents will participate in a
      discussion group lead by a paediatrician and a psychologist from the Centre de la Douleur de
      Trousseau. Two groups will be organized, the length of the group discussion being one hour.
      These focus groups will explore the adolescents' perception of the questionnaire and of
      different elements of the screening. The group will undergo full transcription. The verbatim
      will be anonymous and will be analysed through qualitative methods.

      The data will help designing a guidebook for the clinician explaining the main points in
      screening for mental disorders in chronic pain adolescent patients.

      A validation study for the screening tool will be eventually carried out after the completion
      of this preliminary study.
    
  