
    
      The reason for designing this study is that treatment of Class III gingival recessions
      (Miller 1985) continues to be challenging today and, although different techniques have been
      proposed to attempt to improve root coverage results, there is little evidence on what would
      offer better results.

      To achieve those objectives a randomized controlled clinical trial is designed. Using the
      percentage of root coverage as a primary response variable, it is estimated with the
      calculation of the sample size, we would need 28 patients for each treatment group (Domenech
      and Granero 2010). In addition, taking into account possible drop-outs, we would increase the
      number of patients by 20%, finally recruiting 34 patients per group.

      A same experienced, blind and calibrated (the intraclass correlation coefficient will be at
      least of 0.75) examiner (R.E.) will collect the following periodontal clinical parameters at
      the baseline, and at 6 and 12 months, in each tooth involved, using a periodontal probe:
      Gingival recession, number and location of recessions to be treated, number of treated
      recessions that have a complete root coverage, the width of the gingival recession and the
      keratinized gingiva, the distance from the contact point to the interdental papilla, depth of
      probing, bleeding index and plaque index. And will also collect the opinion of the
      participant regarding pain and the degree of satisfaction with the aesthetic result.

      Students of the University of the Basque Country's (UPV/EHU) Own Degree in Periodontology and
      Osteointegration will perform the corresponding surgical technique (m-VISTA or CAF) depending
      on the randomization sequence obtained. A clinical monitor (A.M.G.) will keep the sequence
      hidden until the moment of the intervention.

      Initially, the subject will not know which technique to receive, the complete information
      regarding the surgical technique used, as the results obtained in his case, will be given in
      the last visit of the year.

      Finally, a blind statistic (X.M) will analyze the data using the SPSS software, having as
      unit of analysis the subject. Doing a descriptive statistics, checking if the groups are
      homogeneous in basal, inter-group, intra-group and change variables comparisons and
      logistical regression to assess the intensity and duration of post-surgical pain adjusted for
      possible confounding factors.
    
  