
    
      Osteoporosis and osteopenia are chronic diseases disproportionately affecting the elderly. In
      the United States, the prevalence of osteoporosis is projected to increase from 10 million in
      2005 to 14 million in 2025, due to population aging. Similarly, the economic cost of
      osteoporotic fractures is projected to increase to $25 billion by 2025. Primary
      hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is one of the few reversible causes of osteoporosis and fragility
      fractures. PHPT is the third most common endocrine disorder, with an incidence of 27-30 per
      100,000 person-years, and increasing with age; half of all patients with PHPT are
      post-menopausal women, a population at high risk for osteoporosis at baseline. All forms of
      PHPT are characterized by loss of the normal negative feedback relationship between serum
      calcium and parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion, leading to hypercalcemia and
      hyperparathyroidism. Classic PHPT is characterized by skeletal, renal, gastrointestinal and
      neuropsychiatric manifestations. Skeletal manifestations of classic PHPT are mediated by
      osteoblast inhibition and osteoclast stimulation, leading to increased bone remodeling. The
      catabolic effects of chronic PTH excess may present as osteitis fibrosa cystica, brown
      tumors, pathologic fractures, bone pain, osteoporosis or osteopenia. Although frank osteitis
      fibrosa cystica is an increasingly rare presentation of PHPT in the United States, affecting
      2% of patients, osteoporosis is reported in 39-63% of patients, with preferential loss of
      bone density in cortical sites. Fragility fractures are significantly associated with PHPT,
      particularly in postmenopausal women. Both decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) and
      fragility fractures are considered indications for parathyroidectomy in patients with
      asymptomatic PHPT. Parathyroidectomy has been demonstrated to improve BMD in prospective
      studies of PHPT patients with osteoporosis; some studies suggest that more benefit may be
      seen in pre-menopausal women. Current research in bone remodeling has identified microRNAs
      (miRNAs), novel biomarkers with both diagnostic and therapeutic potential. miRNAs are short,
      single stranded, non-coding RNAs which regulate posttranscriptional expression of mRNA.
      miRNAs have been extensively implicated in bone remodeling and homeostasis. Circulating
      miRNAs have been shown to correlate with fragility fractures, and are conserved across
      subpopulations of osteoporotic patients. miRNA panels have been suggested to have the
      potential to assist in diagnosis, prognosis, and are promising targets for directed therapy.
      Although miRNAs have been investigated in conjunction with pre-menopausal, postmenopausal,
      idiopathic and diabetic osteoporosis, no research to date has explored the miRNA profile of
      PHPT patients with osteoporosis. Similarly, although in vitro experiments have demonstrated
      miRNA response to bisphosphonates, no clear correlation has been established between
      therapeutic interventions and miRNA levels in vivo. The goal of this study is therefore
      two-fold; first, to analyze the expression levels of circulating miRNAs in PHPT patients with
      and without osteoporosis; and second, to evaluate miRNA levels after treatment with
      parathyroidectomy.

      This is a prospective, non-randomized pilot study. Post-menopausal female subjects with and
      without osteoporosis, undergoing neck surgery or non-operative management will be recruited.
      Informed consent will be obtained. Venipuncture will be performed and serum and plasma
      isolated from study subjects. Analysis of serum miRNA and biochemical and clinical markers of
      bone remodeling will be performed. Clinical care will proceed as planned. Subjects undergoing
      surgery will be reassessed one year after operative intervention for miRNA and clinical and
      biochemical markers.
    
  