
    
      WHAT IS THE OVERALL TREATMENT PLAN AND HOW MANY VACCINATIONS WILL THE PATIENT RECEIVE? There
      will be several injections of the vaccine scheduled. The first injection will be given 3 days
      after starting oral cytoxan. The 2nd to 4th injections will be given approximately every 14
      days after the previous vaccine. During this time, the patient will be taking oral cytoxan
      once a day except on the day of and 4 days following the vaccine. Two to 3 weeks after the
      4th vaccine, the patient will have a complete evaluation of their disease. If the scans and
      lab tests show that the patient has not had any serious side-effects, they will be eligible
      to receive 4 additional vaccinations given at 3 week intervals. The disease will be
      re-evaluated again after vaccine numbers 6 and 8. If the patient is able to complete the
      entire study, they will have received a total of 8 vaccinations and the last dose of oral
      cytoxan will be 1 month after the 8th vaccination. Total time duration for participating in
      this study is 15 years (treatment portion within year 1 and follow up during years 2-15).

      Neuroblastoma vaccinations are given like many other vaccines. They will be given
      subcutaneously. The injections will be 1/10th of a teaspoon.

      MEDICAL TESTS BEFORE STARTING TREATMENT:

      Before starting low dose chemotherapy plus oral cytoxan, patients will receive a series of
      standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, blood salts, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of their disease (CT or MRI of the primary tumor site and any locations of
           tumor spread; MIBG or Bone scan; Chest X-ray if they did not have a CT of the chest; and
           bone marrow studies if the patient has known bone marrow disease)

        -  Baseline testing of immune function

        -  Pregnancy testing will be performed on females of child bearing age

      MEDICAL TESTS DURING AND AFTER TREATMENT:

      Prior to each vaccine dose, the patient will receive:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, blood salts, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of the disease (CT or MRI of the primary tumor site and any locations of
           tumor spread; MIBG or Bone scan; Chest X-ray if they did not have a CT of the chest; and
           bone marrow studies if they have known bone marrow disease) after the 4th, 6th and 8th
           vaccine.

        -  Testing of immune function

        -  Pregnancy testing will be performed again on females of child bearing age prior to the
           5th vaccine

      To learn more about the way the vaccine is stimulating the immune cells, we will collect
      blood prior to each vaccination and at scheduled time points until 3 months after the last
      vaccine treatment. The total amount of blood to be collected on any day is no more than 2
      ounces, but will depend upon the weight. This volume is considered safe in teens and adults,
      but may be decreased if the patient is anemic. On days when the patient receives the vaccine,
      blood will be taken before the cells are given.
    
  