
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death in the United States and in
      roughly half the cases its first clinical manifestations, myocardial infarction (MI) or
      sudden cardiac death (SCD), are fatal. There is considerable evidence that "stress" plays a
      significant and independent role in the occurrence of CHD and its complications. This
      evidence has provided the rationale for developing interventional strategies to reduce stress
      in susceptible individuals in order to modify the natural history of these clinical events.
      There are now promising data to suggest that stress management training (SMT) is one such
      approach, and that SMT can have beneficial effects on psychosocial and medical outcomes.
      However, many of the randomized clinical trials (RCTs) employing stress management approaches
      in CHD patients have had important methodological limitations and several of the larger RCTs
      have failed to demonstrate a benefit for SMT over usual care, raising questions about the
      value of SMT for patients with CHD. Reliance on "hard" clinical endpoints is problematic
      because studies require such large sample sizes that they are logistically difficult to
      conduct and are prohibitively expensive. The use of intermediate pathophysiologic endpoints
      that have been shown independently to be associated with increased risk represents a novel
      and exciting opportunity to examine the added value of SMT in exercise-based cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) compared to CR without SMT on key biomarkers of risk in vulnerable CHD
      patients.

      This 12-week study will enroll adults with stable CHD who are eligible for CR. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to either standard cardiac rehabilitation or standard cardiac
      rehabilitation enhanced with weekly SMT. Prior to randomization, medical screening,
      standardized psychosocial questionnaires, mental stress testing, assessment of diet and
      physical activity, and exercise testing will be conducted. Additional biomarkers of risk will
      be assessed through measures of flow-mediated vasodilation, inflammation, platelet function,
      stress hormones, baroreflex, and heart rate variability.

      Participants assigned to CR alone will engage in supervised exercise routines 3 times per
      week. Participants will be encouraged to maintain consistent exercise duration and effort
      throughout each session. Participants assigned to CR enhanced with SMT will engage in
      standard exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation and also receive weekly group SMT. At the
      conclusion of the 12-week intervention, participants will return for repeat assessments of
      stress and biomarker measures. At 6 months, 12 months, and annually up to 4 years
      participants will be contacted for information regarding major adverse cardiovascular events,
      other medical events and medication use.

      Additionally a group of age, gender, and disease matched cardiac patients referred to CR,
      during the same time interval, but who elected not to participate in CR will form a
      non-randomized comparison group for cardiac events.

      Overall, 164 participants were consented for study participation at Duke University Medical
      Center. Of these, 151 participants were randomized to either Standard Cardiac Rehabilitation
      or Enhanced Cardiac Rehabilitation. Post-intervention assessments were completed on 145
      participants; 151 participants were available for intention-to-treat analysis.
    
  