
    
      This Randomised control trial will be conducted at the Department of General Surgery, Dow
      University Hospital OJHA Campus Karachi over a period of a year. All Females, ages ranged
      between 20 to 80 years and diagnosed with breast carcinoma stage II on the basis of triple
      assessment will be recruited in the study. Patients who will refuse to participate in the
      study, allergic to gabapentin on the basis if history, previous treatment with Gabapentin in
      the previous 8 weeks, Chronic pain syndrome, Substance abuse, sedatives, hypnotics or
      antidepressants, analgesic intake within 48 hours before surgery, Diabetes mellitus,
      Hypertension, and Acute or Chronic Renal Failure on the basis of medical records and
      Inability to understand VAS pain score will be excluded from the study. The sample size will
      be calculated by the Open Epi calculator. The mean pain score difference at rest between two
      groups was taken as 0.7 (Placebo: mean ± SD = 2.9 ± 1.2 and Gabapentin: mean ± SD = 2.2 ±
      1.3.5 With 80% power, and 95% confidence level, the total sample size came out to be 102, 51
      patients in each group. Consecutive sampling was used to achieve the desired sample. Patients
      fulfilling inclusion criteria were randomly enrolled in either of the 2 groups by sealed
      opaque envelop method bearing cards, which will be picked by the staff nurses. The
      intervention group was labeled as group A and the control group as group B. Patients in the
      intervention group received a single dose of 1200 mg of gabapentin 2hours before surgery. All
      procedures were performed under general anesthesia. Postoperative analgesic injection
      ketorolac 30 mg thrice a day and injection paracetamol 1 gram intravenous thrice a day was
      advised. Patients were assessed at 12 and 24 h post-operatively for pain scores at rest and
      arm mobilization using VAS pain score, a number of times rescue analgesia when VAS score > 3
      by residents of surgery blinded to the study. Those patients, who experience pain (pain score
      > 3) in spite of routine analgesics received injection ketorolac 30 mg once, pain score
      between 3 to 6 received injection Kinz, pain score > 7 will be given both analgesics single
      times, pain score >8 will receive intravenous maximum thrice in 24 hours. Patients with pain
      score 0-2 will not be given any additional analgesic All patients will receive antiemetic in
      Metoclopramide 10 mg I.V in case of nausea and vomiting. All demographics and outcome
      variables will be entered in the proforma. The outcome variables of the study were age, pain
      score (VAS), and analgesic requirement.
    
  