
    
      ICSI was first applied to human gametes in 1988, it was first used in cases of fertilization
      failure after standard IVF or when few sperm cells were available. The first pregnancies were
      reported in Belgium in 1992.It is a part of an in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle and refers
      to a technique in which a single sperm is injected directly into the cytoplasm of a mature
      oocyte (Palermo et al.,1992).

      Oocyte quality remains the most important issue during in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycles,
      it is affected mainly by age of woman and ovarian reserve (Trifunovic et al., 2004).

      Oocyte maturation is a complex process including nuclear and cytoplasmic components.
      Mitochondria which is in the cytoplasm is the key regulator of energy production via
      oxidative phosphorylation process which is extremely important in oocyte maturation process.
      Any problem during oxidative phosphorylation might affect both the quality and DNA content of
      the oocytes (Ben-Meir et al., 2015).

      Oxidative phosphorylation involves the action of the mitochondrial respiratory chain which
      consists of four complexes that are located in the inner mitochondrial membrane (May-Panloup
      et al., 2007). These are the NAD-linked dehydrogenase, Flavoproteins, Co-enzyme Q10, and
      cytochromes. Coenzyme Q10 (Ubiquinone) is structurally similar to vitamin E and vitamin K. It
      acts as a carrier of proton (H+) from flavoproteins to cytochrome (Bentinger et al., 2007).

      Coenzyme Q10 is essential for stability and action of complex III (May-Panloup et al., 2007).
      It also participates in the transport of protons in the mitochondria to maintain the membrane
      potential and drive ATP formation through ATP synthetase so it has a critical role in cell
      growth and energy metabolism. One of the most important factors during oogenesis and oocyte
      maturation is energy consumption so CoQ10 was reported to improve development, hatching, cell
      proliferation, and ATP content of in vitro-produced bovine embryos (Gendelman et al., 2012;
      Stojkovic et al., 1999).

      Coenzyme Q10 is a commonly used antioxidant supplement in multiple clinical conditions like
      diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular diseases. Also, it was shown that Coenzyme Q10 improves
      sperm motility, semen quality, and pregnancy rate (Garrido-Maraver et al., 2014). Recently
      Bentov et al. reported that the use of coenzyme Q10 supplementation resulted in reduced
      aneuploidy and increased pregnancy rate however it is not clinically significant (Bentov et
      al., 2014).

      Several studies reported that pretreatment with CoQ10 could improve ovarian response to
      stimulation and embryological parameters in women with poor ovarian reserve in IVF-ICSI
      cycles, however their results are conflicting so further work is needed to determine whether
      there is an effect on clinical endpoints (Akarsu et al., 2017). In our study we will
      investigate the relationship between follicular fluid level of Coenzyme Q10 and clinical
      pregnancy rate (Xu et al., 2018).
    
  