
    
      Participants will be referred for trial screening if they have a diagnosis of painful bladder
      syndrome/IC in the opinion of the investigator. Participants will be required to read the
      informed consent form and sign it prior to the screening of any medical information. The
      eligibility criteria will be reviewed and participants who qualify will complete the visit
      one study screening procedures. Participants will be asked to track there daily pain level
      and medication use for 7 days prior to randomization an in addition will be required to
      complete one 24-hour void diary during this same screening time period. Participants will be
      asked to give a urine sample on the day of screening and the day of randomization to screen
      for bladder infection. Female participants will be asked to provide a urine sample for
      pregnancy testing prior to randomization.

      Participants will be required to be on a stable medical regime for 30 days prior to
      randomization. No new IC therapy or new pain treatments will be allowed to begin during the
      screening period and/or the 3 month study trial period. Participants will be allowed to
      continue on any IC/pain therapy they have used prior to screening.

      Randomization to the treatment groups will occur 5-7 days prior to treatment start date. At
      that visit the patient#s medical history will be reviewed for eligibility and adverse events.
      The recorded pain scores collected and all quality of life measurements obtained.
      Participants who continue to qualify will be randomized to the specified treatment group.

      Once 12 participants have been screened and are ready for randomization the participants will
      be scheduled for the randomization visit--Participants assigned to the Tai Chi group will be
      instructed on the logistics of the class, participants in this group will attend two
      classes/week- each class will be 1.5 hours in duration. The first 30 minutes will consist of
      standing meditation and progressive relaxation, the remaining 60 minutes will be TaiChi form
      instruction. The classes will meet bi-weekly for 3 months.

      Participants will be contacted by the blinded coordinator at 2 week intervals to assess pain
      level, medication use, and adverse event monitoring, all data will be documented.

      The exercise/meditation group will receive guided imagery CD and a pedometer to record the
      distance walked/bimonthly assessment. Participants will be asked to reserve 90 minutes twice
      weekly to complete the 30 min of walking exercise followed immediately by the 60 min of
      relaxation/mediation using the CD provided to them by the study. Participants will be asked
      to complete the exercise on the same days and times each week. The study coordinator will
      contact the participants every 2 weeks to assess pain level, medication use, and monitor for
      adverse events.

      Participants will not be responsible for the costs of the Tai Chi classes, pedometer, and
      relaxation-guided imagery CD. Participants will be required to provide the CD player;
      patients will not be eligible if they do not have access to one. Participants will not be
      reimbursed for travel costs to the Tai Chi classes. Participants will be seen in clinic for
      the end-point evaluation 3-7 days after 3 month treatment period.
    
  