
    
      1. Background: There are major deficiencies in the attention quality provided to people
           with diabetes in Mexico. The percentage of compliance of therapeutic objectives is
           noticeably lower than the one informed in developed countries. It is required to have
           structured management strategies, adapted to traits of our population, which allow
           improving attention quality in the medium term. The National Institute of Medical
           Sciences and Nutrition Salvador Zubirán (INCMNSZ) developed an integrated management
           program by using the best evidence available. The target population is people with type
           2 diabetes, with less than 5 years with the diagnosis, and is free from chronic
           complications. Selection criteria allow the intervention benefit to diminish incidence
           of chronic complications.

        2. Hypothesis: "The management strategy applied at the Center of Comprehensive Care for the
           Patient with Diabetes (CAIPaDi) allows achieving the international treatment standards
           (proposed by NCQA) in a two-year period".

        3. General and Specific objectives:

           General objective: To quantify the results one year after starting the integrated
           management program oriented to self-care activities applied at CAIPaDi.

           Specific objectives:

             -  To measure the program impact (after 4 months, one and two years) based on the
                following variables: self-care (measured with standardized questionnaires),
                efficacy parameters (HbA1c, fasting glycemia, blood lipids, arterial pressure and
                use of anti-platelet aggregates), execution parameters (compliance of evaluations
                and preventive measures such as the search for microalbuminuria, ophthalmologic
                check, influenza vaccination, among others), incidence of micro- and macrovascular
                complications of diabetes, hospitalizations, use of emergency service or unforeseen
                expenses related to diabetes.

             -  To compare the efficacy and execution parameters of the cases attended at the
                center, with patients with similar characteristics attended at the "Internal
                Medicine" service of the INCMNSZ.

             -  To carry out a study of the social-economic impact of the intervention.

        4. Goals: It is intended to validate an intervention that provides integrated attention to
           people with diabetes, in order to generate in the patient and his/her family, the
           competencies required for self-care in the long term and the prevention of chronic
           characteristics. Intervention is low-cost. This characteristic, along with the
           intervention systematization will allow the model to be exportable to the first-contact
           units.

        5. Scientific Methodology: CAIPaDi has the mission of improving quality of life of patients
           with diabetes by means of an intervention adapted to the needs of patients, applying
           step-by-step action programs".

           Intervention consists of four monthly visits, each one being 6 hours long. The visits
           have individual and group sessions. The nine specialists in the multidisciplinary team
           are endocrinologists, diabetes educator, nutritionists, psychologist, dentists,
           psychiatrist, specialist in physical activity, ophthalmologist and foot care. Some of
           the functions may be fulfilled by the same health professional, previously trained.

           At each session, standardized actions are applied, which are assessed with preset
           indicators. At the initial and at yearly visits the following laboratory tests are
           taken: glycated hemoglobin, blood chemistry, lipid profile, liver function tests,
           albumin-creatinine index in an isolated urine sample, and 12-deviation
           electrocardiogram. At the yearly visits the patients receive reinforcement and treatment
           modifications as needed.

           Contact is kept with patients via phone calls, e-mails and messages on the mobile phone.
           Patients are asked to send their assessments on preset dates. Materials and tools are
           developed, which allow measuring information from the study in real time, empowerment of
           patients and decision-making by the multi-disciplinary team, based on clinical practice
           guidelines.

           There will be information from 1200 patients with 2-year follow-up. Besides having
           information from 1200 additional cases with follow-up at one year, and other 1200 others
           with assessments at 6 months. Therefore, the population for assessing execution
           variables shall be of 3600 participants. Such sample size allows us to detect
           differences higher than 5% in the percentage of cases that comply with the therapeutic
           objectives by comparing them with the initial assessment. As a secondary analysis,
           results will be compared with the population that receives attention the "Internal
           Medicine" service in the INCMNSZ (n=300 subjects).

           Patients will be referred from clinics or first contact physicians outside the
           Institute.

        6. Expected impacts at medium and long term: This proposal allows validating the
           intervention designed and applied at CAIPaDi. In case of demonstrating its usefulness
           and cost-effectiveness, intervention will be exported to first-contact units. Manuals
           and tools have been developed which will allow the implementation of the program with
           minimum resources. Such action will allow creating a network of health units that
           operate with the same quality standards as INCMNSZ.

        7. Infrastructure available at the participating institutions: The INCMNSZ has an area
           where the center operates.

        8. Deliverable results: Procedure manuals for each of the actions included in the
           intervention, tools for decision making based on clinical practice guidelines which will
           be patented, educational materials designed for empowering patients (patentable
           products), an internet portal, an electronic file, a database, articles in high impact
           magazines, diploma courses for generating specific competencies related to diabetes
           treatment and to the center management.
    
  