
    
      This was a Cluster Randomized Trial with a control group carried out in twelve Portuguese
      Residential Youth Care facilities. It aimed to test the efficacy of a group-based
      Compassionate Mind Training program (CMT-C) targeted to caregivers, in promoting significant
      changes both in caregivers and adolescents in residential youth care. This trial was carried
      out in accordance with the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and the
      applicable national laws and regulations. The ethics committee of the Faculty of Psychology
      and Educational Sciences of the University of Coimbra approved the study's procedures.

      Since CMT-C is targeted for residential care homes' (RCH) teams, for practical reasons (to
      maximize time and human resources) and to avoid contamination, the unit of randomization was
      the RCH (i.e., cluster), hence a cluster randomized design was followed according CONSORT
      guidelines. From the 32 RCH within the Centre region of Portugal, 19 RCH obeying to cluster
      eligibility criteria were invited to participate. Twelve RCH agreed to enter the trial. Their
      caregivers and adolescents, who were eligible for the study, were informed of the goals and
      procedures of this research, and invited to voluntarily participate. No incentives were
      offered for participation. Written informed consent were sought at the cluster level (from
      the board of each RCH), and at the individual level to caregivers and adolescents (and their
      legal guardians), before the randomization occurred. Adolescents aged between 14 and 16 YO,
      gave informed assent, while the older than 16 YO will give written informed consent. A
      written informed consent was also gathered from guardians/legal representatives of all
      adolescent participants under 18 YO. The anonymity of all participants responses was
      guaranteed, with the use of respondent-specific codes, which were also used to link the data
      from one time point to the other. Data was collectively collected in each RCH with the
      presence of an independent researcher, in order to answer any questions and ensure
      confidentiality. All participants (caregivers and adolescents) were assessed through
      self-report measures 5 times across 12 months. Specifically, participants were assessed 3
      months before the beginning of the CMT-C (Baseline 0 - time 0), before the first session of
      the program (baseline 1 - time 1), right after its terminus (i.e., post-treatment assessment
      - time 2), and 3 and 6 months after intervention terminus (follow-up 1 and 2 - time 3 and
      time 4). Participants in the control group were assessed with the same time intervals as
      those in intervention group.

      After the first baseline assessment, a computer-generated randomization was conducted at the
      cluster level, following a completely randomized design. Each RCH (i.e., cluster) was
      randomly assigned to one of two conditions: CMT-C and control group. Six RCH were allocated
      in the experimental group and received the TMC for caregivers, the remaining 6 constituted
      the control group. Caregivers in the treatment group attended the CMT-C for about 12 weeks.
      The CMT-C consisted of twelve, 2.5-hr weekly group sessions, delivered in each RCH to a group
      of 7 to 10 participants. Caregivers in the control group did not received any mind training
      or group intervention.

      After post-treatment assessments, focus groups were carried out with the caregivers allocated
      in the CMT-C group, in order to enrich understanding about the participants' experience with
      the intervention and their perception of change at 3 different levels (individual,
      interindividual and organizational).

      Treatment integrity were ensured through: a) specific treatment manuals; b) direct training
      of the therapist; c) supervision; and d) assessment of adherence and competence through an
      integrity rating scale.

      Treatment effects will be analyzed following an intention-to-treat analysis using Latent
      Growth Curve Models (LGCM). The intercept (i.e., initial status) and slope (i.e., change over
      time) will be modeled as latent variables from longitudinal data (T0 to T4). Per-protocol
      analysis will also be carried out to investigate treatment effects in completers. Moderator
      (e.g., clusters) effects will also be tested with Conditional LGCM, and will be included as
      predictors of change over time in the outcome measures. Nested qualitative evaluation with
      thematic analysis will be carried out after the last follow-up.
    
  