
    
      Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is the most common mould infection in immunocompromised
      haematological patients. A relatively low mortality is observed when diagnosis is made early
      and treatment with voriconazole, the first choice of treatment, is initiated promptly.
      However, azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus is increasingly reported in Europe. Fungal
      susceptibility testing is difficult, time consuming and not widely available. Furthermore,
      cultures remain negative in the majority of the patients with IA. AsperGenius®, is a CE
      certified multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay that allows for a
      simultaneous detection of the presence of Aspergillus species and identification of the most
      common mutations in the A. fumigatus CYP51A gene conferring resistance. The use of this PCR
      results in faster diagnosis of azole resistance and thus the initiation of appropriate
      therapy at an earlier point in time. A fast diagnosis and correct treatment leads to an
      improved outcome. After extensive discussions and a face-to-face meeting with 7 of the 8 UMC
      in the Netherlands a consensus diagnostic and therapeutic protocol was agreed upon. In this
      protocol, the AsperGenius® PCR will be used for the diagnosis of azole resistance and
      antifungal treatment will be changed if resistance is detected. This protocol is the current
      standard diagnostic and treatment approach at Erasmus MC.

      Haematological patients suspected of having an invasive fungal pulmonary infection undergo
      BAL sampling as standard of care. AsperGenius® PCR on BAL sample allows to make a rapid
      diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and gives information about azole resistance faster than
      standard time consuming methods like fungal culture and galactomannan measurement. A standard
      treatment protocol based on this new diagnostic tool is in place at Erasmus MC and will be
      implemented in the other study centres. The centres will be asked to send BAL sample of at
      least 1ml, preferably 2ml.

      If RAMs are detected, the treating physician will be advised to switch from voriconazole to 1
      of the following options:

        1. Ambisome 3mg/kg IV

        2. In case of treatment limiting toxicity of Ambisome IV, we suggest the use of an
           echinocandin in combination with posaconazole and aiming at serum Cthrough levels of
           3-4mg/L

        3. Step down therapy from IV therapy as described under 1 and 2 to oral therapy with
           posaconazole is allowed after at least 2 weeks of IV therapy and after a documented
           clinical and or radiological response. Posaconazole serum Cthrough levels of 3-4mg/L
           will be aimed for. Step down to posaconazole will not be done if an A. fumigatus strain
           with an MIC of >0.5 microgram/ml is cultured.

        4. As an alternative to posaconazole step down, IV ambisome 5mg/kg thrice weekly can be
           given as well.
    
  