
    
      The investigators will randomize 120 persons with T2DM in a 1:1 ratio to a nutrition
      education alone arm (Ed n=60) vs. a nutrition education with mindfulness-based intervention
      components (Ed+MBI n=60) arm and follow them for 12 months. The interventions will be
      provided in a weekly group setting, with about 10 to 12 persons per group. Some educational
      intervention components will be delivered using a smartphone app. After the 12-week initial
      intervention, the investigators will re-randomize participants using an adaptive intervention
      design to receive low, medium, or high intensity maintenance training, depending on level of
      adherence achieved during the initial intervention period. Follow-up assessments will be
      performed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. The investigators will address the following specific
      aims:

        1. Test the hypothesis that the Ed+MBI arm will have better dietary adherence than the Ed
           arm.

        2. Test whether our proposed behavioral mechanisms (e.g. decreased eating in response to
           cravings or difficult emotions) predict dietary adherence.

        3. Compare randomized arms in the adaptive maintenance intervention design to optimize
           maintenance phase dosing in future trials.

        4. Obtain preliminary assessment of intervention effects on clinical outcomes

      This is the second phase of a two-phase study. Pilot testing has been completed in the first
      phase (R61). The second phase (R33) will include employing an adaptive intervention design in
      the post-treatment phase to test optimization of the maintenance intervention (i.e. assigning
      maintenance intensity/dose based on how a participant is doing). The investigators will use
      fingerstick blood ketone measures, which provide an objective measure of whether the target
      levels of carbohydrate restriction have been attained, as our primary adherence outcome
      measure. This will be supplemented by 24-hour diet recall measures of carbohydrate
      consumption. Important secondary outcome measures will include clinical measures such as
      glycosylated hemoglobin and behavioral measures such as frequency of eating in response to
      food cravings.
    
  