
    
      1.Forty patients will be selected at 16 weeks of renal transplantation with 20 patients
      allocated in each study arm. The allocation will be done randomly to provide similar
      epidemiological characteristics with respect to gender, age, renal function and co
      morbidities in the two groups. The informed consent will obtained after an interview
      involving the researcher and patient when the protocol will be explained.

      1.1 Study protocol

      Patients of renal transplant unit at the Sao Jose University Hospital who sign the inform
      consent and fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in this study.

      The main population will be low-risk kidney transplant recipients defined as follow: primary
      transplant, patients older than 18 years old and recipients of first kidney transplantation
      with living donor with PRA <10%, using tacrolimus, EC-MPS, and steroids as primary
      immunosuppression, without delayed graft function and with stable renal function 3 months
      after transplantation.

      Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria and agree to participate in this study will have
      the CNI withdrawn and the immunosuppressive regimen will be based on everolimus.

      The switch will be done as follows: patients' therapy will be replaced from CNI-based to
      everolimus-based immunosuppression. Everolimus will be introduced on day 1 at dose of 2
      mg/day (1mg bid), and then everolimus trough levels will be obtained from day 3 onwards until
      C0 reaches the target for three consecutive days. Through levels will be adjusted to achieve
      6-10ng/ml. Thereafter, if the target level was reached, the measurement will be performed
      weekly for 4 weeks and every 2 weeks until 8 weeks after conversion.

      In parallel, the CNI dose will be reduced by 50% on day 1 and another 25% on day 7. The CNI
      will be withdrawn on day 14 if the target levels of everolimus are obtained. EC-MPS will be
      unchanged until day 14 after conversion, thereafter it will be decreased if necessary from
      1440mg to 1080mg/day. The dose of EC-MPS will not be below 1080 mg/day.

      Corticosteroids would be unchanged. A protocol renal biopsy will be performed at the end of
      the study, 12 months after transplantation. A per-operatory biopsy at baseline will not be
      performed, since this is not a routine practice of the transplant center and because the
      patients have a low immunological risk.

      1.3- Inclusion criteria

      1.3.1- Men and women between 18-70 years old 1.3.2- Receptors of a first living-donor kidney
      allograft 1.3.3- Patients must have been on a tacrolimus+myfortic regimen for at least 2
      weeks prior to randomization

      1.4- Exclusion criteria

      1.4.1- Patients with evidence of any acute rejection following transplantation at the time of
      randomization 1.4.2- GFR ≤ 35 ml/min 1.4.3- Proteinuria > 800 mg/day 1.4.4- Recipients of
      multiple organ transplants 1.4.5- Chronic hepatic failure 1.4.6- Asymptomatic bacteriuria
      1.4.7- Creatinine ≥ 2mg/dL on CNI withdrawn time 1.4.8- Proteinuria ≥ 1g/24h on CNI withdrawn
      time 1.4.9- Presence of uncontrolled hypercholesterolemia (≥ 350 mg/dL, ≥ 9.1 mmol/L) 1.4.10-
      Hypertriglyceridemia (≥ 500 mg/dL, ≥ 5.6 mmol/L)

      1.5- Statistical analysis

      This is an investigational and interventional study, with two-arms, to evaluate the renal
      function and composite efficacy end-point after conversion of immunosuppressive regime from
      tacrolimus to everolimus. As this is a pilot study, the sample size was estimated with 20
      patients in each arm (total = 40 patients) according to the number of kidney transplants
      usually performed at the hospital.

      For GRF evaluation ANOVA will be used. A difference of 5-10ml/min at GRF is expected
      comparing study and control group.

      The incidence of acute rejection will be analyzed by chi-square.
    
  