
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was in response to a demonstration and education initiative, "Improving
      Hypertensive Care for Inner City Minorities", which was reviewed and approved by the Clinical
      Applications and Prevention Advisory Committee in April 1992 and by the National Heart, Lung,
      and Blood Advisory Council in May 1992. The Request for Applications was released in October
      1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Components of the program included a community education campaign, an educational
      intervention for private physicians, and major modifications in the process of care for
      hypertensives in a health care system that was the largest single provider to the target
      area. The intervention area was compared to a similar community in another part of the city
      which was served by different private and public providers. Pre- and post-intervention random
      samples of persons ages 18-74 were selected from each geographical area to assess the
      effectiveness of the program in reducing the prevalence of uncontrolled hypertension. The
      community intervention focused on improving awareness and need to maintain treatment. The
      private physician intervention focused on strategies for promoting long-term patient
      adherence. The public hospital clinic/systems components were: 1) educating providers, 2)
      instituting an evening clinic for the working poor, 3) providing tailored patient education
      programs which were culturally sensitive and did not require class attendance, and 4)
      implementing a program in the public hospital emergency center to identify and refer patients
      with undetected hypertension or hypertension not under regular care.

      Efforts, including reminders and follow-up by community health center social workers, were
      used to keep patients active in treatment programs. The community intervention was directed
      by the co-investigator from Texas Southern University (TSU), an historically Black university
      located in the intervention area. He had extensive experience in community outreach. The
      intervention toward private physicians was directed by investigators from Baylor College of
      Medicine who had established clinical credibility in the physician community. The
      investigators from Baylor also had direct supervision over the physicians who provided care
      in the Harris County Hospital District (HCHD) public health care system. The HCHD was deeply
      committed to the project and had a high level of representation in all the planning phases.
    
  