
    
      Background:

        -  Urothelial carcinoma, present as lower or upper urinary tract disease, is the most
           expensive malignancy to treat from diagnosis to death, and no major advances in drug
           therapy have taken place in the last two decades.

        -  Understanding the molecular mechanisms and genomic alterations that cause urothelial
           carcinoma will provide the foundation for the development of novel targeted therapeutic
           agents for this disease. Since 1982 investigators in the Urologic Oncology Branch have
           been studying the genetic basis of urologic cancers. The identification of the genes for
           cancer of the kidney has led to the approval by the FDA of a number of new agents for
           patients with advanced disease. Similarly, it is our goal to study the cancer biology
           (genomic, molecular, and cellular biology) of urothelial carcinoma in order to develop
           novel treatment strategies.

        -  Collection of patient tumor samples allows us to study molecular and biologic pathways
           and develop novel targeted therapies. Correlation of these samples with clinical
           outcomes in patients allows us to predict and understand clinical outcomes and possibly
           develop predictive and/or prognostic biomarkers.

        -  Collection of blood, urine and saliva from healthy volunteers will allow us to
           distinguish normal and inflammatory conditions from malignant diseases. Furthermore, the
           specimens will provide appropriate controls for comparison.

      Objective (Primary):

        -  Collect blood, urine, and benign and malignant tissue from patients with known or
           suspected urothelial cancer for the purpose of elucidating the molecular mechanisms of
           carcinogenesis in urothelial cancer and ultimately, identifying novel therapeutic
           targets.

        -  Collect blood, urine and saliva from healthy volunteers for the purpose of establishing
           controls for comparison with urothelial cancer specimens.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with biopsy-proven or suspected urothelial cancer who require diagnostic or
           therapeutic intervention as part of their diagnosis, standard of care treatment, or
           followup/surveillance for their neoplasm.

        -  Healthy volunteers from whom blood, saliva and urine samples are easily obtainable.

      Design:

        -  Care of the patient with urothelial carcinoma will be provided as per medically
           indicated standards and in the process, normal and malignant urothelial cancer tissues
           may be obtained at the time of clinically indicated diagnostic and/or therapeutic
           intervention.

        -  Blood, urine, and saliva samples for research may be obtained from patients and healthy
           volunteers at baseline. Additionally, blood and urine may be collected from patients at
           follow-up intervals.

        -  No investigational or experimental therapy will be given as part of this protocol.
    
  