
    
      History and current related studies Pedicle screw fixation has been widely used in spinal
      surgery, such as spinal fractures, lumbar spondylolisthesis, scoliosis, lumbar spinal
      stenosis. However, difficulties in pedicle screw placement are unavoidable because of
      anatomical variations in the spinal structure and spinal degeneration. Consequently, the
      precise localization for screw placement is essential. If not, errors in screw placement will
      result in reduced strength or even failure of the internal fixation, which may lead to a
      series of injuries, including nerve root injury, dural sac tear, vascular injury and even
      spinal cord injury. To conclude, it is urgent to improve the accuracy of screw placement and
      reduce complications of screw placement in the pedicle screw fixation.

      With the rapid adoption of digital medicine and 3D printing technology in orthopedic
      practice, 3D techniques, based on preoperative high-resolution CT scan data, can
      theoretically restore the three-dimensional structure of the bone. That is to say, the
      investigators can present a detailed description of the complex anatomical structure of the
      bone, to accurately make a preoperative plan and an intraoperative simulation. Numerous
      evidences have been achieved with digital three-dimensional reconstruction and 3D techniques
      to assist the posterior pedicle screw fixation in the treatment of spine lesions.

      Adverse events Postoperative adverse events were recorded and reported to the Affiliated
      Hospital of Putian Hospital within 24 hours.

      Proper therapeutic measures could be performed if the following adverse events occurred,
      including incision infection, back muscle pain, dural sac tear, vascular injury, nerve root
      injury, spinal cord injury, screw falling off and loosening.

      Data collection, management, analysis, and open access Baseline data were collected at the
      day when the participants were enrolled in the study. Other data were collected
      preoperatively, intraoperatively, postoperatively and during the follow-up. All data were
      input using Epidata and saved electronically.

      All data regarding this clinical study were preserved by the Affiliated Hospital of Putian
      University, China.

      All data were statistically analyzed by professional statisticians who were responsible for
      completing an outcome analysis report that was submitted to the project manager who was
      responsible for completing a research report. An independent data monitoring committee was
      responsible for data monitoring and management throughout the entire trial.

      Statistical analysis All data were statistically analyzed by statisticians using SPSS 19.0
      software (IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, USA) in accordance with the intention-to-treat
      principle.

      Normally distributed measurement data were expressed as means, standard deviations, minimums,
      and maximums; non-normally distributed data were expressed as lower quartiles, medians, and
      upper quartiles.
    
  