
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines have potential to prevent an average of 26,900 cancer
      cases each year in the United States, but vaccine coverage rates remain low. The study team
      has developed a health information technology (HIT) electronic application (app), Protect Me
      4, to help parents and providers assess and have more productive conversations about needed
      vaccines.

      In past studies, Protect Me 4 users have demonstrated three times higher chances of
      initiating the HPV vaccine. Despite this promise, Protect Me 4 system implementation suffered
      from very low reach within clinics. In this phase of the project, the investigators will
      assess the feasibility of implementing Protect Me 4 in community clinics, as well as test
      vaccination rate data collection strategies and estimate the preliminary efficacy of Protect
      Me 4 to increase HPV vaccine initiation. Seven clinics will participate in the study, and
      three will be randomly assigned the use of Protect Me 4. Three of the clinics will act as
      controls and will not receive Protect Me 4. The final clinic will receive the intervention
      (but has not participated in any of the intervention development. This clinic will s as a
      demonstration clinic for the subsequent R01.

      For evaluation, vaccination records will be grouped in three-month periods [initial (months
      1-3), implementation (months 4-6) and maintenance (months 7-9)] from Medicaid and CHIP
      (Children's Health Insurance Program) claims and Florida Immunization Registry data. During
      the implementation period (months 4-6), intervention clinics will receive the Protect Me 4
      app and External Quality Improvement Support (practice facilitation and external and internal
      provider peer opinion leaders and provider incentives). During the maintenance period (months
      7-9), intervention clinics will receive Protect Me 4 without external support (practice
      facilitation and external provider peer opinion leaders).

      To evaluate effectiveness at the individual-level, the study team will compare vaccination
      rates between eligible adolescents who visited intervention and control clinics across the
      three time periods.
    
  