
    
      Background and Significance:

      Opioid-based analgesia has been a cornerstone of patient care in the setting of acute pain
      for the last century and has undergone logarithmic increase over the past twenty years.
      Unfortunately, the rise in utilization has brought with it a rise in opioid-induced side
      effects. These include constipation, nausea/vomiting, hyperalgesia, delirium,
      addiction/withdrawal (with 67% of those prescribed a long-term opioid program still on
      opioids at an average of 4.8 years of follow-up), and in some cases even respiratory
      depression/death. Patient expectations of opioid-based pain medication has driven a rapid
      rise in outpatient opioid prescriptions including both short and long-acting opioids. These
      prescriptions have in turn become a source of significant mortality in the United States,
      with nearly 20,000 deaths due to opioid overdose in 2014 alone.

      There have been momentous efforts made in identifying synergistic compounds to use for acute
      pain management in the perioperative time period to begin to minimize the opioid requirement
      for pain control. These studies have focused on nerve modulation with gabapentinoids,
      intravenous and local administration of sodium-channel blockers such as lidocaine and
      bupivacaine, and even increased interest in non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and
      acetaminophen. At this time, no study has looked at the possibility of utilizing a
      multi-modal acute post-surgical pain control pathway that did not include some form of opioid
      medication for the general population.

      Arthroplasty continues to be a dominant procedure in the orthopaedic armamentarium and
      accounts for well over a million surgeries done in the United States per year. With the
      ability to utilize targeted nerve blocks by anesthesia, and the increasing data showing
      efficacy of multi-modal therapy for acute pain, we propose a patient care pathway that is
      completely free of all opioid-based medications. From the time that patients are checked in
      until the time the patient follows up in clinic, they will utilize a pathway designed to
      eliminate pain and opioid-related side effects following shoulder arthroplasty. Our hope is
      that a well-designed pathway for total shoulder arthroplasty can quickly be modeled for other
      surgical procedures in an attempt to minimize the negative effects of opioid utilization both
      acutely and on a societal level.
    
  