
    
      Pemetrexed is designed to block enzymes in the body that are important for tumor growth.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to one of 3
      groups. All participants will receive pemetrexed once every 3 weeks through a needle in the
      vein over about 10 minutes. Every 3 weeks is considered 1 cycle. Participants in Group 1 will
      receive pemetrexed only. Participants in Group 2 will also receive dexamethasone on Day 1 of
      each cycle through a needle in the vein. Participants in Group 3 will take dexamethasone by
      mouth the day before, the day of, and the day after receiving pemetrexed.

      Three (3) different dose levels of pemetrexed will be studied. The first group of 6
      participants will be treated at Dose Level 1 (lowest of the 3 doses) and evaluated for 3
      weeks. If 0 or 1 out of 6 participants experience severe side effects at Dose Level 1, the
      next group of 6 participants will be treated at Dose Level 2. At any given dose, if greater
      than 1 out of 6 participants experience severe side effects, then no further participants
      will receive that dose or a higher dose.

      Every 3 weeks (each cycle), you will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital
      signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure) and weight. Blood (about 3-4
      teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests. A performance status evaluation (a test
      looking at the ability to perform everyday activities) and a liver function test will also be
      done. Your tumor will be evaluated by CT scan and chest x-ray every 2 cycles of study
      treatment.

      While on study, you will be required to take folic acid by mouth every day for 5-7 days
      before the first dose of pemetrexed and continuing until 3 weeks after your last dose of
      pemetrexed. You will also receive an injection of vitamin B12 into your muscle 1 to 2 weeks
      before your first dose of pemetrexed. The vitamin B12 injection will be repeated every 9
      weeks until 3 weeks after your last dose of pemetrexed. It is very important that folic acid
      and vitamin B12 be given to decrease the risk of severe side effects from the pemetrexed.

      You may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse or intolerable side effects occur. When you stop taking study drug on this study, you
      will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (temperature, pulse,
      breathing rate, and blood pressure) and weight. Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be collected
      for routine tests. A performance status evaluation (a test looking at the ability to perform
      everyday activities) and a liver function test (about 1-2 teaspoons of blood) will also be
      done.

      After completion of 6 cycles of treatment, you will be asked to return to the clinic for
      follow-up visits every 2-3 months for standard follow-up.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved pemetrexed for the treatment of
      non-small cell lung cancer. However, the FDA has authorized pemetrexed for research only in
      the patients with HNSCC. Between 40-50 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  