
    
      Poor growth during neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) hospitalization is a modifiable risk
      factor contributing to mortality and serious long-term morbidity for many of the nearly
      400,000 preterm infants born each year in the United States (US). Active parent involvement
      in preterm infant caregiving promotes parent-infant attachment and leads to higher
      breastfeeding rates, earlier discharge, and improved long-term neurodevelopment. Despite
      decades of evidence of the positive effects of parental involvement, parents remain for the
      most part passive bystanders in the NICU setting. Even with many NICUs adopting a
      Family-Centered Care (FCC) approach, parent-infant contact and parenting skills remain well
      below desired levels.

      Family Integrated Care (FI-Care) is a novel intervention that differs from FCC because it
      formally teaches and supports parents to be primary caregivers for their infants and
      restructures the relationship between parents and clinicians so that parents are fully
      integrated into the care team. There is strong evidence from a large, well-designed cluster
      randomized trial conducted in Canada and Australia that FI-Care improves infant growth and
      breastfeeding rates and reduces maternal stress. However, these findings cannot be
      generalized to US NICUs where parents face many barriers to involvement in their infant's
      NICU care. The research team has developed a secure, HIPAA-compliant, mobile application to
      capture high quality data about parent involvement in NICU caregiving and to deliver
      essential elements of the FI-Care program remotely. This mobile-enhanced FI-Care (mFI-Care)
      may improve involvement of parents who cannot be present in the NICU during daytime hours due
      to distance, employment or other responsibilities and family commitments. Increasing access
      and equity in family-integrated care may improve outcomes for US preterm infants.

      This exploratory two-group, multi-site comparison study will compare usual FCC with mFI-Care
      on growth and clinical outcomes of preterm infants < 33 weeks gestational age, as well as the
      stress, competence and self-efficacy of their parents. The feasibility and acceptability of
      using mobile technology to gather data about parent involvement in the care of preterm
      infants receiving FCC or mFICare as well as of the mFI-Care intervention will be evaluated
      (Aim 1). The effect sizes for infant growth (primary outcome) and for secondary infant and
      parent outcomes at NICU discharge and three months after discharge will be estimated (Aim 2).
      This study will provide important new information on innovative approaches to increasing
      parent involvement in NICU infant caregiving, including the use of a novel mobile
      application. The findings will be used to develop a future US cluster-randomized trial of
      mFI-Care with the aim of improving outcomes for preterm infants and their parents.
    
  