
    
      In recent years the focus in medicine has shifted towards efficient utilization of resources
      and improving patient outcomes. Incentive spirometry (IS) is a tool that mimics the natural
      process of yawning or sighing by allowing the user to take deep breaths in a controlled
      setting. This is a lung inflating maneuver that has been suggested to decrease the rate of
      pulmonary complications. The focus of utilization of IS and current studies has been
      predominantly on the post-operative surgical patient population. The mechanism of pulmonary
      complications in surgical patients is mixed in etiology possibly related to anesthesia,
      analgesics, pain and immobility leading to shallow breathing and subsequent atelectasis with
      concurrent hypoxia and risk of infection. The use of lung expanding maneuvers such as that
      provided by IS are thought to counteract shallow breathing thereby improving pulmonary
      outcomes. However, contrary to physiological theory, multiple studies and meta-analysis have
      failed to demonstrate its efficacy. The results of these studies are in direct conflict with
      what is expected scientifically.

      The authors of this paper set out to find the reason for discordant data in existing
      literature, and found that there have been multiple methodological limitations associated
      with existing studies; hence, interpretation and recommendations based on current data should
      be done with caution. The common denominator in repeated criticisms of existing studies is
      lack of reporting on patient compliance with IS after it is prescribed. This is a major
      confounder, in clinical experience IS is often observed sitting dormant at patients' bedside.
      These observations are in synchrony with criticisms reported in literature and raise serious
      questions about validity of existing data that should be acknowledged. Despite lack of
      convincing evidence, IS is routinely prescribed by physicians in hospital medicine. IS is a
      low cost tool, nevertheless, the increasing frequency of its use is accumulating to a larger
      proportion of health care costs. This calls for further evaluation with a study of higher
      methodological quality to address the limitations of prior studies.

      The scope of this study is different than that of existing studies in that it will evaluate
      the utility of IS in general medical patients. The sub-set of patients that are the focus of
      this study are those admitted with the chief complaint of "shortness of breath." The disease
      process in the former group leading to shortness of breath includes fluid over-load such as
      that in congestive heart failure, or an underlying lung process such as pneumonia, COPD,
      and/or pulmonary embolism. There is a parallel between mechanism of hypoxia in these patients
      and surgical patients in that these patients too often have pain and take high doses of
      analgesics, have shallow monotonous breathing and are immobile for long periods of time. From
      a physiological standpoint sustained maximal inhalation maneuvers may reverse and prevent
      progression of atelectasis by maintaining airway patency in all patients with shallow
      breathing of varying etiology not just the surgical sub-set.

      In a tertiary center community teaching hospital the effectiveness of IS in general medical
      wards will be evaluated using a single center randomized clinical trial. The goal is to offer
      a study that overcomes the limitations of prior studies. Lack of strong evidence based data
      has led to inconsistencies in practice of physicians leading to higher health care costs. The
      authors hope to design a study of high methodological quality to assess the effectiveness of
      IS in medical patients; thereby closing the knowledge gap in evidence based practices that
      may aid physicians in their decision to utilize IS.
    
  