
    
      When comparing the proposed study dose to current literature, the initial study dose of
      80,000 Units administered once per week is equivalent to an individual dose of 1142 Units/kg
      body weight for a 70 kg patient. It is also common in clinical practice for anemic cancer
      patients to be treated with a dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) of 40,000 Units weekly. This
      study was an open-label, non-randomized pilot study of cancer patients with non-myeloid
      malignancies with a hemoglobin < = 11 g/dL planned to receive at least 12 weeks of
      chemotherapy. The objective of the study was to evaluate the hematologic response, safety,
      and clinical outcomes of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) at 80,000 Units given subcutaneously (under
      the skin) once weekly in anemic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. If, at any time the
      hemoglobin was > 13 g/dL, PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) therapy was held until the hemoglobin was <=
      12 g/dL, then resumed at 60,000 Units once weekly. The dose was also reduced if the
      hemoglobin rose by > 1.3 g/dL in a 2 week period.

      Additionally, the incidence of anti-erythropoietin antibodies at baseline and at end of
      study/early withdrawal in study patients who have received a minimum of two or more doses of
      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) over at least a one-month period was evaluated. Rarely, antibodies to
      erythropoietin may form in patients who have some types of diseases (e.g., autoimmune
      diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, anemia of chronic disease) or in response to exposure to
      erythropoietin products such as Epoetin alfa necessitating discontinuation of the
      erythropoietin agent and medical treatment that may include blood transfusions. Hemoglobin
      level, vital signs (blood pressure) and occurrence and severity of adverse events was
      assessed throughout the study. PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) was given at a dose of 80,000 Units
      subcutaneously (under the skin) for 12 weeks. The PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) dose was monitored
      throughout the study and the dose was withheld or reduced as necessary to maintain hemoglobin
      level and rate of hemoglobin rise.
    
  