
    
      The study sample includes patients who had undergone major abdominal surgery induced by upper
      or lower gastrointestinal system malignancies. The patients who met the inclusion criteria
      were informed about the purpose of the study and were invited to the study. Those who
      accepted to participate in the study were included in the study.

      Patients who had undergone major abdominal surgery with general anesthesia (induced by upper
      or lower gastrointestinal system malignancies), who do not have any oral and nasal diseases,
      who do not have visual, hearing, speech and understanding problems, who were in the American
      Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I and II grades, who were aged 18 or over and agreed to
      participate in the study were included.

      Patients whose mouth and tongue mucosa integrity was degraded, who had a cognitive disorder,
      or were suffering from neurological, renal, cardiac or pulmonary disorders that could affect
      the test results, or who use psychoactive drugs were excluded.

      The standard anesthesia protocol was implemented to all patients suitable for the study. In
      the postoperative period, the standard rational dose antibiotic therapy (1st generation
      cephalosporin + metronidazole), metoclopramide HCL, NSAIDs, LMWH, N-acetylcysteine (NAC),
      H2-receptor blockers (ranitidine HCL), pethidine HCL 50 mg/ml, when required, and maintenance
      fluid therapy (Combination of normal saline, lactated Ringer's and Dextrose) by their weight
      were administered to the patients.

      First Control Group: No intervention was performed on the patients in the control group. To
      prevent ethical violations, patients received routine clinical practice (a small amount of
      water was administered orally, using a syringe).

      Second Intervention Group: Cold water kept at +40 C in the refrigerator was added into 50cc
      spray-head bottles and administered to patients orally in the postoperative phase, by
      spraying twice hourly.

      Third intervention Group: Cold normal saline (0.9% NaCl) kept at +40 C in the refrigerator
      was added into 50cc spray-head bottles and administered to patients orally in the
      postoperative phase, by spraying twice hourly.

      No intervention was performed on patients from midnight thru 06:00 AM, in order not to
      disturb the circadian rhythms of all patients.

      Considering surgery end time and circadian rhythms of patients, the data of the patients were
      recorded at the post-operative 4, 8, 20, 24, 36, 40th hours. The flow chart of the study is
      shown in Figure 1. In the cold water and cold normal saline applications, 50cc glass bottles,
      plastic spray head, and cover were used. New material was used for each patient.

      Preoperative measurements: Patients' data such as age, gender, comorbid diseases, ASA
      (American Society of Anesthesiologists) grade, diagnosis, preoperative thirst intensity,
      preoperative mouth dryness intensity, preoperative oral health condition were recorded.

      Outcome measurements Postoperative evaluations were made after the interventions. Intensity
      of Thirst: VAS with a range of 0-10 points (0: mild, 10 very severe) was used while the
      thirsty severity of all patients were evaluated.

      Intensity of Mouth Dryness: VAS with a range of 0-10 points (0: never experiencing mouth
      dryness, 10: experiencing very intense mouth dryness) was used while the mouth dryness
      severity of all patients were evaluated.

      Oral Health Condition: To assess patients' oral health condition, the Oral Health Assessment
      Tool (OHAT) was used. The first four items of the scale that assess lips, tongue, gums and
      tissue, and saliva were used. The lowest score to be obtained from the scale is 0, while the
      highest score is 8 (0=healthy; 1=changes; 2=unhealthy). A higher OHAT score indicates a poor
      oral condition.

      Saliva PH: To measure the PH of saliva, the patient's saliva sample in a sterile container
      was assessed using PH test strips.

      Patient Satisfaction: To evaluate patient satisfaction, overall satisfaction was scored using
      a 10-point numerical rating scale (NRS) from 0 (complete dissatisfaction) to 10 (complete
      satisfaction).

      At the postoperative 4th hour, the severity of thirst and dry mouth, oral health status and
      saliva PH values were evaluated in terms of differences between the groups.

      At the postoperative 8th hour, the severity of thirst and dry mouth, oral health status and
      saliva PH values were evaluated in terms of differences between the groups.

      At the postoperative 20,24,36 and 40th hour, the severity of thirst and dry mouth, oral
      health status and saliva PH values were evaluated in terms of differences between the groups.
    
  