
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the complete response rate at 3 months and 1 year in HIV-seropositive patients
           with high-grade anal intraepithelial neoplasia (HGAIN) treated with infrared coagulator
           (IRC) ablation versus observation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the tolerability and safety of IRC ablation versus observation in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the proportion of patients with HGAIN at 1 year.

        -  Evaluate the response and recurrence rates at 1 year of individual lesions in patients
           treated with this regimen vs observation.

        -  Determine the incidence of metachronous lesions in these patients.

        -  Compare the response and recurrence rates at 2 years of individual lesions in patients
           under observation who subsequently received IRC ablation with the response and
           recurrence rates at 1 year in patients initially treated with IRC.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to site. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Infrared coagulator (IRC) contact tip is placed in direct contact with lesion
           under high-resolution anoscopy (HRA) guidance for 1.5 seconds. IRC ablation is reapplied
           until the level of submucosal vessels are reached.

             -  One week after each IRC ablation, patients complete a questionnaire regarding pain,
                bleeding, and other complaints.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive standard of care and undergo observation. After 12 months,
           patients may receive IRC ablation to all anal intraepithelial neoplasia lesions.

      NOTE: Patients may receive a maximum of 6 IRC treatments while on study (3 per year).

      Patients undergo a physical exam, digital rectal exam, anal cytology, and HRA at baseline and
      periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for 2 years.
    
  