
    
      Clinical study to seek a metabolic biomarker(s), detectable by mass spectrometry, that can be
      used to 'stratify' patients with asymptomatic lipoma. In view of the often extensive nature
      of lipomas associated with the low spinal cord, we hypothesise that lipid components, or
      metabolites derived from them, may gain entry to the child's bloodstream. The more
      infiltrative lipomas carry a higher risk of symptomatic deterioration and, we argue, should
      also have a higher chance of generating a lipid 'signature' in the blood and/or urine. Phase
      1 - Cerebrospinal fluid, blood and urine samples will be obtained from patients with spinal
      lipoma undergoing surgery (n = 3 to 5). Informed consent, following appropriate ethics
      committee approval, will be implemented. Blood and urine will be sampled pre-operatively, and
      intra-operative cerebrospinal fluid samples will be obtained. Mass spectrometry analysis will
      identify lipid species present in the cerebrospinal fluid of these patients, and the extent
      to which these are also detectable in the patient's blood and/or urine. Any lipid species
      detected in both cerebrospinal fluid and blood/urine will represent potential biomarkers, and
      will form the focus of the next phase of the study. Phase 2 will then assess the
      discriminatory value of these potential biomarkers by comparing their profiles in blood
      and/or urine from three clinical groups: (i) Patients with spinal lipomas who have
      neurological symptoms/signs, and are attending hospital for surgery (i.e. similar patients as
      in Phase 1). Blood/urine samples will be taken preoperatively, to represent the 'high risk'
      group. (ii) Patients with spinal lipomas who have remained asymptomatic after several years
      follow-up.

      These represent the 'low risk' group; (iii) Patients with spinal conditions not involving
      lipoma. These represent our 'negative' control group. Group sizes will be determined by power
      calculations using variance data from the patient measurements in Phase 1. Statistical
      analysis will be by 1-way ANOVA, or non-parametric equivalent, to test for significant
      differences between the three groups. Mass spectrometry (Figure 2) will be performed in the
      Institute of Child Health Centre for Proteomics, Metabolomics and Lipidomics using nano ultra
      performance liquid chromatography and ultra performance convergence chromatography -
      quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry, a new mass spectral technology for lipidomic and
      metabolomic analysis. Ultra performance convergence chromatography is a chromatography
      technology that uses carbon dioxide present in a super critical fluid state as a mobile phase
      and allows the fractionation of metabolites and lipids according to their class and not
      hydrophobicity. It enables quantitation of all the major lipid classes present in a tissue
      including phospholipids, free fatty acids, esterified fatty acids, cholesterol esters and
      sterols. Non-lipid molecules (e.g. choline) might also show altered abundance in lipoma
      patients and so a more general metabolomics analysis will also be undertaken, if time
      permits.
    
  