
    
      Effective large bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy is still not achieved in all cases that
      undergo the procedure. The use of balanced electrolyte-polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution
      have improved the cleansing results and shortened the time needed for preparing the bowel.
      The problem with using PEG solution alone is the relatively large volume of the solution that
      the patients need to drink. The recommendation is to drink the solution until diarrhea fluid
      is clear and often 4 L or more is needed. Many patients refuse to drink the sufficient volume
      needed to get a clean colon due to non-palatability. Good results of bowel cleansing have
      also been reported with sodium phosphate solution or tablets.

      The fluid volume needed to drink along with sodium phosphate is generally no problem but this
      regimen causes electrolyte disturbances and renal insufficiency that usually are subclinical
      and of no significance. Several combinations of PEG solution and laxatives have been tested
      before. Low-volume PEG plus Bisacodyl preparation was better tolerated but it was not as
      effective as standard large-volume PEG and associated with abdominal cramping.

      PEG solution 2L and Bisacodyl is used for large bowel cleansing in many centers in the United
      States and is the standard regimen used in our colonoscopy unit. In this study the
      investigators compare this standard regimen taken day before colonoscopy with Bolus lukewarm
      saline solution taken orally with yoga exercise on the day of colonoscopy.

      The result of large bowel cleansing is evaluated during the colonoscopy according to a
      validated scoring method. Time to the first bowel movement and total preparation time are
      compared. Solution palatability, patient acceptability, abdominal symptoms, discomfort and
      subjective grading of how hard/easy it was to complete the cleansing program are evaluated
      with questionnaires.
    
  