
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation after a cardiac event or procedure is of key importance to physical
      and psychological recovery. Cardiac rehabilitation comprises a standardized stepwise approach
      to exercise in a supervised setting and is proven to reduce morbidity and mortality after a
      cardiac event. However, cardiac rehabilitation does not necessarily change behavior in the
      long-term and many do not attend cardiac rehabilitation due to lack of motivation, difficulty
      accessing programs, and cost. These individuals loose an important opportunity to improve
      their health, sense of well-being and outcomes. The investigators propose to test the effect
      of a patient-centered approach to reduce sedentary behavior for aging adults added to usual
      cardiac rehabilitation. In this study, the investigators will identify patients at their
      introductory visit to cardiac rehabilitation and randomize to either a program to decrease
      in-home sedentary behavior vs. a standard program to increase in-home exercise. Both groups
      will receive additional support and encouragement to attend cardiac rehabilitation. Using
      motivational interviewing techniques in both groups the investigators will assist the
      patients in recognizing their potential and goal-setting. Patients will be monitored using
      the ActivPAL monitor, a new technology that quantifies sedentary time and steps/day. Patients
      will be monitored four times as they proceed through cardiac rehabilitation for a total of 13
      weeks and receive 3 educational and goal setting sessions. Those in the intervention group
      will have sedentary behavior change emphasized with feedback from the ActivPAL monitor. The
      control group will focus on standard exercise recommendations and feedback from his/her
      exercise diary. Outcomes include change in sedentary time and steps/day. Anticipated results
      include a significant change in the intervention group vs. the control: a decrease in in-home
      sedentary time, an increase in steps/day. The results of this study will provide the basis
      for designing a larger randomized controlled trial to investigate the effects of an
      intervention to reduce sedentary behavior as an adjunct to cardiac rehabilitation especially
      for older adults. Additional investigation will be warranted for those who do not attend
      cardiac rehabilitation but are able to follow a post-cardiac event program to reduce in-home
      sedentary behavior.
    
  