
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of temsirolimus when administered with temozolomide
      in combination with radiotherapy followed by adjuvant temozolomide in patients with newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.

      II. Assess and describe the adverse events associated with this regimen in these patients.

      III. Evaluate the early response to therapy in these patients using an automated
      morphological MRI change detector and physiological MRI techniques, including
      diffusion-weighted imaging, perfusion-weighted imaging, and chemical shift imaging.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the inhibition status of mTOR signaling pathways in peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells in patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Identify potential pharmacokinetic interactions between temozolomide and temsirolimus.

      III. Correlate, preliminarily, survival, progression-free survival, and response with
      pre-treatment tumor tissue molecular markers in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus. Patients are assigned
      to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP 1: (temsirolimus with radiation and temozolomide) Patients receive temsirolimus IV over
      30 minutes once weekly. Beginning 7-10 days later, patients also receive oral temozolomide
      daily and undergo concurrent 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy
      once daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Patients are evaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy. Patients with stable or responding disease proceed to adjuvant therapy.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

      GROUP 2: (radiation and temozolomide) Patients receive oral temozolomide daily and undergo
      concurrent 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily, 5 days
      a week, for 6 weeks. Patients are evaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy.
      Patients with stable or responding disease proceed to adjuvant therapy.

      ADJUVANT THERAPY: Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy patients
      receive oral temozolomide on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Some patients undergo blood collection for immune monitoring and translational/pharmacologic
      studies. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.
    
  