
    
      First-line treatment for anxiety disorders comprises Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, which is
      ineffective in a considerable minority of individuals, and pharmacological treatments, which
      often confer significant side effects. On the other hand, fish-oil-based supplements are
      thought to be safer, efficacious alternatives, especially for individuals not eligible for
      behavioural or pharmacological therapies. Evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs)
      suggests that the long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCn-3 PUFAs)
      eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) may exert beneficial anxiolytic
      effects. It is also suggested that dietary components such as vitamins and minerals e.g.
      a-tocopherol (vitamin E) and Magnesium (Mg), may also play a role in mood. It is furthermore
      theorised that minor allelic carriage of desaturase and apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms
      may also influence the putative anxiolytic potential of dietary components. However, despite
      the abundance of findings in RCTs and animal studies, the putative synergism, additive
      effects and precise mechanism of action of these macro- and micronutrients on anxiety in
      humans are largely unknown.

      To explore this, the investigators have designed a randomised, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial. The investigators will randomise students from the University of
      Roehampton aged 18-29 years (Emerging Adulthood), on a 1:1 allocation ratio, in two groups,
      for 24 weeks:

        1. Active treatment group to be supplemented with a high-EPA multinutrient supplement
           providing a daily dose of 1,125 mg EPA, 441 mg DHA, 330 mg magnesium and 7.5 mg
           α-tocopherol.

        2. Placebo group to be supplemented with an inert oil mix providing a daily dose of 3,060
           mg sunflower seed oil, 60 mg lecithin, 300 mg glyceryl monostearate and 465 mg fish-oil
           (18%/12% EPA/DHA respectively) for blinding.

      The choice of this population was made on the basis of its high-risk nature; university
      students in Emerging Adulthood experience persistent levels of high-academic stress, social
      disconnection and sleep disruption which increase anxiety levels and exacerbate psychological
      distress and disengagement from study. University students are thus a high-risk, vulnerable
      group characterised by higher and increasing rates of anxiety disorders compared to the
      general population. Furthermore, this population is largely neglected by the therapeutic
      literature.

      The study hypothesis is that:

        -  Generally healthy, non-clinically anxious university students in Emerging Adulthood
           experiencing high, non-clinical levels of anxiety, will benefit from supplementation
           with a high-EPA multinutrient supplement, in that the latter will exert beneficial
           anxiolytic effects.

        -  Mg and vitamin E will exert additive anxiolytic effects.

        -  Interindividual variations in fatty acid desaturases (FADS) and APOE genotypes will
           influence the putative anxiolytic potential of the high-EPA multinutrient supplement
           under investigation.

      The investigators will perform mixed-model analysis of covariance for the study primary and
      secondary endpoints, on an intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) basis. This is a
      single-centre investigation which will take place at the Department of Life Sciences of the
      University of Roehampton, harmonised with local and national guidelines and risk assessments,
      the code of Good Clinical Practice and the Declaration of Helsinki. The study findings will
      be reported in accordance with the CONSORT statement.
    
  