
    
      Participants will complete a 14-day protocol during their summer vacation, not during the
      school year. On days 1-6, participants will sleep at home on a stable sleep schedule that
      requires 9 h of time in bed in the dark. This will ensure that participants are not sleep
      deprived before beginning the lab sessions. Wake time will be the average of the
      self-reported wake-up time (± 15 mins) before the study begins measured from pre-study sleep
      logs collected for a week or more. Bedtime will be 9 h before wake-up time. A device worn on
      the wrist that measures activity (actigraph), sleep diaries, and daily telephone messages
      will monitor compliance to the sleep schedule. Participants will visit the lab at least once
      during this week to download and review their data. If participants are not compliant to the
      sleep schedule, they will be dropped from the study.

      On day 7, participants will arrive at the laboratory in the afternoon, and shortly after,
      will begin a baseline circadian phase assessment to determine baseline dim light melatonin
      onset (DLMO), a reliable marker of the circadian timing system. Participants will sleep at
      the laboratory in private dark bedrooms immediately after the phase assessment ends and wake
      up at their fixed wake-up time. They will have a 7-h sleep opportunity on these nights. On
      days 8 and 9, participants will sleep at home for two more nights on the same stable 9-h
      sleep schedule and follow the same procedure as days 1-6.

      On days 10-13, participants will live in the laboratory for four days. Their 9-h fixed sleep
      schedule will be shifted by 1 h per day over 3 days. Participants will sleep in dark bedrooms
      (black bars) in the lab. During scheduled wake, participants will remain awake in normal dim
      room light except during bright light sessions, when light will range from 5000 to 7000 lux.
      Study groups will differ by the light exposure they receive during the 4-day lab sessions. In
      the afternoon bright light (ABL) group, participants will be exposed to 3 h of bright light
      on 3 consecutive afternoons. On the first day (day 11), light boxes will be turned on 10.5 h
      after the midpoint of their stable baseline sleep schedule (6 h after fixed wake-up time).
      Then, the start of the light exposure will move 1 h earlier each day. In the morning bright
      light (MBL) group, participants will be exposed to 3 consecutive mornings of 3 h of bright
      light. On the morning of day 11, the 3-h bright light exposure will begin 3.5 h after the
      midpoint of their stable baseline sleep schedule (1 h before their stable wake-up time). In
      the morning + afternoon bright light (MBL + ABL) group, bright light will begin at the same
      times as the ABL and MBL groups and participants will received the same duration of bright
      light per day (3 h) as the ABL and MBL groups because the duration of each exposure will be
      1.5 h instead of 3 h. Both bright light exposures will move 1 h earlier on subsequent days.
      In the room light control group, participants will complete the same 4-day lab session,
      except remain in dim room lighting. All participants will complete a final circadian phase
      assessment at the end of the 4-day lab session (day 13).
    
  