
    
      All patients in the initial cohort were treated with long protocol for ovarian stimulation.
      For pituitary down-regulation, patients were treated with daily administration of 0.5 mg
      buserelin (suprefact, Aventis, Frankfurt, Germany) from day 21 of menstrual cycle. Buserelin
      was reduced to 0.25 mg daily when ovaries were quiescent on ultrasound, and COH was initiated
      with recombinant FSH (Gonal F, Serono, Aubnne, Switzerland) 150 IU/day on day 2 of withdrawal
      bleeding. Serial ultrasound examinations and evaluation of serum E2 levels were used to
      assess ovarian response, and then gonadotropin dose adjustments were done as required. Human
      chorionic gonadotropin (pregnyl, Organon, Oss, the Netherlands ) 10,000 IU was administered
      when at least two follicles reached a mean diameter of 18 mm.

      Oocyte retrieval was performed 34-36 hours after hCG administration and conventional
      insemination or ICSI was performed as clinically appropriate.

      In 187 patients allocated to fresh ET group, ET were performed on the day 2. Embryos were
      transferred under ultrasound guidance, with a C.C.D. embryo transfer catheter (Laboratory
      C.C.D., Paris, France). Luteal support with progesterone in oil (Progesterone, Aburaihan Co.,
      Tehran, Iran) 100 mg daily IM was started on the day of oocyte retrieval and continued until
      the documentation of fetal heart activity on ultrasound.

      In 187 patients allocated to FET group, cryopreservation of all embryos were undertaken with
      vitrification by Cryotop method and after two months, embryos were transferred.

      The protocol for the Cryotop vitrification of embryos was described previously (Kuwayama et
      al., 2005; Kuwayama, 2007).

      After a two-step loading with equilibration solution containing 7.5% (v/v) ethylene glycol
      and 7.5% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide, and vitrification solution containing 15% (v/v) ethylene
      glycol, 15% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide and 0.5 mol/L sucrose, embryos were loaded with a narrow
      glass capillary onto the Cryotop in a volume of < 0.1 µL . After loading, almost all the
      solution was removed to leave only a thin layer covering the embryos, and the sample was
      quickly immersed into liquid nitrogen (LN). Subsequently, the plastic cap was pulled over the
      film part of the Cryotop, and the sample was stored under LN. At warming, the protective cap
      was removed from the Cryotop while it was still submerged in LN and the Cryotop was immersed
      directly into a 37˚C medium containing sucrose. The embryos were then sequentially incubated
      in diluents solution before further in vitro culture for transfer.

      Patients were prepared for ET with oral E2 to attain endometrial thickness ≥ 8 mm and triple
      line pattern on ultrasound scans. At that time, patients were given 100 mg of IM progesterone
      in oil daily and ET was preformed three days later under abdominal ultrasound guidance as
      described earlier. Oral E2 and progesterone were continued until documentation of fetal heart
      activity by ultrasonography.
    
  