
    
      Participant is being asked to take part in this study because participant has a lesion in
      participant's brain which is suspected or proven to be a tumor and participant has been
      scheduled for surgery to remove it.

      Some parts of brain tumors are more aggressive than other parts. A needle biopsy only gets a
      small part of the brain tumor cells. Doctors (neurosurgeons) want to get a biopsy sample from
      the most aggressive part of the tumor. Researchers think that AMRI techniques may help to
      better target the most aggressive part of the tumor for the needle biopsy.

      AMRI Scan:

      In addition to the images that will be taken as part of participant's standard of care
      surgery preparation, participant will have an AMRI scan performed. The AMRI has several
      parts. There are 2 perfusion scans that use a contrast dye to look at small blood vessels.
      There is a spectroscopy scan to looks at the chemical make-up of the tumor. There is also a
      diffusion scan to look at how water moves in the tumor and can see the white matter that
      connects both sides of brain parts. The AMRI scans are performed in the same way as normal
      MRI scans and in the same scanner. They can be noisy, but do not feel any different than
      standard MRI exams.

      In most cases, the AMRI should take less than 1 hour to complete and will be performed within
      2 weeks before participant's standard of care surgery.

      Surgery During the surgery, the neurosurgeon(s) will use the information collected from the
      AMRI to decide what area of the brain tumor will be biopsied. The biopsies are only from
      areas that would normally be cut out during surgery and will not change the way the surgery
      is done even if participant chooses not to take part in this study. Biopsies (from up to 5
      locations, each smaller than participant's thumbnail) will be taken before the tumor is
      surgically removed. The tumor tissue samples from the biopsies will be tested to learn more
      about the tumor and optionally the DNA inside(the genetic material of cells - this procedure
      is described in the optional procedures section below).

      After the surgery is over, participant will continue to have participant's standard of care
      follow-up appointments in the neurosurgery clinic.

      Length of Study After the biopsy is complete, your active participation on this study will be
      over. Participant's medical records will continue to be reviewed for up to an additional 5
      years.

      Follow-Up Medical Record Review:

      After participant's active participation on this study is over, participant's medical record
      will be reviewed to learn how participant is doing, what other treatments participant may
      have had and how they worked, if participant had any new brain problems or if the tumor came
      back. Researchers will review and record information from participant's medical records for
      up to 5 years after participant's active participation on this study is over.
    
  