
    
      Obesity has become a global epidemic causing enormous human and economic costs. According to
      the World Health Organization in 2011 overweight and obesity represent the fifth leading risk
      of death globally, with 2.8 million adults dying each year as a result of excess weight.
      Worldwide, estimates of overweight and obesity have reached 1.5 billion and 500 million
      respectively. In addition to an overall increased mortality among this population, a large
      body of evidence has shown that excess weight is linked to several chronic illnesses
      including cardiovascular diseases (e.g. stroke), diabetes mellitus (type 2), certain cancers
      (e.g. breast and colon cancer) and osteoarthritis. Furthermore, obesity inflicts major
      economic losses. Past research has confirmed that obesity is associated not only with higher
      medical expenditures due to greater usage of medical services but also with increased
      non-medical costs, for example due to absenteeism from work.

      While the continuous rise of overweight and obesity is a major concern globally, it has
      reached particular urgency in the MENA region where prevalence rates of both conditions have
      risen to alarming levels. For example, two recent systematic literature reviews focusing on
      the Arabian Gulf States reported overweight and obesity rates from 25 to 48% and 13 to 49%
      respectively across the six countries. UAE-specific data showed obesity rates ranging from 26
      to 47%. Additionally, the authors identified the UAE as the Gulf state with the highest
      hypertension and diabetes rates. In fact, the 2011 UAE diabetes figure of 19% has been
      confirmed to be one of the highest in the world. When looking at MENA countries outside the
      Gulf, the highest obesity rates were reported for Syria and Jordan (38% and 35%,
      respectively).

      In order to tackle the increasing burden of obesity, effective intervention and prevention
      approaches are required. While behavioral and pharmacological treatments (e.g. low calorie
      diets, exercise, medication) are successful means for overcoming overweight and mild obesity,
      cases of more severe obesity usually fail to respond to such interventions. Instead, more
      radical measures such as bariatric surgery are typically needed to achieve substantial weight
      loss. Past research has shown that most patients lose significant amounts of weight after
      surgery. However, weight loss maintenance remains problematic with weight regain and other
      adjustment difficulties (e.g. adapting healthy eating behaviors) being common. Yet, little is
      known about the risk factors that may trigger weight relapse. Previous research in this
      context has pointed toward high levels of mental health problems among obese individuals
      including bariatric surgery patients. Affective, anxiety and eating disorders (in particular
      binge eating symptoms) were most commonly reported with prevalence rates reaching up to 84%.
      However, the impact of preoperative psychopathology on actual surgery outcomes is not well
      understood. Results remain inconsistent and further research is needed to determine whether
      or not psychological factors jeopardize successful surgery outcomes. Another important
      question in this regard is whether postoperative interventions that focus on patients'
      psychological health are helpful in sustaining the achieved weight loss and in coping with
      postoperative adjustment difficulties. Until now, only few empirical studies have addressed
      this question. Findings so far indicated a positive impact of postoperative counseling on
      patients' weight management and overall well-being. However, small sample sizes, differences
      in study methodology (e.g. qualitative vs. quantitative), and the diversity of therapeutic
      interventions provided impede any firm conclusions.

      In addition to these uncertainties, it is important to recognize that research in the field
      of bariatric surgery and mental health has been almost entirely restricted to Western
      countries. Despite repeated searches of several databases (e.g. PsycInfo, Academic Search
      Premier, and Medline) and examination of bibliographies of relevant papers no matching
      studies from MENA countries could be found. This lack of regional data is a major concern
      given the difficulty of generalizing findings cross-culturally on the one hand and the high
      obesity rates in this part of the world on the other. MENA-based research in this field would
      yield vital insights for policy makers, commissioners and practitioners in the management and
      delivery of evidence-based best-practice and patient-oriented care.

      Therefore, the proposed study aims to:

        1. Examine psychological health before and after bariatric surgery among obese patients in
           the UAE and Jordan

        2. Investigate the impact of patients' psychological health on postoperative weight loss,
           and

        3. Assess the efficacy of group-based counseling to improve patient outcomes (i.e. weight
           loss and psychological health) after bariatric surgery

      The study hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Participants with higher levels of psychological health problems before surgery will
           lose less weight (in %) during the first 12 months after surgery than patients with
           lower levels of psychological health problems.

        2. Participants who receive postoperative counseling in addition to standard treatment will
           lose more weight (in %) during the first 12 months after surgery than patients who are
           provided with standard treatment only.

        3. Participants who receive postoperative counseling in addition to standard treatment will
           show less psychological health problems at 12 months after surgery than patients who are
           provided with standard treatment only.
    
  