
    
      The primary objective is to determine the effect of prescribing inhaled corticosteroids in
      addition to short acting beta agonists and oral corticosteroids (if indicated) from the
      Pediatric Emergency Department (PED) on relapse rates within 28 days. Secondary objectives
      include the effect of this intervention on hospitalization rates and asthma quality of life
      within the study period.

      Selection criteria include patients aged ≤18 years presenting with a chief complaint
      consistent with asthma exacerbation with previous diagnosis of asthma by a physician OR one
      major in the Asthma Predictive Index (API) with two prior episodes of wheezing in the past
      year. Children who received oral corticosteroids as part of treatment during this visit for
      acute asthma exacerbation and deemed well enough after interventions to be discharged by the
      treating physician will be approached for enrollment. Exclusion criteria include patients who
      received asthma controller medications within four weeks prior to presentation or an allergy
      to intervention asthma controller mediations.

      Patients will be randomized using a random number generator to the intervention group, or
      standard care (control) group in a 1:1 ratio. Patients assigned to the intervention group
      will be subject to initiation of an asthma controller medication upon discharge. The
      intervention group will receive a one-month supply of a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid from
      the PED. Patients <5 years of age or patients who prefer nebulized medications will receive a
      one month supply of low dose Pulmicort (budesonide) solution 0.25mg/respule to be given twice
      a day via nebulizer. Patients ≥5 years of age will receive one low dose QVAR (Beclometasone
      dipropionate) metered-dose inhaler (MDI) 40mcg/puff with instructions to take it two puffs
      twice a day with spacer. Patients allocated to the control group will not receive an asthma
      controller medication from the PED. Both groups will receive prescriptions for oral
      corticosteroids as per standard treatment and inhaled albuterol. The Mini Pediatric Asthma
      Control Tool (MPACT), a validated questionnaire used to rapidly identify persistent asthma
      symptoms in the PED will also be administered prior to discharge to assess for persistent
      asthma symptoms.

      Patients will be followed up with a telephone call at 28 days to collect outcome data.
      Additional attempts will be made at 29 and 30 days post-discharge if initial attempts at
      contact are unsuccessful. Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed during this call.
      The caller will not be blinded to group assignment. Asthma relapse rates, hospital admission
      rates, and medication compliance will be assessed during this follow up call. In addition,
      the Mini Pediatric Asthma Control Tool will be re-administered to assess change in asthma
      control.
    
  