
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the incidence and severity of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated
      with oxaliplatin-containing regimens in patients with gastrointestinal (GI) malignancy.

      II. To estimate the percent of patients who have experienced nausea and vomiting with their
      first or second cycle of oxaliplatin-containing regimen, and would consent to randomization
      to standard antiemetic therapy with or without aprepitant.

      III. To obtain preliminary data on the safety and efficacy of aprepitant, in combination with
      dolasetron (dolasetron mesylate) and dexamethasone, in patients receiving
      oxaliplatin-containing regimen.

      IV. To report on medication compliance with antiemetic medications (dexamethasone and
      aprepitant or placebo) scheduled to be taken at home on days 2 and 3 for all randomized
      patients (day 1 = day of treatment).

      OUTLINE: Patients receive standard antiemetics comprising dolasetron mesylate orally (PO) or
      intravenously (IV) and dexamethasone PO or IV during course 1 of oxaliplatin-containing
      chemotherapy. Patients experiencing any grade 1-4 nausea and vomiting* are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive dolasetron mesylate PO or IV, dexamethasone PO or IV, and aprepitant
      PO 1 day before chemotherapy and dexamethasone PO and aprepitant PO on days 2 and 3 after
      chemotherapy begins during course 2-3.

      ARM II: Patients receive dolasetron mesylate and dexamethasone as in Arm I and placebo PO 1
      day before chemotherapy and dexamethasone PO and placebo PO on days 2 and 3 after
      chemotherapy begins during courses 2-3.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: * Patients not developing nausea and vomiting until the second course of treatment are
      also randomized during courses 3 and 4 of chemotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  