
    
      Background:

      Vascular cognitive impairment no dementia (VCIND) refers to cognitive deficits associated
      with underlying vascular causes which fall short of a dementia diagnosis. Because of its high
      prevalence and high progression to dementia, interest in VCIND has greatly expanded in recent
      years. Although it has been widely recognized that early intervention of VCIND holds the
      potential to delay or even reverse the cognitive impairment, no treatment is available yet.
      Executive dysfunction is the characteristic impairment in subcortical VCIND, and cognitive
      training significantly improved executive and other aspects of cognitive function in health
      older adults and patients with cognitive impairment. Whether and how cognitive training
      improves cognitive function in patients with VCIND remains largely unknown.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this double-blinded, randomized RCT is to assess whether
      internet-based cognitive training in patients with subcortical VCIND improves their cognitive
      abilities. The second objective is to evaluate the effect of cognitive training on neural
      plasticity, including brain activation and white matter integrity, which are assessed by
      functional and structural MRI. Finally, possible genetic and plasma biomarkers related to a
      positive effect or lack of effect of the training will be examined.

      Patients and Methods:

      The proposed study is a three-center, double-blinded, randomized controlled trial that will
      include 60 patients diagnosed with VCIND from the neurology clinics at Beijing Friendship
      hospital, Xuan Wu hospital, and geriatric clinic at Fu Xing hospital, Capital Medical
      University. The patients will be randomized to either a training or a control group. The
      intervention is internet-based cognitive training performed for 30 minutes over 35 sessions.
      Neuropsychological assessment and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be
      performed before and 7 weeks after training.

      Relevance:

      Currently there is no known treatment available for VCIND. The proposed study is to determine
      the efficacy of cognitive training in patients with VCIND. Secondly, using functional and
      structural MRI, this study is to reveal the potential mechanism underlying cognitive
      training.
    
  