
    
      Fibroproliferative diseases are the cause of 45% of deaths in developed countries. A wide
      range of diseases belongs to this category, including pulmonary fibrosis.

      The fact that in some fibroproliferative diseases the fibrotic process may involve several
      organs suggests the activation of common causative and pathophysiological mechanisms, which
      involve inflammatory cells - in particular macrophages and T lymphocytes - epithelial and
      endothelial cells and fibrogenesis effector cells (fibroblasts, myofibroblasts and
      fibrocytes). Even in fibroproliferative diseases that apparently have no multiorgan
      manifestations, such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), idiopathic myelofibrosis and
      cardiac fibrosis, common pathogenic pathways have already been studied and recognized (e.g.
      metabolic pathway of the transforming growth factor-beta -TGF-β- and activation of the
      transcription factor c-JUN which cause uncontrolled production of collagen fibers by
      fibroblasts).

      Furthermore, cardiovascular comorbidities are frequently found in patients with IPF,
      particularly ischemic heart disease and arrhythmias. With regard to ischemic heart disease
      the prevalence reported in patients with IPF is directly proportional to the high prevalence
      of left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. However, the nature of the association between IPF
      and ischemic heart disease as well as the prevalence of cardiac and vascular fibrosis in
      patients with IPF have yet to be determined.

      The primary purpose of our study is to evaluate, with non-invasive methods (echocardiogram,
      endothelial function and pulse wave velocity) and blood biomarkers (galectins-3, osteopontin,
      periostin and pro-BNP), the presence of vascular fibrosis (vascular rigidity and endothelial
      function) and cardiac fibrosis (prevalence of HFpEF - Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection
      Fraction) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), compared to the general
      population.

      Secondary purposes are the evaluation of the association between the presence and the degree
      of pulmonary-cardiac-vascular fibrosis and the level of biomarkers analysed (pro-BNP,
      galectins-3, osteopontin and periostin) and the evaluation of the association between the
      presence / degree of vascular and / or cardiac fibrosis at baseline and disease progression
      at 1 year from the diagnosis of IPF.

      Explorative aim of the study is also to evaluate the association between the degree of
      pulmonary fibrosis and the levels of blood proteomic and metabolomic biomarkers measured at
      baseline only in IPF patients.

      Study design: multicenter observational case-control study. For IPF patients, participation
      in the study consists of two visits (T1, at IPF diagnosis, and T3, 1 year after T1) at the
      IPF clinic where the patient is followed up, as per normal clinical practice. Clinical
      history, arterial blood gas analysis and / or SpO2, pulmonary function tests and DLco and 6
      minutes walking tests will be collected at T1 and T3. Blood samples for pro-BNP, galectin-n3,
      osteopontin, periostin and proteomic / metabolomic analysis will be collected at T1. A
      cardiological evaluation (T2), within 1 month of T1, will be performed in order to collect
      cardiological clinical data and to perform the following non-invasive measurements:
      echocardiogram, flow mediated dilation (FMD), pulse wave velocity (PWV).

      For healthy volunteers the participation in the study consists of a baseline visit during
      which cardiopulmonary physical examination, clinical data and blood samples for biomarkers
      will be collected (T1). A cardiological examination with echocardiogram, FMD and PWV will
      take place within 1 month from T1.
    
  