
    
      The antiviral treatment, interferon-α with ribavirin, has been used in treating chronic
      hepatitis C patients to prevent the development of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma. However, the duration of this treatment needs at least 6 months and severe side
      effects such as anemia, fatigue, depression with suicidal thoughts can occur at any time
      throughout the treatment. There has been no study related to the issue of the risk to the
      population of developing these severe side effects and failing the treatment. Therefore, the
      aims of this three-year study are to explore symptom experience and its related factors for
      the patients with chronic hepatitis C Infection receiving interferon-α with ribavirin for 24
      weeks and further to develop a prediction model for individuals to predict the relative risk
      of failure or occurence of severe side effects which interrupt the treatment. Patients will
      be recruited from outpatients in two hospitals in Northern and Middle Taiwan. A longitudinal
      study is designed with a one-year follow-up at pre-treatment, and at the 1, 2, 4, 6, 8,
      12,16,20, 24 weeks during treatment, and at the 4, 12, 24 weeks of post-treatment. The basic
      information including the laboratory data, the Symptom Distress Scale, the Fatigue Symptom
      Inventory, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, MOS, and the Short-Form 12
      Health-Related Quality of Life questionnaires will be used to assess patients' demographic
      characteristics, symptom experience, fatigue, depression, anxiety, sleep disturbance, and
      quality of life during the treatment. Three hundred patients will be interviewed within three
      years. The data will be analyzed using descriptive, independent t-test, Pearson's
      correlation, Analysis of Variances, generalized estimating equations, logistic regression,
      and classification tree. We expect this study to explore the characteristics of the
      population with high risks of treatment failure to severe side effects during treatment in
      Taiwan. In addition, the results can provide the information for clinicians and researchers
      to tailor interventions to individual needs.
    
  