
    
      Concurrent platinum-based chemoradiation remains the standard of care in locally advanced
      head and neck cancer. The current standard radiation regimen consists in a 7-week course of
      conventionally fractionated radiotherapy to the gross tumor volume (GTV), along with
      bilateral prophylactic neck irradiation to an elective dose of ~ 50 Gy in 2 Gy per fraction.
      In addition to being cumbersome, the current protracted daily radiation course is associated
      with high rates of acute and late toxicities and significant deterioration of patients'
      quality of life. In the light of the remarkably improved prognosis of the distinct subgroup
      of HPV-OPC, there is growing interest for treatment de-intensification strategies in
      contemporaneous OPC cohorts.

      Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) allows for ultra-precise delivery of ablative
      radiation dose over a small number of fractions, by combining sharp dose gradients with use
      of optimal image guidance. The increased conformity and reduced margins used in SABR can
      substantially reduce the dose to surrounding organs at risk and could therefore reduce
      toxicity. In addition, previous work has shown that an elective dose of 40 Gy in 2 Gy per
      fraction, in conjunction with chemotherapy, is sufficient for microscopic sterilisation of
      cancer cells and can translate into a reduction of toxicities.

      The goal of this trial is to compare the efficacy and safety of short-course chemoradiation
      consisting in stereotactic boost to the gross tumor of 14 Gy in 2 fractions followed by
      de-esclalated chemoradiation (40 Gy in 20 fractions and concurrent 2 cycles of Cisplatin
      100mg/m2) in human papilloma associated oropharynx cancer vs. the current standard 7-week
      course chemoradiation (70 Gy in 33 fractions with 2-3 cycles of Cisplatin 100mg/m2).

      This is an open label randomized phase II trial with 2 planned interim safety (toxicity)
      analysis and 1 futility (locoregional control) analysis with go/no go decision to pursue the
      study based on probabilities of toxicities and LRC (Bayesian adaptive design). Patients will
      be randomized using a 1:1 ratio between the standard and the experimental arm and will be
      stratified by tumor stage. At the significance level of 0.2 and assuming the LRC rate of 90%
      for both experimental and control arms, 80% for the non-inferiority test with the margin of
      10%, and 6% attrition rate, a total of 106 patients will be enrolled.
    
  