
    
      Background:

        -  Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) transfer studies in patients with metastatic
           melanoma following lymphodepletion have resulted in 50% objective response rates with a
           10-15% rate of complete responses.

        -  Pre-clinical and clinical studies of adoptive immunotherapy have suggested that
           effective lymphocytes for transfer have high avidity for the target antigen, undergo
           limited in vitro antigen and IL-2 stimulation, and have high expression of cluster of
           differentiation 27+ (CD27+).

        -  We have developed a novel in vitro strategy using high throughput polymerase chain
           reaction (PCR) screening to rapidly isolate low frequency antigen specific cluster of
           differentiation 8+ (CD8+) T cells from the peripheral blood repertoire that have these
           characteristics, and that recognize the gp100:154-162 epitope, an abundantly expressed
           melanoma antigen, presented by human leukocyte antigens (HLAA2) on the tumor surface.

        -  The current proposed transfer of gp100:154-162 reactive lymphocytes administered in
           conjunction with a lymphodepleting preparative regimen and aldesleukin would represent a
           significantly novel approach to adoptive immunotherapy.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether gp100:154-162 reactive cluster of differentiation 4+ (CD4+) T cell
           depleted lymphocytes infused in conjunction with the administration of high-dose
           aldesleukin or low-dose aldesleukin may result in clinical tumor regression in patients
           with metastatic melanoma receiving a non-myeloablative lymphoid depleting preparative
           regimen.

        -  To evaluate the safety of the treatment in patients receiving the non-myeloablative
           conditioning regimen, cell transfer, and high-dose or low-dose aldesleukin.

        -  To determine the survival in patients, of infused cells following the administration of
           the non-myeloablative regimen, using analysis of the sequence of the variable region of
           the T cell receptor or flow cytometry (fluorescence activated cell sorting-FACS).

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with refractory metastatic melanoma who are greater than or equal to 18 years of
      age, are HLA-A2+, who have gp100:154-162 reactive peripheral blood lymphocytes available and
      are physically able to tolerate non-myeloablative chemotherapy. Patients must be refractory
      to prior high dose aldesleukin treatment if they are medically eligible to receive it.
      Patients who can tolerate high-dose aldesleukin will receive it with cell infusion; those who
      cannot tolerate high-dose will receive low-dose aldesleukin.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day X 2 days intravenous (IV)), fludarabine (25
           mg/m^2/day IV X 5 days).

        -  Patients will receive intravenous adoptive transfer of gp100:154-162 reactive peripheral
           blood lymphocytes (minimum 1 X 10^9) and up to a maximum of 3 X 10^11) lymphocytes)
           followed by high-dose intravenous (IV) aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg/dose every 8 hours for
           up to 15 doses) or low-dose subcutaneous (SQ) aldesleukin (125,000 IU IL-2/kg/dose for 5
           days for 6 weeks with 2 days rest per week).

        -  A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted 4-6 weeks after the last
           dose of aldesleukin in the high dose arm and 2-4 weeks after the last dose of
           aldesleukin in the low dose arm. Patients will be enrolled into two cohorts. The cohort
           receiving high dose aldesleukin will be conducted using a small optimal two-stage Phase
           II design, initially 21 patients will be enrolled, and if two or more of the first 21
           patients has a clinical response (partial response (PR) or complete response (CR)),
           accrual will continue to 41 patients, targeting a 20% goal for objective response. For
           the cohort who will receive low dose aldesleukin, the study will be conducted as a
           Minimax two-stage phase II trial. Initially 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled to
           this cohort, and if 1 or more the first 12 have a response, then accrual would continue
           until a total of 21 patients, targeting a 20% goal for objective response.
    
  