
    
      Several interventions for mental health problems are efficacious and effective, but few are
      routinely offered to college students, who represent 59% of young adults. This is regrettable
      because college students are at high risk for mental health problems (e.g., depression,
      substance abuse, eating disorders), and college counseling centers lack sufficient clinicians
      to offer individual therapy to all afflicted students and are not well positioned to deliver
      prevention programs. One solution for this service shortfall is to have peer educators
      deliver scripted group-based prevention programs, which can more efficiently reduce the
      burden of mental illness than individual therapy. Targeting college students is a
      cost-effective tactic for delivering prevention programs and has vast potential reach because
      85% of colleges have peer educator programs. Peer educators have effectively delivered
      several prevention programs, sometimes producing larger effects than clinicians. This study
      will investigate 3 levels of implementation support (training, training with technical
      assistance, and training with technical assistance and quality assurance) and the impacts of
      differing levels of implementation support on program outcomes across 57 college campuses
      nationwide. Specifically we have five aims for this study:

      Aim 1: Test whether greater implementation support is associated with graded increases in
      fidelity and competence in delivering the scripted prevention program. This will be assessed
      by an established procedure for reliably rating fidelity and competence of audio-recorded
      intervention sessions.

      Aim 2: Test whether greater implementation support, which should increase fidelity and
      competence of intervention delivery, is associated with graded increases in student
      attendance of intervention sessions (recorded by the peer educators) and effectiveness of the
      prevention program (measured by pre-to-post changes in core outcomes assessed with anonymous
      surveys completed by group participants) and compared to parallel pre-to-post change data
      collected from students at the colleges before implementation is initiated.

      Aim 3: Test whether greater implementation support is associated with graded increases in
      program reach (% of female students at each college who complete the prevention program
      during the 1-year implementation period) and sustainability (% of female students at each
      college who complete the prevention program during the subsequent 2-year sustainability
      monitoring period).

      Aim 4: Test whether Consolidated Framework for Implementation of Research (CFIR) indices of
      perceived intervention factors, outer and inner setting factors, peer educator attributes,
      and process factors after the initial training correlate with fidelity, competence,
      attendance, effectiveness, and reach over the 1-year implementation period and with
      sustainability. We will test whether at the end of the initial implementation period the 3
      conditions differ on relevant CFIR indices and on the progress and speed of implementation.

      Aim 5: Compare the prevention program delivery cost in the 3 implementation conditions, and
      the relative cost-effectiveness of each condition in terms of attaining fidelity, competence,
      attendance, and effectiveness, reach, and sustainability, plus cost-savings from and
      reductions in waitlists and eating disorder prevalence at clinics.

      Starting in March of 2020, virtually-hosted Body Project groups are being recommended to
      participating Peer Education teams in contexts where in-person groups can not be offered due
      to COVID-19 social distancing guidelines. Existing research indicates that virtual Body
      Project groups are a viable and effective alternative in-person groups.
    
  