
    
      The subjects in this study are patients with aortic arch disease, after scientific assessment
      made by the team with wide experience in aortic open surgery and endovascular treatment, who
      are able to both withstand traditional total aortic arch replacement (TAR) and are suitable
      for complete thoracic endovascular aortic repair (cTEVAR) in terms of anatomical structure.
      According to the requirement of statistical analysis, more than 400 patients would be
      enrolled in the four centers (Fuwai Hospital, Peking University People's Hospital,
      China-Japan Friendship Hospital and Beijing Hospital) within 2 years. Combined the actual
      situation of the patients, subjects would be divided into TAR and cTEVAR groups. During the
      study, the investigators would collect the data including blood and biochemical indexes,
      complications, aortic CT examination, surgical procedure, and the follow-up information in
      discharge, one month after surgery, six months after surgery and twelve months after surgery.

      The primary endpoint of this study is one-year treatment success, which means there are no
      death within 30 days after surgery, no adverse cardiovascular and no cerebrovascular events
      and no re-operative intervention associated with aorta occurred during the 1-year follow-up
      period. Secondary endpoints include the occurrence of postoperative leaks, occlusion,
      stenosis and thrombosis of aortic arch branches, the incidence of device-related adverse
      events, and the incidence of other serious complications. This study uses the primary
      endpoint as a measure of efficacy, and the secondary endpoint as a measure of safety for both
      treatment methods. The primary analysis of collected data would be based on
      intention-to-treat (ITT) principle, and all enrolled patients would be included in the final
      analysis.

      The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) chi square analysis for adjusting center effects will be
      used for comparisons of major indicators, estimating differences in success rates and their
      95% confidence intervals in two groups. If the lower limit of the 95% Confidence Interval
      (CI) of the difference in success rate between the test group and control group exceeds the
      pre-established non-inferiority cutoff, the endovascular treatment can be considered to be as
      effective as traditional open surgery. The significance level for all statistical tests is
      5%, and the statistical analysis software is Statistics Analysis System (SAS) 9.3.
    
  