
    
      The five tests are divided into placement and performance tests.

      The placement tests are:-

        1. Suprasternal notch test: a gel plug is inserted in the proximal one centimetre of the
           gastric drain outlet. Gentle tapping of the suprasternal notch will cause the gel to
           pulsate. This confirms the location of the gastric outlet tip is behind the cricoid
           cartilage.

        2. Bubble test: when ventilating the SAD, the gel plug in the gastric drain outlet will not
           move. This confirms the location of the gastric outlet tip is behind the cricoid
           cartilage.

        3. Insertion of 14G gastric tube (Ryle's tube) into the gastric drain outlet. Ease of
           insertion grading:-

      1 - Easy 2 - Difficult 3 - Impossible

      Confirmation of correct gastric tube placement is through detection of injected air by
      auscultation of the epigastrium and/or aspiration of gastric contents.

      The performance tests are:-

        1. Oropharyngeal Leak Pressure (OLP): measured by closing the adjustable pressure-limiting
           (APL) valve at 30cmH2O with a fresh gas flow of 3 L/min, noting the airway pressure at
           equilibrium or when there is an audible air leak detected from the throat.

        2. Maximum minute ventilation (MMV) test: performed by hand-ventilating the SAD with four
           maximal insufflations within 15 seconds (APL valve set to 30cmH2O) to obtain the exhaled
           tidal volume.

      MMV (in L/min):- 4 x (breaths/15 seconds) x (exhaled tidal volume)

      The visual-guided grading system for the placement of SAD is divided into optimal (Grade 1)
      and suboptimal (Grade 2 and 3) views.

      Optimal view is recorded when the direct view of SAD in the hypopharynx fulfils all these
      conditions:-

        1. The epiglottis is in upright position

        2. The distal cuff of SAD is in the oesophagus

        3. The rim of proximal cuff and tip of epiglottis is aligned

        4. The epiglottis is resting on outside of the proximal cuff

        5. The proximal cuff is fully deployed after cuff inflation

      Suboptimal view is recorded when the direct view of SAD in the hypopharynx follows these
      conditions:-

        1. The epiglottis is downfolded or folded sideways

        2. The distal cuff is folded over backwards or the distal cuff is between and across the
           vocal cords

        3. The rim of proximal cuff and the tip of the epiglottis are not aligned

        4. The epiglottis is sitting in the bowl of the SAD

        5. The proximal cuff is distorted after cuff inflation
    
  