
    
      This randomized controlled imaging study will be performed to evaluate the impact of
      mindfulness-based stress reduction via a mind body program on arterial inflammation in
      individuals with self-identified high levels of stress and stable coronary artery disease.
      Individuals will undergo baseline FDG-PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and will then
      be randomized to the stress-reduction intervention group or no intervention groups by blocks
      (1:1) with stratification by age and sex. The stress reduction sessions focus on developing
      an understanding of stress physiology and the physiology of the relaxation response, on
      developing a regular practice of eliciting the relaxation response, and on learning cognitive
      behavioral and positive psychology/resilience skills.

      During the screening period, patient acceptability for the study will be assessed based on
      medical history, concomitant medications, physical examination, and clinical laboratory test
      results. Acceptability for study participation will be confirmed for subjects who identify as
      having increased levels of stress and/or a Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) score >=14. Once the
      patient has passed screening, they will undergo baseline imaging followed by randomization
      and group assignment. Approximately 12 weeks after randomization, all individuals will return
      for follow-up imaging and evaluation.

      FDG PET/MRI scans will be performed during the study for baseline and follow up to assess the
      intervention's impact on the brain as well as systemic and arterial inflammation along with
      other changes in related biomarker and imaging parameters. The Perceived Stress Scale will be
      delivered prior imaging during both imaging visits to measure perceived psychological stress.
      During both imaging sessions, subjects will be exposed to overt faces to measure signals
      during brain imaging.
    
  