
    
      The incidence of head and neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC) is around 600 000 cases per year
      worldwide. The main sites for HNSCC are the larynx, the pharynx and the oral cavity. Head and
      neck cancers, however, also include salivary gland tumours, as well as nasopharyngeal cancer
      and paranasal and nasal sinus cancer but these are rare. The major risk factors are smoking,
      alcohol abuse and Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection. In spite of radical surgical
      treatment and aggressive neo-adjuvant and adjuvant therapies, the prognosis of head and neck
      cancer is very poor due to the fact that the tumours are often hypoxic.

      Tumour hypoxia is heterogenous and results from an imbalance between oxygen supply and oxygen
      consumption. Acute hypoxia is caused by abnormal structure and function of the
      microvasculature supplying the tumour. Chronic hypoxia is caused by the increased distance
      through which the oxygen has to diffuse to get from the blood vessels to the tumour cells and
      by the reduced oxygen caused by the anaemia which can be treatment or disease-related. These
      hypoxic regions have been shown to affect the metabolism of the cells, making them more
      aggressive with increased risk of metastasis and a worse prognosis. Also, because
      radiotherapy relies on oxygen to cause maximal cytotoxicity, a lack of oxygen to the cells or
      even a lack of oxygen consumption by the cells would cause a decrease in the effectiveness of
      the radiotherapy and the cytotoxicity. Hypoxic cells have an acidic environment which affects
      drug delivery and drug activity, so chemotherapy is compromised.

      In order to predict outcome and identify patients with a worse prognosis or patients that
      would benefit from appropriate treatments, in vivo measurement of tumour hypoxia is required.
      Numerous methods have been explored but there is no accepted gold standard. Imaging and
      biomarker analysis have been shown to have potential but the data are insufficient. In this
      project the investigators would prospectively use existing imaging techniques and analysis of
      various bodily fluids to predict outcome. This is a collaboration between 5 different
      departments so that as much information as possible can be analysed and used to come to a
      possible solution.
    
  