
    
      Among degenerative neurological disease, PD is the second most common disorder. Although a
      wide range of incidence and prevalence rate exist in reviewed literatures due to a
      consequence of variation in study methodologies, the crude prevalence rate above 60 year-old
      is 1%. Increase in aging population will lead to an increase in PD patients. The PDR will be
      used to facilitate the understanding of basic epidemiological features of the disease,
      genetic and non-genetic risk factors, co-morbidity, the up-to-date treatment strategies and
      the related economic burden from medical and surgical treatment (deep brain stimulation), to
      develop new therapeutic protocols as well as healthcare policies, and ultimately, to improve
      the quality of life of PD patients. PDR will also be served as data bank for investigators in
      the field of PD to quickly identify and notify research subjects about other research studies
      for which they are eligible. Patient who registered can also sign their consent for a future
      brain donation after they passed away.

      Methods:

      The 4 main Tzu Chi Hospitals from Hualien, Da Lin, Taichung, and Taipei will serve as
      representative of pilot study for National registry. This will be a record-based,
      multi-center, nation-wide, cohort study. A user-friendly, yet, encrypted registration
      platform will be provided through internet for authorized personnel. The contents of PDR will
      be as follow: demographic features, risk factors, clinical profiles of diagnostic criteria,
      co-morbidity, images profiles, treatment regimens in details, prognosis, health-related
      quality of life, and neuropsychological assessment batteries.

      Expected results:

        1. To facilitate the understanding of demographic epidemiological features of PD.

        2. To find the risk factors of PD and the possible intervention toward disease prevention
           in Taiwan.

        3. To find the comorbidity of the disease, and the solution toward better treatment and
           related outcome.

        4. Assess current treatment approaches and develop best-practice guidelines.

        5. Tracking the health-related quality of life of PD patient as well as care-givers and the
           economic impact from different treatment regimens of best medications versus surgical
           interventions (neuromodulation / neuro-regeneration) from time to time.

        6. Drive the development of innovative research projects.

        7. Accelerate the process of informing patients of research projects for which they may be
           eligible.

      Key words: Parkinson's disease, Registry, Epidemiology, Treatment, Prognosis
    
  