
    
      Total joint arthroplasties (TJA) are constantly increasing in older and multi-morbid
      patients; knee and hip joints are the most frequently treated due to high incidence of
      osteoarthritis in these joints. The indication to TJA is now extended to younger and active
      patients with high functional demands and longer life expectancy. Because of these, an
      increase in revision surgeries and a PJI risk is also expected. The type of revision surgery
      (RS) approach and of antimicrobial treatments is based on the presence or absence of
      infection: one-stage revision with maintenance/replacement of prosthesis in combination with
      debridement and irrigation (aseptic RS); and two-stage revision with prosthesis removal,
      debridement and irrigation, the possible use of a temporary spacer, and the potential
      reimplantation after weeks or months (septic RS).

      Today, PJI remains an important dangerous and devastating complication; it has been reported
      for hip and knee joints an incidence of 0.2-1.5%, prosthesis failure of 15-25%, revision
      success rate of 80-95% and annual cost per infection of $20,000-$40,000. The timely and most
      accurate diagnosis is essential for the correct treatment of PJI as patients undergoing
      revision need extensive physical, psychological and economic supports. Following the
      definition and standardization of diagnostic major and minor criteria for PJI by the
      Musculoskeletal Infection Society (MSIS) an improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of PJI
      was observed. Recently, the International Consensus Group on PJI revised MSIS criteria
      defining that patients should be considered to have PJI in the presence of one of the major
      criteria or three of five minor criteria. Finally, an evidence-based and validated criteria
      for hip and knee PJI definition to diagnose patients within the preoperative period was
      published in 2018. Patients with an aggregate score of more than or equal to 6 are considered
      infected, while a 2-5 score requires the inclusion of intraoperative findings (positive
      histology, purulence and single positive culture) for confirming or refuting the diagnosis. A
      4-5 score is inconclusive, and a score of less than or equal to 3 is not infected.

      During the last International Consensus Meeting on Musculoskeletal Infection, various
      questions on PJI were discussed and among them the working groups (WG) provided
      recommendations based on limited (4 - due to small numbers) and moderate (12 and 19) levels
      of evidence: WG4, on which patient-specific factors influence the thresholds for serum and
      synovial markers in acute and chronic PJI; WG12, on which serum tests have the best
      diagnostic accuracy for PJI and if the combination of any number of tests increase the
      diagnostic accuracy; WG19, if the profile of organisms causing surgical site infection or PJI
      following orthopaedic procedures changed over recent years. The WG4 highlighted that no
      inflammatory arthritis (IA)-specific factors are known to influence the thresholds for serum
      and synovial markers in PJIs. It appears that in IA patients there are overlaps in values of
      synovial markers such as alphadefensin, white blood cell count (sWBC) and C-reactive protein
      (CRP), limiting their usefulness in differentiating septic from aseptic patients. The WG12
      stated that it is evident that diagnosis of PJI cannot be based solely on serological tests
      and that CRP and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) are well-researched screening tests and
      have high sensitivity when used alone. However, the combination of serological tests has
      shown to improve diagnostic accuracy, but the identification of the optimal combination needs
      further investigations. Finally, the WG19 recommended to perform further investigations
      regarding the profile of microorganism with next generation sequencing (NGS), as it may
      confer significant antibiotic selection implications.

      Among pre-operative test on synovial fluid, alpha-defensin showed the highest degree of
      accuracy in the diagnosis of PJI when measured by laboratory-based immunoassay rather than
      lateral flow test, suggesting that care must be taken with interpretation of the lateral flow
      test when relying on its results for the intra-operative diagnosis. Synovial fluid could be
      tested for other newly markers such calprotectin and cathelicidin LL-37, whose sensitivity
      and specifity are to be defined or for microbiological tests.

      Synovial fluid analysis for WBC and %PMN has high sensitivity and specificity in diagnosing
      PJI, and it represents an easy and widespread available method. Our meta-analysis evaluated:
      1) accuracy in terms of sensitivity and specificity of synovial fluid WBC and %PMN tests in
      the diagnosis of PJI after total knee (TKA) and hip (THA) arthroplasty; 2) which test yielded
      superior test performance; and 3) the influence of study characteristics such as anatomic
      site and threshold value on the diagnostic accuracy of these tests. The meta-analysis results
      revealed that both synovial fluid WBC and %PMN have a high specificity and sensitivity in
      detecting PJI, and no clear superiority of one test over the other exists. In addition, an
      anatomic site effect was demonstrated on sensitivity of synovial fluid %PMN, suggesting that
      cutoff thresholds should be identified separately for TKA and THA. The differences in bearing
      surfaces and the possibility of fretting corrosion in dual taper stem designs might
      substantially alter automated synovial fluid analysis in THA compared to TKA.

      The aim of the project is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and cost-effectiveness of the
      combination of serum and/or synovial markers in the pre- or intraoperative (lateral flow
      test)/post- diagnosis of PJI. To such purpose a clinical diagnostic study on patients
      hospitalized for revision surgery based on the guidelines of MSIS will be carried out; the
      combinations of two or more markers with the highest diagnostic accuracies will be identified
      and evaluated in term of cost-effectiveness towards individual markers whose thresholds are
      based on the MSIS 2013 ICM. The significance of this research is to provide evidences on the
      potentiality of the combination of some markers in accelerating the PJI diagnosis for the
      best selection of surgical strategy to be followed. A prompt diagnosis and recognition of the
      etiological agent are crucial to define the appropriate antimicrobial therapy and to reduce
      to a minimum the cases of erroneous diagnosis and of consequent erroneous surgical conduct,
      with the need for subsequent re-operations, and multiplication of risk for patients and of
      costs for the health care system.
    
  