
    
      The study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over clinical trial. A
      total of 80 women aged 30 to 45 y will be randomized to a sequence of test product
      administration.

      Subjects will be required to meet several inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will be
      assessed at the screening visit, including a general screening questionnaire,
      medical/medication history, eating disorder questionnaire, eating inventory questionnaire,
      dietary inventory questionnaire, and anthropometric and vital sign measurements. At the
      screening visit, a urine sample will be collected for drug and alcohol screening, cotinine
      level, and pregnancy. Alcohol breath test will be performed as well.

      After assessment of the eligibility criteria, qualified subjects will be invited to
      participate in the study. This study will take approximately 3 weeks to complete.

      Subjects will return to the study site within 28 days after the screening visit for testing
      period 1, followed by 2 additional visits (testing period 2 and 3).

      Subjects will consume 1 of 3 treatments, based on randomization sequence at each test period
      visit: Consommé soup with Monosodium L-Glutamate (MSG), Consommé soup with MSG and Nucleic
      Acid (IMP), and Placebo soup with no MSG or IMP.

      When subjects arrive at the research center at approximately 11:30am, admission procedures
      will be conducted: an alcohol breath test, food and activity diary review, and vital signs
      and weight will be measured. If vital sign measurements are elevated, subjects will be
      rescheduled within 2-3 days. Right before serving the standard lunch meal, subjects will be
      asked to complete a satiety motivational questionnaire. Subjects will consume the entire
      standard lunch meal and water within 30 min. Immediately after eating the standard lunch
      meal, subjects will complete the satiety motivational questionnaire.

      Two hours after the standard lunch meal, subjects will be given one of the test soups (based
      on their randomization) to consume in its entirety, followed by completion of the satiety
      motivational questionnaire and the soup rating questionnaire. Fifteen minutes from test soup
      administration, snacks and water (ad lib) will be provided and subjects will be instructed to
      eat as much as or as little as they desire, followed by completing the satiety motivational
      questionnaire. At 3 h 15 min and at 4 h, subjects will complete the satiety motivational
      questionnaire.

      Test periods 2 and 3 will be scheduled between 3-14 days after completing test period visit
      1: all procedures are identical on each test period visit with the exception of the test
      treatment soup consumed by subjects.
    
  