
    
      Policosanol, a compound derived from sugar cane wax and available in health food stores
      across the United States, is a popular non-prescription product for treating
      hypercholesterolemia. Policosanol has been used in Cuba since 1991 to treat high cholesterol.
      Virtually all of the published medical literature on policosanol has been authored by
      research groups in Cuba. According to the Cuban data, policosanol can lower total
      cholesterol, lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and raise high-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Based on post-marketing surveys, this drug appears to be
      devoid of any biochemical, hematological, or clinical adverse effects.

      Confirmation of this data on policosanol by scientifically rigorous experiments and trials in
      this country would provide a safe and effective therapeutic option for the treatment of
      hypercholesterolemia. Consequently, policosanol has the potential to become a valuable tool
      in the fight against coronary heart disease - a major cause of mortality in the United
      States.

      This pilot study will assess the short-term safety and efficacy of policosanol in healthy
      adults who have a baseline LDL-C of 130-200. The recruitment population will be derived from
      primary care clinics consisting primarily of Caucasian and African-American patients. The
      primary outcome measurements will be the percentage change in LDL-C. Secondary outcomes will
      include changes in total cholesterol, HDL-C, triglycerides, C-reactive protein, and
      lipoprotein sub-particles. This will be the first known randomized clinical trial of
      policosanol in North America.

      The data derived from this pilot study regarding the lipid lowering effects of policosanol
      will be used to support applications for further funding through institutions outside the
      Carolinas Healthcare System including the National Institute of Health (NIH). Future studies
      could include an assessment of the effects of policosanol on other markers for coronary heart
      disease and potential use in combination with current lipid medications. The overall goal is
      to perform a large multi-center clinical outcome trial to establish the precise clinical
      benefits of policosanol.

      Summary: Demonstration of the lipid-lowering ability of policosanol is an initial step in
      providing a safe, cost-effective therapy for hypercholesterolemia, thereby advancing the
      treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease in this country.

      Specific Aim: To independently corroborate the lipid lowering effects of policosanol in a
      small pilot study.

      Hypotheses: After 8 weeks of therapy policosanol 40 mg/day will:

        1. Produce a statistically significant reduction in LDL-C compared to placebo.

        2. Provide a statistically significant reduction in LDL particle number and C-reactive
           protein.
    
  