
    
      Axillary node extension is one of the major prognostic factors in breast cancer. Axillary
      dissection of Berg level I and II nodes is the validated method to obtain information on
      lymph node invasion, but it is associated with important morbidity.

      Sentinel lymph node assessment (SLN) was developed to select patients likely not to have
      axillary node extension using a technique less invasive than conventional dissection.
      Axillary dissection is restricted to patients with undetected or metastatic SLN.

      SLN detection involves subareolar or peri-tumoral injection of lymphotropic contrast agents
      which map the regional lymphatic drainage pattern of the tumor.

      This technique allows an optimization of histopathological analysis: the pathologist must
      analyze only two nodes on average (instead of 10-15), allowing the examination of numerous
      tissue sections and the development of specific techniques such as immunohistochemistry.

      The principal indicators of success for the technique are the detection rate, the false
      negative rate and the number of SLN sampled.

      The assessment of feasibility is based on concomitant histopathological analysis of the SLN
      and of complementary lymph nodes.

      There is no consensus in the literature on the SLN technique to be used for tumors with
      clinical size superior to 2 cm in diameter.

      The aim of this prospective, multicentric study is to evaluate the performance of the SLN
      technique, in terms of detection rate and false negative rate, for patients with tumors
      greater than 2 cm (clinical measurement).

      A homogeneous technique with "combined", colorimetric and isotopic SLN detection with
      subareolar or peri-tumoral injection will be used. This consensus "combined" technique has
      been validated by all investigators. The histopathological procedure will also be
      homogeneous, and validated within the group of pathologists of the Fédération Nationale des
      Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC). Breast surgery will either be a mastectomy or
      conservative treatment.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the quality criteria of the SLN detection
      technique in breast cancer patients with a tumor size (clinical measurement) greater than 2
      centimeters (rate of false negatives, rate of detection).

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  Evaluation of the number of SLN sampled per patient,

        -  Lymphoscintigraphic evaluation of the pattern of lymphatic drainage in breast tumors > 2
           centimeters,

        -  Precise histopathological description of the SLN sampled and of axillary nodes of levels
           I and II.

      Evaluation criteria:

      The primary criterion is the rate of false negatives, determined by the ratio of the number
      of patients with detected but negative SLN to the total number of positive non-sentinel nodes
      at the time of axillary dissection of levels I and II (patients classified as N+ according to
      the TNM system).

      This rate will be determined after calculation of the detection rate, determined by the ratio
      of the number of patients evaluated on the total number of patients.

      In agreement with international recommendations, the expected rate of false negatives should
      be < 5 % with a detection rate > 85 %.

      Secondary criteria include:

        -  Total number of sampled SLN per patient,

        -  Lymphoscintigraphy: detection of SLN by means of extra-axillary markings,

        -  Histopathological results:

             -  SLN: metastases, capsular breach, micro metastases, isolated cells,

             -  Dissection: number of positive nodes.
    
  