
    
      The hereditary ataxias are a group of genetic disorders characterized by slowly progressive
      incoordination of gait and often associated with poor coordination of hands, speech, and eye
      movements. Prevalence of the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCAs) is estimated to be
      approximately 1-5:100,000 populations. Hereditary ataxia may result from: dysfunction of the
      cerebellum and its associated system, lesions in the spinal cord and/or peripheral sensory
      loss.

      Clinical manifestations of hereditary ataxia are poor coordination of movement and a
      wide-based, uncoordinated, unsteady gait. Poor coordination of the limbs and of speech
      (dysarthria) are often present. Ataxia patients perceive impairments in balance, coordination
      and speech as the symptoms with greatest impact, as well as fatigue.

      Postural disorders in cerebellar ataxia constitute a major cause of poor balance. Local
      stability of the trunk during gait in patients with cerebellar degenerative ataxia is lower
      than that in controls. To compensate for this instability, walkers increase the width of the
      base of support, take smaller steps and increase the duration of foot contact to the floor,
      sacrificing swing phase. They progress forward slower, with a lower cadence and preferred
      walking pace. This lack of stability is in turn correlated with the history of falls. Local
      stability of the trunk may thus be useful when planning gait and balance rehabilitation in
      patients with ataxia. Developing core strength is essential for everyday health and
      well-being, as a strong core protects the spine, reduces back pain, enhances movement
      patterns, and improves balance, stability and posture. However, while motor training programs
      have been shown to be beneficial in other neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Parkinson's
      disease or stroke, their effectiveness remains controversial in the field of degenerative
      hereditary ataxias.

      There's emerging evidence that rehabilitation may improve function, mobility, ataxia and
      balance in genetic degenerative ataxia. Although these conclusions are based primarily on
      moderate to low-quality studies, the consistency of positive effects verifies that
      rehabilitation is beneficial. Intensive rehabilitation (with balance and coordination
      exercises) improves the patients' functional abilities (level of proof: moderate). Although
      techniques such as virtual reality, biofeedback, treadmill exercises with supported body
      weight and torso weighting appear to be of value, their specific efficacy has yet to be
      characterized. This body of literature is limited by the wide range of underlying conditions
      studied and methodological weaknesses (small sample sizes, poorly described rehabilitation
      protocols, etc.

      The aim of this study is that a program of core stability exercises could improve sitting and
      standing balance and gait in hereditary ataxia patients. Secondary objectives are activities
      of daily living, lower limb strength and health status of quality of life. After giving
      informed consent, participants will be randomly assigned (at a ratio 1:1) to core stability
      group or control group. Concealed treatment allocation will be performed via opaque
      envelopes.

      The study will be carried out in accordance with the principles enunciated in the current
      version of the Declaration of Helsinki and the requirements of Spanish law and the Spanish
      regulatory authority.
    
  