
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effect, in terms of event-free survival, of deferred versus immediate
           treatment with rituximab, fludarabine, and cyclophosphamide in patients with previously
           untreated Binet stage A chronic lymphocytic leukemia at high risk for disease
           progression.

        -  Investigate and define a new prognostic staging system for patients with Binet stage A
           chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the time to progression to Binet stages B and C in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the time to treatment in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Analyze the pharmacoeconomics of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall response rate (partial and complete) in patients included in the
           early treatment arm.

        -  For patients included in the early treatment arm in complete remission, determine the
           percentage achieving complete molecular remission using the clone-specific CDR-III
           region as follow-up parameter.

        -  Determine the duration of response in patients included in the early treatment arm.

        -  Determine any adverse events related to treatment/safety of treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk
      factor profile (< 2 risk factors [low risk] vs ≥ 2 risk factors [high risk]). Low-risk
      patients are assigned to arm II. High-risk patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1, fludarabine IV on days 1-3, and
           cyclophosphamide IV on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation only until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  