
    
      1. * Purpose of project (one or two sentences): The feasibility phase of the proposed study
           is comprised of a two-arm randomized pilot trial to evaluate the feasibility,
           satisfaction, and preliminary efficacy of 'Quit & Fit'. Women (N=40) will receive 12
           weekly smoking cessation telephone counseling sessions. Participants will be randomized
           to either a fitness intervention (Quit & Fit) or a contact time control (Quit for Life).

        2. * Study design (for example, hypothesis, research questions, standard and experimental
           procedures/drugs/devices or equipment, etc.):

           The Quit & Fit intervention will be designed as a 12-week, tailored multiple health
           outcome intervention to promote smoking cessation, achieve energy balance, and reduce
           post-cessation weight gain through regular PA and healthy nutrition for AAW smokers.
           Culturally tailored comprehensive interventions that address smoking-cessation and
           obesity/weight-control among AAW are needed. The conceptual basis of the proposal is
           Albert Bandura's social cognitive Theory (SCT), which posits that people learn through
           observation and modeling of behaviors, attitudes, and emotional reactions. When applied
           to smoking cessation and health behavior change, social learning can be viewed as a
           transition through stages of increased knowledge, self-efficacy, and social support,
           culminating in readiness to change behaviors. The SCT model allows for targeting of
           factors relevant to a given individual and tailoring messages to each each participant's
           cultural values. Participants will be randomized into one of the study groups: the
           'control arm' or the 'exercise arm'. Both groups will receive 12 weeks of smoking
           cessation counseling, telephone counseling and and will receive 10 weeks of nicotine
           replacement therapy (NRT) in the form of nicotine lozenges.

           Participants who are randomized to the 'control arm' will be asked to maintain their
           current daily activities for 12 weeks. They will also be required to visit the study
           site 3 times per week for 12 weeks to view videos on different wellness topics. Control
           participants will have anthropometric measurements of weight, height, hip size and waist
           size taken at the beginning of the study, 6 weeks, and at 12 weeks. Control participants
           will also have a fitness test on a treadmill, full body scan, blood pressure, heart rate
           and questionnaires given at the beginning of the study, 6 weeks and at 12 weeks.

           Participants who are randomized to the 'intervention arm' will be asked to come to the
           study site to exercise 3 days per week for 12 weeks. The exercise duration will increase
           over time from 75 minutes per week to 150 minutes per week. Intervention participants
           will have anthropometric measurements of weight, height, hip size and waist size taken
           at the beginning of the study, 6 weeks, and at 12 weeks. Intervention participants will
           also have a fitness test on a treadmill, full body scan, blood pressure, heart rate and
           questionnaires given at the beginning of the study, 6 weeks and at 12 weeks.

           The proposed design of the intervention is to provide high does of education, support,
           NR, and structured exercise to optimize success experiences that can build self-doses in
           the first sessions. As the intervention progresses, support through mobile phones will
           be used to assist with problem solving and social support as participants transition to
           self-management. Content will be based on the extant literature on tobacco cessation,
           nutrition, and exercise interventions, with emphasis given to published descriptions of
           interventions tailored for AAW. Examples of resources from which content may be drawn
           include Commit to Quit, Smoke Free Woman (NCI), Pathways to Freedom (2003 version), and
           the Diabetes Prevention Program. Key content messages will be developed for each
           counseling session. all print materials will be specifically targeted with visual images
           and content that has been found to engage AAW. Focus groups will be conducted with women
           representing the targeting population in order to develop the messages and visual
           content. These qualitative data will be critical in the development of intervention
           materials that engage and connect with the women. Focus groups will be conducted during
           the first 3 months of the award, with the primary goal of furthering tailoring
           intervention materials and protocols to the lives of African-American women residing in
           urban District of Columbia (DC) neighborhoods. A total of 4 groups will be run with 8
           women in each. The demographic makeup of the groups will resemble that of our target
           population on such factors as educational attainment and socio-economic status (SES).
           Participants will be recruited through outreach methods (flyers, community talks) used
           successfully by Dr. Adams-Campbell's community lab. The multiple principal investigators
           (MPIs) will refine the focus group facilitator's guide and review focus group
           transcripts and notes to maintain protocol integrity. Open-ended questions will probe
           views on target health behaviors as well as preferred information delivery modalities
           and ways to remain in contact and provide optimal support. All focus groups will be
           audio-taped, with a research assistant taking notes at each of the sessions. Audiotapes
           will then be transcribed and translated in order to analyze their content.

        3. * Rationale and justification for study (i.e. historical background, investigator's
           personal experience, pertinent medical literature, etc.): Smoking is the leading cause
           of preventable morbidity and mortality in the US. African Americans experience clear
           disparities in disease and death from smoking. African American women (AAW) are an
           important subgroup to study because they are distinct from non-AAW and their male
           African American counterparts on biopsychosocial factors that are relevant to smoking
           behavior. In particular, AAW have lower smoking rates compared to Caucasian women (CAW)
           yet similar lung cancer rates. Additional evidence indicates that AAW are more likely to
           develop cancer of the larynx, esophageal cancer, cerebrovascular disease, and
           cardiovascular disease than CAW. African American smokers are less likely to be screened
           by providers for tobacco use, receive advice to quit, or use cessation aids during a
           quit attempt, even after controlling for health service use and socioeconomic factors.
           Smoking cessation is the single most important preventative health behavior AAW can
           engage in to significantly reduce their chances of morbidity and premature mortality
           related to smoking related illnesses. Due to their disparate smoking-related health
           outcomes, targeted and tailored smoking cessation interventions are extremely critical
           for AAW.

      Along with the disease burden of tobacco use, sedentary lifestyles and obesity pose
      heightened concerns for chronic diseases such as diabetes and vascular disease among AAW. In
      2008, AAW had higher incidence of and mortality attributed to coronary heart disease, stroke,
      heart failure, and high blood pressure, as compared to non-Hispanic Whites or Hispanics.
      Energy balance is defined as the balance between energy taken in, generally by food and
      drink, and energy expanded. Lifestyle behaviors strongly linked to obesity are taken in,
      generally by low levels of physical activity (sedentary lifestyle) or high consumption rates
      of high-fat or energy-dense diets, or both. African Americans have been found to have
      different dietary traditions than Caucasians and to consume a higher percentage of calories
      from fat even after controlling for individual characteristics and neighborhood SES. Despite
      robust evidence of the cancer-protective and health promoting influence of physical activity
      (PA), more than 50% of Americans do not engage in adequate levers of PA. A recent study
      identified both physical inactivity and smoking as two health behaviors for which relative
      inequalities are increasing among those with less formal education compared with those with
      more. SES-related obesity disparities are also increasing in women and among African
      Americans. There is indeed a public health call for evidence-based research on both
      regionally and culturally targeted energy balance strategies that can effectively reach and
      engage African Americans.

      Nearly all evidence-based smoking cessation programs address the importance of post-cessation
      weight gain through dietary choices and PA. However, these issues are not typically
      emphasized as centrally important to the likelihood of success of the cessation attempt.
      Likewise, weight control programs and initiatives that promote PA give only minimal attention
      to tobacco cessation. Questions remain about the most effective ways to implement
      interventions that simultaneously address multiple health behaviors. However, evidence
      continues to emerge to suggest that such interventions are not only feasible, but have
      advantages over approaches that focus on a single health promotion behavior. A targeted
      multiple health outcome intervention has promise to change health behaviors that will lead to
      improved health and ultimately reduce cancer death disparities among AAW. Culturally tailored
      comprehensive interventions that address smoking-cessation and obesity/weight-control among
      AAW are needed. This pilot project seeks to develop a combined health promotion intervention
      tailored for urban AAW smokers. "Quit & Fit" will be designed as a 12-week program to promote
      smoking cessation and achieve energy balance through regular PA and healthy nutrition. The
      first several weeks of the intervention will provide maximum structured in-person support
      which will be tapered over time and followed by tailored mobile phone sessions to provide
      ongoing support, counseling, and assist with the transition from initial structured
      counseling to self-management. The program will employ evidence-based strategies that meet
      the needs and preferences of AAW in an urban environment.

      Many studies have focused on the various health problems we aim to target, but in the other
      studies, these interventions have focused on only one aspect of the problem, e.g., smoking
      cessation alone or PA alone. The success of the proposed multiple health outcome intervention
      would also contribute novel findings to addressing the leading health behaviors (tobacco use,
      PA, diet) associated with morbidity and mortality among minority and low-income populations
      in this country. The opportunity to engage women at one time across multiple behaviors in a
      targeted and cost-effective way has significant implications. Moreover, the use of technology
      (cell phones) to provide support for adherence to the programs is at the cutting edge of
      health care delivery. Cell phones are a cost-effective way to maintain contact with, and
      provide support to difficult-to-engage patients. As reviewed, tailored messages delivered by
      phone have been found effective to change energy balance among urban African Americans.
      Moreover, the focus of the study on building self-efficacy through structured exercise and
      counseling in the initial sessions and then providing support transitioning behaviors from
      the structured sessions to the home environments is a unique design that can optimize
      retention and sustained behavior change. This program could have a profound impact on
      reducing tobacco-related health disparities with important implications for developing
      cost-efficient ways of engaging this and many other patient populations.
    
  