
    
      The NICU is a stressful experience for parents. This stress naturally affects parents in
      different ways, ranging from feelings of depression, anxiety, or post traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD). While these feelings are very common in parents of NICU children, they can
      also impact the ways parents perceive their infants, which leads to alterations of parenting
      styles and exposure to developmental activities for growing infants. This phenomenon is well
      described in the literature as Vulnerable Child Syndrome (VCS), or Parent Perceived Child
      Vulnerability (PPCV) to illness. Traumatic events from earlier experiences in the NICU
      usually cause PPCV to occur. Examples of traumatic events include feared death of the child,
      which lead to parent anxiety, depression, or emotional trauma. This altered perception of the
      child has been linked to worsened development outcomes for NICU children further out into
      childhood and also continued feelings of depression, anxiety, or fear in the parents and lack
      of confidence in their parenting abilities.

      CBT sessions have been proven beneficial for NICU parents by decreasing feelings of
      depression, anxiety, and PTSD. However, there has not been research to see if CBT sessions
      are impactful for PPCV and the impacts it has on parent and child outcomes. Since literature
      suggests that depression, anxiety, and PTSD play an integral role in the development of PPCV
      and VCS, it could be assumed that CBT sessions should also be beneficial for PPCV and VCS.
      Therefore, this study will research if CBT sessions can improve parent-child interactions
      before and after discharge by helping parents to better understand their child's health and
      empower them with confidence in parenting skills. It will also evaluate if the effects of the
      CBT sessions will remain present and beneficial for parents' perceptions over time. With the
      results of this study, it will be evaluated if it is possible to improve the care for parents
      and children in the NICU as well as the long-term outcomes of parents and NICU children
      through CBT.

      This will be a randomized control trial and will be conducted to assess the outcomes of
      infants and parents receiving either CBT sessions versus standard of care.

      English and/or Spanish speaking parents of infants born at 30.6 weeks gestational age (GA) or
      less who survive to 33 weeks GA will be eligible to participate in the study. Families will
      be approached at 33 weeks GA to participate in the study. Once enrolled, the mother (and
      father, if willing to participate) will be randomized into a control group (standard NICU and
      follow up care information) versus the intervention group (standard NICU and follow up care
      information plus a total of 5 CBT sessions split between the NICU and outpatient clinic
      visits post discharge from NICU). The CBT sessions will address PPCV and VCS in parents and
      parenting skills to address preventing this. The CBT sessions will be standardized with a
      manual for study investigators to follow during sessions, and made with Dr. Richard Shaw from
      Stanford University, who wrote the prior CBT manual for anxiety, depression, and PTSD for
      NICU parents. Study staff will be trained to give the standardized CBT sessions using the
      manual via pilot sessions. There will be 3 CBT sessions given in the Parkland NICU before
      discharge and then 2 in the THRIVE follow up clinic at Children's Medical Center after
      discharge from the NICU.

      Scales used for assessment will be distributed at enrollment to the study and upon completion
      of the CBT sessions.
    
  