
    
      Frailty impacts up to 60% of older adults and is a leading cause of dependency among older
      adults. Frail older adults experience physical problems such as balance difficulties,
      weakness, decreased endurance, and reduced walking speed that increase risk for falls,
      hospitalizations, institutionalization, and death. Physical activity has multi-system health
      benefits and is the most recommended frailty management intervention, but guidelines
      regarding the specific intensity of physical activity remain unclear. High intensity physical
      activity is an established and safe therapeutic approach in other populations, but it is
      unclear as to the extent to which high intensity activity can reduce or reverse frailty. This
      cluster-randomized study will compare a high intensity walking (HIW) intervention to a
      self-selected, casual speed walking (CSW) intervention implemented within retirement
      communities for pre-frail and frail older adults. Investigators will randomize 10 retirement
      communities with 20 participants at each site (200 total participants) to either a 4-month
      HIW or CSW intervention. All participants will receive 48, individually supervised overground
      walking sessions occurring within their retirement community. At the beginning and end of the
      study, investigators will measure participants' frailty, mobility, physical functioning,
      balance, and total physical activity measured via an ActivPal accelerometer worn for a 1-week
      observation period to compare which treatment strategy, HIW or CSW, worked better to reduce
      frailty (aim #1). Investigators will use the SHARE-Frailty Instrument to evaluate frailty as
      both a categorical (e.g. non-frail, pre-frail, or frail) and a continuous outcome. This
      approach will allow investigators to determine how participants move between frailty
      categories as well as within frailty categories in response to intervention. In aim #2,
      investigators will determine the effect of walking intensity on mobility, physical
      functioning, balance, and total physical activity. Investigators hypothesize that HIW
      participants will show decreased frailty and improved mobility, physical functioning,
      balance, and physical activity at 4 months. Currently, the optimal physical activity
      guidelines for older adults with frailty are uncertain. Results from this study will provide
      important knowledge to inform activity guidelines for older adults with frailty and
      information on a transformative approach to reducing frailty, improving function, and
      increasing physical activity among a growing segment of the older adults population.
    
  