
    
      The NGAL TestTM is a particle-enhanced turbidimetric immunoassay for the quantitative
      determination of neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) in human EDTA plasma for
      testing on automated clinical chemistry analyzer.

      The First Indication for Use: An NGAL test result above the assay cutoff as an aid in the
      risk assessment for the development of stage II or III acute kidney injury (AKI) within 1 day
      of patient assessment in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) who are hypotensive
      (MAP<70 mmHg) and/or receiving vasopressor support. Second Indication for Use: In patents
      with stage II or III AKI, NGAL measurement aids in the risk assessment of the development of
      persistent (≥2 days) stage 2 or 3 AKI.

      The Primary Objective for this clinical trial is to validate that the NGAL test using a
      cutoff of 140 ng/ml shows clinical performance in predicting the development of moderate or
      severe acute kidney injury within 1 day. The Secondary Objective is to validate that the NGAL
      test shows clinical performance in predicting persistent moderate or severe acute kidney
      injury during any contiguous 2 day interval.

      It is anticipated that up to 20 Clinical Sites in the US will participate in the trial. The
      study sites will recruit consecutive patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      who are admitted to hospital in an ICU or critical care setting. Patients will receive their
      clinical standard of care including standard laboratory and other testing as requested by
      each subject's physician. Enrollment is estimated to take approximately six months and the
      trial will be stopped when the Adjudication Panel has diagnosed at least 85 patients with AKI
      stage 2 or 3.

      Each subject who is enrolled in the study will only have 4 blood draws as part of NGAL TestTM
      Trial with no additional study activities with the exception of data collection. The NGAL
      results will not be returned to the treating physician for use in the health management of
      the study subjects.
    
  