
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Mean postoperative pain score for the first 24 hours post-operatively, (measured by the
      Numeric Rating Scale [NRS], which rates pain on a 1-10 scale, collected routinely on the
      post-operative floor) will be compared between the epidural and no-epidural groups.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Total opioid use measured in oral morphine equivalents for the first two days
      post-surgery.

      II. Length of hospital stay (measured in hours from admission to time of discharge order
      placement).

      III. Post-operative antiemetic use and number of recorded episodes of emesis. IV. Return of
      bowel function (measured in hours from completion of surgery to passage of flatus).

      V. Subject satisfaction at the 4 week post-operative visit (as measured by two pain
      satisfaction questions taken from the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
      and Systems [HCAHPS] survey).

      VI. Post-operative complications (urinary tract infections [UTIs], thromboembolic events,
      pneumonia, blood transfusion, myocardial infarction, falls).

      VII. Readmission rate. VIII. Epidural discontinuation rates prior to planned removal (in
      epidural group only).

      IX. Stress and inflammation serum and saliva markers at baseline and the first day after
      surgery, as well as at their postoperative visit.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo epidural placement in the First Day Surgery pre-operative area or
      similar areas suitable for insertion of epidural catheters. In the post-operative anesthesia
      care unit, patients may receive medication via the epidural on an as needed basis, as
      determined by the anesthesia team. Dosing and rate of standardized medication will be managed
      by the anesthesia team until the epidural is removed. Patients complete the ERP comprising
      increased activity, dietary restrictions, fluid balance, as well as anti-nausea,
      anti-inflammatory and pain medications at specific times. Patients will have access to
      additional pain medications as needed to control their pain.

      ARM II: Patients complete the ERP comprising increased activity, dietary restrictions, fluid
      balance, as well as anti-nausea, anti-inflammatory and pain medications at specific times.
      Patients will have access to additional pain medications as needed to control their pain.
    
  