
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      To demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the Xlumena AXIOS Stent and Delivery System
      for endoscopic drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts in patients with symptomatic pancreatic
      pseudocysts that are greater than or equal to 6 cm (≥6cm) in diameter, have ≥ 70% fluid
      contents and are adherent to the bowel wall.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Prospective, multi-center, non-blinded, single-arm (nonrandomized) study

      KEY ENDPOINTS:

      Safety: The safety endpoint is freedom from major complications through the duration of the
      1-week post-stent removal study period, defined as:

        1. Access site-related bleeding requiring transfusion;

        2. Access site-related infection requiring intravenous or intramuscular antibiotics and/or
           extended hospitalization;

        3. Surgery for access-site related perforation;

        4. Stent migration/dislodgement into the pseudocyst or enteral lumen;

        5. Tissue injury, defined as ulceration to the submucosa at site of stent implant as
           observed to persist through 1-week post-stent removal.

        6. Serious adverse event classified as implant-associated or implant/endoscopic
           procedure-associated;

      Effectiveness:

        1. Stent lumen patency at 30 days and/or 60 days

        2. Stent removability at 30 days and/ or 60 days.

        3. Technical success, defined as: placement of the AXIOS stent using the AXIOS delivery
           system and removal of the AXIOS stent using a standard endoscopic snare.

        4. Clinical success, defined as: at least a 50% decrease in pseudocyst size, based on
           radiographic analysis, at 30 days and/or 60 days.

      PATIENT POPULATION:

      Patients between 18 and 75 years of age, suitable for transluminal drainage of symptomatic
      pancreatic pseudocysts that are greater than or equal to 6 cm in diameter and adherent to the
      bowel wall are candidates for study treatment.

      FOLLOW-UP SCHEDULE:

      Clinical follow-up evaluations of study endpoints will be conducted at 30 days and/or 60
      days, 1 week post stent removal and possibly at 3 and 6 months post stent removal.

      PLANNED NUMBER OF PATIENTS, SITES & REGIONS:

      The target enrollment for the study is 24 subjects. Study will be conducted at up to 10
      investigational sites in the United States, Japan and/or the European Community. A majority
      of the patients will be enrolled in the United States.
    
  