
    
      The congenital Long QT Syndrome (LQTS) is a life-threatening condition characterized by a
      prolonged QT interval on the electrocardiogram, and an increased risk of life-threating
      arrhythmias in otherwise healthy individuals. Typically, the heart is structurally normal and
      the electric abnormality present in these patients is due to mutations in genes encoding ion
      channel subunits or proteins modulating ion-channel function. The investigators will
      specifically study the LQT2 variant which is the second most common form of LQTS (30-35% of
      all LQTS cases), a rare condition present in approximately 1 in 7.500-8.000 live births
      characterized by loss-of-function mutations in the KCNH2 gene (hERG) which result in a
      reduction of the potassium current IKr, pivotal for ventricular repolarization. Four
      different mutation classes define the molecular mechanisms impairing hERG. Among these,
      almost 50% are class 2 mutations that determine hERG trafficking defects, with the consequent
      lack of expression of these essential ion channels on the cardiomyocyte membrane.

      According to clinical severity current therapies for LQT2 include β-blockers, left cardiac
      sympathetic denervation and an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). However, ICD
      implantation, is not devoid of complications and often, the pain and fear associated with ICD
      shocks lead to electrical storms with multiple recurrent shocks. Furthermore, there are
      concerns about the long-term impact of implanting an ICD in young LQTS patients, likely to
      live another 7 to 8 decades after initial device implantation and who would be subjected to
      multiple procedures for generator replacement and lead revisions/extractions with frequent
      complications. There is a clear and unmet need for additional therapeutic strategies and
      implementation of gene-specific therapy could represent a quite important step for improving
      the clinical management of these pts.

      Lumacaftor (LUM) is a drug developed and currently indicated for the treatment of cystic
      fibrosis (CF) in patients aged 12 years and older who are homozygous for the F508del mutation
      in the CFTR gene. By acting as a chaperone, LUM corrects protein folding and trafficking
      defects of mutant and misfolded CFTR channels, restoring their cell surface expression. In
      its commercial formulation - brand name Orkambi - it is combined with ivacaftor (IVA), an
      enhancer of the CFTR protein function. The recommended dose is two tablets (each tablet
      containing LUM 200 mg/ IVA 125 mg) taken orally every 12 hours for a total daily dose of LUM
      800 mg/ IVA 500 mg.

      The investigators recently demonstrated that LUM can rescue in vitro the LQTS phenotype
      observed in human induced pluripotent stem cell- derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) from
      patients with LQT2 Class 2 mutations (PMID: 29020304) and in these same two patients Orkambi
      administrated for 7 days at the same dosage approved for cystic fibrosis showed to reduce
      their QTc (PMID: 30753398).

      With the present phase II clinical trial (MAST2) 20 LQT2 patients will be enrolled (see
      inclusion and exclusion criteria). Patients will be admitted to hospital for a maximum of 7
      days (minimum in-hospital stay based on evidence of QTc shortening) while beta-blocker
      therapy will continue at the current dose. Orkambi will be administered at the dose approved
      for cystic fibrosis [Orkambi (Lumacaftor 200 mg/Ivacaftor 125 mg) 2 tablets twice a day for a
      total daily dose of 800 mg of Lumacaftor and 500 mg of Ivacaftor] and blood exams will be
      performed at day 1, 3, 5 and 7. During the entire period continuous ECG monitoring through
      both telemetry and 12-lead 24-hr Holter monitoring will be performed and QTc length and
      morphology will be analysed. Independently of the result the patient will be discharged
      without Orkambi as a chronic therapy. Therefore, the drug will be administered orally for a
      maximum of 7 days.

      In case of side effects a reduction of the dose will be considered and according to the
      specific problem the possibility of an interruption will be evaluated. Furthermore, as an
      additional "stopping rule" the patient can freely decide to withdraw from the study in any
      moment even during the Hospitalization phase.

      Compliance will be strictly monitored as the drug will be assumed in Hospital in front of the
      nurse twice a day for the maximum of 7 days. Placebo will not be used.
    
  