
    
      This study's purpose is to assess treatment efficacy, survival rate and safety of TACE using
      drug-eluting microspheres loaded with doxorubicin for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

      Study Design: Prospective observational study . Primary objective: To collect data on tumor
      response after administration of drug-eluting microspheres that were preloaded with
      doxorubicin.

      Secondary objectives: To collect data on survival rate, time to progression, tolerability of
      treatment, number of treatment required to achieve objective response and improvement of
      quality of life.

      Treatment method:

      Day -1 Doxorubicin at a dose of 35/50 mg/m2 has been charged onto 2 ml of microspheres at
      Pharmacy. It is suggested to dissolve Doxorubicin powder with 2 ml of contrast medium. The
      charging time of microspheres is at least 30 minutes.

      Day 0: prehydration, antibiotic prophylaxis and setting up of a therapeutic scheme
      appropriate for analgesic prophylaxis (3-day duration) as previously reported (17)

      Day +1:

      Upon admittance to the radiology room, 1 vial of tropisetron (diluted in 100ml of
      physiological solution) and 1 vial of morphine hydrochloride diluted in 100 ml i.v. are
      administered by slow drip.

      One vial of morphine hydrochloride diluted in 100 ml i.v. to be repeated one hour after the
      procedure and if necessary also after 6 hours.

      Tropisetron i.v. if needed. Intra-arterial premedication (optional) with 1 vial of verapamil
      diluted in 4 ml of normal saline solution followed by 4 ml of lidocaine.

      Tumor Infusion (segment/s with dominant disease) of Doxorubicin at a dose of 35/50 mg/m2
      preloaded into 2 ml of 70-150 µm M1 microspheres.

      A second tumor infusion is allowed if other lesions are present (daughter tumor), using
      Doxorubicin at a dose of 35/50 mg/m2 preloaded into 2 ml of 70-150 µm M1 microspheres
      (following radiologist and oncologist ' s planning of cure).

      Day +30: The above procedure is repeated. Day +90: In case of response, a third
      administration following the above procedures will be repeated

      Evaluation of response Response is assessed at 30, 90 and 180 days after TACE, monitoring
      tumor dimension using Chest-abdomen CAT scan with and without contrast medium, and cancer
      markers (CEA, Carbohydrate Antigen (CA) 19.9) Tumor response is performed according to the
      Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

      Assessment of quality of life Assessment of quality of life with alliative Performance Scale
      PPSv2 is performed during the baseline visit and 30, 60 and 180 days after treatment.
    
  