
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Purported low mortality from coronary heart disease in Eskimos from Greenland, Canada, or
      Alaska has been interpreted by many investigators as synonymous with the absence of or
      reduced amount of atherosclerotic lesions in the coronary arteries compared to populations
      with a high rate of coronary heart disease. It was thought that this study would help to
      clarify the role of omega-3 fatty acids in atherosclerosis but also would help in making a
      decision whether to recommend to the general public the inclusion of fish oils, which contain
      large amounts of these fatty acids in the diet, for prevention and/or reduction of
      atherosclerotic heart disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Coronary arteries, aortas, blood, adipose tissue, and liver were collected at autopsy from
      deceased Alaskan natives, aged 5 years and above, dying of all causes and from a similar
      number of age- and sex-matched non-native Alaskans. Tested standardized methods of gross
      evaluation, histomorphometry, and chemistry were used to characterize, measure, and evaluate
      the prevalence and extent of atherosclerosis in arteries. Chemical methods for determination
      of blood and tissue lipids and gas liquid chromatographic methods for determination of fatty
      acids in various lipid fractions in plasma and tissues were used. Risk factors for coronary
      artery disease were evaluated from tissues taken at autopsy. Hypertension was evaluated by an
      examination of kidney arterioles. Cigarette smoking was evaluated by measurement of
      thiocyanate in the blood and the presence or absence of diabetes was evaluated by measuring
      glycosylation of hemoglobin from red blood cells. Findings were compared with those studied
      in other populations such as Blacks and whites in New Orleans, and Japanese, Norwegians and
      nineteen other ethnic groups in the International Atherosclerosis Project.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  