
    
      We will conduct a clustered randomized controlled trial among pregnant women within an area
      of high transmission. The study participants will be recruited by the midwives in high risk
      areas, defined by postal code from the RIVM. To inform the public in this area about the
      study we will publish an article in local newspapers. The midwife centers will be randomized
      to recruit pregnant women for either the control group or the intervention group. The
      pregnant women will receive study information by mail using the midwives patients file. It is
      estimated that approximately 10,000 eligible women live in the areas of transmission. After
      written informed consent, they will start with the strategy for which the midwife center is
      randomized.

      Participants will be asked for a blood sample in their second trimester of pregnancy,
      possibly combined with the routine structural ultrasound around 20 weeks of pregnancy to
      minimize hospital visit. If participants are enrolled in their third trimester, they will
      have their blood sampling as soon as possible after inclusion.

      When taking part in the intervention group the sample will be tested immediately for Q fever.
      If found positive for acute or chronic Q fever, patients have to be referred, according to
      local protocol, to a hospital for further pregnancy monitoring and long-term bacteriostatic
      treatment. Follow-up blood samples are required at 14 days, 3, 6 and 12 months after the
      first blood sampling as part of the standardized control of Q fever disease to diagnose
      possible chronicity of infection. Furthermore, current routine for pregnant women being
      treated with antibiotics against Q fever is to perform monthly blood analyses to monitor
      treatment, and if the serological parameters descend, these controls are brought back to once
      every two months. According to local protocol patients with Q fever have to deliver in
      hospital. After pregnancy serology should be continued with check-ups at 3, 6 and 12 months
      following the current protocol. Furthermore, after delivery a bacteriocide treatment with
      doxycycline or an alternative will be started by the specialist as part of regular health
      care.

      In the control arm the blood samples will be stored, and analyzed for Q fever after delivery.
      If tested positive for Q fever after pregnancy antibiotics could be started if needed as part
      of regular health care.

      At baseline, a questionnaire will be administered to all participants asking about the
      current pregnancy , pregnancy outcome of any previous pregnancies and demographics. Further
      risk factors for pregnancy outcome will also be obtained such as smoking and drinking
      behavior, risk-elevating comorbidities and medication use.

      After delivery all relevant outcome data will be collected by questionnaires filled out by
      the midwife, GP or specialist after delivery, notably the presence of obstetric
      complications. One month after delivery or end of pregnancy, a last questionnaire will be
      administered to the participant to verify potential long-term consequences of Q fever,
      potential loss of income, health-related quality-of-life, fatigue and depressive symptoms.
      Furthermore questions will be asked about the condition of the newborn and risk-accessing
      questions for Q fever infection will be asked.

      In the context of the secondary research questions an extra blood sample will be required,
      and placentas as well as amniotic fluid will be collected after delivery. The latter will
      only take place in a limited number of women and only if they gave birth in a hospital.

      All participants will receive usual care and will be asked to visit the general practitioner
      if symptoms of Q fever occur. He/she will start diagnostic research and treatment or will
      refer the patient to the hospital. Furthermore, both arms have access to an expert team for
      support.
    
  