
    
      Rapid Whole Genome Sequencing (rWGS) is a new technology that is able to deliver
      symptom-driven diagnoses of childhood-onset genetic diseases in as little as 26 hours.
      Investigators at RCIGM have shown that rWGS has higher diagnostic rates than traditional
      molecular testing in acutely ill infants suspected of a genetic diagnosis, with diagnostic
      rates up to 57%. Similarly, in the infant population, RCIGM researchers have shown that these
      diagnoses are useful in directing clinical care, with up to 70% of infants who receive a
      diagnosis having a subsequent change in management. In some cases, a timely diagnosis results
      in treatments that are lifesaving. RCIGM investigators have shown that up to 25% of infants
      who receive a diagnosis have a subsequent change in management that prevents morbidity. More
      data is needed to determine whether these results are found at other institutions, among
      other ethnic and racial groups, and in larger numbers of patients. More data is needed to
      examine the acute and long-term clinical utility of such testing, both in newborns and older
      children, as well as to determine the cost-effectiveness of this testing for other
      institutions. As such, this study will be a collaboration of multiple sites to share data and
      experiences of rWGS with the scientific community as well as hospital administrations,
      insurance companies and other key stakeholders who may be interested in promoting rWGS as a
      first-line clinical test in the future.

      The study will provide clinical laboratory-confirmed results related to the affected
      patient's symptoms, including optional incidental findings unless subjects opt-out for these
      additional results, to allow for these research findings to be used in clinical care.
      Furthermore, this study will aggregate data regarding standard clinical genetic testing from
      multiple sites as well as cost measures to not only identify differences in diagnostic rates,
      diagnostic accuracy, and times to diagnoses, but to determine the cost-effectiveness of this
      testing and subsequent changes in care management. Clinical utility will be defined as
      changes in care that follow directly from results of genetic testing (both positive and
      negative), including standard clinical tests and rWGS. This data will be used to further
      examine the analytic, diagnostic, and clinical utility and cost-effectiveness of this
      testing.

      rWGS methods continue to improve, and pediatric genomic medicine is a very new field of
      medical practice. This study will also inform investigators regarding best practices, both in
      terms of traditional medical outcomes and patient-centered outcomes. Consequently, this study
      will also act as a biorepository for samples and data as the ability to share genomic and
      phenotypic data amongst researchers is critical to progressing our understanding of the
      nascent field of pediatric genomic medicine.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To collect biological samples and associated clinical data from acutely ill pediatric
           patients who may have a genetic disease and their family members (Phenome).

        2. To create, analyze and store genomic data from the biological samples. Genomic data will
           include genomic (gDNA) sequences, RNA sequences, and/or other related 'omic data
           (including, but not limited to, pharmacogenomics, transcriptomics, and epigenomics).
           Genomic data from rWGS will include single nucleotide calls (SNVs), structural variants
           such as copy number testing, genomic rearrangements, gene expression , the "whole
           transcriptome" or more limited DNA sequencing panels of specific genes or of all exons
           of genes (the "Exome").

        3. To evaluate the diagnosis rate of genetic diseases by rWGS in an acutely ill population
           enrolling from multiple sites with comparisons to standard clinical genetic testing.

        4. To assess the clinical utility of rapid genetic diagnoses in the care and management of
           patients.

        5. To examine the health economics and cost-effectiveness of this rapid testing across many
           sites.

        6. To investigate and improve genomics technologies and software to enhance understanding
           and testing abilities related to childhood diseases and potential treatment responses.

        7. To make specimens and data available for qualified researchers and collaborators to
           further the understanding of rare childhood diseases and treatment responses.

        8. To collect and correlate genomic data from a wide variety of populations and clinical
           presentations.

        9. To provide sample and data collections with uniform consent, methods of acquisition,
           storage for genome-based research studies with subsequent IRB approvals.

       10. To analyze and report clinically-confirmed genomic diagnoses and treatment guidance
           through use of new research technologies.

       11. To identify and study novel gene and disease processes.
    
  