
    
      The subjects who complete the screening assessments and fulfil all the eligibility criteria
      will start down-regulation treatment on day 21-22 of the cycle.

      Down-regulation treatment must start within 2 months following the screening visit. The
      routine long luteal phase protocol for Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist
      treatment will be followed.

      Once down-regulation has been confirmed, a pregnancy test will be performed within 1 week
      prior to start of Recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (r-hFSH) treatment to rule
      out any pre-existing pregnancy. If the result is negative, the subject will be randomly
      assigned to one of the two treatment arms of the trial:

        -  GONAL-f® (Liquid Pen; 300 IU of per day) stimulation day 1-5 then followed by Luveris®
           (vial/powder, 150 IU per day) from stimulation Day 1 and until required r-hCG level is
           met. The dose can be adjusted from stimulation Day 6 (increased or decreased) based upon
           the subject's ovarian response and according to the center's standard practice.

        -  GONAL-f® (Liquid Pen; 300 IU per day) stimulation Day 1-5 then add Luveris®
           (vial/powder, 150 IU per day) from stimulation Day 6 and until required recombinant
           Human chorionic gonadotrophin (r-hCG) level is met. The dose can be adjusted from
           stimulation Day 6 (increased or decreased) based upon the subject's ovarian response and
           according to the center's standard practice.

      Randomization across the two treatment arms will be kept balanced in a 1:1 ratio. Subjects
      will be provided with a subject diary (including r-hCG and Crinone® administration and safety
      information) to record daily dosing information for GONAL-f® and Luveris®.

      Follicular development will be monitored according to the center's standard practice by US
      and/or Oestradiol (E2) levels, until the protocol r-hCG requirement is met (i.e., at least 1
      follicle greater or equal to 18 mm and 2 follicles greater or equal to 16 millimeter [mm]).
      After this, a single injection of 250 microgram (mcg) of r-hCG (Ovidrel®/Ovitrelle®), will be
      administered in order to induce final oocyte maturation.

      At a time of 34-38 hours after r-hCG administration, oocytes will be recovered vaginally
      under US monitoring. Oocytes will then be fertilized in vitro and embryos replaced 2-3 days
      after oocyte recovery. Ovum pick up (OPU), in vitro fertilization (IVF), Embryo Transfer (ET)
      and luteal support will be performed as per center's standard practice. In addition, Crinone®
      8% (progesterone gel) will be administered once daily.

      A post-treatment safety visit will be performed for all subjects who received r-hCG (pregnant
      and non-pregnant) on post r-hCG Day 15-20. For subjects who have withdrawn from treatment
      (i.e. after starting Luveris® or GONAL f® but before r-hCG is given) this visit will take
      place 20-30 days after their first Luveris® or GONAL-f® treatment injection (excluding
      pregnancy testing).
    
  