
    
      In recent years there has been a large increase in the amount of surgical procedures now
      available on an outpatient basis (Gilmartin & Wright, 2008). This is due largely to advances
      in surgical methods and also in response to increasing demands on the National Health Service
      (M. Mitchell, 2010). This shift impacts patients and health care professionals alike who must
      adapt to home based recovery and symptom management (Stomberg, Segerdahl, Rawal, Jakobsson, &
      Brattwall, 2008). This research will investigate patient's expectations, experiences,
      recovery and satisfaction with office based surgery conducted in a private clinic.

      The advancement of office based surgery has led to a rise in the number of procedures
      completed under local rather than general anaesthetic (Chukmaitov, Devers, Harless,
      Menachemi, & Brooks, 2011). Resultantly, the number of patients who are conscious during
      surgery has risen. The environment of the operating theatre must now be considered and nurses
      are become increasingly responsible for patient's mental wellbeing during surgery. For some,
      the prospect of being conscious during surgery can be stressful and a number of individual
      factors have been identified as potentially anxiety provoking (Mitchell, 2009). These range
      from waiting in the clinic before the surgery (Mitchell, 2008) hearing sounds of instruments
      being unpacked (Hankela & Kiikkala, 1996) to fears over anaesthesia (Bondy, Sims, Schroeder,
      Offord, & Narr). Patients' anxiety levels have been found to be high in the pre operative
      period (Kagan & Bar-Tal, 2008) and the links between high pre operative anxiety and poorer
      surgical outcomes have been well documented (Dodds 1993,Munafò & Stevenson, 2001).

      With this in mind, methods of reducing patient anxiety have been explored. Adapting the
      operating environment to better suit the needs of the patient has been found to be effective
      in anxiety reduction (Mark Mitchell, 2008). A powerful yet simple factor in anxiety reduction
      is the behaviour of the nursing staff in the operating theatre. When nurses use comforting
      words or touch, anxiety reductions have been observed during and before surgery (Cox & Hayes,
      1997.) There is also some evidence to suggest that therapeutic touch can reduce surgical
      pain(Ramnarine-Singh, 1999). Other easily achievable adaptations to the operating environment
      that have been shown to have great anti anxiolytic effects include music (Cooke, Chaboyer, &
      Hiratos, 2005), audio- visual stimuli (Drahota et al., 2008), virtual reality (Hoffman et al,
      2001) and massage (Kim, Cho, Woo, & Kim, 2001).

      The research above outlines how the addition of fairly minor interventions can be effective
      in improving patient's experience of office based surgery. As the growth of day surgery
      continues, identifying and implementing the most effective interventions for anxiety and pain
      reduction grows ever more important.

      In light of the research outlined above, this investigation will utilise a three phase
      approach t evaluate interventions aimed at improving pain relief and recovery following
      office based surgery.
    
  