
    
      The investigators hypothesize that patients will experience less pain, an elevation in mood,
      a decrease in stress, higher well-being, and a reduction in TMD symptoms after receiving
      therapeutic music treatments. The investigators further predict that the vibrations generated
      by the Sound Oasis VTS1000 (vibroacoustic chair) will produce stronger effects than
      self-selected music. The question to be investigated in this study: "What are the effects of
      music on TMD symptoms?"

      Participant intake will occur prior to study providing information on diagnostics, music
      preferences, participant demographics, and participant randomization. The study will consist
      of 4 assessments and 2 treatments with a 1 month wash-out period between treatments.
      Assessment 1 (will serve as pre-test) and occur before 1st treatment. Assessment 2 (will
      serve as post-test), taking place before 2nd treatment and will last 45 minutes. Assessment 3
      will follow the wash-out period; and assessment 4 (the final session), which will be a total
      of 60 minutes will include a participant treatment review interview. Pre/post assessments
      will be utilized as a means to examine change in pain at the level of each participant, mood
      levels, depression and the perception of quality of life.

      Therapeutic music treatments, which will consist of randomly assigned interventions of Sound
      Oasis VTS-1000 and preferred music playlist, will be prescribed for self-administered in-home
      sessions for 3-weeks, 7 days (recommended) but at least a minimum of 5 days per week. During
      each 3-week music treatment period, 1 self-administered in-home music treatment will be
      prescribed for 3-weeks, 7 days (recommended) but at least a minimum of 5 days per week.

      There will be 2 times where the participants receive no therapeutic music intervention but
      will continue with treatment as usual which will occur 7 days prior to each treatment.
      Participants will be asked to do a daily pain rating for one week during treatment as usual
      before the start of the music interventions.

      There will be a 4-week wash-out period between therapeutic music treatments 1 and 2. There
      will be no music treatment during this time. Participants will be asked to keep a record of
      the type of medication taken, a pill count, and frequency of medication during this time as
      well as during treatment.

      Both therapeutic music and treatment as usual times will be intervened by a treatment
      compliance email or phone call by the music therapist. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to 2 groups: (a) Sound Oasis VTS-1000 and (b) participant preferred music. Participants will
      complete questionnaires at the beginning of the study, following the end of the first 3 weeks
      of either therapeutic music treatment, at the end of the second 3 weeks of therapeutic music
      and during the final assessment time, which will also consist of a brief interview about
      treatment received.

      Data will be analyzed with reference given only to an assigned ID number. All information
      collected will be used for this study to investigate the effects of therapeutic music on the
      management of TMD symptoms. Furthermore, all participants will be informed that all
      information that will be disclosed will remain confidential, unless the disclosed information
      will cause harm to self or others.
    
  