
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the confirmed overall response rate (>= partial response [PR]) of MLN9708
      (ixazomib citrate), used as a single agent in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma, who
      are proteasome inhibitor naïve (including bortezomib) naive OR have received less than 6
      cycles of therapy with bortezomib and had a better than PR with no progression at the time of
      discontinuation. (Arm A - Permanently closed to accrual as of Addendum 5) II. To determine
      the confirmed overall response rate (>= PR) of MLN9708 at a 4 mg dose level in combination
      with dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma, who are proteasome inhibitor
      naïve (including bortezomib) naïve OR have received less than 6 cycles of therapy with
      bortezomib and had a better than PR with no progression at the time of discontinuation. (Arm
      B) III. To determine the confirmed overall response rate (>= PR) of MLN9708 at a 5.5 mg dose
      level in combination with dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma, who are
      proteasome inhibitor naïve (including bortezomib) naïve OR have received less than 6 cycles
      of therapy with bortezomib and had a better than PR with no progression at the time of
      discontinuation. (Arm C) IV. To determine the confirmed overall response rate (>= PR) of
      MLN9708 in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed
      multiple myeloma, who are proteasome inhibitor naive (including bortezomib) naïve OR have
      received less than 6 cycles of therapy with bortezomib and had a better than PR with no
      progression at the time of discontinuation. (Arm D)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate of MLN9708 in combination with dexamethasone, when
      dexamethasone is added to MLN9708 for lack of response or for progression. (Arm A) II. To
      determine the event free survival and overall survival among patients with relapsed myeloma
      following treatment with MLN9708 with dexamethasone added for lack of response or
      progression. (Arm A) III. To determine the event free survival and overall survival among
      patients with relapsed myeloma following treatment with MLN9708 at two different doses, in
      combination with dexamethasone. (Arms B and C) IV. To determine the event free survival and
      overall survival among patients with relapsed myeloma following treatment with MLN9708 in
      combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone. (Arms D)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms (Arm A permanently closed to
      accrual as of Addendum 5).

      ARM A: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients with lack
      of minor response by the end of the second course or lack of partial response by the end of
      the fourth course also receive dexamethasone PO on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8 and 15 and dexamethasone PO on days
      1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive higher dose of ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15, cyclophosphamide PO and
      dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM E: Patient receive isazomib citrate PO on days 1,8 and 15, cyclophosphamide PO on days
      1,8,15 and 22. Daratumumab IV Days 1, 8, 15, 22 for cycles 1-2; Days 1, 15 for cycles 3-6;
      and Day 1 for subsequent cycles. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Dexamethasone IV (PO only if IV unavailable) days 1,8,15 and 22. *Dexamethasone is started
      Day 1 Cycle 1

      **Dexamethasone should be given IV (PO only if IV is unavailable), approximately 1 hour or
      less prior to daratumumab infusion. On days when subjects receive this dose of dexamethasone
      in the clinic, dexamethasone will not be self-administered at home. On days when daratumumab
      is not scheduled, PO may be taken at home.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 or 12 months for 2
      years.
    
  