
    
      Methods

      • Patients and settings:

      All adult (> 18 years old) patients with diagnosis community-acquired pneumonia will receive
      initial antibiotic therapy based on local guidelines and susceptibility patterns, according
      to the decision of the treating physician.Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups, which respectively include PCR and PCT clinical procedure protocol. Randomization
      will be done using a table of random numbers generated by computer. For practical reasons the
      doctors treating the patients in question have science group in which the patient was
      included.

      Patients included in the two groups will have baseline assessment during the first day of
      study:

        -  Clinical evaluation of basic

        -  Start of antibiotic therapy

        -  Inclusion in the study

        -  Randomization (after signing the Informed Consent)

        -  Interventions:

      They will have circulating PCT and CRP levels measured at baseline and days 1,2,3 e 5 in both
      groups.

      Group 1 - CRP group: the duration of antibiotic therapy will be based on circulating CRP
      levels.

      Group 2 - PCT group: the duration of antibiotic therapy will be based on circulating PCT
      levels.

      Patients enrolled in the study will undergo daily measurements of plasma CRP (Dry Chemistry -
      Johnsons & Johnsons) and PCT (BRAHMS PCT VIDAS) levels up to day 5, and then, every 48hr in
      patients remaining in the ICU, and every 5 days in those transferred to the ward. Patients
      will be followed up 28 days, or until death or hospital transference, which comes first. PCT
      and CRP results will be released in sealed envelopes. During the study period, only the
      results corresponding to the patient randomization group will be open; i.e., CRP for CRP
      group patients and PCT for PCT group patients.

      Criteria for antibiotic interruption:

      The investigators will propose the interruption of antibiotics if:

        1. The patients is clinically stable, without signs of active infection

        2. CRP group: a relative reduction of 50% in baseline CRP levels, or a value lower than
           25mg/dl is reached.

        3. PCT group: a relative reduction of 90% in baseline PCT levels, or if a absolute value
           lower than 0.1 ng/ml is reached.

      The final decision regarding antibiotic therapy will be always let to the discretion of the
      treating physician.
    
  