
    
      Study Design, Size and Duration

      The study was conducted at the - Bio fertility IVF Center, Rome, Italy, on infertile couples
      due to male factor undergoing ICSI treatment.

      The study was reviewed and approved by the institutional review board at the - Biofertilty
      IVF Center.

      All patients undergoing ICSI and participating in the study gave informed consent.

      Patients included in the study had regular spontaneous menstrual cycles (26-39 days) and were
      aged < 42 years.

      All patients had acceptable follicular phase serum concentrations of FSH (≤10IU/L), LH
      (<10IU/L) and oestradiol (<60pg/ml), body mass index (BMI) ≤ 30 kg/m2, presence of both
      ovaries and normal uterine cavity.

      Only patients with repeated implantation failure in at least two previous IVF cycles were
      included.

      Patients were excluded from the study if they had any clinically significant systemic
      disease, polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), a previous history of severe ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), abnormal gynaecological bleeding of unknown origin, a
      previous history of intolerance to any of the agents used in the study.

      This was a prospective, randomized study.

      All patient sighed a detailed informed consent.

      The study is in accordance to the GCP guidelines

      They were randomly divided into two groups (A and B).

      All patients were stimulated in GnRH antagonist flexible protocol cycles using rFSH started
      on day 2 of a spontaneous or induced cycle. HCG (10000 iu ) was administered by I.M route
      when at least 2 folliclesreached 18 mm in diameter.

      Group A included 29 women stimulated with rFSH supplemented by rLH in the late follicular
      phase started at the same time of starting the antagonist administration.

      Those patients received 75 iu of rLH (Luveris serono) daily and 150 iu about 12 hours before
      triggering ovulation with HCG while Group B included 32 women who were stimulated with
      recombinant FSH (gonal F serono) only. The oocytes were decumulated and assessed for the
      maturation two hours after pick up which was done 36 hours after hcg injection. Mature oocyte
      should have an intact first polar body and homogeneously fine granular and light-colored
      ooplasm

      The rate of metaphase II oocytes was calculated and the MII oocytes were assessed for
      cytoplasmic morphology and maturity. MII oocytes with a light color and fine homogeneous
      granulate ooplasm were considered oocytes normal morphology and classified as oocytes that
      have completed their cytoplasmic maturation.

      Embryo transfer was done after 2 days of icsi. Pregnancy test was done after 12 days and
      clinical pregnancy and number of gestional sacs were assured after 2 weeks of positive
      pregnancy test with presence of featal heart beats. The mean, SD, T-test and Chi square test
      were used for statistic calculations of the results.
    
  