
    
      Osteoporosis leading to increased risk of fracture, especially in the ipsilateral limb, is
      well documented in lower limb amputees. The purpose of this research is to examine the
      clinical utility of two amputation surgical procedures in: a) minimizing short and
      longer-term deleterious effects of amputation on bone integrity relative to the antecedents
      of osteoporotic change: reduced weight bearing capacity, inflammation, impaired muscle
      viability, and vascular compromise, and b) deriving benefit from prosthetic rehabilitation
      and exercise interventions.

      In a randomized controlled clinical trial, we will test the hypotheses: In lower limb
      traumatic and dysvascular amputation, when compared to the transtibial long posterior flap
      amputation technique and the transfemoral Gottschalk method, the osteomyoplastic
      reconstruction technique developed by Ertl:

        1. Hypothesis 1: results in fewer detrimental effects on bone metabolism, structure, and
           mass.

        2. Hypothesis 2: leads to optimal rehabilitation and functional outcomes. Specifically, we
           will examine, in traumatic and dysvascular lower limb amputees randomly assigned to
           undergo either the long posterior flap amputation method or amputation with
           osteomyoplastic reconstruction in transtibial amputation and either the Gottschalk
           amputation method or amputation with osteomyoplastic reconstruction in transfemoral
           amputation, differences in the following parameters at baseline, 6 weeks (post-operative
           recuperation), and 6 months (termination of supervised rehabilitation and exercise
           intervention).

      We will assess bone integrity in patients undergoing standard amputation versus
      osteomyoplastic reconstruction by measuring bone metabolism and bone mineral density and
      mineral content. Second, we will measure inflammatory response in patients undergoing
      standard amputation versus osteomyoplastic reconstruction by assessing weight bearing and
      impact, muscle integrity, and limb vascularity. Last, we will compare rehabilitation and
      functional outcome in patients undergoing standard amputation versus osteomyoplastic
      reconstruction by assessing prosthetic mobility, functional capacity, activity levels, and
      quality of life.
    
  