
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To establish feasibility of intravenous sodium thiosulfate (STS) after each dose of
      concurrent cisplatin in patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma
      undergoing definitive radiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of grade >= 2 change from baseline based on Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 with use of STS after concurrent chemoradiation
      with cisplatin 3 months post-treatment.

      II. To determine the rate of tinnitus measured by Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE with
      use of STS 3 months post-treatment.

      III. To describe patient reported outcomes with STS measured with PRO-CTCAE for selected
      oral, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic and perceptual symptoms.

      IV. To describe patient reported outcomes measured with Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults
      - Screening (HHIA-S) compared to results from standard NRG Oncology head and neck trials
      (such as Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 1016).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups per treating physician's discretion.

      COHORT A: Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy daily for 6-7 weeks. Patients
      receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) on day 1. Between 4-5 hours after each cisplatin
      infusion, patients also receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 7 days for up to 7 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy daily for 6-7 weeks. Patients
      receive high-dose cisplatin IV on day 1. Between 4-5 hours after each cisplatin infusion,
      patients also receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  