
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and examine the dose-limiting toxicities
           of carfilzomib when administered in combination with rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin,
           and etoposide (C-R-ICE) in patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell
           lymphoma (DLBCL). (Phase I)

        -  II. To assess the toxicity of dose regimen using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program
           (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
           (CTCAE version 4.0). (Phase I)

        -  III. To evaluate the safety of carfilzomib (given at maximum tolerated dose [MTD] as
           determined in Phase I of this study) in combination with R-ICE salvage therapy in
           relapsed/refractory DLBCL patients. (Phase Ib)

        -  IV. To achieve an overall response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response
           [PR]) of 70% after 3 cycles of C-R-ICE in patients between the ages of 18 to 75 with
           relapsed/refractory cluster of differentiation (CD)20-positive DLBCL previously treated
           with rituximab-based immunochemotherapy (e.g., rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
           vincristine [vincristine sulfate], and prednisone [R-CHOP], rituximab, etoposide,
           prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin [REPOCH], rituximab,
           cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone, methotrexate, and cytarabine
           [R-HyperCVAD], etc.) induction. (Phase Ib)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To determine the feasibility of successful mobilization of autologous stem cells
           (i.e., minimum of 2 x 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg should be collected) to be used for autologous
           stem cell transplant (ASCT)

        -  II. To determine toxicities associated with C-R-ICE salvage therapy

        -  III. To determine the time to progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS), and
           overall survival (OS) followed by ASCT; disease-free survival in CR patients.

        -  IV. To determine the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics relationship between
           carfilzomib's degree of proteasome inhibition and response rate along with the time
           course of thrombocytopenia

        -  V. To study differences in clinical outcomes between germinal center B-cell-like (GCB)
           and non-GCB relapsed/refractory DLBCL following therapy with carfilzomib and R-ICE

        -  VI. Correlative translational research studies to include: phenotypic/genotypic analysis
           and functional activity (i.e., antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity [ADCC] and
           complement-mediated cytotoxicity [CMC]) of patient's peripheral blood mononuclear
           "effector" cells (PBMC), as well as ex vivo analysis of sensitivity of primary tumor
           cells to various combinations of carfilzomib versus bortezomib +/- rituximab; enzymatic
           assay for chymotrypsin-like activity to determine the degree of proteasome inhibition in
           primary DLBCL patient samples and patient PBMC specimens; explorative analysis to
           identify potential factors predictive of response to therapy will be performed.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of carfilzomib, followed by a phase Ib
      study.

      Patients receive carfilzomib intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, and 9;
      rituximab IV over 3-8 hours on day 3; etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 4-6; carboplatin IV
      over 1 hour on day 5; and ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21-28
      days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  