
    
      Stroke is the main cause of serious, long-term disability among Americans. The effects of a
      stroke make it difficult to participate in routine, daily activities so people become
      seriously deconditioned after a stroke. This increases the chances of having another stroke
      and it also increases the risk of death. Even a small increase in aerobic capacity reduces
      these risks, making aerobic training an important component of post-stroke management.

      Twenty to 60 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise on most days of the week is recommended
      for people with cardiovascular disease, but this is not very practical for many people after
      a stroke, who need to practice functional tasks like using the impaired arm and improving
      walking and balance. Another problem is that even when people do participate in aerobic
      training after a stroke, the improvements in aerobic capacity are sometimes surprisingly
      small. It is possible that the intensity of the training program was inadequate to improve
      aerobic capacity in some interventions. High-intensity interval training, in which people
      alternate between short, intense bouts of exercise and recovery bouts within the session, may
      be a way to improve aerobic capacity after a stroke with a more feasible training schedule
      that leaves time to practice functional skills too. High-intensity interval training on a
      treadmill might be appropriate to improve aerobic capacity and walking ability.

      This non-randomized, non-blinded pilot study was designed to assess the feasibility of ten
      weeks of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) using treadmill training for adults with
      impaired walking who were at least 6 months post-stroke.

      A secondary objective was to measure change in aerobic capacity, and a tertiary objective was
      to measure functional change in self-selected walking speed and leg strength as a result of
      the intervention.

      10 participants completed HIIT intervention while 5 participants served as controls and
      received no intervention, but completed both baseline and post-testing sessions.

      HIIT participants completed twice-weekly, 35-minute training sessions in a research
      laboratory for 10 consecutive weeks. At baseline and 12 weeks, all participants completed a
      graded exercise test, 10-meter walk test at self-selected and fastest, safe overground
      walking speeds, and a 30-second sit-to-stand test.
    
  