
    
      Clinic Visits:

      Participants will visit the clinic a total of 11 times from screen to completion of the
      study. This will include weekly visits with a dietician and 7 visits requiring blood draws
      (screen and twice following each diet period). At each visit, participants will be weighed,
      waist and hip circumferences will be measured, and blood pressure will be monitored. The
      total amount of blood collected is 450ml.

      Screening visit (V1: 1 hour):

      Recruiters will initially determine eligibility through review of a screening questionnaire
      and a telephone or personal interview. If a potential subject is eligible and interested, an
      orientation package will be mailed that will include written information about the study
      requirements. Interested subjects will be scheduled for a screening visit to determine final
      eligibility by the Clinical staff. At the screening visit (V1), informed consent will be
      obtained, anthropometric measurements obtained (height, weight, waist circumference, blood
      pressure), and blood (30ml) will be drawn to assess laboratory criteria for enrollment (total
      cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, and insulin for
      determination of HOMA-IR). Screening blood samples from individuals who are either not
      eligible or unwilling to proceed with the intervention will be destroyed. We will screen for
      pregnancy, and repeat pregnancy tests after all "A" visits (V2a, v3a, v4a). Menstruating
      women will be given a calendar to record their menstrual cycle for the duration of the study.
      Eligible individuals will be contacted within 2 weeks of this screen visit and invited to
      participate in the study. We are prepared to enroll up to 64 participants in this study to
      yield a target of 52 completed participants (20% dropout).

      Dietitian Visits (Initial: 1 hr, Subsequent: 15 min):

      Participants will meet weekly with a dietitian or dietitian aide to receive counseling
      including weight management and diet review. At these meetings, participants will receive a
      week's worth of frozen entrees, standardized menus with check lists, and itemized grocery
      lists. Baked goods and products containing the test starches will also be provided at this
      time. The form in which they will be provided (frozen or fresh) will depend on the nature of
      the product and its capacity to withstand refrigerated vs. frozen storage. During the washout
      period (days 28-42), subjects will continue to refrain from alcohol but will consume their
      usual home diet for 7 days, followed by the baseline diet for an additional 7 days. We
      anticipate that giving participants permission to eat what they want for 7 days during the
      washout will improve their compliance during the remainder of the dietary protocol.

      Participants will bring grocery store receipts from the previous week so that the dietitians
      may ensure purchase of prescribed foods not provided by the Bionutrition Unit.

      Post-diet Visits Requiring Blood Draws (A visits: 2.5 hr, B visits: 5 hr):

      Participants will visit the clinic on two separate days following completion of each diet to
      provide blood samples. Duplicate sampling reduces biological variability, and hence improves
      the power of the study to detect significant diet-induced changes in measurement. On the
      penultimate day of each diet (Visits 2A, 3A, 4A) participants will visit the clinic in the
      fasting state and provide a fasting blood sample (30ml) for measurement of total, LDL- and
      HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoproteins A1 and B, and lipoprotein subfraction
      analysis by ion mobility. Lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase activities will also be
      measured in plasma (20ml) obtained 15 minutes after IV heparin (75 units/kg). On the final
      day of each diet (Visits 2B, 3B, 4B), participants will provide a second fasting blood sample
      (for lipids and lipoproteins as above) and an adipose tissue aspiration to measure lipogenic
      gene expression. In addition a 3 hour starch tolerance meal will be performed at visits 3B
      and 4B, with blood samples for measuring glucose and insulin drawn in the fasting state and
      30, 60, 120, and 180 minutes after a starch meal (60ml total).

      Clinical Procedures:

      Clinical measurements: Blood pressure will be measured 3 times in a sitting position and the
      last 2 values averaged. Anthropometric measurements include height, weight, waist and hip
      circumference, and % body fat by bioimpedance (Tanita scale). Waist circumference is measured
      two times at the iliac crest and hip circumference is measured at the widest point of the
      hips.

      Standard Blood sampling: Using standard blood collection procedures, blood samples will be
      collected from participants after a 12-14 hour fast. The blood will be collected into tubes
      containing the following preservative solution: 3.0 gms EDTA (dipotassium), 1.7 mg P-Pack,
      0.15 gms gentamycin sulfate, 0.15 gms chloramphenicol, 5.96 mls aprotinin (Sigma A-6279), and
      0.30 gms sodium azide all of which are diluted to 20mls with doubly deionized water. Plasma
      is separated by immediate centrifugation at 4°C. Lipid and lipoprotein measurements are
      performed and aliquots of plasma are frozen for future analyses.

      Post-heparin Blood Sampling:

      A blood sample (20ml) will be drawn 15 minutes after intravenous administration of a heparin
      bolus (75U/kg, see Risk section for justification) for the analysis of plasma lipase
      activity. Prior to administration, participants will be interviewed for family history of
      clotting disorders or personal contraindications including use of anticoagulants, history of
      bleeding or bruising abnormalities or other diseases, allergies, or recent dental work.
      Following administration, participants will remain in clinic for 2 hours under observation.
      They will also be provided with an information sheet regarding heparin and the procedure.

      Adipose Tissue Biopsy:

      Adipose biopsies will be collected from the subcutaneous flanking region by an R.N. using a
      standardized, sterile procedure. Participants will be instructed not to take any drugs within
      2 days of the procedure that would impair clotting. This procedure will take place at least
      24 hours after post-heparin lipase analysis. Because the half-life of heparin is 2 hours,
      this is sufficient time to ensure clearance. After cleaning the area above the participant's
      buttock with betadine, Lidocaine hydrochloride 1% (10mg/ml) will be injected into the
      subcutaneous skin. Using a number 14G needle, 1-1.5 c.c.'s of fat will be aspirated. Cold
      pressure will be held on site and then the wound will be bandaged. Participants will be
      instructed to change the bandage once daily for two days. They will be provided with two
      bandages, instructions for keeping the wound clean, and a telephone number where clinical
      staff can be reached.

      Starch Meal Test:

      Immediately following adipose tissue biopsy and fasting blood draw, participants will be
      given a starch meal that provides 1/3 of the daily calories to be consumed in 15 minutes. It
      will be similar in macronutrient composition to the test diet to which the participant is
      assigned and will either be high in amylose or amylopectin. Blood will be drawn 30, 60, 120,
      and 180 minutes after meal consumption through an IV. For this procedure, an intravenous
      cannula or needle will be placed in the antecubital vein. A normal saline solution will be
      run at a keep open rate at the antecubital site.
    
  