
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death in the U.S. in both men and women
      and the aging of the population and rising prevalence of diabetes ensure that the number of
      persons with CHD will continue to increase over the next several decades. Two major factors
      contributing to adverse outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) surgery are failure to achieve complete revascularization, and residual impairment in
      left ventricular function.

      In the present study, the investigators propose a Phase I randomized double-blind study
      designed to assess the feasibility and safety of autologous CD133+ cells in patients referred
      for CABG who have significant regions of viable but non-revascularizable myocardium and/or
      significant LV systolic dysfunction not likely to improve with conventional coronary
      revascularization.

      Autologous CD133+ bone marrow progenitor cells will be harvested from study subjects at the
      time of CABG, processed and then injected into patients' myocardium prior to completion of
      CABG surgery. The test material consists of autologous CD133+ cells. Since intra-myocardial
      injections per se could stimulate neovascularization, control group patients will receive a
      placebo injection of carrier solution. Control subjects will thus have an identical procedure
      to those randomized to autologous CD133+ cell injections.

      The three goals of the study are as follows:

        1. To demonstrate the feasibility and safety of intra-operative, intra-myocardial injection
           of autologous CD133+ bone marrow cells in adults with chronic ischemic cardiomyopathy
           associated with impair left ventricular function.

        2. To assess the effect of autologous CD133+ cell injections on regional myocardial
           perfusion and function by comparing paired magnet resonance scans obtained prior to CABG
           and again 6 months post CABG.

        3. To assess the effect of autologous CD133+ stem cell injections on symptom severity and
           quality of life at 6 months after CABG surgery.
    
  