
    
      Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) are most common chronic orofacial pain conditions of
      non-dental origin, with prevalence in the general population of 3.6% to 7%. Despite signs and
      symptoms being well described in the literature, there is still an absence of underlying
      pathophysiological mechanisms. Evidence based strategies for diagnosis and management of
      temporomandibular pain still aren't available. Psychological and mechanical stress factors
      could contribute to oxidative stress (OS) and lead to TMD. Therefore, identification of
      oxidative stress biomarkers would objectively indicate implication of OS in TMD pain onset
      mechanisms, and provide a basis for early detection, and a potential target for therapeutic
      agents to prevent progression to more severe dysfunction.

      Aim is to quantify salivary OS markers and total antioxidant capacity (TAC), as well as
      recently isolated endogenous peptide opiorphin (OP) (2006 Inst. Pasteur), in TMD patients and
      compare them to controls. As chronic exposure to stress may cause hyperalgesia as a result of
      the stress response in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, aim is to test this as
      an underlying mechanism by correlating OP and OS markers to salivary cortisol (SC) levels.

      Hypotheses: OS has a role in TMD onset and maintenance, thus salivary markers of OS will
      increase and/or TAC will decrease; OP influences orofacial pain syndromes, such as TMD, and
      its salivary level will differ between TMD patients and controls. If decreased OP levels in
      TMD patients were encountered, we hypothesize that OP downregulation contributes to TMD onset
      as its analgesic effect is absent. Conversely, increased OP levels would suggest that OP is
      upregulated merely as a reaction to painful stimuli. Disbalanced SC levels in TMD patients
      would corroborate involvement of HPA axis in TMD mechanism, which is known to affect the
      intensity of OS.

      Saliva of 50 TMD patients (diagnosed by validated diagnostic criteria and MRI) and 50
      controls will be collected. OS markers (8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, malondialdehyde, etc.) will
      be assessed by ELISA with spectrophotometric detection and by spectrophotometric reagent
      kits. OP levels will be measured by HPLC-MS/MS method, originally developed and validated by
      team members. The electrochemiluminescence immunoassay ECLIA will be used for measuring SC.

      Pain and stress will be subjectively assessed using questionnaires: all subjects will fill in
      Perceived Stress Scale 10 (PSS-10); in TMD patients the worst experienced pain will be
      recorded using Visual Analogue Scale at the initial and at subsequent visits, as well as
      Graded Chronic Pain Scale (GCPS), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Patient Health Questionnaire
      (PHQ), Jaw function limitation scale (JFLS), Oral Behaviours Checklist and Oral Health Impact
      Profile (OHIP)-14.

      TMD patients will be randomized in 2 treatment groups (1: stabilization splint + placebo
      pills; 2: placebo splint + 1g of vitamin C daily). Measurements will be repeated after 3 and
      6 months of treatment. Monitoring of OP, OS markers and SC during that period will, depending
      on observed changes in TMD symptoms, further elucidate underlying proposed mechanism by
      performing multivariate analyses including treatment outcomes.

      This translational research aims to make basic science findings useful for clinical
      applications. Findings of higher concentrations of OS biomarkers would, besides their
      significance as "a piece of puzzle" of TMD mechanism, could also be important in
      establishment of TMD diagnosis and as prospective therapeutic targets. Salivary opiorphin,
      due to its proven analgesic effect might additionally serve as a possible drug for orofacial
      pain syndromes.

      Novel approach to understanding neuroendocrine mechanisms in TMD and their links to OS, as
      well and use of saliva as non-invasively available diagnostic biofluid represent significant
      scientific advances.
    
  