
    
      Construction and analysis of the database and study protocol were authorized by the
      Institutional Evaluation Committee under N° B20-010 and P20-070, respectively.

      Assuming a 3: 1 relationship between surgery within 48 hours of symptom onset and surgery
      after 48 hours of 3: 1, we have an 80% power to find a difference in postoperative morbidity
      between groups of 30% with error type I of .05.

      Analysed variables include: demographic characteristics, gestational age, clinical
      presentation, symptom duration from onset until surgical resolution, complementary studies,
      ASA score (Classification of the American Society of Anaesthesiology), intraoperative
      findings, type of surgery performed, intra and postoperative complications, length of stay,
      readmissions, use of tocolytics, preterm delivery, birth weight, Apgar score, maternal and
      foetal mortality, and obstetric and perinatological complications in pregnant patients with a
      preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis.

      Any surgery in which the exploratory laparoscopy did not reveal intra-abdominal pathology and
      the appendix was macroscopically and microscopically normal was classified as a "negative
      laparoscopy". An "intraoperative complication" was defined as any unexpected intraoperative
      event, excluding conversion to conventional surgery, which was analysed as an independent
      event. A "postoperative complication" was defined as any deviation from the usual
      postoperative course within 30 days of surgery. An "obstetric complication" was one that
      occurred from the appendectomy until the end of the pregnancy, including foetal death and
      excluding preterm delivery. Spontaneous abortion and foetal demise were included within the
      same "foetal loss" outcome. "Preterm labour" was considered to be deliveries or caesarean
      sections that occurred prior to the 37th week of gestation.

      For continuous variables, mean, standard deviation and / or minimum and maximum, or median
      and interquartile interval (IQR) were used, according to distribution. For categorical
      variables the number and corresponding percentages were reported. Continuous parameter
      comparisons were made using the test for independent samples or Wilcoxon-rank test; and when
      there were more than two groups, Anova or Kruskal Wallis were applied. For the comparison of
      categorical variables, Chi-square or Fisher's exact test were used, as appropriate. A p <0.05
      was considered statistically significant. Likewise, a multivariate analysis was performed for
      the presence of postoperative and obstetric complications, contemplating possible
      confounders.
    
  