
    
      Abortion remains one of the most common surgical procedures in the world, regardless of
      region or development status [Guttmacher 2012]. In the United States, at least half of all
      women will experience an unintended pregnancy by age 45, and one third of all women will have
      had an abortion by this same age [Guttmacher 2014].

      Despite universal efforts to increase the comfort of these procedures, pain remains a
      limiting factor in where and how abortion is performed. Recent estimates reveal that 70-97%
      of women experience pain during abortion [Renner 2010, Paul 2009, Belanger 1988]. Strategies
      to reduce all aspects of abortion related pain have the potential for significant public
      health impact, given the large number of women who seek these services. A survey of National
      Abortion Federation clinics found that to date, most providers (84%) employ the use of a
      lidocaine paracervical block for cervical anesthesia prior to abortion [O'Connell 2009], but
      traditionally without a waiting period between lidocaine administration and procedure
      initiation.

      To the best of our knowledge, there are no published studies that 1) rigorously examine the
      effect of a time interval between local anesthetic administration and procedure initiation,
      or 2) explore whether adequate pain relief is possible through self-administered,
      non-invasive means alone. The investigators propose to explore the effect of a locally
      applied lidocaine gel in place of the traditional paracervical block to decrease abortion
      related pain.

      The objective of this study is to compare pain control at various time points during first
      trimester surgical abortion using a locally applied, patient-administered lidocaine gel as
      compared to traditional lidocaine paracervical block.

      If a patient-administered vaginal gel is acceptable and effective, it would increase options
      for pain control during abortion and other gynecologic procedures, and perhaps replace
      paracervical injection altogether.

      Hypothesis: Patients who receive lidocaine gel applied 30 minutes prior to first trimester
      surgical abortion will have pain control equivalent to that of a traditional paracervical
      block.

      This is a non-inferiority, open-label, randomized controlled trial of women ages 18 and older
      undergoing first trimester surgical abortion at 50/7 to 116/7 weeks.
    
  