
    
      Very little is currently known about why some patients with peripheral neuropathy develop
      neuropathic pain, whilst others do not. It is anticipated that this study will begin to
      identify features of the peripheral neuropathy, which are and are not, associated with the
      development and intensity of neuropathic pain and therefore begin to elucidate factors, which
      underlie pain. We will also compare findings in neuropathies resulting from diverse
      aetiologies including diabetes, HIV and idiopathic axonal neuropathies in order to
      investigate, whether there are differences in pain symptomatology, NCS, QST, patterns of
      evoked brain activity and small fibre dysfunction in these different contexts.

      We would like to answer the following question:

      'In patients suffering from peripheral neuropathy what are the relationships between pain
      symptomatology and peripheral sensory dysfunction, intraepidermal nerve fibre density (IENFD)
      and psychological, and circadian rhythm co-morbidity as well as in everyday functionality?

      1.2.1 Quantitative sensory testing (QST) and neuropathic pain.

      Nerve conduction studies (NCS) predominantly assess large fibre function and indeed in the
      context of small fibre neuropathy are often normal. We propose to assess the utility of two
      relatively non-invasive tools, which are routinely used, both in our practice and elsewhere,
      to assess small fibre dysfunction: quantitative sensory testing (QST) and intraepidermal
      nerve fibre density (IENFD). There have been studies examining both of these in the context
      of neuropathy, but the exact relationship of these measures to abnormalities to pain, quality
      of life and psychological state is largely unknown.

      QST is a method for accurately determining sensory thresholds in human skin and is
      particularly useful for determining dysfunction in the nociceptive smaller diameter nerve
      fibres, although the precise utility of QST in routine clinical neuropathic pain management
      perhaps requires some further evaluation. There is also increasing interest in using QST in
      combination with assessment of pain descriptors to give insights into the underlying
      pathophysiological mechanisms of chronic pain. For example, the presence of brush evoked
      dynamic allodynia indicates sensitisation at the spinal level. Although QST is widely used as
      an assessment tool for small fibre function and sensory phenotype in neuropathies associated
      with pain often only certain individual components have been measured (e.g. thermal and
      vibration thresholds as opposed to the full battery of tests required to give the complete
      sensory assessment). Previous studies have also suggested that patients with painful
      neuropathy may also display hyperalgesia to mechanical and thermal suprathreshold stimuli,
      however these studies have contained relatively small numbers of subjects. We will therefore
      further characterise this phenomenon by conducting additional suprathreshold mechanical and
      thermal stimuli according to a method previously described, in addition to the standard
      German Neuropathic Pain Network QST protocol, and also we will include variations in ambient
      temperature (in the range of 10 to 35 °C) to assess if characteristics related to the sensory
      testing eventually change.

      1.2.2 Intra-epidermal nerve fibre density (IENFD) and neuropathic pain.

      Measurement of IENFD is a relatively simple assay which can be performed in relatively
      innocuous 3mm punch biopsies of skin, a routine dermatological investigation. Its utility in
      the assessment of small fibre function in peripheral neuropathies is clear. Peripheral
      neuropathies of diverse aetiologies are associated with reduced epidermal innervation density
      however the exact relationship of this reduction to pain and pain co-morbidities requires
      proper evaluation. Residual skin tissue will be stored in compliance with The Human Tissue
      Act, for further biochemical analysis.

      1.2.3 Nerve Conduction Studies Axon Reflex and Neuropathic Pain Characteristically, different
      types of peripheral neuropathy exhibit patterns of demyelination or axonopathy in large
      fibres. The rationale for the procedure in this study is to discard other pathologies that
      may account as the main etiology causing pain in the context of a peripheral neuropathy.
      Guillain-Barre Syndrome, Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy,
      Vasculitic Neuropathies and others can account for both neuropathy and pain allowing us to
      make the sample more homogeneous. Nerve conduction studies are usually safe procedures in
      which the indemnity of the axon and its myelin sheath are tested using external electrical
      stimuli. As a part of the protocol we have these tests . As a part of the study,
      Electromyography (EMG) will not be included either.

      If NCS have been performed as part of the patients routine medical care these results will be
      recorded.

      As a further means of assessing the physiological integrity of C fibers in patients suffering
      from carpal tunnel syndrome we will elicit an axon reflex. This reflex involves the
      transcutaneous application of agents such as histamine via iontophoresis (electrical
      current). The histamine will stimulate the peripheral nerve endings of the small diameter C
      fibres. Their stimulation induces a vasodilatation, which is visible as a flare response of
      the skin. The evaluation of the extent of the flare response is used as an indication of the
      integrity of the small diameter C fibre population.

      1.2.4 Psychological co-morbidity, quality of life and neuropathic pain

      Whilst some studies have examined aspects of pain in the context of peripheral neuropathy,
      these do not go beyond more than simple measurement of pain intensity or sensory
      characteristics and there is only a limited literature which has explored the interactions
      between pain, psychological status and quality of life. Neuropathic pain in general is
      associated with multiple psychological problems which impact upon quality of life. These
      include circadian rhythm disturbances (e.g. sleeping difficulty: moderate to severe in 60% of
      patients), lack of energy (55%), drowsiness (39%) and difficulty in concentration (36%);
      similar findings have been specifically documented in diabetic neuropathy. Severe to moderate
      depression and anxiety also occur in about 30% of neuropathic pain patients. In general,
      beliefs and fears concerning the pain and its implications contribute substantially to
      determining mood and behaviour. Since neuropathic pain is relatively common in the context of
      peripheral neuropathy the question arises as to what extent pain is the driver of these
      co-morbidities - the answer to this is not known, but large randomised controlled trials of
      analgesic interventions in neuropathic pain states indicate that as pain intensity reduces so
      does the severity of these co-morbidities. To answer this question we will first need to
      identify specific tools for the measurement of neuropathic pain co-morbidity in the context
      of peripheral neuropathy this is one of the aims of this proposal and we will evaluate a
      variety of existing assessment tools. Another issue is that it is likely that psychological
      co-morbidity influences the self reporting of pain intensity, which is a usual primary
      outcome measure in clinical trials of neuropathic pain analgesic agents.

      We will use a battery of psychological instruments to determine the psychological and quality
      of life in those subjects with peripheral neuropathy and identify differences between those
      who do and do not suffer from neuropathic pain.

      We will also attempt to further validate a number of neuropathy screening and assessment
      tools; the Brief Peripheral Neuropathy Screen (BPNS) and the Utah Early Neuropathy Scale
      (UENS). The BPNS and UENS tools has been previously evaluated in the context of HIV and
      diabetic neuropathy respectively, however our study would provide additional invaluable
      information in the light of both QST and IENFD findings in the context of axonal
      polyneuropathy resulting from diverse aetiologies.

      1.2.4 Blood samples

      We will collect blood samples (30mls) from each subject, which will be stored at -80C in a
      locked freezer. This coupled with the detailed phenotype data collected, will inform studies
      investigating potential genetic associations in the development of neuropathic pain. A serum
      sample will also be stored for the consideration of future biomarker studies.

      1.2.5 Imaging human brain activity in a subset of PINS participants

      The advent of functional imaging techniques allowed researchers to begin to look within the
      human brain to observe what pain looks like in the brain. Initially, pain imaging research
      determined that pain is not processed by a single brain region but instead engages several
      distributed cortical areas. The group of brain regions that are most active during pain are
      commonly referred to as the 'pain matrix'. This includes: primary and secondary somatosensory
      cortices (SI, SII), insular, anterior cingulate, and prefrontal cortices and the thalamus.
      However, pain is not purely a sensory event but is also reflective of how the person feels
      about their pain. Factors that vary widely across a population such as memories, emotion,
      pathology, genetics, and cognitive factors all directly affect how an individual experiences
      pain. Because of this, the pain matrix provides an incomplete picture of what is happening in
      the brain during pain. Pain imaging studies have begun to validate this perspective. For
      example, Derbyshire et al. showed activation of the key pain matrix regions even when
      subjects were not in pain. From a study looking at chronic pain sufferers, Baliki et al.
      showed that a series of other key brain regions were active that were outside the pain
      matrix. It is essential for brain imaging research to update the notion of the 'pain matrix'
      to account for these inconsistencies. Therefore, in this study we would like to see which
      areas of the brain are activated when the peripheral markers of the polyneuropathy are
      targeted by a range of noxious and non-noxious stimulations, so that we can determine the key
      brain regions involved in pain processing.
    
  