
    
      Avastin is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the growth
      of blood vessels. Methotrexate, vinblastine, and doxorubicin are designed to disrupt the
      growth of cancer cells, which causes cancer cells to start to die. Cisplatin has an atom at
      its center that contains platinum. The platinum is designed to poison the cancer cells, which
      may cause them to eventually die.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be treated with the
      combination of Avastin, methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin. The study
      drugs and saline will be given through a needle in your vein. Avastin will be given over 90
      minutes. Methotrexate will be given over 30 minutes. Vinblastine will be given over 30
      minutes. Doxorubicin will be given over 15 minutes. Cisplatin will be given over 4 hours. You
      will also receive saline for hydration after you have completed the infusion of cisplatin.
      This will take up to 20 hours. If you have a catheter in place, the chemotherapy drugs as
      well as the saline will be given through the catheter. You will receive the study drugs 1
      time every 2 weeks. Every 2 weeks is called a study "cycle".

      On Day 1 of each cycle, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital
      signs, height, and weight. You will be asked about any side effects you have experienced
      since your last visit. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine
      tests.

      After 3 cycles of therapy, you will have a bone scan if your screening test showed signs of
      bone disease. You will also have a repeat cystoscopy. These tests will be done to check the
      status of the disease.

      You will receive a total of 4 cycles of chemotherapy. At least 6 weeks after the last dose of
      Avastin, you will have a cystectomy (removal of your tumor). Your doctor will explain this
      procedure to you in detail. You will sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      After surgery, if you do not have disease in your lymph nodes or other sites, you will be
      taken off-study.

      After surgery, if you still have disease in your lymph nodes or other sites, you will be
      eligible to continue treatment with Avastin. Therapy can be restarted no sooner than 28 days
      after your surgery. You will receive Avastin every 2 or 3 weeks through a needle in your
      vein. Every 2 or 3 weeks will be considered a study cycle.

      Before each cycle of treatment, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.
      Urine will be collected every cycle for routine testing. Every 3 months you will have a CT
      scan or MRI to check the status of the disease.

      You may continue to receive the study drug for up to 18 months of therapy. You will be taken
      off study in the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Once you are off-study, you will have long term follow-up visits every 3-6 months for the
      first 30 months and then every year after that. These visits will continue for up to 4 years,
      or longer if your doctor thinks it is necessary. At these visits, you will have a CT or MRI
      scan of your abdomen and pelvis and a chest x-ray. Blood (about 1 teaspoons) will be drawn
      for routine testing.

      This is an investigational study. Avastin is not FDA approved or commercially available for
      this indication. Its use in this study is considered to be investigational. Methotrexate,
      doxorubicin, vinblastine, and cisplatin are all FDA approved and commercially available. Up
      to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  