
    
      Although a range of studies have examined the stress and depression of family caregivers of
      persons suffering from dementia, the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions to assist
      caregiving families and their disabled elderly relatives is uncertain. The comprehensive
      support protocol to be implemented, the Enhanced Counseling and Support (ECS) program, has
      been successfully implemented at the Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research Center of New
      York University School of Medicine (NYU-ADRC) over the past 19 years. However, the initial
      evaluation of the ECS was limited to a single geographic area (New York City proper) and a
      specific type of dementia caregiver (spouses).

      The specific aims of this 4-year project are as follows: 1) Examine whether the ECS can
      achieve positive outcomes for adult child caregivers. Few psychosocial interventions are
      directed specifically at adult child caregivers, and evaluating the ECS in adult child
      caregiving situations, which few studies have done, will further demonstrate the
      effectiveness of this program and add considerably to the AD caregiver intervention
      literature; and 2) Determine if the ECS, an intervention of proven efficacy for AD caregivers
      in a northern U.S. urban community (New York City), will also be effective in alleviating
      negative outcomes among AD caregivers at a Midwestern project site. The study will ascertain
      whether the comprehensive support program developed at NYU is generalizable to caregivers
      from areas other than the New York City area and leads to similar benefits that are
      maintained over long periods of time (i.e., up to 3.5 years).

      In order to accomplish the specific aims of the project, the following study hypotheses have
      been proposed:

        1. Adult child caregivers in the treatment conditions of the University of Minnesota (UM)
           and NYU-ADRC will report similar decreases on measures of stress when compared to
           usual-contact controls;

        2. Adult child caregivers in the intervention conditions at both sites will develop
           improved social support resources and experience significantly greater decreases of
           family conflict in a similar manner;

        3. Adult child caregivers in the treatment conditions at UM and NYU-ADRC will report
           similar decreases on global measures of psychological distress, such as depression.
           Similarly, treatment caregivers will report greater increases in subjective health than
           their counterparts in the usual-contact control; and

        4. Membership in the treatment condition of the ECS and its benefits (e.g., increased
           social support, decreased stress) will lead to delayed institutionalization (e.g.,
           nursing home placement) of care recipients at the UM and NYU-ADC sites.
    
  