
    
      Aggressive treatment for patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) can result in
      return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). However, prognosis for these patients remains poor,
      with low rates of survival to hospital admission and low rates of survival to hospital
      discharge. Furthermore, due to the exquisite sensitivity to hypoxic injury of neural tissue
      (dependent on aerobic respiration) relative to that of cardiac muscle, patients for whom ROSC
      can be obtained often suffer devastating neurological injury, with potential poor long-term
      neurological outcome. In some ischemic processes, for example, myocardial infarction, rapid
      measurement of cardiac biomarkers (e.g. Troponin isoform) is invaluable to current diagnosis
      and management. However, with regards to ischemic brain injury, there is currently no rapid,
      definitive diagnostic test to prognosticate outcome in OHCA. Biomarkers measurable in blood
      would have vital applications in prognosis and clinical research of neurological outcome in
      OHCA.

      Other groups have studied the neurological predictive values of biomarkers after OHCA. A
      variety of proteins including S100B, neuron-specific enolase, and G-FAP, co-peptin, Tau,
      neurofilament light/ heavy chain, and secretoneurin have been proposed as potential
      biomarkers of neurological outcome at OHCA. Unfortunately, many of these have been shown to
      have several drawbacks. For example, some lack specificity due to being released during
      resuscitation (e.g., S100B is found extracerebrally in muscle, adipocytes, and chondrocytes,
      creating a confounding factor in CA patients receiving chest compressions). Others have
      lacked sufficient sensitivity in the prognosticating of neurological outcome (ref).
      Furthermore, there is a paucity of human studies in cardiac arrest on newer biomarkers that
      have been studied in other acute brain injury disease processes that could potentially serve
      as candidate biomarkers predicting neurological outcome at post cardiac arrest hypoxic brain
      injuries. Biomarkers such as UCH-L1, SBDP, and MBP have not been studied in a OHCA cohort.

      The Investigator therefore propose a prospective, observational study in which the
      investigator will incorporate a minimally invasive and minimal risk measurement of blood
      biomarkers at time of ROSC. This would be done by drawing blood at ROSC (0-59mins), and
      additional blood draws at hours 6, 12, 18, 24, 48, 72, and on day 4, 5, and 6. The
      Investigator will then determine whether biomarker levels correlates with survival to
      hospital admission, survival to hospital discharge, and functional neurologic outcome at
      discharge and at 6 months. The Investigator intend to sample patients that present to the
      emergency department with non-CA chest pain in our study as well, which will allow us to draw
      stable inferences.
    
  