
    
      There has not been much studies conducted to address this issue however most of the
      recommendations are made in view of preventing any complications following procedures.
      Stiegmann and Goff 4 were the first to employ EVL to treat esophageal varices. They did not
      mention any specific restriction of feeding on patients receiving band ligation however they
      did mentioned that following the band ligation of varices, the ligated varices and tissues
      may evoke transient dysphagia to solid food.5 A study conducted by Gin Ho Lo et al 6
      demonstrated that early feeding with a liquid diet in conscious patients after successful
      endoscopic therapy of varices can shorten the hospital stay. The two groups which were
      created in this study were the early-feeding group and the delayed-feeding group. Patients in
      the early-feeding group were asked to fast for only 4 hours following endoscopic treatment.
      Subsequently, a liquid diet (fruit juice, soybean juice, milk, rice in liquid form) was
      instituted for 3 days. Additionally, <500 cc intravenous fluid with proper electrolyte
      supplement per day was administered. Thereafter, a soft diet was provided for 3 days, after
      which a regular diet was resumed since the seventh day after endoscopic treatment. Patients
      in the delayed-feeding group were asked to absolutely fast for 48 hours after endoscopic
      treatment, and 1500 cc/day intravenous fluids (normal saline or glucose water) with proper
      electrolytes were administered for 2 days. After 2 days of fasting, a liquid diet was given
      for 1 day, and subsequently, a soft diet was given for 3 days, and then a regular diet was
      instituted on the seventh day after endoscopic treatment. If rebleeding occurred within 7
      days of endoscopic therapy, patients in both groups were again asked to fast for 48 hours,
      and then put on a liquid diet for 1 day followed by a soft diet for 4 days.

      Treatment failure was defined as failure to control acute bleeding episodes or very early
      rebleeding or death within 5 days. Failure to control acute variceal bleeding was defined as
      the occurrence of any of the following events within 48 hours of enrollment, based on the
      modified criteria of the Baveno III consensus:7 (1) fresh hematemesis after enrollment; (2)
      sudden onset of reduction in blood pressure of _20 mmHg and/or an increase in pulse rate of
      20 beats/minute with 2 g drop in hemoglobin; (3) transfusion of four units of blood required
      to increase the hematocrit to above 27% or hemoglobin to above 9 g/dL; and (4) death. Very
      early rebleeding was defined as when the criteria for failure to control acute variceal
      bleeding occurred between 48 hours and 120 hours after enrollment in patients achieving
      control of acute bleeding. Control of acute bleeding (initial hemostasis) was defined as when
      the criteria for failure did not occur within 48 hours of enrollment. A 5-day hemostasis was
      defined as when the criteria for failure to control acute variceal bleeding and very early
      rebleeding did not occur within 5 days of enrollment. A nasogastric tube was not routinely
      inserted after initial endoscopy.

      The rebleeding rates associated with EVL varied greatly between studies, and rates ranging
      from 2% to 54% have been recorded.8,9 Aside from other reasons, this discrepancy is very
      likely to be related to the variation in timing of refeeding after EVL. However, this factor
      was rarely mentioned in the methodology of these studies A review article by Xavier
      He´buterne 10 concluded that In patients hospitalized for acute upper gastrointestinal
      bleeding due to an ulcer with high risk of rebleeding (Forrest I-IIb) or with variceal
      bleeding it is recommended to wait at least 48 h after endoscopic therapy before initiating
      oral or enteral feeding. In case of ulcer with low risk of rebleeding (Forrest IIc and III)
      or in patients with gastritis, Mallory-Weiss, oesophagitis, or angiodysplasia, there is no
      need to delay refeeding, and they can be fed as soon as tolerated. Understanding the cause of
      the diagnosis is always necessary to adapt nutrition in patients with upper gastrointestinal
      bleeding.
    
  