
    
      Background of the study:

      About 50% of cirrhotic patients who use nonselective beta-blockers (NSBB) for primary
      prevention of variceal bleeding do not reach target hemodynamic response, defined as HVPG <
      12 mmHg or a > 20% decrease in HVPG from baseline. These so-called hemodynamic nonresponding
      patients have significantly higher rate of first esophageal variceal hemorrhage as compared
      to patients who do respond to NSBB.

      International institutions that publish guidelines differ in their recommendations concerning
      HVPG monitoring. As a result, practice currently varies widely.

      The investigators hypothesize that HVPG-directed primary prophylaxis leads to a reduction in
      first variceal bleeding episodes and is cost-effective in the long term.

      Objective of the study:

      To determine cost-effectiveness of hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG)-guided
      nonselective beta-blocker therapy as compared to standard heart rate-guided beta-blocker
      therapy in the primary prevention of esophageal variceal bleeding in cirrhotic patients.

      Study design:

      A multi-center randomized controlled study comparing nonselective beta-blocker therapy guided
      by the hemodynamic response as determined by the difference in HVPG before and after starting
      oral nonselective beta-blockers, to standard heart rate-guided nonselective beta-blocker
      therapy in patients with esophageal varices due to liver cirrhosis.

      Study population:

      Patients with liver cirrhosis and large (>5 mm) esophageal varices without a history of
      esophageal variceal hemorrhage.

      Intervention:

      -In HVPG-group: Perform baseline HVPG measurement, then start propranolol 20 mg orally twice
      daily (BID), increase the dose stepwise with 3 days interval to decrease the heart rate to
      maximum tolerated dose. After 4 weeks a second HVPG is performed.

      In hemodynamic responders (who reach target decrease in HVPG) NSBB are continued until end of
      follow-up.

      In hemodynamic nonresponders (who do not reach target decrease in HVPG), NSBB are continued
      and repeated endoscopic band ligation is performed with 2-4 weeks interval until complete
      obliteration of large varices.

      -In control group: Start propranolol 20 mg BID, increase the dose stepwise with 3 days
      interval to maximum heart rate-guided tolerated dose.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study:

      First variceal bleeding episodes occurring within the first two years.

      Secondary study parameters/outcome of the study:

      Mortality Occurrence of other cirrhosis-related complications Occurrence of hepatocellular
      carcinoma Costs of treatments Adverse effects
    
  