
    
      Study design and eligibility criteria:

      The study design for the qualitative part of this study, tier one, is inspired by
      Participatory Action Research (PAR), involving both parents and health professionals in
      neonatal intensive care in a collaborative research project. Our ambition with the PAR design
      is to democratize the research process and include also the parents in the knowledge making.
      One focus group per region is recruited by the researchers and the participants are recruited
      based on their interest for parent-driven pain management. The focus groups contain two
      parents of infants who currently are admitted to the NICU, one parent who previously
      experienced NICU care, two health professionals and two researchers. In the focus groups, the
      NICU parents, the health professionals and the researchers will sit together discussing and
      sharing knowledge about parent-driven pain management interventions. The groups will then
      test the parent-driven interventions during a routine blood sample, before the groups meet
      again to evaluate their experiences and suggest solutions for plausible problems to improve
      clinical practice. The feedback from the focus groups will purportedly bring about guidelines
      for parent-driven pain management which are context sensitive and tailored to the Swedish
      family-centered NICU situation and public health care system as well as bring forth
      information how to implement parent-driven methods.

      The second tier of the study is a randomized controlled trial. A written informed consent is
      acquired from each and one of the infant's parents. Healthy, full term infants who will be
      screened with the routine phenylketonuria (PKU) test and their parent, are enrolled and
      randomized into one of three groups; one control group with glucose (n= 75), one group with
      skin-to-skin contact (n= 75), and one group where the skin-to-skin contact is combined with
      breastfeeding, live parental lullaby singing and touch (n= 75). All infants will receive
      effective pain management of some kind. If applicable, health care interpreting service will
      be offered for parents not speaking Swedish. Infants treated with sedatives or analgesics
      within the last 24 hours are excluded.
    
  