
    
      Background:

      Despite strong evidence the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine is effective in preventing
      certain anogenital cancers, only 65% of adolescent females and 56% of males in the U.S. have
      initiated the series, and only 43% of girls and 31% of boys have completed it.These rates
      fall short of Healthy People 2020's objective of 80% coverage for adolescents years of age.
      Research has demonstrated that the leading predictor of parents' decisions to vaccinate their
      child against HPV is a strong clinician recommendation.However, evidence suggests that many
      parents of age-eligible adolescents are not receiving HPV vaccine recommendations or are
      receiving weak recommendations from clinicians.Previous interventions aimed at increasing HPV
      vaccination rates have had variable effects in part due to reach and adoption of the
      interventions within the practices. Also, the diffusion of successful interventions have been
      limited by lack of scalable designs.Thus, we will solve this limitation by standardizing the
      training component and moving towards developing a scalable model that translates into
      consistently improved HPV vaccine rates. Simulation-based medical education (SBME) has become
      an essential component of clinical training, demonstrating superior effectiveness in teaching
      a wide range of medical skills compared to conventional training methods. Immersive virtual
      reality (VR), one type of SBME, is a three-dimensional, computer-generated environment where
      users interact with graphical characters called avatars. Within VR, a facilitator can design
      scenarios based on specific behavioral objectives and create environments and avatars based
      on training needs. The technology facilitates deliberate practice, a personal and
      goal-oriented approach to skill development derived from Ericsson's Theory on Expertise. In
      our preliminary study conducted in 2015, we developed an intervention for resident physicians
      to address influenza vaccine hesitancy, comprised of a self directed application (app) based
      curriculum about HPV vaccination followed by immersive VR simulations.Completion of the VR
      simulations, compared to receipt of standard training, led to a significantly lower rate of
      influenza vaccine refusal.26 Based on these promising preliminary results, we developed VR
      simulations focused on HPV vaccine counseling.

      Purpose:

      Our approach will be to implement Virtual Immersive Communication Training on Recommending
      Immunizations (VICTORI), an intervention that includes a self-directed app based curriculum
      and VR simulations, designed to increase the strength and consistency of HPV vaccine
      recommendations among clinicians. VICTORI will be implemented using a framework informed by
      behavioral (Social Cognitive Theory, Health Belief Model, and Theory of Planned Behavior) and
      educational theory (Ericsson's Theory on Expertise). The primary outcome will be an increase
      in HPV vaccine rates among adolescent patients. We will also assess theory-based mechanisms
      by which the intervention changes vaccination rates, including clinicians' knowledge,
      attitudes, perceptions, self-efficacy, and strength of recommendations.

      Our long-term goal is to increase HPV vaccination rates in adolescents, which will decrease
      rates of HPV-associated cancers and pre-cancers. Our short-term objective is to evaluate the
      efficacy of VICTORI, a novel VR intervention, designed to enhance the strength of clinicians'
      HPV vaccine recommendations and improve HPV vaccine rates among 11 to 17-year-old patients.
      To accomplish our objective, we will achieve the following specific aim:

      Conduct a single-site intervention assessing the efficacy of VICTORI in increasing HPV
      vaccine rates. The working hypotheses are: 1) adolescent HPV vaccination rates will increase
      significantly following implementation of VICTORI compared to pre-intervention rates and 2)
      this increase will be mediated by clinicians' more positive attitudes, higher self-efficacy,
      and stronger vaccine recommendations.

      Methods:

      Clinician participants will receive a self directed app based curriculum prior to the VR
      simulation, VICTORI. Clinicians will receive education to increase their knowledge of HPV and
      the vaccine, perceived benefits, positive HPV vaccine attitudes, and subjective norms as well
      as decrease their perceived barriers to recommending the vaccine. The participants will
      engage in the VR simulations independently. VICTORI VR simulation implementation sessions
      will be audio and video recorded. VICTORI's effect will be assessed using a repeated measures
      pre-post study design with follow-up period. We will collect monthly baseline data on HPV
      vaccine initiation and completion rates in the clinic for six months prior to implementing
      VICTORI.We will then collect HPV initiation and completion rates monthly during the time of
      intervention implementation and for the following six-months.Next, we will implement VICTORI
      with staff including nurses and medical assistants in groups of up to 15-20 participants
      (phase II; secondary outcome). Staff will watch a 5-minute video on evidence-based practices
      in recommending the HPV vaccine and observe a facilitator and clinician participating in the
      VICTORI VR simulations, and then engage in a 5-minute debriefing. Staff will complete a brief
      pre and immediate post survey assessing their perceived benefits and barriers, subjective
      norms, and positive messaging about the HPV vaccine. We will collect an additional six months
      of monthly HPV vaccination initiation and completion data.

      Another clinic will serve as en environmental control.Clinician participants at the control
      site will use the self-directed app based curriculum. Participants will complete the repeated
      measures pre-post study design with follow-up period. We will collect HPV vaccination data
      from the other primary care clinic over the same study period to serve as a control.

      Implications:

      The primary outcome will be the increase in the proportion of patients receiving HPV
      vaccination seen by resident and attending physicians following participation in VICTORI.
      Additional secondary outcomes, including physicians' behavioral capability, self-efficacy,
      perceived benefits, perceived barriers, perceived risk, attitudes, subjective norms, and
      strength of recommendations, as well as staffs' perceived benefits and barriers, subjective
      norms, and positive messaging will be assessed via validated survey instruments.
    
  