
    
      Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is a degenerative disease of genetic origin, due to a
      mutation in the gene coding for the protein dystrophin. This mutation leads to deficiency of
      dystrophin in the myofibers, causing progressive muscle degeneration by the following
      mechanism: (1) dystrophin deficiency leads to myofibers being very vulnerable to muscle
      contraction-relaxation, causing frequent damage and necrosis of myofibers; (2) necrosis is
      followed by myofiber regeneration, as long as the regenerative capacity of muscle is not
      exhausted; (3) when the regenerative capacity of the muscle is exhausted, myofibers become
      atrophic and are ultimately lost; (4) fibrosis and fat infiltration replace the lost
      myofibers. This progressive muscle destruction takes place in most muscles of the limbs and
      trunk, leading to progressive loss of muscle strength, musculotendinous contractures,
      restrictive respiratory insufficiency and premature death between 17 and 30 years.

      The transplantation of myoblasts obtained from a healthy donor is a potential treatment of
      DMD. Following intramuscular injection, donor myoblasts fuse with the myofibers of the
      patient, introducing the normal dystrophin gene in them. In a previous Phase 1A clinical
      trial, the investigators proved that transplantation of myoblasts grown from the muscle
      biopsy of a healthy donor introduced the normal dystrophin gene in the DMD myofibers, with
      the consequent expression of the normal dystrophin mRNA and restoration of the dystrophin
      protein in several myofibers.

      The aim of this Phase I/II of the clinical trial is to investigate whether the
      transplantation of normal myoblasts throughout one muscle (in this case, the extensor carpi
      radialis) of DMD patients is safe and will improve the strength of that muscle. The patients
      will be transplanted with myoblasts grown from the muscle biopsy of a healthy donor. Thirty
      million myoblasts will be injected per cm cube in a progressively higher volume of muscle
      (i.e., 3, 6 and 9 cm cube). The contralateral muscle will be injected with saline as a
      control. The patients and the investigators will be blind to the side injected with cells.
      The strength of both muscles will be measured at 3 months post transplant to verify if
      myoblast transplantation increased muscle strength. If there is no significant strength
      increase, the protocol will be terminated immediately for that patient. If there is a
      significant strength increase, the patient will be maintained under immunosuppression until 6
      months and the muscle strength will be re-evaluated.

      The objectives of this Phase I/II clinical trial with DMD patients are thus:

      Primary objective:

      To evaluate the safety of a procedure of high-density injections of donor myoblasts
      throughout a muscle (under immunosuppression by tacrolimus).

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To evaluate whether myoblast transplantation resulted in the presence of
           dystrophin-positive myofibers of donor origin.

        2. To evaluate whether myoblast transplantation improved the muscle strength or prevent or
           slowed down the progression of the muscle weakness as shown by the following parameters:

           2.1) Increase of the voluntary strength of the subject's wrist extension done by the
           extensor carpi radialis 12 or 24 weeks after myoblast transplantation compared with the
           pre-transplant values of the same muscle.

           2.2) Reduction of the fatigue of the voluntary strength of the subject's wrist extension
           done by the extensor carpi radialis 12 or 24 weeks after myoblast transplantation
           compared with the pre-transplant fatigue values of the same muscle.

           2.3) Reduce the progression of the muscle weakness in the myoblast injected muscle
           compared with the control contralateral muscle.

        3. To verify the long term effectiveness of the tacrolimus immunosuppression to control
           acute rejection in myoblast transplantation (by examining the presence of muscle fibers
           expressing normal dystrophin and the absence of specific immune responses)
    
  