
    
      Post-treatment STS surveillance is an integral element of patient care. Although earlier
      detection of metastatic disease may improve long-term survival, no study has yet provided
      definitive evidence to support this assumption. A thorough systematic review of the
      literature has identified only a single limited randomized controlled trial (RCT) evaluating
      this clinical question, and surveys of sarcoma surgeons have determined that surgeons
      typically follow their patients based on the way in which they were trained. The orthopaedic
      oncology field has identified sarcoma surveillance strategy as the top research priority in
      the field. In order to fill the evidence gap in sarcoma surveillance, a large international
      RCT is required. The investigators, therefore, propose the Surveillance AFter Extremity Tumor
      surgerY (SAFETY) trial. In preparation for the SAFETY trial, the SAFETY investigators have
      completed the following preparatory work: A) establishment of a worldwide research
      collaborative group that spans 6 continents; B) collection of data from international sarcoma
      patients to determine their perceptions of sarcoma surveillance and their willingness to
      participate in a study in which randomization will determine their follow-up protocols; and
      C) the organization of a large Protocol Development Meeting with international and
      multidisciplinary participation, including sarcoma patient involvement, where critical
      aspects of the protocol were discussed and finalized.

      The international, multi-center SAFETY trial will determine the effect of surveillance
      strategy on overall patient survival after surgery for a STS of the extremity by comparing
      the effectiveness of both surveillance frequency (every 3 vs. every 6 months) and imaging
      modality (CT scans vs. chest radiographs). Ultimately, the SAFETY trial will provide the
      necessary evidence to develop evidence-based surveillance guidelines, and is poised to have a
      significant impact on the post-operative care and outcomes of extremity soft-tissue sarcoma
      patients.
    
  