
    
      Young adults 18-28 years old have the highest prevalence rates of cannabis use.
      Unfortunately, the biological consequences of cannabis use are more severe compared to older
      adults. These specific biological consequences are due to the negative effect cannabis use
      has on neurological maturation permanently impacting motivation, impulsivity, and future
      addictive behavior. The neurological effects of cannabis use are most disruptive to young
      adults living with psychiatric illness. In the Young Adult Behavioral Health Program at Rhode
      Island Hospital, 68% of patient's ages 18-28 who are in treatment for psychiatric disorders
      have used cannabis, and of those that have used 24% use cannabis daily or weekly. These high
      rates of cannabis use result in deleterious consequences, including developing more severe
      psychopathology, increased rates of psychosis, impairments in educational achievement and
      occupational obtainment, poorer treatment outcomes, poorer adherence to treatment, and
      increased treatment costs. Motivational Enhancement Therapy (MET) is an efficacious strategy
      for improving readiness to decrease cannabis use and increase motivation to engage in
      substance use treatment. The MET program entitled eToke (also known as E-Check-Up to Go), is
      a popular, frequently used, and previously investigated brief computerized intervention with
      efficacy in improving readiness for change among college students. In this study, the
      investigators propose to develop a text messaging intervention that will accompany eToke and
      will be tailored to young adults with psychiatric illness with cannabis use disorders. This
      intervention will be called e-Toke+TPsy. The text messages used in this intervention will
      contain information about the deleterious consequences of cannabis use, motivational material
      about the specific risks of cannabis use for young adults in psychiatric treatment. Texts
      will also contain behavioral skill building exercises to help reduce the frequency of
      cannabis use. The material for the text messages will be developed with input from young
      adults receiving psychiatric care at the Young Adult Behavioral Health Program. Text messages
      will also be informed by the Information, Motivation, and Behavioral Skills Theory of
      learning (IMB Theory).
    
  