
    
      Over the last few years, an unprecedented decrease in the mortality and morbidity associated
      with AIDS has been achieved attributed to the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy
      (HAART) which consists of three different classes of drugs: Nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors (NRTIs), protease inhibitors (PIs), and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors (NNRTIs). However, the durability of viral suppression is often limited by
      treatment with combinations of non-fully suppressive antiretroviral agents. Heavily
      pretreated patients often possess multiple mutations of the reverse transcriptase and
      protease genes resulting in multi-drug resistance. Thus, a pharmacological agent effective at
      an alternate point in the virus replication cycle would make a valuable addition to the
      anti-HIV armamentarium. T-20, enfuvirtide, is the first drug to be developed which
      specifically inhibits the function of the gp41 transmembrane glycoprotein of HIV-1. The
      objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of Fuzeon (Enfuvirtide) in
      patients who are limited by the current commercially available antiretroviral agents or
      agents available via early access or compassionate use programs as per the judgment of the
      investigator or patients with advanced disease and most in need of therapy. This study is a
      multicenter, open-label, single-arm, safety study. Each patient will receive enfuvirtide 90
      mg (deliverable dose) via subcutaneous injection twice daily with food, in combination
      additional antiretroviral agents. Subjects will continue to receive enfuvirtide until 12
      weeks after commercial availability of enfuvirtide in the United States. Laboratory testing,
      CD4+lymphocyte counts, HIV-1 viral loads will be monitored on a regular and continual basis.
      The main outcome measures are ones of safety and tolerability: serious adverse events
      (including all deaths, serious AIDS defining events, and discontinuations for any reason),
      injection reconstitution fatigue.
    
  