
    
      The investigators conducted a prospective, observational study in which patients presenting
      to EDs who were subsequently diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or possible ACS
      were identified. The investigators collected data related to receiving the accepted standard
      of care for ACS patients. Information about the participants' initial symptoms, attribution
      of their symptoms, treatment-seeking choices, and perceptions of the care received in the ED
      was collected.

      Setting and Sample: The investigators conducted the study at three sites: Hospital 1 is in an
      inner-city, quaternary care, university-affiliated hospital whose ED has approximately 71,000
      patient visits annually, about 2,800 of which are patients with symptoms that are potentially
      due to myocardial ischemia. The medical and nursing staffing levels are staggered based on
      expected patient volumes, ranging from 15 to 18 registered nurses (RNs) and 1 to 6 physicians
      at a given time. There are also support staff, including licensed practical nurses, aides;
      clerks, ECG technicians, etc. There is a designated triage area, staffed continuously by at
      least one RN. Hospital 2's ED is in a large community hospital in a different health
      authority. It has 100,000 patient visits annually, approximately 6,500 of which are patients
      with potentially ischemic symptoms. The medical and nursing staffing levels are similar to
      the first site, ranging from 19 to 22 registered nurses (RNs) and 1 to 4 physicians at a
      given time. This site is in a community with a very high proportion of South Asian people
      (27.5%). Hospital 3 is also a community hospital with fewer ED visits annually, but similar
      nursing and medical staffing levels. This site is in a community with a very high proportion
      (52.5%) of people identifying as being of Chinese ancestry.

      Procedures: Research assistants (RAs) fluent in English, Mandarin and Cantonese for the
      tertiary site and one fluent in English and Punjabi for the community site recruited
      participants.

      Recruitment. The RAs identified potential participants, seven days per week, from one of
      three sources: (1) a list, obtained daily from the ED charge nurse, of all patients admitted
      to the hospital since the RA's last visit who were triaged with codes related to a possible
      ACS; (2) the current charge nurse, who identified any patient currently in the ED who met
      study criteria as signified by the ED physician ordering one of the following: (i) cardiology
      consult, (ii) cardiac computational tomography, or (iii) 2- or 6-hour repeat cardiac
      biomarker and ECG, followed by outpatient provocative stress testing; (3) a list, obtained
      from the stress-testing laboratory, of all patients who had been referred from the ED for
      urgent (within 48 hours) outpatient stress testing.

      Recruitment occurred in the ED, the cardiology units (CCU or telemetry unit) and in the
      stress-testing laboratory. Potential participants were screened for general eligibility
      through discussion with the nurse or cardiology technologist. Those believed to be eligible
      were approached and invited to participate.

      Data collection. Data regarding delivery of guideline-based care in the ED were collected
      from the health record (e.g., time to stretcher, time to ECG, time to first MD assessment,
      medications administered) and other processes (e.g., occurrence and timing of cardiology
      consultation, transfer from ED to a critical care area). Data regarding several patient-,
      environment- and system-related potential covariates were collected from the health record
      (e.g., mode of arrival at ED; language spoken; accompanied by family/friend; language ability
      of family/friend; symptoms reported) and ED staffing records (staffing levels). Data
      pertaining to the entire ED stay were captured.

      Participants were asked to respond to a questionnaire, administered by the RA, regarding
      their decision to seek treatment and their perspectives on their ED care. Ethnicity, racial
      identity and other sociodemographic data were obtained during the interview.

      For those admitted to the hospital, additional data regarding admission unit , procedures
      offered, refused and undergone, major adverse cardiac events, length of stay and final
      diagnosis were collected. For participants who were discharged from the ED with referral to
      outpatient stress testing, we tracked discharge diagnosis, attendance at, and interpretation
      of the test.

      Measures: The primary outcome variable, door-to-ECG time, was defined as the time from triage
      to first ECG acquisition. The official triage time is the time entered by the triage nurse
      when the patient is initially evaluated. The time of the first ECG is an electronic time
      stamp appearing in the clinical information system, entered when the ECG is acquired.

      The predictor variables ethnicity and racial identity were measured by self-report.

      Other outcome variables and potential confounders:

        1. Time intervals: Several time intervals were measured, based on the official triage time.

        2. Location, nature and severity of reported symptoms: All symptoms reported by
           participant, as well as their intensity.

        3. Acuity at time of triage: measured using the Canadian Triage and Acuity Score. The
           participants' presenting complaint was measured using the Canadian Emergency Department
           Information System standardised codes, in use at the study sites.

        4. Other data: Mode of transport to hospital, accompanied versus alone, noted difficulty
           with English, presence of interpreter during care

        5. Number and frequency of physician and nurse assessments/interventions.

        6. Measured clinical parameters: All documented observations of ECG rhythm and vital signs.

        7. Medications: Agent, dose, route and time of administration

        8. Diagnostic testing: Timing and frequency of bloodwork and ECGs.

        9. Consultation: Consultation of other medical services.

       10. Patient Disposition.

       11. Patient perspectives: Time of onset, type of symptoms, decisions to seek treatment and
           reasons for delaying; participants' perspectives on care in ED; other socio-demographic
           variables

       12. Emergency department contextual factors: Staffing levels for each shift.

       13. Post-ED care: Diagnostic tests and interventions offered and completed after leaving ED,
           e.g., referral for / offer of / consent to / receipt of angiogram, percutaneous coronary
           intervention or cardiac surgery; discharge diagnosis; length of hospital stay.
    
  