
    
      Favipiravir, previously known as T-705, is a prodrug of a purine nucleotide, favipiravir
      ribofuranosyl-5'-triphosphate. The active agent inhibits the RNA polymerase, halting viral
      replication. Most of favipiravir's preclinical data are derived from its influenza and Ebola
      activity; however, the agent also demonstrated broad activity against other RNA viruses. In
      vitro, the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of favipiravir against severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was 61.88 μM/L in Vero E6 cells.

      Limited clinical experience has been reported supporting the use of favipiravir for COVID-19.
      In a prospective, randomized, multicenter study, favipiravir (n = 120) was compared with
      Arbidol (n = 120) for the treatment of moderate and severe COVID-19 infections. Differences
      in clinical recovery at day 7 were observed in patients with moderate infections (71.4%
      favipiravir and 55.9% Arbidol, P = .019). No significant differences were observed in the
      severe or severe and moderate (combined) arms.73 These data support further investigation
      with randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of the efficacy of favipiravir for the treatment of
      COVID-19.

      Chloroquine has been a broadly-utilized anti-malaria agent which back in 2006, had been
      proved to be a powerful wide-spectrum antiviral. Moreover, Chloroquine has the
      characteristics of anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory by inhibiting the production of
      tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) along with interleukin 6 (IL-6). In the first half of
      February, a study illustrated puissant inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 by Chloroquine, when taking
      two 500-mg tablets of it by mouth per day; similar to some clinical studies in China through
      this outbreak. According to the news briefing of a study, it was indicated that chloroquine
      phosphate actually outdo the control treatment in inhibition of pneumonia exacerbation,
      improving lung imaging findings, and curtailing the disease course. Another study evaluated
      the possible doses of chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to find the optimized
      dose in treatment of COVID-19. They revealed that while within in-vitro settings
      Hydroxychloroquine is more potent than chloroquine. As a conclusion, they suggested a 800 mg
      daily dose of hydroxychloroquine, followed by an overall maintenance dose of 400 mg per day
      divided in two separate doses, which was three-fold more potent compared to the 500 mg twice
      daily administration of chloroquine in 5 days. The new study published in 16th March, pointed
      out that hydroxychloroquine was notably effectual in eradicating SARS-CoV-2 from the
      nasopharynx. Currently the evidence is quite inconclusive about the effectiveness or
      comparative effectiveness of either HCQ or CQ. Moreover, CQ has recently become scarce and
      even unavailable for ordering due to a huge demand for it, all because of a significant
      interest gained as a potential medicinal alternative for the management of COVID-19. In spite
      of all, the primary experience in China and France is propitious for the potential role of
      chloroquine, or alternatively hydroxychloroquine, for managing COVID-19.

      The present study is a randomized, double-blind, controlled, clinical trial, with the
      approval of the ethics committee will be conducted on patients who have a positive test
      confirming COVID-19 in Shahid Modarres Medical Education Center and Hospital in Tehran.
      Patients will be randomly assigned to the two arms of the study and after completing the
      course of treatment and collecting and analyzing the necessary information from each patient,
      the results of the study will be published both on this site and in the form of an article in
      a reputable international journal.
    
  