
    
      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy and a leading cause of cancer-related
      deaths among women. Surgery followed by chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy are the mainstay of
      current management. Chronic pain, or persistent postsurgical pain, which until recently was
      considered infrequent after breast cancer surgery (BCS), affects 60% to 80% of breast cancer
      survivors. The exact cause of chronic pain after BCS is not clear, but there is an
      association between acute postoperative pain and chronic pain generation after BCS.
      Postoperative pain intensity and analgesic consumption are significantly higher in patients
      who develop chronic pain after BCS, and it is suggested that optimizing postoperative pain
      management may reduce chronic pain. preoperative paravertebral block (PVB) administration in
      additional to general anesthesia, which has consistently been demonstrated to improve acute
      postoperative pain control and decrease length of hospital stay. The role of TPVB in
      preventing chronic pain is still evolving. Karmakar et al. shed more light on the impact of
      TPVBs in preventing and reducing the severity of chronic pain after breast surgery.

      The discovery of peripheral opioid receptors led to the clinical application of adding
      opioids to local anesthetics for peripheral nerve blocks. Studies from the 1990s showed mixed
      results from the addition of morphine to peripheral nerve blocks, with two suggesting
      enhancement of analgesia duration and several showing no benefit at all.

      Dexmedetomidine is a highly selective alpha-2 adrenoreceptor agonist that has been shown to
      have both sedative and analgesic effects. Although it is approved only for intravenous (IV)
      sedation, it has been extensively used for off-label indications, including neuraxial and
      peripheral nerve blocks, with good results. A significant prolongation of duration of
      analgesia has been reported when dexmedetomidine was added to LA for epidural analgesia,
      caudal block, subarachnoid block, PVB, brachial plexus block, ulnar nerve block and greater
      palatine nerve block.
    
  