
    
      More and more Ground Glass Opacity（GGO）are detected because of the early screening.According
      to Fleischner Society, for some solid GGO, surgical resection should be performed if the
      solid component is larger than 5mm.With the development of video-assisted thoracoscopic
      surgery (VATS) techniques, minimally invasive thoracic surgery has evolved considerably over
      the last three decades.However, localizing the small sized pulmonary nodules during VATS is
      challenging when there is no change in visceral pleura.

      Several traditional techniques have been described to localize peripheral pulmonary nodules,
      including preoperative CT-guided tattooing with methylene blue, CT scan guided spiral/hook
      wire placement and marking with radio-opaque materials. The traditional marking method have
      its strong and weak points. For the strong point, It provide a credible and precise nodule
      location to the surgeon. For the weak points:(1)a potential risk of pneumothorax and
      hemothorax.(2)Methylene blue have a tendency to diffuse over a large area during surgical
      preparation until the nodule's location is confirmed.(3)The Preoperative localization
      technique would need more time for the Preoperative preparation, which would be reduce the
      transport's efficiency.(4)It would occupy the resource of CT's usage.(5)Some of the methods
      ,such as methylene blue, maybe interference with the Pathological diagnosis.(6)These methods
      are all invasive operation, would Cause the patients' psychological fear.

      In order to avoid these weak points，the investigators use a new localization technique which
      has three basic steps: 1.Confirm the nodule's location in pulmonary segments. 2.Measure the
      distance between the nodule and anatomic landmarks on CT. 3. Estimate the changes of the
      distance between the nodule and anatomic landmarks after the alveolar atelectasis. The
      investigators have already succeed in some case.But,the further study is needed.Hence,the
      investigators designed a prospective study of Preoperative Stereoscopic Localization Versus
      Methylene Blue Localization in GGO Wedge Resection.Then,the investigators evaluate the
      feasibility，accuracy and safety of Preoperative Stereoscopic Localization Versus Methylene
      Blue Localization in GGO Wedge Resection.
    
  