
    
      Aspiration pneumonias still exhibit a significant morbidity and mortality and are accountable
      for a significant part of anaesthesia-related deaths. Various diseases and especially
      emergency situations correlate with prolonged gastric emptying and therefore with a higher
      risk of pulmonary aspiration. In clinical practice the decision to perform a Rapid Sequence
      Induction (RSI) is mostly based on clinical and anamnestic findings. Preoperative gastric
      sonography may provide an objective, validated, non-invasive, reliable, fast, and
      cost-efficient approach to assess aspiration risks in both elective and emergency patients.

      How this highly sensitive and specific tool may be best introduced and implemented in daily
      clinical practice or anesthesiologic guidelines remains unclear. Structured educational
      programmes or training recommendations for this point-of-care ultrasound application rarely
      exist.

      Objectives:

        1. Establish preoperative gastric sonography before Rapid Sequence Induction (RSI) and in
           patients with one or more aspiration risk factors scheduled for a advanced laryngeal
           mask (LMa) or regional anaesthesia at the Kantonsspital Winterthur, Department of
           Anaesthesiology.

        2. Validation of our structured training/education by comparing sonographic estimated and
           directly measured gastric content.

        3. Emphasize the importance and effectiveness of this diagnostic tool to improve
           anesthesiologic management.

      At the Cantonal Hospital of Winterthur, a mid-size Swiss teaching hospital all residents and
      attending anaesthesiologists will receive a structured training in a period of 1 to 8 weeks
      before inclusion of the first patient. All participating staff will give written informed
      consent to participate in the study.

      Tutors/experts are all expert sonographers on different modalities. They will receive a
      preceding training, consisting of a theoretic introduction and a course by a radiologist and
      abdominal sonography expert, certified by the Swiss Society for Sonography.

      All included candidates will receive a structured preoperative sonography. Primary, a
      qualitative assessment of the gastric content should be performed in supine and right-lateral
      decubitus (RLD) position. In low volume states a right-lateral decubitus position (RLD) has
      the advantage of a gravitational shift to the antrum. That is why the investigators plan to
      perform the examination in both positions. If RLD position is not possible due to patient
      factors a half sitting or supine position can be tried. Gastric content will be classified
      into empty, fluid, solid or mixed. After identification, cross sectional area (CSA) will be
      measured and gastric content is estimated.

      After placement of the routine naso- or orogastric tube (standard for RSI and LMa patients at
      our institute) the investigators compare the calculated and effective suctioned volume of the
      gastric content and analyse the difference and quality of the sonographic measurement.

      No changes in or adaptions of the established clinical practice will be made for the sole
      purpose of this study. In exceptional cases the responsible anaesthesiologist is allowed to
      upgrade patients from an advanced laryngeal mask to a RSI (gold standard) after ultrasound
      performance to ensure patient safety. Downgrading from RSI to advanced laryngeal maks on base
      of the ultrasound results is not allowed.
    
  