
    
      -  A Written consent is to be obtained from all patients before being enrolled in the
           study.

        -  Baseline Complete Blood Count , Liver function tests and kidney function tests will be
           obtained to assess safety to start the drug and to assess its dose adjustment.

        -  Two arms will be compared : mirtazapine oral 15mg daily versus placebo. This will be
           conducted on a double-blinded basis.

        -  Oral mirtazapine ( REMERON , RD , 30 mg tablets , Organon ) will be the original FDA
           approved drugs that will be used in the study.

        -  Treatment allocation will be concealed from patients, investigators, and study
           coordinators enrolling the participants.

        -  All patients will be counseled and given dietary advice by a dietician at baseline.

        -  Patients will be permitted to continue treatment at the same dose as scheduled as long
           as weight was stabilized (no loss greater than 10 % of body weight at baseline).

        -  Duration of therapy : Patients will remain on protocol for a duration of 8 weeks as long
           as they did not develop serious concurrent illness preventing further treatment,
           unacceptable adverse events (grade 3 or higher), the patient decides to withdraw from
           study, or the investigator judges that it is in the patient's best interest to
           discontinue treatment due to general or specific health conditions.

        -  Demographic data will include performance status, tumor type, sex, age, and percentage
           weight loss.

        -  The ESAS scale (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale ) will be used to assess the following
           10 symptoms experienced by patients with cancer during the previous 24 hours:

             1. pain.

             2. Fatigue.

             3. Nausea.

             4. Depression.

             5. Anxiety.

             6. Drowsiness.

             7. Dyspnea.

             8. Anorexia.

             9. Sleep disturbance.

            10. And feelings of well-being.

      The severity of each symptom is rated on a numerical scale of 0 to 10 (0_no symptom, 10_worst
      possible severity). The ESAS is both valid and reliable in the assessment of the intensity of
      symptoms in patients with cancer.

        -  The FAACT questionnaire ( Functional Assessment of Anorexia\Cachexia Therapy ) with
           anorexia \ cachexia subscale will be used to assess quality of life among the studied
           patients , in a form of questionnaire including :

             1. Physical well-being.

             2. Social well-being.

             3. Emotional well-being.

             4. Functional well-being.

             5. Additional concerns.

                The patient rates the answer on a scale of 0 to 4. The FACIT - Pal scale is
                internally consistent , reliable and valid as a measure of health-related quality
                of life for persons with advanced cancer.

                We will contact their website to get the licence to use the questionnaire and to
                get its translated version.

        -  Anthropometric measures to assess efficacy of mirtazapine in weight gain :

             1. Assessment of weight of the patient .

             2. Assessment of muscle strength ( via hand grip dynamometry , using the device named
                Lite 200 lb , Fabrication Enterprises Incorporated Company).

             3. Assessment of lean ( via bioimpedance analysis , using the device named BF100 ,
                Beurer Company ).

        -  Biological methods to assess efficacy of mirtazapine in modulating inflammatory cytokine
           media : quantitative c-reactive protein (CRP) and comparative analysis by enzyme-linked
           immunoassay (ELISA) will be performed on IL-6 ( Interleukin - 6 ) , and YKL-40 serum
           levels according to availability. They will be obtained at baseline (day 1 of treatment,
           immediately before first dose) and at week 8.

        -  Evaluation of safety and tolerability Patients who will receive at least one dose of
           study medication will be done.

        -  A traditional definition of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) within the first cycle Will be
           used (any grade 3 non-hematologic or grade 4 hematologic toxicity within 4 weeks and
           assessed as being at least possibly related to study drug).

        -  A toxicity questionnaire will be done at baseline and then at 14-day intervals until day
           28.

      To fully assess the toxicity profile of the drug, the safety evaluation period in the trial
      will be extended 30 days from the date of the last dose of study drug.
    
  