
    
      The occurrence of brain hemorrhage (germinal matrix hemorrhage and intraventricular
      hemorrhage, GM-IVH) in newborns, especially in preterm infants, is one of the most important
      prognostic factors for mortality and morbidity (especially for later neurological
      development) in this collective. The risk of high-grade bleeding in extremely premature
      infants (22 weeks) is approx. 38% and decreases to approx. 7% by the 28th week. The total
      frequency of GM-IVH is around 8% in gestational weeks 23 to 31, with each additional
      gestational week reducing the risk by 3.5%. The etiopathology of brain hemorrhage is complex
      and involves both environmental and genetic factors. Recent studies particularly suggest an
      involvement of the immature coagulation system in preterm neonates. Global coagulation
      parameters, such as the International Normalized Ratio (INR), have already been associated
      with an increased risk of bleeding, but rarely show fluctuations outside the norm.
      Furthermore, polymorphisms in the area of individual coagulation factors as well as other
      inflammatory and vascular individual components of coagulation, are associated with an
      increased risk of bleeding. Mass spectrometry has long been used for the analysis of
      biological samples and has developed into an indispensable tool for proteomics research. The
      study aims to establish the mass spectrometric detection of a total of 125 blood plasma
      factors containing the individual components of the coagulation system and the complement
      system. The method enables quantitative detection of the coagulation system with even the
      smallest sample quantities, so that sampling can be combined with routine measures,
      particularly in the field of neonatology. This pilot study to compare the compositional
      differences regarding coagulation factors and the complement system in relation to the
      gestational age (i.e. preterm ≤32+0 weeks vs. term neonates ≥37+0 weeks).
    
  