
    
      The risk of RT-related heart disease is now well recognized but the underlying mechanisms of
      its initiation and progression, and the roles played by microvascular damage, fibrosis and
      atherosclerosis remain unclear. Studying RT-related heart disease have demonstrated that
      irradiation affects cardiac structure and microvascular function in a dose and time-dependent
      manner, with substantial damage after intermediate and high dose irradiation, and minor
      alterations after lower doses. Not only structural changes but also functional deterioration
      was noted. Studies disclosing that incidence of post 3D-RT perfusion defect is in
      approximately 40%, and the patients had volume-dependent perfusion defects within 2 years of
      RT.

      To better evaluation of the RT-related heart disease, we plan to initiate a prospective study
      trail that takes advantage of recent technical advances in tomotherapy, and new
      Cadimium-Zinc-Telluride (CZT) cardiac camera.

      - Estimated Case Number: 100 patients will be enrolled in the study.

        1. Patients with thoracic cancer will be transferred to CV OPD for initial cardiovascular
           risk factors assessment, before starting radiation therapy.

        2. Past history, family history, basic lab data and Framingham cardiovascular risk
           assessment will be applied. After approaching risk stratification, patients who were
           classified as intermediated to high risk need further work-up. Who needs to undergo
           myocardial perfusion study will be enrolled in the study before further RT course.

        3. All enrolled subjects provide basic demographic data and sign informed consents.

        4. Myocardial perfusion images with Tl-201 and CZT camera will be performed in nuclear
           medicine department of FEMH, completing baseline evaluation before RT.

        5. The patients received scheduled treatment plan, including RT.

        6. Follow-up CV OPD based on clinical decision and guideline: blood biochemistry and
           inflammation marker, CV risk scores. Further work-up would be indicated if functional
           status deterioration or aggravated symptoms.

        7. Post-therapeutic myocardial perfusion study 12 months after first CV OPD visit.

        8. Comparing the clinical follow-up data between groups, including global functional
           assessments, blood sampling data, myocardial perfusion scan, and quantitative cardiac
           functional parameters.

      Blood sampling Peripheral blood will be drawn for measurements of blood glucose, lipid
      profile, and circulating biomarker of CRP. The genomic tests will not be involved in the
      study.

      Myocardial perfusion study-for quantitative functional parameters, qualitative and
      quantitative myocardial perfusion scan. Patients referred for SPECT MPI for evaluation of CAD
      underwent a 1-day Tl-201 stress/rest MPI protocol, as daily practice in FEMH. Pharmacological
      stress was induced by standard dipyridomale infusion. Tl-201 of 2 mCi was injected after 7
      min of induced stress. The software package Myovation for Alcyone (GE Healthcare), QGS and
      QPS were used for quantitative analysis off MPI polar maps using a 17-segment model for the
      left ventricle. Automated analysis of gated acquisitions from high-dose (rest) scans was
      performed to determine left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).

      Integrated clinical information, follow-up and nuclear medicine cardiac scans performed in
      the time points of before & after RT will be collected and analyzed.
    
  