
    
      1. Participants at the following institutions (West Virginia University; The Andrews
      Institute; and University of Kentucky Healthcare Sports Medicine will be given an educational
      session regarding hip replacement and procedures to follow after total hip replacement at
      their History and Physical visit prior to elective total hip replacement surgery via a
      posterior approach. 2. Participants will be told of the study after their educational
      session. All their questions will be answered and they will be given the opportunity to
      consent for participation. 3. After consent, the participant will be randomized to a control
      group receiving Standard of Care (education) hip precautions or to a 'no hip precautions'
      group. The control group will be instructed to practice postoperative hip precautions they
      learned at their educational session; (standard of care) (no flexion > 90 degrees, no
      internal rotation, no adduction) for 6 weeks. The intervention group will be aware of the
      precautions but will be told not to practice them post-operatively. 4. The participants will
      be monitored per the surgeons' normal routine post-operatively, which includes notification
      to the surgeon if the subject returns to the hospital with any hip problems. 5. After the
      first three participants who were randomized to 'no precautions' have returned for their
      post-op visit at all sites, the DSMB will have a teleconference to discuss any adverse events
      including dislocations. If any of the first 3 participants dislocated the study will be
      stopped. 6. At six weeks the following will be recorded: time to elimination of walking aids,
      dislocation episodes requiring closed reduction, and need for revision surgery. If any of the
      first 3 intervention participants dislocated during the 6 week period, the study will be
      stopped. 7. The participants will be asked to complete the HOOS Jr. and VAS follow-up
      questions at 2-week, 6-week, 3 month, 6 month and one year post-operatively per standard of
      care follow-up. Participants will be asked to list any hip precautions practiced at these
      time frames. 8. If the participants fail to come for the standard of care follow up
      appointments, the research assistant will call the participants and ask the HOOS Jr. and VAS
      questionnaires over the phone and to list any hip precautions they practiced.
    
  