
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer is the most lethal malignant gynecological tumor and the fourth
      most common cause of death by cancer among women. The highest incidence rates are observed in
      Eastern and Northern Europe, and in the United Status. In Spain, 3,262 new cases were
      diagnosed in 2002, and the figure is expected to rise to 3,722 cases in 2015 (Globocan 2002,
      International Agency for Research on Cancer -IARC).

      The majority of patients with ovarian cancer are diagnosed at an advanced stage, and are
      treated with maximum cytoreductive surgery followed by intraperitoneal and/or intravenous
      chemotherapy. What is considered standard chemotherapy consists of a platinum (carboplatin or
      cisplatin) combined with a taxane, usually paclitaxel (Ozols, 2003; Armstrong 2006). Although
      many patients respond to the initial treatment, the majority experience subsequent recurrence
      of the disease, which is why they need to be treated with successive salvage therapies in an
      attempt to control the disease until it is converted into totally refractory (Markman, 2004).
      Only 20-30% of patients can be cured with current treatments, which is why it is necessary to
      investigate and develop new treatments and/or treatment strategies (Yap, 2009).

      Although with the initial treatment based on cytoreductive surgery and platinum-based
      chemotherapy the large majority of patients achieve complete remission of the disease, 90% of
      the patients with sub-optimum cytoreductive surgery and 70% with optimum cytoreductive
      surgery develop a recurrence in the first 24 months. One of the treatment strategies being
      investigated to try and improve the results is the administration of consolidation or
      maintenance treatment to those patients that have achieved a complete response of their
      disease to reduce the risk of subsequent recurrence (Sabbatini, 2006).

      In the last few years, various studies have established that investigating a possible
      therapeutic effect of consolidation or maintenance treatment following second or third
      complete clinical remission, obtained with a salvage chemotherapy, produces several
      advantages over the same strategy applied on a first complete clinical response: the median
      of progression-free survival after second or third complete response is shorter and more
      predictable -10 months-, and moreover the recurrence is practically universal (Markman 2004;
      Harrison, 2007; Levine, 2007; Markman, 2008; Juretza, 2008).

      Catumaxomab has proven to be effective in patients with refractory tumours and recurring
      malignant ascites, i.e. patients with a very advanced disease, a large tumour and no
      treatment options. These clinical conditions are the worst for researching into any
      immune-based therapy, hence it seems logical to study the efficacy of catumaxomab in more
      favourable conditions.

      Patients with ovarian cancer in second or third complete remission may be a more suitable
      population for investigating the intraperitoneal administration of catumaxomab as
      consolidation treatment: 1. 100% of the epithelial ovarian cancers express EpCAM (Epithelial
      cell adhesion molecule )(Kim, 2003; Bellone, 2009). 2. These patients present a minimal
      residual disease that cannot be eliminated with standard chemotherapy and is responsible for
      a subsequent recurrence in practically every patient, with a median progression-free survival
      of 10 months (Markman, 2004; Harrison, 2007). 3. The peritoneal cavity is a very common
      location for residual disease and/or recurrence in ovarian cancer (Ferrandina, 2006). 4. The
      absence of macroscopic disease in the peritoneal cavity may bring about a greater absorption
      of catumaxomab on the blood level, with a hypothetical greater efficacy on the systemic level
      without entailing a greater risk of toxicity (Heiss, 2008; Lordick, 2008).

      The intention in this phase II study is to estimate the clinical benefit of consolidation
      treatment with catumaxomab in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer in second or third
      complete remission, by measuring progression-free survival, the percentage of
      progression-free patients at 12, 18 and 24 months, and comparing individually for each
      patient the duration of progression-free survival obtained following consolidation with
      catumaxomab with that observed in her first complete remission. If we observe a median of
      progression-free survival equal to or greater than 14 months, accompanied by a significant
      percentage of progression-free patients at 18 and 24 months, we will assess the possibility
      of subsequently designing a phase III study of consolidation with catumaxomab.

      To improve the tolerability of catumaxomab, premedication will be administered with low-dose
      corticoids before each infusion of catumaxomab. The low doses of corticoids have been shown
      not to interfere with the efficacy of catumaxomab, but by reducing the release of certain
      cytokines like TNF-α (Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha) they may reduce the associated adverse
      effects (Waltz, 2005).
    
  