
    
      Study characteristics The TackSHS survey is a face-to-face population-based cross-sectional
      survey that will be conducted in 12 selected European countries, coordinated by Dr Silvano
      Gallus, Department of Epidemiology of the "Mario Negri" Institute (Milan, Italy).

      Background Exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS) has serious adverse health effects on adults
      and children, causing more than 600,000 deaths each year worldwide. Estimates of prevalence
      of non-smokers exposed to SHS range between 20% and 60% in various European countries. The
      WHO recommend to develop smoke-free policies to protect non-smokers from SHS exposure.
      E-cigarettes have irrupted in the market over the last 5 years, and their sales and
      popularity have considerably grown in the European Union (EU). Approximately 7% of Europeans
      ever used e-cigarettes. TackSHS is a new research project funded by the European Commission
      (EC) within the Horizon 2020 programme (grant agreement: 681040). Within the TackSHS Project,
      selected work packages (WP; i.e., WP3, WP9 and WP10) involve the conduction of a survey in 12
      EU countries: the TackSHS survey.

      Objectives Objectives of this cross-sectional study include: i) to estimate prevalence, and
      investigate individual-level and country-specific determinants, of smoking, e-cigarette use,
      and exposure to SHS and to e-cigarette aerosol in selected European countries (WP3); ii) to
      analyze the attitudes, perceptions and behaviours of the adult European population towards
      policies to limit SHS exposure (WP3); iii) to compare selected smoking-related data collected
      through the TackSHS survey with those from a companion pan-European survey conducted in 2010
      (WP3); iv) to assess morbidity and mortality from selected respiratory and cardiovascular
      diseases attributable to SHS exposure among adults and children in the European population
      (WP9); v) to quantify the economic burden associated to the exposure to SHS and e-cigarette
      aerosol in Europe (WP10).

      Methods The cross-sectional survey will be conducted in 12 European countries (Bulgaria,
      England, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Poland, Portugal, Romania, and
      Spain), representing geographical, legislative and cultural variations across the EU. In each
      of the 12 selected countries, approximately 1000 individuals, representative of the general
      population aged 15 years and over will be enrolled. The final sample will therefore include a
      total of approximately 12,000 subjects. The sample size in each specific country will allow
      us to obtain prevalence estimates with a maximum standard error (SE) lower than ± 1.6%.
      Therefore, with such a sample size we will be able to provide stable prevalence estimates
      (with a relatively small 95% confidence interval), overall, but also in each specific
      country.

      Survey participants will have to satisfy the following inclusion criteria: i) 15 years and
      over of age; ii) residence in one of the 12 selected countries; iii) ability to understand
      and answer the questions of the questionnaire of the study in the country-specific language;
      iv) formal acceptance to participate in the study.

      The multi-stage methodology will be used as the preferred sampling methodology, but other
      methods, including stratified or simple sampling or quota methods, will also be accepted
      wherever it is not possible to conduct a multistage random sampling.

      Participants will be surveyed by trained interviewers through face-to-face interviews using a
      structured standardized questionnaire, including information on: i) socio-economic and
      demographic characteristics; ii) cigarette smoking habit and e-cigarette use; iii) SHS and
      e-cigarette aerosol exposures in different sites; iv) attitudes and perceptions on smoke-free
      regulations. Whenever possible, data will be collected within computer assisted personal
      interviews (CAPI). Alternatively, paper and pencil (P&P) interviews will be accepted.

      Once the fieldwork is completed, data will be checked for coherence and for the presence of
      possible errors, cleaned, and finalized into a single dataset by expert biostatisticians at
      the Department of Epidemiology of "Mario Negri" Institute.

      According to the statistical analyses, within WP3 both univariate and multivariate (i.e.,
      multiple logistic regression) analyses will be considered to identify sub-groups of the
      population or clusters of countries more frequently exposed to SHS or to passive exposure to
      emissions from e-cigarettes. Moreover, to evaluate the changes in time of selected
      smoking-related aspects, TackSHS data will be compared with data from a previous companion
      European survey (the PPACTE survey). Within WP9, through the use of specific algorithms, it
      will be possible to estimate attributable mortality and morbidity to SHS in Europe, taking
      advantage of: i) prevalence figures on tobacco smoking and SHS exposure from the ThackSHS
      survey and other selected European datasets; ii) morbidity and mortality figures from the WHO
      and other sources; iii) and the quantification of the association between SHS exposure and
      the risk of SHS-related diseases from scientific literature reviews. Within WP10, using SHS
      exposure figures from the TackSHS survey, a Return On Investment model will be developed to
      assess the cost-effectiveness, budget impact and a wider set of social return on investment
      metrics of selected policies aimed at reducing exposure to SHS across European countries.

      Ethical Issues Although in EU countries, according to their current legislation, it is not
      mandatory for this type of studies (i.e., population-based cross-sectional survey) to obtain
      either a formal approval of the study protocol from ethics committees or the written consent
      signed by survey participants, following the request of the European Commission, we will
      satisfy these both these ethical requirements. Thus, after evaluation of the Italian Ethics
      Committee (i.e., the Ethics Committee of the study coordinator), the study protocol will be
      submitted for evaluation to the Ethics Committees of the other 11 countries where data will
      be collected. Moreover, formal consent (and signature in case of P&P interview) will be
      obtained from each adult participant, and, in case of minors from one of their parents or
      legal tutors. All data will be managed anonymously, in respect of the privacy regulations in
      force, only for scientific purposes, without any lucrative aim. These and other measures are
      in agreement with national and current or forthcoming EU (i.e., Directive 95/46/EC)
      regulations.

      Relevance, implications and dissemination Thanks to the TackSHS survey, we will provide a
      characterization of exposure to SHS and to e-cigarette aerosol in populations with different
      socioeconomic level and from various European countries. We will also provide the first
      estimates of morbidity and mortality due to SHS exposure at the European level, and the cost
      impact of interventions to control SHS exposure through purpose-built economic models. The
      main findings of the TackSHS survey will be disseminated on international peer-reviewed
      open-access journals and on the TackSHS Project website (www.tackshs.eu), and will be
      presented in national or international conferences.
    
  