
    
      In the current study, which will take place at the Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV, Centre
      Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois), 1-2 hand amputated patients experiencing severe PLP will
      be enrolled and implanted with intraneural nerve electrodes in the arm stump for up to
      maximal 6 months.

      Nerve electrodes will be implanted in two nerves of the arm stump. During daily stimulation
      sessions the electrodes will be connected to an external stimulator via transcutaneous leads.
      During the sessions, selective nerve stimulation will be performed. The amputee patient will
      experience this as sensations (movement, touch, temperature, vibration etc.) originating from
      the phantom limb. While implanted, the investigators will investigate how well they can
      induce these sensations and they will provide a stimulation therapy, which consist of
      stimulation activities and therefore requires the patient to focus on the evoked sensations.
      Prior to, during and following therapy a series of assessments (standardized across all
      EPIONE partners to enable comparison) will be conducted to relate therapy with PLP, cortical
      organization, the mental state etc. of the patient.

      Timing of clinical assessments is conducting in the following phases:

        1. First visit

        2. Pre-screening visit

        3. Baseline and Entry

        4. Implantation

        5. Intervention period: intensive therapy, preliminary outcome, semi-intensive therapy,
           monitoring

        6. Outcome

        7. Follow-up

        8. Explantation

      Procedures are standardized across international EPIONE partners (which carry out different
      interventions, but similar assessments), to enable comparison between treatment modalities.

      Phase 1: First visit. The subject is invited to a meeting with the principal investigator and
      one of the senior researchers involved in the study to be informed about the experiment. Only
      the PI, who is a medical doctor, will be allowed to answer health and medical related
      questions.

      Phase 2: Pre-screening. This phase is conducted before the start of the experiment but after
      the subject has signed the informed consent form. Via questionnaires, tests and interviews it
      is evaluated if the subject fulfills the inclusion criteria in relation to physical health
      (able to undergo surgery), depression, normal range of IQ and PLP. The principal investigator
      will evaluate the results and decide whether the subject should be included or excluded.

      Phase 3: Baseline and Entry. This phase aims to determine the stability and intra-subject
      variability of the pain sensations without treatment. The measure control for the daily
      variability in pain, assessment scoring variability, site-to-site variability and inter
      subject variability in the "before intervention" state. These variances will be used in the
      analysis to estimate baseline noise in the measure. In addition to the questionnaires used
      for quantifying the perceived phantom limb pain and sensation, the last week before
      implantation includes the application of cortical mapping methods (EEG and fMRI). During all
      phases of the study the subject is required to fill out a diary before going to bed about the
      development of PLP during the day.

      Phase 4: Implantation. After the initial phases the patient is implanted with 4 TIME-4H
      (Transverse Intrafascicular Multichannel Electrode Version 4 for Human) electrodes. Surgical
      implantation of the TIME-4H electrodes is conducted under full anaesthesia. During the
      operation, the median and the ulnar nerves are freed through an incision of 20 cm on the
      medial aspect of the upper-arm. The fascicles of both nerves are dissected free for a couple
      of centimetres at the level where the TIME-4H electrodes are to be implanted. Four TIME-4H
      electrodes are pulled into the fascicles of the nerves using the attached needle and thread,
      two TIME-4H in each nerve. The electrodes are anchored to the nerve using the dedicated
      anchoring points of the TIME-4H. After placing the electrodes the electrical integrity of
      each TIME-4H electrode is tested, before closing the wound. Wires are lead out through the
      skin and the wound is closed. During surgery the subject is treated with prophylactic
      antibiotics. Prophylactic antibiotics are not administered later in the study due to the risk
      of the development of resistance. After the implantation the subject is offered to stay at
      hospital to enable routine assessment of the surgical outcome as long as the PI judges it
      necessary. The subject will routinely have the wound where the wires exit the arm cleaned and
      treated to reduce the risk of infection. This will be conducted by a nurse who is member of
      the project group. The subject will receive training in treating/cleaning the wound and also
      in what symptoms to be aware of.

      Phase 5: Intervention. One week after the surgery, the patient will start daily sessions of
      nerve stimulation. Therapy of PLP and sensations are assessed via questionnaires prior to and
      following the stimulation therapy. Several assessments are conducted during this phase with
      the purpose of characterizing the sensations which can be evoked and to provide sensory
      stimulation therapy with the aim of alleviating the phantom limb pain. Programs of
      stimulation will be performed every day (weekends excluded) for up to 3 hours per day
      according to the daily experimental aims and the compliance of the patient.

      The experience will last between 12 and maximum 20 weeks and will be divided in four
      different phases:

        1. Intensive therapy (from 1st to 4th weeks); during this period the experiments will be
           carried out every day, from Monday to Friday;

        2. Preliminary outcome (5th week); during this week, the experiment will be carried out
           every day, from Monday to Friday; It will consist of questionnaires and cortical mapping
           (EEG and fMRI).

        3. Semi-intensive therapy (from 6th to 11th weeks); during this period the experiments will
           be carried out only two days per week, Monday and Tuesday (or two other consecutive days
           of week that the patient would prefer);

        4. Monitoring (from 12th week to the end of the experiment, but no later than 20th week);
           during this period the experiments will be carried out only once a week on Monday (the
           day could be changed according to the possibilities of the patient and the working
           team); during this period the weekly evaluation will be performed only if, in case of
           success of the trial in treating the PLP, the VAS score will became 2 points greater
           than the minimum score achieved during the previous periods of the trial, or if other
           types of necessities connected to implant use would occur.

           A cortical mapping (EEG and fMRI) is scheduled to be carried out during the preliminary
           outcome and at the end of the therapy (during phase 6).

           Stimulation is performed with the aim of inducing meaningful sensory input to the
           subject and thereby inducing a normalization of the cortical organization and
           alleviation of PLP. This is sought accomplished by performing activities (program) which
           reintroduce the missing limb into the subject's body image.

           The program 1 (Pr1) of the experiment will be performed in order to characterize each
           channel of the TIME-4H electrodes. The Pr1 will be performed:

             -  during the intensive phase: • the first three days of the first week after the
                implant; • the first day in the following weeks (in order to record possible
                changes of the location, type and strength of the generated sensation and of the
                lower threshold and upper limits of the charge, over the weeks);

             -  during the semi-intensive phase: • the first day of the weeks (in order to record
                possible changes of the location, type and strength of the generated sensation and
                of the lower threshold and upper limits of the charge, over the weeks);

             -  during the monitoring phase: • the day of the week when the experiment will be
                carried out (in order to record possible changes of the location, type and strength
                of the generated sensation and of the lower threshold and upper limits of the
                charge, over the weeks). Only if there is observed change in the stabilized map,
                and only over the active sites where the change is observed the mapping will be
                re-executed.

           The program 2 (Pr2) of the experiment will be aimed at measuring the impedance of the
           patient and electrode system with the purpose of characterizing it, to investigate
           possible changes in consecutive days and to eventually correlate it to changes of the
           lower threshold and upper limits of current during the same period. The Pr2 will be
           performed:

             -  during the intensive phase:

                • the first day of each week

             -  during the semi-intensive phase:

                • the first day of the weeks

             -  during the monitoring phase: • the day of the weeks when the experiment will be
                carried out

           The program 3 (Pr3) will be aimed to explore different strategies of simultaneous
           asynchronous or synchronous multichannel electrical intraneural stimulation. This
           program will be performed with the aim of trying different combinations of channels and
           to identify the best pattern to treat the phantom limb pain of the enrolled patients.
           The Pr3 will be performed:

             -  during the intensive phase:

                • the last two days of the first week after the implant;

                • the second day of the following weeks

             -  during the semi-intensive phase: • the first day of the weeks

             -  during the monitoring phase: • the day of the weeks when the experiment will be
                carried out. During the treatment program (Tr), the investigators will test the
                possibility to drive the stimulation produced by electrical stimulator with the
                transformed signals from sensors in (or over) the robotic hand, which is
                voluntarily controlled by the user.

           More specifically, the investigators will ask the patient to perform several tasks
           (depending on capacity, availability and motivation):

             1. Execution of different force levels (up to 8 levels) with the hand prosthesis

             2. Identification of objects physical properties

             3. Embodiment tests

             4. Functional improvement tests

           The Tr will be performed:

           - during the intensive phase:

             -  from the third to the fifth day of the second week;

             -  every day of the following weeks - during the semi-intensive phase:

             -  both days of the trial - during the monitoring phase:

             -  the day of the week when the experiment will be carried out

           Phase 6: Outcome. After the therapy a series of assessments (questionnaires and cortical
           mapping) are performed to evaluate the effect of therapy. No stimulation therapy is
           conducted during the outcome and the following follow-up phase.

           Phase 7: Follow-up. During the follow-up phase it will be assessed how long time it
           takes for any effects of pain alleviating to wear off (questionnaires).

           Phase 8: Explantation. In the event of infection, blushing, swelling, pain or other
           complications which render continuous implantation impossible, the electrodes will be
           explanted and the subject treated with antibiotics. Explantation of the TIME-4H
           electrodes may be conducted at the end of the therapy phase. Explantation will be
           carried out under full anaesthesia. Access is obtained via an insertion made through the
           skin on the medial side of the upper arm. The TIME-4H electrodes are dissected free,
           thread cut and the implant pulled out of the nerve and removed. Following the
           explantation normal wound treatment will be conducted and the stitches removed according
           to standard procedures.

           The study duration for a subject will be limited by the maximum TIME-4H implantation
           duration, which has been set to 6 months maximum.
    
  