
    
      Over the last couple of years, the major concern in dermatophytic infections has been the
      occurrence of recurrent infections. This, in spite of the patients being treated with gold
      standard drugs, namely, terbinafine, griseofulvin, and even azoles like itraconazole, in
      adequate doses. The world is experiencing a menace of recurrent and chronic dermatophyte
      infections in a magnitude that is unprecedented. Such cases are making up a large proportion
      of cases seen every day in the outpatient department. To make matters worse, there is as yet,
      no standard definition of the terms 'çhronic', 'recurrent', or 'resistant' tinea infections,
      although arbitrary definitions exist, like 'chronic dermatophytosis' being described in lay
      terms as "patients who have suffered from the disease for more than 6 months to 1 year
      duration, with or without recurrence, in spite of being treated", and recurrent
      dermatophytosis being defined as the reoccurrence of the dermatophyte infection within few
      weeks, after completion of treatment.

      Alteration of immune pattern in dermatophytosis The development of antibodies (IgM, IgG, IgA
      and IgE) to dermatophyte infection seems not to substantially contribute to the elimination
      of fungal infections because highest antibody levels can be found in patients with chronic
      fungal infections. Studies by Jones in human volunteers suggested that cell-mediated immunity
      is the major immunologic defence mechanism in dermatophyte infection.Healthy volunteers
      infected with T. Mentagrophytes developed cell-mediated immunity resulting in mycologic cure.
      This was associated with intense inflammation due to T-cell mediated DTH, judging from the
      trichophytin skin test. A protective immunologic memory was indicated by elimination of T.
      mentagrophytes on re-inoculation and a continued positive trichophytin test. Impaired
      cell-mediated immunity in atopic persons is also believed to be the underlying mechanism for
      an increased susceptibility to T rubrum infections. Patients with allergic bronchial asthma
      or allergic rhinitis often develop chronic or recurrent fungal infections associated with
      high immediate-type hypersensitivity (high IgE levels) and low or waning DTH to trichophytin.

      Green et al. showed that athymic rats that lack T-cell-mediated immunity could not clear T.
      mentagrophytes infection in contrast to their genetically matched euthymic control rats.

      Chronic dermatophytosis is associated with a depression in cell-mediated immunity to
      dermatophytes. A selective antigen-specific immunodeficiency may be the underlying factor in
      such patients, and the continued presence of infecting dermatophytes or residual fungal
      elements may induce a tolerant state by flooding the host with antigenic material, resulting
      in a selective loss of cell-mediated immunity. Alternatively, fungal elements may interact
      with host skin to alter the cytokine milieu such that effective type I immune responses for
      eliminating organisms are suppressed. In a study done to evaluate immune response in T rubrum
      onychomycosis and to determine whether immune reactivity or nonreactivity can be a predictor
      of therapeutic outcome, a double-blind comparison was done of the effects of terbinafine with
      placebo tablets. Skin tests were performed using trichophytin antigen injected intradermally
      in the upper left arm. It was found that skin reactivity to trichophytin antigen decreases
      with increasing disease chronicity. Patients with longstanding disease demonstrated absent or
      significantly blunted skin reaction to trichophytin antigen compared with patients who had
      disease for less than 5 years. Patients who were reactive at baseline were the first to
      become mycologically negative in response to terbinafine treatment, and increases in skin
      reactivity were related to conversion to negative mycology. Subjects anergic at baseline who
      converted with treatment had a more favorable outcome overall than persistent nonconverters.
      It is already known that terbinafine and azoles eliminate the fungal elements and restore
      cellular immunity resulting in eradication of the oragnisms and cure of the infection. In our
      study, we plan to analyse if low dose oral isotretinoin has any role to play in the
      maintenance of the cure achieved by itraconazole by decreasing the number of relapses and
      whether it leads to an alteration of skin reactivity to trichophytin. If indeed we observe
      that isotretinoin does, in fact, reduce the number of relapses, it would be interesting to
      know if there is an immunological basis for this, given that isotretinoin is known to be an
      immunomodulator.

      Probable antifungal Resistance Mechanisms in Dermatophytes In vivo, anti fungal resistance is
      also correlated with antifungal misuse because patients often fail to finish the full course
      of treatment. Thus, the inadequate use or dosage of drugs contributes to the failure in
      eliminating the disease agent completely, encouraging growth of the most resistant strains,
      which may lead to hard-to-treat fungal infections.

      Only few reports have addressed the drug resistance mechanism in dermatophytes, and most of
      them have been described in T. rubrum. It is noteworthy that resistance to a particular drug
      can be achieved by more than one mechanism and probably, under certain circumstances, they
      are activated simultaneously.

      Although dermatophytes have powerful metabolic machinery for survival, they have to overcome
      many pitfalls imposed by the host. Thus, dermatophytes have developed mechanisms that allow
      them to avoid the host defences such as the immunosuppressive action of fungal mannans that
      causes reduction of inflammation and phagocytosis. The chemical composition of the cell wall
      of dermatophytes plays an important role in pathogenicity because of the existing correlation
      between alteration in the chemical composition of the cell wall, cell dimorphism and
      virulence.

      Probable role of Isotretinoin against dermatophytes Following adherence, successful
      installation of dermatophytes requires rapid germination of arthroconidia and penetration of
      hyphae into the stratum corneum. Failure to do so results in elimination by the continuous
      desquamation of the epithelium. Retinoids act as modulators of epidermal growth and
      differentiation. Although they normalize proliferation in hyperproliferative epithelia as in
      psoriasis; in normal epidermis, they promote cell proliferation. Therefore, increased cell
      turnover in the epidermis may halt the spread of ongoing infection by eliminating the growing
      dermatophyte. Retinoids are also known to alter terminal differentiation towards a
      non-keratinizing, metaplastic and mucosa-like epithelium.

      Another aspect is the altered glycosylation pattern of normal skin treated with retinoic acid
      that resembles that of mucosal epithelium with a reduction of tonofilaments, decreased
      corneocyte cohesiveness, impaired function of the permeability barrier and increased
      transepidermal water loss. This could thus explain the keratolytic effect of retinoids in
      hyperkeratotic disorder and could be extrapolated to any probable role of isotretinoin that
      we see in chronic and recurrent dermatophyte infections.

      Once established, the dermatophytes must scavenge for nutrients for growth, a process
      dependent on the induction of structural proteins, permeases and enzymes of the cell wall, in
      addition to the secretion of a variety of proteins and hydrolytic enzymes such as nucleases,
      lipases, non-specific proteases and keratinases that occur in response to a shortage in the
      supply of essential nutrients in the host. Dermatophytes de-repress non-specific proteolytic
      enzymes and keratinases which have optimum activity at acidic pH and are important virulence
      factors. Thus, their growth is dependent on the pH of the skin which being acidic gives an
      ideal ambient environment for the fungus. High transepidermal water loss values and impaired
      barrier function of the skin are correlated with high skin pH. Retinoid therapy is known to
      raise the skin pH, thereby possibly inhibiting dermatophyte growth.

      Retinoids are generally thought to stimulate humoral and cellular immunity. They can enhance
      antibody production and stimulate peripheral blood T helper cells. Cell surface antigens of T
      cells and natural killer cells have been reported to increase after retinoid exposure in
      vitro. On the other hand, dermatophytes have mechanisms that allow them to evade the host
      response such as the immunosuppressive action of fungal mannans that causes reduction of
      inflammation and phagocytosis. Retinoids may counteract some of these immunosuppressive
      effects of the dermatophyte.

      Finally, although more often associated with bacteria, pure fungal biofilms are a recognized
      entity, especially in yeasts like candida. Unlike candidal infections where the concept of
      fungal biofims has received considerable attention and is established, the same is not true
      for dermatophyte infections. Though it was introduced by Burkhart et al. to explain
      dermatophytomas, a form of onychomycosis refractory to standard antifungal therapies, it is a
      relatively virgin territory with hardly any published literature. The anecdotal efficacy of
      minocycline and isotretinoin in noninflammatory comedonal acne is more easily explained by
      their effects on altering the P acnes biofilm and lowering production of biological glue
      present in the biofilm. If the investigators can extrapolate the role of isotretinoin in P
      acnes biofilm to that of dermatophytes, it could potentially lead to tremendous insights into
      using an old but extremely efficacious drug for a novel indication.

      Study design:

      This will be a randomized open label single centre study. It will involve recruitment of
      patients with recurrent cutaneous dermatophytosis based on inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      The participants will be randomized (by block randomization) into four arms - Arm A will be
      treated with tablet terbinafine 250 mg once a day for 4 weeks, arm B will receive tablet
      terbinafine 250 mg once a day with low dose isotretinoin 20 mg/day, arm C will receive
      capsule itraconazole 200 mg/ day for 4 weeks, and arm D will be treated with capsule
      itraconazole 200 mg/ day for 4 weeks along with low dose isotretinoin (20 mg/day). Allocation
      concealment will be done by the sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes (SNOSE)
      method. After 4 weeks of treatment, arms B and D will continue to receive isotretinoin during
      subsequent 5 months of follow up.

      Methodology All adults attending General OPD, Department of Dermatology, Venereology and
      Leprology, PGIMER, Chandigarh and satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria shall be
      eligible for recruitment in the present study after patients sign the written informed
      consent form. Complete physical examination including cutaneous, general and systemic
      examination will be done and recorded in case record proforma (annexure 1). Baseline clinical
      photographs will be taken for all patients.
    
  