
    
      Recruitment and Conduction: In the first 24 hours in the Intensive Care Unit [ICU] the
      patients will be assessed for eligibility. If they meet the inclusion criteria, their Next Of
      Kin will be approached by a member of the study team. An explanation of the study design, the
      study protocol and the study objectives, as well as a specific relative information sheet for
      the study, will be provided. Meeting with the NOK is done ideally before the SSEP
      [SomatoSensory Evoked Potentials] recording or, in case of non-availability of the Next of
      kin, after the SSEP recording. The next of kin will have at least 24 hours to decide whether
      or not to participate in the study.

      N20 and P25/30 SSEP are expected to be recorded and then during the study interpretation of
      the results the presence or absence of either or both with the neurological outcome will be
      assessed The SSEP recording as a prognostication adjunct after out of hospital cardiac arrest
      is part of the usual, established Derriford ICU policy for the management of the comatose
      survivors after out of hospital cardiac arrest and is not added or at any way modified,
      because of the study. The study purpose is the interpretation of the recording sheet of the
      SSEP test in order to answer the question whether the P25/30 potential that is recorded along
      with the N20 may have prognostic significance for the patients' neurological outcome. SSEPs
      must be recorded between 24-36 hours after ROSC [Return of Spontaneous Circulation]. Mild to
      moderate hypothermia ≥35 does not abolish the cortical N20 responses. Median or ulnar nerve
      bilaterally will be stimulated. Cortical N20 and P25/30 response is to be described as
      bilaterally absent (which is a good predictor of poor neurological outcome), or in other
      cases in may be present on one or both sides. If the cortical N20 response is absent, the
      presence of the peripheral N9 and N13 response must be present to ensure that the response
      has arrived at the cortex. Cervical lesions need to be excluded if Cortical N20 response is
      absent. After the SSEP recording, for those patients who informed consent is obtained from
      their next of kins and are enrolled to the study, a copy of each recording will be produced
      for the study purposes by one member of the study team who is not participating in the
      interpretation of the recording. This copy will be anonymised by giving a specific number for
      the study. After that, the anonymised copy will become available to the first and to the
      second interpreter [both members of the study team (neurophysiology)] who will interpret the
      recordings with regards to the presence and absence of the N20 and P25/30 SSEPs and they will
      record the results of their interpretation in the results databank. The two interpreters will
      be blinded for the personal and the clinical details of the patient. Also each one of the
      interpreters will not be aware about the result of the interpretation of the other. The ICU
      clinicians will not be aware about the results of the P25/30 interpretation as this will be
      part of the study and should not be disclosed to them during the conduction of the study. In
      this way, the P25/30 interpretation results will be impossible to affect the treatment of the
      patients and / or any of the clinical decisions made about them by the ICU clinicians. In the
      unlikely event that there was a discrepancy in interpretation of the SSEP recording between
      the two delegated interpreters, then a third member [not a member of the study team] of the
      Neurophysiology team would be asked to review the anonymised recording only in order to
      decide about the result. As the P25/30 pottential could be generated in the absence of N20 as
      they come from two distinct areas of the brain cortex, the presence of either the P25/30 or
      the N20 would be confirmed when the amplitude of each one is equal or higher than the
      amplitude threshold [0.5 microvolts] used for the analysis of the SSEPs. The presence and the
      amplitude of P25/30 will not be dependent on the presence of N20 in the same recording as
      each one of them can exist in the absence of the other. Measurement of the amplitude of
      recorded P25/30 and N20 and their combinations. Test if there is a correlation of the
      recorded amplitudes and their ratio [P25/30 to N20] with the positive predictive value of N20
      for the favourable neurological outcome. After the SSEP recording has been conducted, between
      24 and 36 hours post ROSC, the patients will be followed up by members of the study team.
      Those members of the team will assess the patients, by Cerebral Performance Category and full
      neurologic clinical examination, on the day of ICU discharge and on the day of their
      discharge from Derriford Hospital. The online system SALUS of Derriford hospital will be used
      to follow up the patients after their discharge from ICU and before their discharge from the
      hospital. The neurologic outcome, assessed with the Cerebral Performance Category [CPC], will
      be recorded. If a study participant died on ICU as a result of severe brain dysfunction or
      after the decision of ICU Consultant to be withdrawn from invasive organ support due to
      extremely poor prognosis, the discharge CPC would be the most recently recorded, after the
      patient have remained consistently off sedation [for a period of time varied for different
      sedatives or combination of sedatives]. If a participant died unexpectedly from another cause
      rather than severe brain dysfunction, then the most recent CPC before death [if available]
      will be recorded as indicative of neurologic outcome for the patients. In case the CPC could
      not be assessed, the patient would be excluded from the study analysis. The Results of the
      CPC assessment and the outcome of the patients will be stored in the general study databank
      for further analysis. At the End of the study, all data will be merged and statistically
      analysed and from the result of this analysis one or more relevant manuscripts must be
      submitted to a peer-review journal within the first 4 months after the completion of the
      study. For each one of the patients-participants, the following clinical data must be
      collected prospectively, during the conduction of the study [at different stages i.e. at the
      time of enrolment and follow up] and must be kept safely in an anonymised form in a suitable
      database. The principles of patients' confidentiality and privacy must be applied at all
      times. Age, Gender, Comorbidities, Pre-admission performance status [Assessed by the ECOG/WHO
      (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group/World Health Organisation) performance status score,
      Cardiac Arrest Rhythm [Rhythm that was initially recorded after cardiac arrest, usually at
      scene], Bystander - witness of cardiac arrest and Cardiopulmonary resuscitation, Anoxic time
      [total time between cardiac arrest was noted and ROSC]. If multiple episodes of cardiac
      arrest then the sum of all anoxic times to be considered. GCS before intubation [total or
      with components if available]. Aetiology of cardiac arrest [cardiac or non-cardiac or
      unknown].CT [Computed Tomography] scan report if performed because it was clinically
      indicated.Cerebral performance category at ICU discharge and Hospital discharge. Date of
      death, number of days post ROSC that death occurred.ICU length of stay, hospital length of
      stay.Time of SSEP performed [hours post ROSC].Time between ROSC and ICU admission, First 24
      hours post ROSC: mean SaO2 [arterial oxygen saturation], mean PaO2 [arterial partial pressure
      of oxygen], mean PaCO2 [arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide], mean heart rate, mean
      blood pressure, mean Glucose levels, mean Lactate levels, mean pH, mean BE, Urea and
      Creatinine levels, liver function tests, Plasma sodium levels, Temperature, Sequential Organ
      Failure Assessment Score. No particulars tests needed for the study purposes.

      The primary outcome measure is the CPC score at hospital discharge with discrete values
      ranging from 1 to 5. The score will be dichotomised as 1-2 (positive or good outcome) and 3-5
      (negative or poor outcome). Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of P25/30 in
      predicting poor outcome will be computed and the results compared to that of N20. Where
      appropriate, parameter estimates will be presented with 95% confidence intervals. Significant
      demographic and clinical predictors of poor neurological outcomes will be assessed and
      identified using regression models. Statistical data analysis will be undertaken once data
      collection from the required number of participants is completed. No interim analysis is
      scheduled for this study. Analyses will be performed in SPSS [Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences] version 24 (or later). Sample size calculation was based on diagnostic test
      accuracy (adequate sensitivity) of P25/30. Previous studies on patients treated by
      hypothermic targeted temperature management showed that the sensitivity of P25/30 in
      predicting poor outcome is 90.12% (95% Confidence Interval, 81.5-95.6%). Though the proposed
      study will be based on those who are not treated by hypothermic targeted temperature
      management, the result (90%) is the 'best' available information regarding pre-determined
      sensitivity of P25/30. From experience of the team and analysis of the past three-years pilot
      data, the prevalence of poor outcome was assumed to be 75%. In order the maximum marginal
      error of estimate does not exceed from 5% with 95% confidence level, and adjusting for
      drop-out/lack of consent at 3%, the total required sample size will be 191. No power was
      assumed in the calculation of the sample size as there is no testing of hypothesis. Whenever
      applicable, a 5% level of significance will be used. As this is not an interventional study,
      the chance to terminate the trial is minimal. Spurious and/or missing data will be summarised
      and reasons for missingness given where possible. All data analyses will be based on the
      complete data only. Statistical analysis of the data will be performed at the end of the
      study. If deemed necessary, a separate statistical analysis plan (SAP) can be prepared prior
      to the completion of the study and approved by the oversight committee. The study team will
      discuss any deviation from the analysis plan and report it to the oversight committee. Any
      revisions to the SAP will be documented, including a brief justification and timing of
      revision. All eligible participants will be included in the analyses.

      All the patients enrolled in the study are expected to be in coma at the time of enrollment.
      This is a reality about most of the ICU patients. Therefore, within the first 24 hours after
      ICU admission, the members of the study group will discuss with the next of kin of the
      patients regarding the potential participation in the study and the informed consent process.
      f the participants in the study regain full mental capacity to provide informed consent and
      make informed decisions after their enrollment in the study, then the participants will be
      fully informed about the study by a member of the study group and they will be asked if they
      agree to continue with their participation in the study. If the participants are happy to
      remain in the study cohort then their data will be used for analysis and publication
      purposes. If the participants decide anytime to withdraw from the study then their decision
      will be respected but it will be explained that that their data already collected may still
      be analysed as part of the study. The same options will be available for the next of kin that
      would have consented initially for the participation of patients in the study.
    
  