
    
      It has been over 80 years since Gibbs et al showed how the electroencephalogram (EEG)
      systematically changed in concurrence with increasing doses of hypnotic drugs such as
      penthobarbital and Ether. The study concluded that "Electroencephalography may therefore be
      of value in controlling depth of anesthesia and sedation". In spite of a solid documentation
      of the systematic connection between dosing of anesthetic drugs, EEG-patterns and level of
      sedation/anesthesia , EEG-based DoA has not become a part of standard of care in anesthetic
      management. There is abundant evidence of how different anesthetic drugs leads to
      characteristic fluctuations in human brain electrical activity, relating to depth of
      anesthesia, anesthetic drug of choice, and age . These anesthetic induced fluctuations are
      readily visible as changes in the patients EEG.

      Anesthetic drugs are usually administered in pharmacological models based on a population
      taking into account their age, weight and height. However, there is a significant difference
      in how patients respond to these models. In adults there is evidence that the doses needed to
      achieve consciousness varies with a factor of 2 above and below suggested doses. In
      under-dosing of anesthetics there is a risk of peroperative awareness . On the other hand
      there is also evidence that overdosing of anesthetics has harmful effects; children receiving
      more than 4% Sevoflurane can demonstrate epileptiform activity , and adults overdosing into
      "burst suppression" during anesthesia has a higher risk of postoperative delirium (POD) and
      increased occurrence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) .

      Bispectral Index (BIS) is an algorithm developed by Aspect Medical Systems in 1994, which is
      based on weighted sums of EEG subparameters to present an index from 0 to 100 for depth of
      anesthesia, where 100 is wide awake, and 0 is an isoelectric EEG. The BIS target for a deep
      enough anesthesia is set to be between 40 and 60. The BIS number is often in concurrence with
      other clinical observations related to anesthetic depth, however there is also an experience
      of divergence. BIS and other EEG-based indices are programmed from adult cohorts, and cannot
      be directly trusted in children, or the elderly . There is also an incapability in these
      preprogrammed indices (BIS and other) to integrate how specific anesthetic drugs affect the
      EEG, and thenceforth the BIS value. An example of this is how the drug Ketamine induces a
      specific gamma-frequency in the EEG, which the BIS-index translate as a lighter anesthesia,
      even though the drug is administered "on top of" an already deep level of anesthesia.
    
  