
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial that will compare ED, i.e. alternate day
      dosing to daily dosing i.e. TAU.

      Individuals will be randomized to ED or TAU using a permuted block design with a random
      number generator. The size will be fixed and study personnel blinded to the randomization
      block size.

      To maintain a double-blind design, our pharmacy will provide, on an individualized basis, APs
      at the appropriate dose and placebo where necessary in matching gelatin capsules, packaged in
      blister packs. The active tablet will be over-encapsulated, and matching placebo will be
      prepared using the same capsules (filled with lactose). Thus, from the individual subject's
      position, AP treatment is continued according to the same daily schedule. Further, if their
      current medication is prescribed in divided doses, this too will be employed during the
      study. The minimum and maximum doses for Risperidone will be 1 mg and 16mg respectively. The
      minimum and maximum doses for Olanzapine will be 5 mg and 20mg respectively. Other
      psychotropic medications prescribed before the study will be permitted, with any changes in
      dosing during its course documented

      The trial is 1 year in duration. To prevent bias, the study code will remain blinded until
      the trial's completion.

      Study visits will be scheduled every 2 weeks over the first 6 months, in line with the
      earlier investigation. Thereafter, the visits will be decreased to every 4 weeks, aligning
      with the schedule routinely observed in our ambulatory clinics.

      The investigators are asking the following questions:

        1. (Non-inferiority) Can additional confirmatory evidence support "extended" AP dosing (ED)
           as an alternative to continuous administration, i.e. is it as effective clinically?

        2. (Superiority) Can the investigators establish clinical benefits (e.g. better
           tolerability, fewer side effects, such as decreased glucose dysregulation) with ED?

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that with ED, there will be no change in symptom
      severity but improvement in the frequency and severity of side effects, wellbeing, and
      functioning.
    
  