
    
      The study population corresponds to the patients who may benefit from a post-operative
      rehabilitation protocol with immediate weight-bearing. Eligible lateral malleolar fractures
      are limited to Weber A and Weber B fractures, since they have a higher stability, after open
      reduction and internal fixation, compared to Weber C and Maisonneuve fractures. This higher
      stability gives the possibility to evaluate the benefit of the immediate weight-bearing
      protocol without safety concerns.

      A power analysis was performed to estimate the required sample size to detect a significant
      difference in the OMAS score at 6 weeks between groups: the number of patients needed is 42
      patients per group (84 patients overall) but, considering the risk of drop-outs, the
      investigators plan to enroll 20% more patients for a total of 100 patients.

      The surgical operation will be carried out following the AO Foundation general and specific
      rules concerning the surgical treatment of malleolar fractures . In particular,an anatomical
      open reduction and internal fixation with one or two compression screws sustained by a
      neutralization third-tubular plate for simple fractures or a bridging third-tubular locking
      compression plate for multi-fragmentary fractures will be performed.

      Postoperatively, patients who still meet the eligibility criteria will be randomized in 2
      groups: immediate post-operative complete weight-bearing and complete weight-bearing delayed
      for 6 weeks.Immediate complete weight-bearing consists in the possibility to undergo all the
      everyday activities without limiting weight-bearing and without the use of walking aids
      (patients will wear an ankle brace, this will ensure the safety of the early recovery phases,
      protecting from dangerous movements while allowing the mobilization in the healthy range of
      movement). Delayed weight-bearing consists in the limitation of the weight-bearing to 20-30%
      of patient's total weight using crutches for the first 6 weeks after surgery (also patients
      of the control group will wear the ankle brace).

      Subsequent follow-up visits are scheduled at 2, 6, 12 and 24 weeks after surgery. Patients
      with a fracture non-union radiologically confirmed at week 24 will be followed up until 48
      weeks after surgery. Clinical assessments will be performed using subjective, objective and
      radiological evaluations. Safety will be monitored throughout the study.

      Overall study duration will be 2 years and 6 months (2 years to reach the expected sample
      size and 6 months to complete the follow-up):
    
  