
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a major source of morbidity and mortality, particularly
      in older individuals. Despite its high prevalence, clinicians often fail to diagnose PAD,
      particularly in patients who do not have classic claudication symptoms. Even in those
      individuals with documented PAD, cardiac risk factors are not often aggressively treated, and
      only a minority of patients receive pharmacologic therapy with cilostazol. Although there is
      a growing body of literature demonstrating the value of exercise rehabilitation in
      individuals with peripheral vascular disease and claudication, exercise rehabilitation is not
      often prescribed as supervised exercise rehabilitation for claudication, is not reimbursed by
      Medicare, and is rarely covered by private insurance. Therefore, few individuals with PAD and
      intermittent claudication have access to supervised exercise rehabilitation.

      The use of surgical intervention and stent placement to improve blood flow in patients who do
      not have ischemic pain at rest or limb-threatening ischemia (Fontaine class III or IV)
      remains controversial. There is data suggesting that patients with intermittent claudication
      who have had revascularization with stents have improved exercise capacity and walking times.
      However, the patients in the various studies often differ substantially in their clinical
      characteristics, and a variety of techniques were employed, including balloon angioplasty and
      stents, which makes it difficult to come to a definitive conclusion about the relative
      efficacy of stenting to improve functional performance. Additionally, to our knowledge, the
      combination of stent revascularization with supervised exercise rehabilitation has not been
      studied.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The broad objective of the study is to optimize physical functioning, increase activity
      levels, and reduce cardiovascular disease risk in older individuals with PAD. The specific
      aim of the trial is to test the primary hypothesis that aortoiliac stenting/pharmacotherapy
      improves maximum walking duration (MWD) better than supervised exercise
      rehabilitation/exercise maintenance/pharmacotherapy for those with aortoiliac artery
      obstruction at 6 months. Other aims are to compare these two treatment groups with two other
      treatment groups, optimal medical care/pharmacotherapy and combined stent plus supervised
      exercise rehabilitation, at 6 months, and to compare all 4 groups with regard to the
      following variables: MWD change score at 18 months, changes in free-living daily activity
      levels, patient-perceived quality of life (QoL), and cost-effectiveness. The study also will
      perform exploratory analyses of demographic and biochemical risk factors for atherosclerosis,
      including body mass index (BMI), blood pressure, lipid profile, hemoglobin Alc (HgbAlc),
      fibrinogen, and C-reactive protein. An estimated 252 patients (at up to 30 study sites) with
      aortoiliac insufficiency and intermittent claudication will be randomly divided into four
      groups: optimal medical care/pharmacotherapy, supervised exercise
      rehabilitation/maintenance/pharmacotherapy, stent/pharmacotherapy, and stent/supervised
      exercise rehabilitation/pharmacotherapy. Recruitment will be performed over 28 months and
      patients will be followed for 18 months; the total study duration will be 5 years.
    
  