
    
      Studies have shown that warmed epidural medication resulted in a mean analgesic onset of 9.2
      minutes as compared to a mean onset of 16 minutes for the same medication at room
      temperature. Onset time for pain medication during labor is important to a great many
      participants, thus techniques to shorten analgesic onset are relevant to daily clinical
      practice. Combined-spinal epidural (CSE) techniques have been used to improve the onset and
      reliability of labor analgesia compared to epidural techniques; however, CSEs have risks
      associated with their usage. Firstly, is not always possible to administer a spinal dose
      despite successful loss-of resistance with CSE techniques, providing less satisfactory labor
      analgesia, and secondly, the CSE technique has been associated with a greater incidence of
      non-reassuring fetal heart tones (FHT), uterine hyperactivity, maternal pruritis, and greater
      incidence of neurologic sequelae compared to epidural analgesia. Further, CSE labor analgesia
      is more likely to result in prolonged FHT decelerations if there is FHT abnormalities prior
      to the neuraxial procedure. Given these potential limitations of CSE techniques for labor
      analgesia, epidural medication warming may represent an effective alternative for safe and
      satisfactory labor analgesia.

      Previous studies in obstetric and non-obstetric patients undergoing surgery have demonstrated
      a more rapid onset of sensory blockade in patients receiving body temperature (37 °C)
      epidural medication compared to room temperature medication, though other reports have found
      no significant difference in the onset of sensory blockade when comparing body temperature to
      room temperature epidural medications. To the knowledge of the investigators, there are few
      studies examining the effect of warmed epidural medications for patients receiving epidural
      labor analgesia.

      In the experience of the investigators' colleagues, the close proximity to the body has a
      warming effect on the epidural medication and ultimately leads to quicker onset of pain
      relief once administered. Pocket warming does not warm the medications to the same extent as
      an incubator, but is certainly less expensive and is readily available to every obstetric
      anesthesia practice.

      The investigators have previously measured the temperature of five 10mL syringes of normal
      saline at room temperature and at baseline the average was 21.7 °C (range 21.5-21.9 °C), and
      increased to an average of 29.7 °C (range 29.1 - 30.2 °C) after 1.5 hours of pocket warming.
      It has not been studied and is unknown if this degree of warming would be effective in
      enhancing the onset of labor analgesia, but such information is valuable given that an
      approximate 30 °C temperature may be accomplished by simple pocket warming and is within
      manufacturer recommended storage temperatures of 15-30 °C.

      The investigators also assessed the potential for epidural medication cooling by measuring
      the temperature of one of the investigator's 10mL saline syringes for twenty minutes after
      removal from the warm pocket environment. The initial temperature of 30.0 °C had cooled to
      27.0 °C by five minutes, 24.7 °C by ten minutes, 22.9 °C by fifteen minutes, and had returned
      to baseline room temperature by twenty minutes. The time between medication removal and
      dosing is important to consider given that significant cooling may occur and negate any
      potential benefits of warming the medication. This cooling effect makes use of a centralized
      warmer less promising, as it could take 10-20 minutes to position the patient and complete
      placement of the epidural catheter prior to dosing the medication. The use of a bedside
      incubator or a pocket warming technique would be useful in this regard, because the
      medication could be administered immediately after removal from the warm environment.

      The investigators hypothesize that pocket warming in the front, upper pocket would be
      beneficial in enhancing onset of labor analgesia relative to room temperature medication.
    
  