
    
      Approximately 24, and not more than 30, subjects will be randomized into the study, in two
      sequential enrollment groups. Safety data from Group 1 will undergo a Data Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB) review prior to initiation of enrollment for Group 2.

      The first 6-8 randomized subjects will comprise Group 1, and will include a minimum of 3
      subjects completing intracoronary infusion with CAP-1002. The DSMB will conduct a review of
      interim safety data through 72 hours post-Day 0 for at least 3 infused subjects and for at
      least 6 subjects overall.

      Enrollment of Group 2 will begin per DSMB recommendations following their review of the 72
      hour safety data from Group 1. Group 2 will include approximately 18 subjects. Screening and
      randomization will continue until at total of 12 subjects are infused with CAP 1002 or 30
      subjects are randomized into the study, whichever comes first.

      All subjects assigned to the active treatment arm will receive an intended total dose of up
      to 75 million (M) CAP-1002 cells infused as 25M cells into each of the three left ventricle
      cardiac territories (anterior, lateral, inferior/posterior).

      Subjects randomized to receive usual care will continue to be cared for and treated in
      whatever manner the investigator deems most appropriate for the subject on an ongoing basis,
      and will receive no infusion.

      Randomization will take place within 30 days of the first screening procedure. After
      completion of the screening procedures, eligible subjects randomized to active treatment arm
      will receive CAP-1002 administered via intracoronary infusion on Day 0. Day 0 for eligible
      subjects randomized to the usual care arm will occur 7 days after the date of randomization.
      All randomized subjects will have a follow-up telephone call on Study Day 3, and study visits
      at Weeks 2 and 6, and at Months 3, 6 and 12 post Day 0.
    
  