
    
      Cardiac catheterization is systematically recommended and remains the gold standard to
      confirm the diagnosis of PAH, establish its pathophysiology and prognosis but also for the
      follow-up under medical treatment of these patients in tertiary centres every 6 months. Some
      centres repeat invasive hemodynamic assessment in the event of clinical aggravation before
      considering a change in drug management or overall management. This is the reference
      examination for the calculation of PVRs, an extremely rigorous methodology is required in
      patients with intracardiac shunt: the Fick principle must then be applied to calculate Qp.
      Usually, it is calculated by thermodilution but is no longer applicable in the case of
      intracardiac shunt, as is significant valvulopathy or massive tricuspid leakage. Qp is equal
      to the oxygen consumption (MVO2) divided by the difference in oxygen content (CaO2) between
      the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary veins (VP). Qp= MVO2/ (CaO2VP- CaO2 AP). They must be
      carried out with a rigorous methodology adapted on a case-by-case basis according to the
      anatomy and hemodynamics of the heart disease and a precise knowledge of the limits of the
      technique, in expert centres in PAH and congenital heart disease and must not be seen as
      without consequences for the patient . Although this tool is the gold standard, rigorously
      carried out in our reference centre, with rare accidents or potential risks, it remains an
      invasive examination often poorly experienced by patients .

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has emerged in recent years as the reference technique for
      non-invasive morphological and functional evaluation of the right ventricle. It also seems
      relevant for the study of pulmonary arterial hemodynamics while providing prognostic values
      for PAH. Its regular implementation is indicated in the 2015 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis
      and follow-up of patients, with more particularly an injection of gadolinium for the search
      for myocardial fibrosis, a marker of right ventricular remodelling. Also considered are:
      decrease in right ventricular ejection fraction, paradoxical septal kinetics, decrease in
      left ventricular dimensions, compliance of the pulmonary artery (mL/mmHg) and mean flow
      velocity (cm/s). Carrying out this examination using conventional techniques (2D MRI) has
      some limitations. Extrinsic, linked to operators and observers. The quality of the
      examinations here depends on the quality of the acquisitions made by the radiology
      manipulators (sequences / section plans) as well as an adapted analysis of these
      cardiopathies. All of this involves a high degree of technical expertise on the part of
      paramedical staff, as well as expertise in congenital heart disease and cardiac imaging for
      medical staff. Finally, this examination has intrinsic limitations, since it does not allow
      the characteristics of intracardiac or vascular flows (turbulence, direction, vortex) to be
      explored. All this implies an examination time of about 30 minutes 4D Flow MRI is a promising
      imaging that allows the acquisition of anatomical, volume, right ventricular remodeling and
      intracardiac flow information in a single step with 2D (only 8 minutes extra), in free
      breathing and totally autonomous mode. It is a sequence allowing a quasi-isotopic,
      retrospective analysis, providing information on blood flow in the 3 planes of the space,
      during the cardiac cycle. It is not influenced by the quality of the medical teams and, above
      all, it allows an unlimited post-processing capacity. This innovative imaging method is
      therefore particularly suitable for the study of cardiac output such as Qp. The right
      ventricular volume is difficult to analyze due to the complexity of its geometry, automatic
      segmentation is still under development, this element seems to be a promising hemodynamic
      parameter since it is quantitatively calculated and seems to be correlated with the systolic
      function of the left ventricle and inaccessible to conventional techniques due to the
      particular geometry of the right ventricle. Previous studies have demonstrated the
      possibility of qualitative analysis of intraventricular blood flows by studying retrograde
      flows, vortices and their kinetic energy, which are involved in diastolic dysfunction of the
      right ventricle .Studies have shown that these structures can be altered in PAH dog models
      but also in repaired Fallot tetralogy series and Fontan type circulations .

      Thus, at the same time as the realization of a 2D MRI, essential for the diagnosis and
      follow-up of PAH, with an additional 8 minutes for 4D flow, the investigators could have
      additional fundamental information on pulmonary cardiac output but also prognostic markers of
      right ventricular dysfunction turning dramatic in pulmonary vascular disease.

      Our objective is to evaluate the contribution of 4D MRI flow imaging to the measurement of
      pulmonary cardiac output compared to the gold standard which is cardiac catheterization using
      the Fick method. But also, to compare 2D and 4D MRI flow for the evaluation of volumes,
      function and right ventricular remodeling, as well as the quantification of pulmonary,
      tricuspid and systemic flows.
    
  