
    
      Primary Aims

        1. Test the efficacy of a telephone-adapted Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (tMBSR)
           program to reduce symptoms and improve the quality of life of kidney transplant
           candidates by 8-weeks and by 6-month follow-up.

        2. Evaluate the impact of tMBSR on sleep measured by actigraphy, and on physiologic stress,
           as indicated by alteration in the slope of diurnal salivary cortisols, measured before
           and at the end of the 8-week active intervention period.

      Secondary Aims

        1. Evaluate the impact of tMBSR on perceptions of transplant surgery (treatment
           satisfaction, pain) and of Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) at 2-, 6- and 12-mos
           post-transplant surgery.

        2. Design a full-scale randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the effectiveness and
           cost-effectiveness of tMBSR.

      Hypotheses

        -  Primary: The tMBSR group will report better outcomes than an attention control support
           group (SG) on standardized scales for anxiety, depression, and sleep quality and
           health-related quality of life at 8 weeks and 6 month follow-up.

        -  Secondary: The tMBSR group will report better outcomes than the SG group on
           actigraphy-derived sleep parameters and diurnal salivary cortisol patterns.

        -  Tertiary: Candidates who attended mindfulness training will report greater treatment
           satisfaction, less distress from pain with transplant surgery and better HRQL 2 months,
           6 months and 1 year after kidney transplantation.

      Rationale for study : For patients with living with kidney failure, the wait for new kidney
      is a stressful time. Pharmacologic therapies for managing symptoms of stress increase risks
      for side effects and non-adherence. Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), a
      non-pharmacologic program of training in mindfulness meditation, could help these patients
      reduce their symptom distress without increasing these other risks.

      Long-range Goal: To develop evidence-based recommendations for non-pharmacologic strategies
      that provide symptom relief to transplant patients, and are safe, practical and
      cost-effective.

      Interventions: The tMBSR program includes the curricular content of the standard 8-week MBSR
      program (2002 Instructor's Manual). A trained teacher provides instruction in meditation
      techniques including the body-scan, standing, sitting and walking meditations, and gentle
      Hatha yoga. Whereas the standard MBSR is conducted as 8 weekly 2.5 hour classes with a one
      day retreat between weeks 6 and 7, the telephone-adapted MBSR program begins with 5 hour-day
      workshop to introduce the techniques, followed by 6 weekly 1 ½ hour group teleconferences
      with the teacher to discuss the class's experiences with meditation practice, and ends with a
      5 hour retreat in week 8. Home practice expectations are 25 minutes per day, 6 days a week
      for tMBSR.

      The attention control consists of two 90 minute in-person workshops and 6 1-hour
      teleconference calls. An experienced facilitator emphasizes communication skills and group
      support.

      Recruiting Methods:

        1. Direct mail to candidates being followed by the Transplant Information Services Office
           with follow-up calls; invitation letters and brochures sent from the P01 Clinical Core.

        2. Posters and flyers in medical clinics.

        3. Referral by health providers - in- service presentations to the pre-transplant
           coordinators who manage the kidney candidates;

        4. Additional invitations letters mailed by the coordinator who maintains the waitlist for
           the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS); study brochure or invitation letters mailed
           with waitlist acceptance letters.

      Potential Measures of intervention 'dose' or enactment:

        1. Mindfulness scale: Mindful Awareness Attention Scale (MAAS);

        2. Meditation practice time.

      Exploratory Outcomes: Post-transplant impact on Quality of Life (QOL) by Short-Form-36
      item(SF-36), pain and satisfaction with transplant hospitalization.

      Evaluation Methods:

        1. Self-report, mailed questionnaires completed at study weeks 0, 8, 26 (primary outcomes
           and QOL measures),

        2. Actigraphy recording for 1 week prior to the intervention and during the last week of
           the intervention; cortisol collection for 3 days during same time periods.

        3. Post transplant evaluations - 2 and 6 mos; 1 year coordinated with Transplant Database

      Duration of Treatment: 8 weeks

      Study Duration: Participants are followed up to one year post-kidney transplant.

      Statistical Considerations: This study is powered to compare MBSR and SG, on the primary
      endpoint, on the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), at 8 weeks. Randomization may be
      stratified by dialysis (yes/no) and history of diabetes (yes/no).
    
  