
    
      This was an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter pilot study where patients who were
      receiving chemotherapy for non-myeloid malignancy (cancer) with a baseline hemoglobin (Hb) <=
      11 g/dL were enrolled. The primary objective of this pilot study was to estimate the
      hematologic responses for the dosing regimen of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa), starting at a dose of
      60,000 Units (U) administered subcutaneously (sc, under the skin) once per week (qw) for four
      weeks ("Phase A"), followed by a dose of 60,000 U every two weeks (q2w) ("Phase B") in
      patients with cancer and chemotherapy induced anemia. If, at any time during the study the Hb
      level rose to >13 g/dL, PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) therapy was held until the Hb reached <=12
      g/dL, then resumed at a reduced dose in both Phase A and Phase B. The dose was also reduced
      if a very rapid Hb response occurred (i.e. an increase of more than 1.3 g/dL in a 2-week
      period). The secondary objective of the study was to determine the incidence of
      anti-erythropoietin antibodies (anti-EPO Ab), at baseline and at end of study/early
      withdrawal in patients who had received a minimum of one dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa).
      Rarely, anti-erythropoietin antibodies may form in patients who have some types of diseases
      (e.g., autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, anemia of chronic disease), or in response
      to exposure to erythropoietin products such as Epoetin alfa necessitating discontinuation of
      the erythropoietin agent and medical treatment that may include blood transfusions.

      Safety evaluations included clinical laboratory tests (hemoglobin and hematocrit), vital
      signs measurements (blood pressure), and incidence and severity of adverse events.

      This study determined if higher initial weekly doses resulted in a higher initial response
      rate and/or a more brisk hemoglobin rise. Patients received PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) 60,000
      Units (U) once a week for 4 weeks. At Week 5 if hemoglobin increased by >= 1 g/dL above
      baseline, the PROCRIT dose was changed to 60,000 U every 2 weeks for <= 12 weeks. An
      additional PROCRIT dose was given if chemotherapy completed before Week 16.
    
  