
    
      Joyful Parenting Pilot Project is part of the Community-based Mental Wellness Project for
      Adolescents and Adults, which aims at enhancing mental well-being of adolescents, adults and
      their families by creating a positive, happy and joyful environment in the community. The
      Project is funded by Health Care and Promotion Fund of Food and Health Bureau.

      Joyful Parenting Pilot Project is organized by the Hong Kong Family Welfare Society and led
      by the School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong (HKU). The project will organize
      two-session interactive talks for parents to promote praise and appreciation, positive
      thinking, enjoyable parenting and knowledge of adult mental health problem (in particular the
      mixed anxiety and depressive disorder) and mental well-being; and one family gathering
      activity to promote and practice quality family communication. One wisdom sharing session
      will be organized for social workers and service practitioners to promote best practice of
      community mental wellness project.

      The major subjects of the Joyful Parenting Pilot Project RCT Study are 120 parents and at
      least 240 family members. 4 family service units of Hong Kong Family Welfare Society will
      either be assigned into intervention groups or wait-list control groups. Cluster Randomized
      Controlled Trial will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention programme.

      In the study, parents and their family members will be invited to complete questionnaires to
      measure the behavioral indicators of sharing, mind and enjoyment, and mental well-being
      and/or invited to attend the focus group to understand the participants' experience during
      the programme while community partners will be invited to individual in-depth interviews. HKU
      team will conduct evaluation during the programme implementation stage. The effectiveness of
      the intervention, as well as the level of participation and ratings for the intervention will
      also be evaluated.
    
  