
    
      In this randomized controlled trial, comparing internet-delivered cognitive behavioral
      therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) to a wait-list control group on pre-post trial changes in
      indices of cardiovascular structure and function among community-based middle-aged adults
      with insomnia and moderate-to-high risk for cardiovascular disease, the investigators will
      recruit and enroll 38 participants.

      Initial screening will be conducted with an online survey. If they meet preliminary study
      criteria, then research staff will contact the participant to schedule an in-person, baseline
      assessment visit. They will be instructed that they must meet fasting requirements prior to
      this visit to obtain accurate cardiovascular physiology measurement.

      At the baseline assessment visit, the participants will undergo the informed consent process,
      complete questionnaire inquiring about medical, mental, and sleep health history, undergo a
      brief physical (vital signs, height, weight), and complete cardiovascular physiology
      assessment. If the participants remain eligible after these assessment, then the pariticpants
      will receive orientation on how to complete an online sleep diary while simultaneously
      wearing a wrist actigraph to track sleep and activity for the next 7 nights. This procedure
      is for baseline assessment. It will not be used to further screen participants.

      Once the participants complete this baseline sleep assessment, then they will randomly
      assigned to either immediate treatment with internet delivered CBT-I or a wait-list control
      group. The intervention group will receive an email with their own personal subscription to
      the online CBT-I program. Both groups will continue to wear the wrist actigraph for the
      duration of the trial. The immediate CBT-I group will complete sleep diaries within the
      online therapy program throughout the trial, whereas the wait-list control group will
      complete email-delivered, online sleep diaries from study staff throughout the trial.

      The online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia intervention is based in a standardized,
      manualized treatment designed to decrease sleep-inhibiting cognitions and behaviors, and to
      alter sleep-wake schedules. This fully automated therapy tailors its program features
      according to sleep diary data inputs. The therapy will consist of CBTI-I components: stimulus
      control therapy, sleep restriction therapy, cognitive therapy, and sleep education. The first
      week of treatment will solely focus on sleep education and completion of sleep logs.

      Upon completion of the treatment period, all participants will complete one more week of
      sleep diaries and wearing the wrist actigraph. The participants also will be scheduled to
      attend their post-treatment/trial in-person visit for assessment and to return the actigraph.
      Participants will complete questionnaires and undergo cardiovascular physiological
      assessment.

      After this post-treatment visit, the wait-list control group will receive their subscription
      of the internet-delivered CBT-I program.

      Participants randomly assigned to immediate internet delivered CBT-I will be scheduled for an
      8-week follow-up visit during which they will once again complete outcome questionnaires and
      cardiovascular physiological assessment.
    
  