
    
      This study is a prospective observational cohort study of TB patients who are treated or
      evaluated at 10 study sites. Patients presenting with cough for 2 weeks or longer with at
      least one additional TB symptom and a chest X-ray suggestive of TB, will be invited to be
      enrolled in the study. The signed informed consent will designate their willingness to
      participate on this study. Enrolled subjects will produce the sputum for bacteriological
      examination of M. tuberculosis by AFB, culture and Xpert. The sputum will also be tested by
      Xpert for drug resistance test. If the culture is positive, conventional DST will be
      performed, and M. tuberculosis isolates will be stored for spoligotyping and for future
      research on TB. All bacteriologicaly confirmed subjects will be followed for outcome
      assessment.

      For all enrolled subjects chest X-ray results, demographic data, TB co-morbidities, symptoms,
      nutritional status, treatment regimens, compliance and outcome will be collected. In
      addition, sputum, blood and urine will also be collected for storage.

      To estimate the proportion of MDR-TB amongst new and previously treated TB cases.

        1. To evaluate accuracy of clinical diagnosis by comparing clinically defined TB to
           laboratory confirmed TB.

        2. To compare AFB and Xpert MTB/RIF as TB diagnostic tests against culture result.

        3. To estimate the sensitivity and specificity of Xpert MTB/RIF in detecting Rif
           susceptibility against DST.

        4. To estimate the proportion of cured, completed, failed, died and lost to follow up as
           treatment outcomes on DS-TB and DR-TB cases

        5. To evaluate the association of treatment success (cured or completed) with the following
           data:

             1. Demographics (age, sex)

             2. TB contact history

             3. Smoking habit

             4. Treatment seeking behavior

             5. Co-morbidities (HIV, DM)

             6. Primary and secondary drug resistance

             7. Symptoms

             8. Cavitary disease

             9. Nutritional status

            10. Treatment regimens

            11. Patient reported compliance

            12. Numbers of bacteria by AFB test

            13. TB strains (e.g Beijing)
    
  