
    
      ALI/ARDS involves extensive inflammation in the lungs that can lead to rapid respiratory
      failure. These conditions are most commonly caused by pneumonia, generalized infection, or
      severe trauma to the lungs, but can also be less commonly caused by smoke or salt water
      inhalation, drug overdose, or shock.

      For some people, ALI/ARDS resolves without treatment, but many severe cases result in
      hospitalization in the intensive care unit (ICU), where 30% to 40% of cases end in mortality.
      Current treatments for ALI/ARDS include assisted breathing with a ventilator, supportive
      care, and management of the underlying causes. Enteral feeding, in which patients receive
      nutrition through a feeding tube, plays an important role in treatment, too. Some recent
      studies have shown that, compared to delayed feeding, enteral feeding initiated soon after a
      patient begins assisted breathing is associated with a shorter hospital stay and a better
      chance of survival. However, other studies show the opposite, and studies on optimal feeding
      volume and composition have conflicting results. Studies have also indicated that enhancing
      enteral feeding with omega-3 fatty acid and antioxidant supplements may help reduce lung
      inflammation, improving overall recovery rates. This study will evaluate the effects of early
      versus delayed full-calorie enteral feeding on mortality, ventilator-free days, ICU-free
      days, and organ failure in people with ALI/ARDS. The study will also determine whether
      supplementation with omega-3 fatty acid and antioxidants adds any beneficial effect.

      Upon admission to the ICU, a dietary evaluation will be done on each participant to determine
      goal, or full-calorie, feeding rates, which will be based on body weight and daily energy
      consumption. Participants will also undergo baseline assessments and procedures, which will
      include vital sign measurements, blood draws, a frontal chest radiograph, ventilator
      settings, and placement of feeding tube. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive
      initial enteral feedings that are either minimal (trophic) or full-calorie. They will also be
      randomly assigned to receive either omega-3 fatty acid and antioxidant supplementation or
      placebo. All participants will begin enteral feeding within 6 hours of treatment assignment.

      Participants assigned to initial minimal enteral feedings will receive feedings at 10 cubic
      centimeters (cc) per hour, to be continued at this rate for 144 hours, provided that the
      participant remains on the ventilator. After the 144 hours, the feeding rate will be advanced
      to full-calorie rates.

      Participants assigned to initial full-calorie enteral feedings will receive feedings at 25 cc
      per hour, and the feeding rate will be increased by 25 cc per hour every 6 hours until goal
      rate is reached. During enteral feedings, gastric residual volumes (GRVs) will be checked
      every 6 to 12 hours to assure acceptable levels. Participants will complete enteral feedings
      upon hospital discharge, Day 28 of treatment, death, or ability to achieve 48 hours of
      unassisted breathing. Omega-3 fatty acid, antioxidant, and placebo supplements will be
      administered with a syringe into the participant's feeding tube every 12 hours until Day 21
      or discontinuation of the ventilator.

      Blood pressure, heart rate, ventilation settings, and various blood factors will be measured
      during treatment. Phone-based follow-up assessments will occur at Months 6 and 12 after ICU
      discharge and will include measurements of health-related quality of life; psychological,
      neurocognitive, and physical activity outcomes; healthcare utilization; and mortality.
    
  