
    
      Study Parts/Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 5 groups of 3-6 participants will be
      enrolled in Part 1 of the study. After that, up to 44 participants will be enrolled in Part
      2.

      If you are in Part 1, you will be assigned to a dose level of cabazitaxel based on when you
      join this study. Up to 5 dose levels of cabazitaxel will be tested. Two (2) dose levels will
      be given over 60 minutes, and 3 will be given over 30 minutes. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      level of cabazitaxel than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. Your
      dose may be lowered if you have side effects.

      If you are in Part 2, you will receive cabazitaxel at the highest dose that was tolerated in
      Part 1.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Day 1 of every 21-day study cycle, you will receive cabazitaxel by vein over either 30 or
      60 minutes.

      You will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the
      study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have had any side
           effects.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This blood will be drawn
           every week during Cycles 1 and 2.

      On Day 1 of every odd-numbered cycle after Cycle 1 (Cycles 3, 5, 7, and so on):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have an MRI scan of the brain to check the status of the disease.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected
           for a pregnancy test.

      If you are in Part 1, on Day 1 of Cycle 2, you will have a physical and neurological exam,
      including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      Research Tests for Part 1 Only:

      Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing and
      biomarker testing. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time
      points.

      Blood for PK and biomarker testing will be drawn at the following time points:

        -  Day 1 of Cycle 1, before you receive the study drug, 5 minutes before you finish
           receiving the study drug, and 1, 3, and 6 hours after you finish receiving the study
           drug

        -  Days 2 and 3 of Cycle 1

        -  At a time point between Day 7 and 10 of Cycle 1

      At any time during the study, extra tests may be performed if the doctor thinks they are
      needed for your safety. The study doctor will tell you more about any extra tests.

      Length of Treatment:

      You will receive the study drug for up to 1 year. You may be able to continue taking the
      study drug beyond this if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest. You will no longer
      be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur,
      or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you are no longer taking the study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this
      visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have had any side
           effects.

        -  You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital
           signs.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have an MRI scan of the brain to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected
           for a pregnancy test.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      About 30 days after you receive your last dose of study drug, you will either return to
      clinic or be called to ask how you are feeling. Each call will last about 5-10 minutes.

      If you go off study treatment because you had intolerable side effects, you will have a
      clinic visit every 6 weeks until any point that the disease appears to get worse. At these
      visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have had any side
           effects.

        -  You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital
           signs.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have an MRI scan of the brain to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected
           for a pregnancy test.

      If you are not able to come to the clinic for these tests and procedures, they can be done
      locally and the results should be provided to the research staff. In this case, a research
      staff will call you to ask how you are feeling. Each call will last about 5-10 minutes.

      Every 3 months after the end-of-treatment visit, you will be called and asked how you are
      feeling. This call will take about 5-10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Cabazitaxel is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of prostate cancer. The use of this drug for brain cancer is investigational.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  