
    
      Patients will receive a prescription for letrozole to be taken orally at a dose of 2.5 mg/day
      for 7-56 days to allow for variations in surgical scheduling. Patients are to undergo
      surgical resection of their tumor the day after the last dose of letrozole.

      Post-treatment tumor biopsies (a goal of 4-6 cores) will be obtained following 7-56 days of
      letrozole treatment on the day of surgery. Frozen AND formalin fixed core biopsies will be
      obtained whenever possible. The tissue will be used for study-specific assays as well as
      routine histopathology. Post-treatment core needle biopsy tissue will be obtained, whenever
      possible, by the surgeon intraoperatively at the time of routine surgical resection. A
      formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tumor block from the patient's surgical resection is also
      requested. This block will be used for a subset of the correlative studies if no tumor is
      obtained by the post treatment core biopsies. This block will be returned to pathology
      promptly after the correlative studies are completed.

      Surgical treatment (total mastectomy or segmental resection with lymph node evaluation if
      clinically indicated) will occur the day after completion of therapy.

      The primary lesion obtained at the time of the definitive surgical procedure (partial or
      total mastectomy) will be sent for standard of care histopathologic analysis; wherever
      possible intra-opearative cores from the central portion of the tumor will be obtained for
      study-specific assays. All specimens will be handled according to established institutional
      guidelines to maintain the accuracy of the analysis of tumor size and margin status.

      Following standard of care histopathologic analysis, additional paraffin-embedded sections
      will be submitted at a later time to the Simmons Cancer Tissue Core to determine tumor
      proliferation with Ki67 (MIB1Ab, Dako Cytomation) IHC. These tests are of no clinical utility
      and will be done for research purposes only.

      Frozen cores and/or peels from the formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor blocks from
      the surgical specimen will be selected and/or macrodissected - when needed - based on ≥20%
      tumor cellularity as assessed by Dr. Sahoo, expert breast pathologist in the trial. These
      will be sent to Dr. Carlos Arteaga's laboratory for further testing.
    
  