
    
      The study of the mechanisms of bone damage, which occur at the multiscale, is of fundamental
      importance for the understanding of fracture processes. In particular, age-related fractures
      are continuously increasing due to the increase in average age and widespread diseases such
      as osteoporosis. They result in high economic burdens, morbidity (including psychological,
      e.g., frailty), and increased mortality. In order to reduce the impact of bone fractures on
      health and economy, early diagnosis is the key. In this context, one must consider that bone
      is characterized by a complex hierarchical structure. Both the cortical and trabecular
      sections consist of micrometric lamellae, composed of collagen fibrils, within which
      osteocytes are found. They reside in sub-micrometer cavities called lacunae, which are
      connected by a dense network of canaliculi. At the nanoscale, the fibrils consist primarily
      of collagen and hydroxyapatite crystals. This complex architecture is reflected in fracture
      patterns: damage, in fact, occurs at the multiscale. However, fracture patterns and their
      associated physical phenomena are still not understood, especially at the microscale.

      Recently, microscale imaging techniques have been combined with subject-specific numerical
      models, which are able to calculate local values of bone stress and strain. Preliminary
      studies have focused on evaluating a possible interaction between micro-cracks and
      microstructural porosity. This particular research focuses on the lacunar network, which is
      presumed to significantly affect bone resistance to fracture although the actual role of the
      lacunar network is not yet elucidated. First, lacunae are areas of stress concentration,
      which apparently lead to weakening of the bone structure. However, in most cases, the lacunae
      make a positive contribution to toughness by deflecting the crack front. The connection
      between the lacunae, determined by the network of canaliculi, is also reduced in osteoporotic
      subjects, preventing the slowing of damage. In this sense, bone can be considered a damage
      tolerant material. Donaldson et al developed computational models and estimated a threshold
      for microdamage initiation and propagation. They used computerized micro-tomography of murine
      femurs and evaluated the influence of different algorithms on the propagation of in-silico
      damage. Further results showed that the damage always occurs on the surfaces of blood vessels
      or porosities and does not instead start from the lacunae. However, further simulations and
      models would be needed to verify the effectiveness of the damage models.

      Computational damage models also require experimental validation. Preliminary studies have
      been conducted in two main directions: in-vivo imaging and image-guided failure assessment
      (IGFA) techniques. The first approach allows nondestructive monitoring of bone damage in
      living animals. The second approach, implemented by A. Levchuk et al. (8), shows enormous
      potential by allowing the study of microcrack initiation and propagation with sub-micrometer
      resolution, but only on small animals.

      The current research for the first time wants to perform tests on human bone samples applying
      IGFA techniques.

      Despite several studies on the characterization of damage models at the micro-scale, a
      validation of computational models of fracture on human subjects is still lacking. In
      addition, the role of morphological features at the micro-scale in samples is still unknown.

      These micro-scale studies could improve clinical understanding of bone fracture and
      prediction of fracture risk. Currently, clinicians use bone mineral density, which is a
      macro-scale parameter, as the most common predictor of bone fracture. However, recent studies
      demonstrate the importance of a thorough characterization of the geometric and morphologic
      characteristics of the microarchitecture.

      OBJECTIVES

      General Objective The study aims at the experimental validation of computational models of
      bone damage at the micro-scale. The general objective is pursued by controlled damage in a
      micro-compression machine on human bone samples from femoral head. The machinery is placed
      inside a synchrotron.

      Primary Objective The primary objective of the present study is to evaluate the difference in
      the attraction of bone damage with respect to gaps in the two groups considered (osteoporotic
      and non-osteoporotic) following micro-compression testing.

      The discriminating parameter chosen turns out to be the number of bone gaps encountered by
      micro-damage. We expect to observe an effect size of 0.4 between the two groups with respect
      to the chosen parameter.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Determination of the role of gaps, canaliculi and other bone microstructures in damage.
           Human bone samples are scanned by micro-tomograph for the definition of microstructural
           morphological parameters and the realization and analysis of numerical models.

        -  Validation of these numerical models of damage by micro-compression tests carried out in
           situ in a synchrotron of adequate resolution

        -  Quantification of damage in human bone samples affected by osteoporosis

        -  Definition of micro-scale fracture indices, useful for the early diagnosis of
           osteoporosis
    
  