
    
      The proposed study is a pragmatic randomized control trial of post-cesarean pain management
      techniques with participants allocated in a 1:1 ratio using a random block allocation table
      using blocks of size 4 and 6. Given the nature of the study, it would be impossible to blind
      participants and clinicians. Participants will be randomized after completion of the
      procedure to ensure that patients who have significant surgical complications such as severe
      hemorrhage or those undergoing hysterectomy are excluded.

      All participants will receive intrathecal morphine 150mcg per OU standard of care, with
      orders for pain management per anesthesia for the first 24 hours with a regular diet, removal
      of urinary catheter 12-24 hours post-operatively, and abdominal binder placed after surgery.
      In addition, patients will be provided with a fitness tracker to be worn on their wrist
      throughout hospitalization and until their post-operative visit. After 24 hours, participants
      will be assigned to either receive current OU standard of care therapy which includes
      ibuprofen 800mg every eight hours as needed (PRN), acetaminophen 1000mg every eight hours
      PRN, and oxycodone five mg every six hours PRN or the study protocol. The study protocol will
      include scheduled ibuprofen 800mg every eight hours and acetaminophen 1000mg every eight
      hours, given at the same time, along with oxycodone five mg every six hours PRN for
      breakthrough pain. Both sets of patients will be provided with 60 pills of acetaminophen
      500mg and 30 pills ibuprofen 800mg to take at home, with the study participants receiving
      instructions to take the medications in a scheduled fashion and the other group in an as
      needed fashion. Both groups will receive a discharge prescription for 20 pills of oxycodone
      five mg every 6 hours PRN to be taken for breakthrough pain as needed--current standard at
      OU. All prescriptions will be delivered to the patient from the pharmacy prior to discharge
      per our departmental standard. Patient requiring more medications to control pain beyond the
      randomized approach described above will be treated per the discretion of the attending
      physician or designee. Patients will be seen for a post-operative care visit on post
      discharge day 8-12 depending on patient and clinic availability and asked to bring their
      fitness tracker and medication bottles with them for assessment of steps taken, medication
      consumed, pain outcomes and satisfaction scores. The Oklahoma PMP Aware system will be
      accessed to record prescriptions for controlled substances from other providers.
    
  