
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Drug-induced long QT syndrome (LQTS), and the subsequent fatal
      arrhythmia torsade de pointes (TdP), is an important side effect associated with the use of a
      number of medications. Prolongation of the QT interval is the most common cause of withdrawal
      of medications already on the market, and despite the relatively rarity with
      non-cardiovascular drugs, the public health impact is magnified by the fact that drug-induced
      TdP can occur with medications used for benign conditions, such as allergic rhinitis. The QT
      interval is heritable, and a number of common genetic variants have been associated with QT
      interval in large population studies.

      Although common genetic variants associated with sudden cardiac death have been identified,
      studies specifically identifying variants associated with drug-induced LQTS and TdP are
      limited. Smaller studies have suggested that variants of genes associated with QT interval
      duration in the population in general are also associated with the risk of drug-induced QT
      prolongation and TdP, but larger studies are needed. Moreover, an improved ability to predict
      the causes of TdP requires a careful search for clinical factors associated with TdP compared
      to controls.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      A. Study Design and Enrollment: We propose to conduct a multi-center research study to
      examine known and explore potentially unknown genetic and clinical predictors of torsade de
      pointes (TdP) also known as acquired long QT syndrome (LQTS) through creation of a registry.
      Any patient with a documented history of a torsade de pointes (TdP) event will be eligible.
      Patients must be able to understand the risks of genetic testing, and be willing to undergo a
      venipuncture for blood collection for genotyping. Exclusion criteria include inability to
      provide informed consent. We plan to enroll a total of 200 study participants total across
      all participating centers. Massachusetts General Hospital will be the coordinating center of
      this multi-center study of medical institutions within the greater Boston and New England
      area. In a substudy to take place at MGH, subjects will be invited to have a punch biopsy of
      the skin to allow creation of inducible pluripotent stem cells that can be differentiated
      into cardiomyocytes for further characterization of the repolarization phenotype.

      B. Study Procedures: We will screen patients for enrollment including both retrospective
      (event prior to the start of the study) and prospective (event following the start of the
      study) components. Patients will be identified by investigators based on clinical
      characteristics, and following explanation of the study by co-investigators, will be asked
      about participation either during routine scheduled follow-up (for retrospective cases) or at
      the sentinel event. Investigators will complete a data collection form for each patient,
      which will include contact information, demographic information, clinical information, family
      history and pedigree, and all electrocardiography information available (12-lead ECGs, rhythm
      strips and summary reports). No information about mental illness will be collected. Patients
      will then undergo venipuncture, and four 5mL blood samples will be collected for genotyping
      and plasma analysis. For patients who are willing, a 3mm punch biopsy from the shoulder,
      upper thigh, small of the back, or buttock (subject's choice) will be obtained for fibroblast
      culture. Patients who are recruited at non-MGH sites will have a visit to MGH scheduled in
      order to obtain the skin biopsy. Induced pluripotent stem cells will be made from the
      fibroblast cultures and differentiated to cardiomyocytes in order to assess the cellular
      phenotype. Patients will also be consented for future re-contact about additional data,
      information, or samples needed for analysis. All clinical information and samples (including
      DNA and blood) collected at participating centers will be transferred to Dr. Newton-Cheh at
      MGH for storage and analysis.
    
  