
    
      Project Description:

      Problem:

      Training is an important part of the treatment and rehabilitation of patients with Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) because training can increase the patients' muscle mass,
      lead to higher physical performance, reduce difficulties in breathing and hereby improve the
      patient's ability to make use of the medical treatment.

      Rehabilitation is provided by hospitals training centres/outpatient clinics. However, the
      transport is too tiring for the patients, which is why they decline taking part in it. This
      can mean a worsening of their condition and an increase in readmissions.

      Solution:

        -  To develop a better treatment for patients with severe COPD: Telemedical training of
           patients with COPD in teams.

        -  To develop a cross-sectoral practice for the telemedical training patients will use,
           thus decreasing the readmissions of OUH's patients with severe COPD

        -  To optimize the patients' journey in and across sector borders by using Lean methods.

      The projects relevance for the clinic and target group:

      The study is expected to contribute to improving the treatment of severely ill patients with
      COPD cross-sectorally by generating knowledge for the physical and occupational therapists'
      practice. The results are expected to contribute to reducing readmissions and raising the
      level of evidence in telemedical research on training patients with severe COPD.

      The study includes patients with severe COPD in Odense and Svendborg. It is anticipated that
      similar patient groups with similar difficulties, nationally as well as internationally, will
      benefit from the findings.

      Background:

      More than 430.000 people in Denmark have Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) (Hansen
      et al., 2008). Characteristic for COPD is respiratory tract obstruction, which is not
      completely reversible and worsens as time passes. Complications of COPD are: loss of muscle
      mass, weight loss and an increasing social isolation (The National Board of Health, 2007).

      It is well documented that a systematic individually composed rehabilitation program,
      including training, has an effect on patients' functional level and quality of life (National
      board of Health, 2007). Early rehabilitation after hospitalization may break the vicious
      circle, which can arise for patients with COPD. In this cycle, hospitalization can entail
      inactivity and loss of muscular strength, thus increasing the risk of new aggravations with
      re-admittance to hospital as a result (National board of Health, 2014). In addition, at this
      time no studies examine the effect of training on daily activities (ibid).

      To offer these severely ill patients rehabilitation is a regional task. However, the patients
      with severe COPD often decline training, as the transport to and from hospital is too
      exhausting for them. The result is no training for this group. The same dilemma exists in
      other countries (Burkow et al., 2013). Inactivity can mean stagnation in daily life, which
      affects functioning (Williams et al., 2011) for both patients and their families (Wong et
      al., 2005) Patients with COPD, who cannot take part in the usual rehabilitation program due
      to the degree of their illness, are now recommended to take part in strength training as a
      replacement. The recommendation is based solely on consensus of good clinical practice.
      Research is lacking (National Board of Health, 2014).

      Few studies examine telemedicine, COPD and supervised training. Two studies with supervised
      team training for, among others, patients with COPD showed great patient satisfaction and an
      increased experience of social support (Nield and Hoo, 2012, Burkow et al., 2013). One of the
      studies showed a significantly decreased occurrence of dyspnoea in the intervention group
      (Nield and Hoo, 2012).

      In 2010-2012 OUH did a feasibility study in an attempt to develop a training program for
      patients with severe or very severe COPD who reject the established rehabilitation program at
      the hospital. The study, which encompassed 50 patients in a year, tested and developed an
      early effort using an individually tailored home-training program based on telemedical
      training.

      The results showed potential in relation to previous telemedical training of patients with
      COPD. Considering the scanty knowledge in the field, a contribution to produce knowledge of
      greater variation is relevant.

      Project type:

      An randomised controlled Study (RCT) is needed to reveal the effect of telemedical training
      and muscle strength related to doing every day chores and to see how this affects their daily
      activities and quality of life.

      The RCT study:

      Aim:

      The aim is to study the effect of telemedical training on activities of daily living, quality
      of life and physical performance in patients with severe or very severe COPD.

      Hypotheses:

      This study is designed to assess the hypothesis that patients with severe or very severe
      COPD, who have thanked no to training at the hospital, receiving telemedical training will
      experience greater satisfaction doing daily activities, increase their quality of life and
      increase their physical performance than patients who do not receive telemedical training.

      Place and project participants:

      Patients who take part in the study have been admitted to OUH because of a worsening of their
      COPD. The criteria for inclusion and exclusion criteria will be submitted elsewhere.

      Design and method:

      The project participants are included consecutively in the intervention group or the control
      group for two years. A power calculation shows the study can, with a random sampling size of
      100 patients, 50 in each group, show a difference of 2,7 seconds in FTSST(Stand up - sit down
      five times). The strength is set to 80 %. The calculation is based on a standard deviation of
      4,8 for FTSST and a 5 % to-sided significance level. If a dropout rate of 20 % is allowed
      for, it will mean that 128 persons must be included.

      The patients are randomized to the intervention group or the control group by baseline after
      an informed consent. Measurements are made at baseline, post-intervention and follow-up,
      which are 3 and 6 months after post-intervention.

      Patients in the intervention group will receive telemedical training in teams of up to 4, 21
      times, three times weekly for seven weeks. During the first three weeks the regional
      physiotherapists will be responsible for the training. Municipal occupational -and
      physiotherapists will manage the last four weeks' training.

      Patients in the control-group will receive no training as they have refused the offer. They
      will be discharged to the municipal sphere with a rehabilitation plan.

      Data generation method:

      Function tests and questionnaires will be included in the quantitative study of the
      telemedicial training's importance for physical ability, daily activities and health related
      quality of life for patients with severe or very severe COPD.

      Outcome measures will be submitted elsewhere. The following parameters describe the
      participating patient group: Sex, age, civil status, socio - economic status, Body Mass Index
      (BMI), forced expiratory volume in one 1 second (FEV1) of expected value, FEV1 / forced vital
      capacity (FVC), Medical Research Council Breathlessness Scale (MRC- dyspnea score), oxygen
      treatment in the home, treatment with atomizer, the usual inhaled COPD treatment (grouped),
      oral prednisolone treatment, home care, use of tobacco.

      Whether telemedical training has an effect on readmissions for patients with COPD will be
      examined by comparing the number of admissions for the intervention group and the control
      group. Data will be requisitioned from the Region's IT.

      Analysis:

      The data will be continuously keyed into an Access database. Calculation of the analysis will
      be done using the software program STATA (abbreviation of Statistic and Data). The data will
      be analyzed according to the principle 'intention to treat'. The level of significance α will
      be placed at 0,05 and power β = 0,8. Descriptive statistics and regression analysis will be
      used.

      Ethical considerations:

      The patients will be informed of the project's goal, form and content both orally and in
      written form and that participation is voluntary. Written consent must be had before
      inclusion. Participants will be informed that they can leave the study at any time. The
      project leader will file inclusion numbers and corresponding personal data securely according
      to the applicable rules. The project is registered and approved of by The Danish Data
      Protection Agency and the Danish Council of Ethics.

      Documentation of results, knowledge sharing and distribution:

      Three articles will be published in relevant international peer-reviewed journals. The Danish
      Lung Association will be continuously informed of the study's status. The results will be
      distributed to national and international conferences, and studies abroad. These include
      health professional forums during the Ph.D. study - depending on the results of the study.

      Database:

      Data from the project will be stored via Odense Patient Explorative Network (OPEN)- more
      specifically Redcap as the data management system. Redcap is approved of by God Clinical
      practice (GCP).
    
  