
    
      Many persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) are unemployed, with estimates indicating rates as
      high as 60%. This study will examine the efficacy of reinforcing job-acquisition activities
      for improving employment outcomes in PLWHA who desire to return to the workforce in part- or
      full-time capacity. In total, this study will randomly assign 144 unemployed PLWHA to one of
      two interventions. All participants will receive usual unemployment services with an emphasis
      on specific issues related to HIV/AIDS, plus encouragement for completing activities geared
      toward employment readiness and acquisition. The enhanced intervention will involve that same
      treatment plus chances to win prizes for engaging in job-related activities each week.
      Participants will receive study treatments for 16 weeks and complete follow-up evaluations
      throughout 18 months. Structured evaluations will assess employment outcomes, quality of life
      indices, physical and cognitive functioning, psychological symptoms, viral loads, and drug
      use and risk behaviors. The hypothesis is that participants reinforced for completing
      job-related activities will transition to employment at higher and faster rates and work more
      often than those who are not reinforced for job-related activities. The investigators also
      expect the reinforcement intervention will increase quality of life, reduce depressive
      symptoms, and improve medical outcomes. Compared to the standard care condition, it may also
      maintain or improve cognitive functioning and medication adherence and reduce risk behaviors
      that spread infectious diseases. The investigators will evaluate moderators and mediators of
      key employment and health outcomes, with an emphasis on exploring the extent to which work
      conditions (temporary, under the table, physically or emotionally demanding jobs etc.) impact
      psychosocial and physical health.
    
  