
    
      PROCEDURES:

      Potential participants will be identified at their initial PI's outpatient clinic at which
      the PI will meet with the patient and determine if the patient should be treated surgically
      due to a diagnosis of FAI. Once the PI identifies the patient as a surgical candidate, the
      research study team in the clinic will approach the patient with study information to
      discuss. If the patient would like to participate, the patient will sign an informed consent
      document (assent document for minors) and begin completing study-specific information. If the
      patient would like to take the study documents home to consider participation, the research
      team member will provide his/her contact information to the patient.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

        1. Determine the predictors of mid-term patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and treatment
           failures in an established prospective longitudinal cohort of Femoroacetabular
           Impingement (FAI) surgeries.

        2. Determine the impact of three-dimensional femoral and acetabular morphology on PROs at
           short-term follow-up in a novel prospective longitudinal cohort of arthroscopic FAI
           surgery.

        3. Determine if the new Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS)
           correlates with legacy PROs in patients undergoing FAI surgery.

      DATA COLLECTION:

        1. Retrospective Follow-up (FAI-1): The original cohort includes previously consented
           participants in a closed-to-enrollment study who underwent FAI surgical treatment in the
           past. This cohort will be followed to investigate the most important predictors of FAI
           surgery outcomes. In Specific Aim 1, we propose to analyze mid-term follow-up (minimum 8
           years) of the FAI-1 cohort to identify important predictors of treatment outcomes and
           failures in FAI surgery.

        2. Prospective Enrollment (FAI-2): Consented participants, in the actively enrolling study,
           will be enrolled in a new multicenter longitudinal prospective arthroscopic FAI surgery
           cohort and followed to a minimum 2 years post-surgery (T2). The primary outcome measures
           will be the collection of the patient report outcomes (PROs) that will be analyzed in
           order to improve surgical care and outcomes. These clinical outcome metrics will be
           assessed at baseline, 3 months, 6 month, 1 year, and 2 year postoperatively.
    
  