
    
      This study comprises a prospective study of 40 patients with transphincteric anal fistula.
      They were referred to our colorectal surgery unit, Mansoura University Hospital during the
      period from May 2005 to May 2008. Patients with acute sepsis, specific cause of fistula,
      strictured anorectum, and any degree of incontinence were excluded from the study.

      All patient were evaluated by digital examination, procto-sigmoidoscopy, fistulography and
      MRI fistulography without contrast media, using a 1.5 Tesla super conducting magnet (Magnetom
      Symphony MRease VA12 Siemens medical system), (either STIR or SPIR in addition to T1 weighted
      or T2 weighted sequences). Axial, coronal and sometimes sagittal planes were used.
      Preoperative assessment of anal sphincter dysfunction was done by conventional manometry
      using a standard low compliance water perfusions system and eight-channels catheters with
      pressure transducer connected to 5.5 mm manometric probe with spirally located ports at 0.5cm
      interval, which measured along the length of the anal canal, as well as inflatable rectal
      balloon. The protocol of performance is stationary pull through technique with recording the
      functional length of the anal canal (FL), mean maximum resting pressure in the anal canal
      (MRP), mean maximum squeeze pressure in the anal canal (MSP). Pressure was recorded using a
      computerized recording device (MMS ;Holland) which included menu-driven software to aid with
      data acquisition. Data were analyzed with the use of a complied software package that
      automatically produced numeric reports and graphs.

      The patients were then classified into 2 groups. After carefully explaining the purpose of
      the study, an informed consent was taken from every patient. Group I: Fistulectomy, closure
      of internal sphincter with loose vicryl 3(0) suture and rectal advancement flap (the length
      5cm of the flap is twice its width) includes mucosa, submucosa, circular muscle layer sutured
      1cm below the level of internal opening. Group II: The same as group one but the flap
      includes only mucosa and submucosa.

      Surgical technique:

      Fleet enema was used for preoperative bowel preparation in all cases. Operation was done
      under general anesthesia in the lithotomy position. Prophylactic antibiotics were used with
      ciprofloxacin 500 mg and metronidazole 500 mg preoperatively and twice daily for 5 days.
      Examination under anaesthesia (EUA) was firstly performed and the extent of the disease was
      established by cannulating the fistulas with probes and by laying open all primary tracts,
      extensions, and abscesses. All the incisions and dissections were made by electrocautery. The
      standard procedure was to perform core fistulectomy and traversing the external sphincter
      until the internal sphincter was exposed the track was then transected. The crypt-bearing
      tissue around the internal opening of the fistula is excised, if there is difficulty in
      excising the main tract, the granulation tissue of the remaining tract is scraped with a
      curette. Advancement flap was constructed in both group.

        1. Group I: - The flap comprised mucosa, submucosa and circular muscle fibers. It is raised
           from the dentate line and mobilized 4-6 cm cephaled and advanced to the new dendentate
           line (1 cm below the dentate line) and sutured with absorbable sutures (vicryl; ethicone
           3/0). Also the defect is closed with absorbable sutures.

        2. Group II: - The flap comprised mucosa, submucosa only.

      Rectal pack was removed after 24 hours. The patients were allowed to drink freely for 5 days,
      then normal diet and laxatives. The external fistulectomy wound was dressed daily.
      Histopatho;ogical examination of all excised fistulous tract was done.

      1. Follow up of our patients had been done for about 12 months with clinical assessment of
      the patients as regard. Incidence of any postoperative complications as bleeding, haematoma,
      ecchymosis, and disruption. Incidence of any degree of postoperative incontinence according
      to Cliveland clinic incontinence Score (Rockwood et al., 1999). Recurrence was defined as a
      discharge or abscess arising in the same area or by obvious evidence of fistulation.

      Postoperative assessment of physioanatomical changes in the anal sphincter using anal
      manometry: 6 months post-operative after wound healing to measure MRP & MSP.
    
  