
    
      Each patient was subjected to comprehensive medical history taking and careful clinical
      examination, laboratory investigations (CA-125) and imaging (abdomino-pelvic CT scan).
      Patients with suspected bowel involvement were subjected for colonoscopy.

      Pre-operative Abdomino-pelvic CT scans:

      Preoperative CT scans were performed with a high-speed scanner after the oral and intravenous
      administration of contrast medium. The hard copy images were reviewed by consultant
      radiologists for assessment of the findings suggestive of malignant adnexal mass which are
      bilateral lesions, thick septa, enhancing solid components, ascites, and peritoneal deposits
      .

      Pre-operative staging of cancer ovary was assessed by CT scan based on FIGO classification:

        1. Stage II: tumor involving ovaries with pelvic extension +/- ascites.

        2. Stage III: tumor involving ovaries with peritoneal implant outside pelvis +/- ascites.

        3. Stage IV: tumor involving ovaries with parenchymal liver metastasis and/or pleural
           effusion.

      Surgical treatment:

      All patients underwent standard longitudinal laparotomy, intensive surgical staging and
      maximal surgical effort for Optimum cytoreduction which was included all of the following
      (total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, infracolic-omentectomy,
      appendectomy, surgical removal of all tumor masses, intestinal resections if
      required).Achievement of no gross residual disease has been attempted in all cases. Finally,
      patients were divided into two groups:

        -  Suboptimal cytoreduction group with any gross tumor residue.

        -  Optimal cytoreduction group without any gross tumor residue.

      Surgical risk factors for optimum cytoreduction:

        -  Parenchymal liver involvement.

        -  Omental involvement.

        -  Bowel involvement.

        -  Para aortic lymph node involvement.

        -  Peritoneal carcinomatosis: it is defined as disease > 4 mm involving 2 or more of the
           following areas; lateral colic gutters, anterior abdominal wall, diaphragm, and pelvic
           peritoneal reflections.

        -  Pelvic sidewall invasion: it is defined as presence of one or more of the following;
           tumor fixed to the pelvic bony wall, encasement of iliac vessels, and hydroureter.
    
  