
    
      Physicians and nurses working in non-mental health settings require tools to guide them in
      recognizing patients at risk. While screening children and adolescents is emerging as a
      priority of the Joint Commission, there are currently no suicide screening instruments
      designed specifically for assessing suicide risk in a pediatric inpatient medical population.
      Recently, our study team developed the Ask Suicide-Screening Questions (ASQ), a 4-item
      suicide risk screening instrument with excellent sensitivity, specificity, and negative
      predictive value for use in pediatric emergency departments (Protocol #08-M-N070). However,
      use of the ASQ in an inpatient medical setting has not been tested. The aim of this study is
      to determine the utility of the ASQ among pediatric medical inpatients in children s
      hospitals. While most inpatients will not be at imminent risk for suicide, we hypothesize
      that the ASQ will capture a number of patients who screen positive and are not only at risk
      for suicidal behavior in the future, but are also experiencing significant emotional distress
      and therefore warrant further psychiatric evaluation and follow-up treatment. This will be a
      multisite study, comprised of medically ill inpatients at three non-NIH affiliated sites
      (Children s National Medical Center, Boston Children s Hospital, and Nationwide Children s
      Hospital), with a total sample size of 600 (200 per site). We will administer several short
      measures of suicide risk the ASQ, the Suicidal Ideation Questionnaire, a brief depression
      screen, the Patients Health Questionnaire Adolescent version (PHQ-A) to all eligible
      inpatients aged 10-21 years. The ultimate goal of this project is to provide non-mental
      health clinicians with a brief, accurate assessment tool for detecting risk of suicide in
      pediatric medical inpatients and in turn, connecting those in need with mental health
      services. After validating the ASQ with pediatric medical inpatients, we will then examine
      the practical implications of nurses administering the ASQ as standard of care during the
      admission process on a pediatric medical inpatient unit. Future studies will focus on
      validating the ASQ in non-English speaking patients, addressing a critical gap in suicide
      prevention research. In addition, examining the long-term clinical impact of screening
      general medical patients for suicide risk with the ASQ and linking those in need with mental
      health services and/or other interventions will be important next steps.

      Please note: This is a multi-site study that is being conducted at three non-NIH sites, all
      children s hospitals, all of which have already received IRB approval (Boston Children s
      Hospital, Children s National Medical Center and Nationwide Children s Hospital). The CNS IRB
      requires that we have an NIMH parent protocol even though no NIH patients will be enrolled at
      the Clinical Center. Consent and patient data collection will take place on inpatient medical
      units at those three sites; data will be sent to NIMH, and stored and analyzed here.
    
  