
    
      Heart disease is the leading cause of death in Europe as a whole, and while mortality rates
      for cardiovascular disease have decreased in most western European countries, due to expanded
      use of prevention strategies and better treatment, coronary heart disease mortality in the
      middle age groups is increasing rapidly in most of the countries in Eastern Europe. The
      number of procedures performed to treat cardiovascular disease in Europe is constantly
      increasing, although different types of procedures are exhibiting different trends.
      Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) procedures, for example, totaled 430,000 in the
      European Union (15 countries) and 520,000 in Europe as a whole (33 countries) in 2000, as
      reported by the Euro Heart Survey, and growth is continuing at a rate of more than 20% per
      year. Despite the effectiveness of intracoronary stents in maintaining a larger luminal
      diameter as compared to angioplasty alone, 15 - 35% of in-stent restenosis occurs within 6 to
      9 months after stent placement. While stents can reduce restenosis by blocking vascular
      recoil and remodeling, mechanical intervention alone is incapable of treating the biological
      problem of neointimal hyperplasia. Various approaches have been used to treat in-stent
      restenosis, including balloon angioplasty, repeat stenting, rotational and directional
      atherectomy, laser and local use of radiation at the time of stenting (brachytherapy).
      However, these techniques add complexity to the interventional procedure and have not had
      documented success in preventing restenosis. Drug-eluting stents (DES) using
      antiproliferative agents delivered via a polymer based stent platform have shown significant
      success in the reduction of restenosis in de novo lesions over the traditional bare metal
      stents in randomized clinical trials. Local delivery of the pharmacological agent allows for
      controlled delivery of high drug concentrations to the targeted tissue while maximizing
      systemic drug effects. The ZoMaxx I Trial is a study of the ZoMaxx Drug Eluting Coronary
      Stent System (ZoMaxx DES) to evaluate the potential benefits of the local application of the
      zotarolimus drug in combination with a phosphorylcholine (PC)-coated tri-metal stent.

      ZoMaxx™ Drug-Eluting Stent System is an Investigational device. Limited by Federal (U.S.) law
      to investigational use only.
    
  