
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic is posing an unprecedented threat worldwide, which have been
      experiencing widespread transmission of the virus in the community for several weeks.

      During the epidemic peak, epidemiological surveillance strategies were mainly based on the
      testing of symptomatic patients with serious diseases requiring hospitalization and intensive
      or sub-intensive medical care. This has underestimated the real spread of the infection in
      the mild symptomatic (paucisymptomatic) or asymptomatic individuals or in specific group of
      persons with limited access to testing.

      EPICOVID19 was developed and launched to accomplish the following objectives: i) to estimate
      the number of suspected cases of COVID-19 in the general population, and ii) to investigate
      the role of the potential factors associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection in adult volunteers
      living in Italy during the lockdown.

      EPICOVID19 is a national Italian anonymous self-administered internet-based survey that was
      carried out using a cross-sectional research design in a convenience sample of adult
      volunteers (18+ years old) living in Italy during the lockdown. The survey was launched on 13
      April 2020.

      In order to enrol as many subjects as possible, the link to the electronic survey was
      uploaded, shared and disseminated via several channels: e-mails, social media platforms
      (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Whatsapp), press releases, internet pages, local radio and TV
      stations, and institutional websites that called upon volunteers to contact the study website
      https://epicovid19.itb.cnr.it/.

      The EPICOVID19 study was established as a collaboration of a working work including
      epidemiologists, clinicians, biostatisticians, and public health professionals to improve
      SARS-CoV-2-related knowledge. The steering group tested the survey for a period of 2 weeks
      before starting to share the public link to the general population on April 13, 2020. The
      participants are asked to complete the self-administered 38-item questionnaire, which
      contained mainly mandatory and closed questions that is divided into six sections.

      EPICOVID19 was designed by the steering group after a literature review of existing research
      into COVID-19. To guarantee the maximal comparability to other large epidemiological studies,
      several questions was chosen based on standardized and validated questionnaires. The survey
      was adapted to the national context and implemented using the European Commission's
      open-source official EUSurvey management tool (https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey).

      The survey includes an introductory page briefly describing the rational and the aims of the
      study, the consortium, and the option to provide or not the consent to participate.

      The first section of the questionnaire investigates the socio-demographic characteristics of
      the respondents: sex at birth, birth year, ethnicity, user's postal code and municipality of
      residence, educational level, employment status, and current (or last) occupation.

      The second section of the questionnaire investigates the clinical features: SARS-CoV-2
      infection-like symptoms and the month of onset of the first symptoms, pre-existing diseases,
      other conditions to refer, vaccines, past and current use of medication and supplements, and,
      for females only, use of contraception or hormone replacement therapy at menopause, and
      number of completed pregnancies, when applicable. Data about close contact with confirmed or
      suspected cases, contacts with general practitioner and/or national emergency numbers,
      molecular tests and results (if available), hospitalization for confirmed or suspected
      SARS-CoV-2-like infection, and other possible risk conditions to refer, are also collected.

      The third section of the questionnaire is focused on the personal characteristics and health
      status of respondents: questions about self-perceived health status and risk perception .

      The fourth section investigates the housing conditions: population density in the area of
      residence, self-reported traffic intensity in the area of residence, number of rooms, number
      of co-habitants, and presence of at-risk co-habitants.

      The fifth section focuses on lifestyles: daily mean number of contacts, smoking habit, and
      frequency of weekly physical activity.

      The sixth section investigates the behaviours following the lockdown: job conditions, number
      of times of going out per week, and use of public transportation.

      The Ethics Committee of the Istituto Nazionale per le Malattie Infettive I.R.C.C.S. Lazzaro
      Spallanzani (Protocol No. 70, 12/4/2020) approved the EPICOVID19 study protocol. When they
      first accessed the on-line platform, the participants were informed of the purpose of the
      study, the data to be collected, and the method of storage. The data were handled and stored
      in accordance with the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) 2016/679
      (http://gdpr-info.eu/), and data transfer was safeguarded by means of encrypting/decrypting
      and password protection. The study was conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  