
    
      1. Study name: The comparison between spironolactone and indapamide monotherapy or in
           combination with amlodipine to reduce thr risk of heart failure (SIRRHF)

        2. Medicine: spironolactone (20mg/tablet), indapamide (1.5mg/tablet) and amlodipine
           (5mg/tablet).

        3. Rationale: Our hypothesis of the present trial is that spironolactone is superior to
           indapamide in cardiovascular prevention in hypertensive patients, with the possible
           addition of amlodipine. Before a clinical outcome trial is considered, the present
           feasibility trial is designed to compare the efficacy of antihypertensive regimens based
           on these two drugs on blood pressure and several measurements of organ damage.

        4. Objective: To evaluate the effects of spironolactone (either with or without
           amlodipine), in comparison with indapamide (either with or without amlodipine), on the
           extent of blood pressure reduction.

        5. Study design: Multi-center (five sites), prospective, randomized, open-label,
           blinded-end point study with active treatment arm (study duration - 12 weeks)

        6. Study population: Men and Women aged over 45 years (n=200) meeting the
           inclusion/exclusion criteria. Adult subjects with essential hypertension will be
           included. Specific criteria are as follows:

           Male and female subjects participates (OK with more women is preferred) Age ≥45 years
           Clinic systolic BP: 140 -179 mmHg (untreated or on monotherapy treatment) Waist
           Circumference (WC) ≥90 cm for male and ≥85 cm for female

        7. Randomization and treatment: After stratification by centers, eligible patients will be
           randomly divided into two groups, taking spironolactone (20mg tablet) once a day or
           indapamide (1.5mg tablet) once a day. Spironolactone may be up-titrated to 40mg daily
           and indapamide may be up-titrated to 3mg daily at 4-week or 8-week visit. At 8-week
           visit, if needed, we will add amlodipine at 5 or 10 mg once daily.

        8. Follow up: 12 weeks. Patients will be followed up every 4 weeks. Ambulatory and office
           blood pressure will be measured. Medical history should be recorded. Clinical
           examinations including blood biochemical tests (serum creatinine, uric acid and
           electrolytes) should be performed.

        9. Sample size: a total of 200 patients should be enrolled in the combination.

       10. Timeline: After obtaining the approval of Ethics Committee of Ruijin Hospital in June
           2020, recruitment will start. Patients enrollment will be performed between June 2020 to
           November 2020. All patients should be followed up before July 2021.

       11. Organization: The Centre for Epidemiological Studies and Clinical Trials, Ruijin
           Hospital, Shanghai, China
    
  