
    
      A novel dendritic cell vaccine is being developed at the Baylor Institute for Immunology
      Research. Pre-clinical studies have found that this dendritic cell vaccine is more efficient
      in inducing a tumor specific immunity than other dendritic cell vaccines. Further studies in
      BIIR have been done with dendritic cells that were loaded with killed melanoma cells from a
      melanoma cell line treated with heat before loading. Both studies have shown that DCs
      manufactured in this novel way were more efficient in priming the melanoma specific CD8+
      cells. Our previous studies indicate that a portion of patients with stage IV melanoma cannot
      mount an immune response to tumor antigens presented on dendritic cells. Also,
      regulatory/suppressor T cells can be identified in the blood of these patients, which may
      account for the lack of induction of T cell immunity to dendritic cell vaccines.
      Cyclophosphamide treatments have improved antitumor immunity in humans with melanoma and a
      clear relationship between cyclophosphamide dosage and suppressor cell activity has been
      documented. Therefore, this trial will test a combined modality treatment, using dendritic
      cell based vaccines in patients who have been treated with cyclophosphamide.

      This clinical trial will evaluate the cyclophosphamide/dendritic cell vaccine in patients
      with Stage IV melanoma. The trial will accrue a total of 33 subjects. The primary goal of
      this trial will be to test the safety/tolerability/feasibility of the combined modality and
      the rate of objective clinical response.However if feasibility data in the first 10 subjects
      demonstrate the need to adjust the dose of CPA, the new dose will be tested in the next 10
      subjects thereby extending the accrual to 43 subjects. A 15% objective response rate will be
      accepted in patients with stage IV Melanoma.

      Patients will receive cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2, administered 24 hours prior to DC
      vaccinations # 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7. Each subject will initially receive 7 doses of vaccination
      with each individual dose being administered at weeks 0, 2, 4, 6, 10, 14 and 18. A clinical
      evaluation of the patients will be done at weeks 10 & 20. Patients with progressive disease
      will be taken off of the study. Patients with SD, PR or CD (according to RECIST criteria) may
      receive 4 more vaccinations. Scans and re-staging tests will be performed at scheduled
      intervals throughout the study.
    
  