
    
      September 2016 - January 2017. 16 healthy, adult male and female participants aged 18-45 were
      tested for 3 conditions on 2 separate days, i.e. a control condition on test day 1; a
      physical and cognitive fatiguing condition in randomised order on test day 2.

      2 blocks of 80 rapid arm movements (RAM1 and RAM2) with the dominant arm were performed per
      condition, while electroencephalography (EEG) of the brain and surface electromyography
      (sEMG) of the Internal Oblique/Transversus Abdominis, External Oblique, Multifidus and
      Iliocostalis Lumborum pars Thoracis muscles were measured bilaterally. sEMG of the Anterior
      Deltoid muscle of the dominant arm was also measured. These RAM's were used to induce an
      internal perturbation to the postural balance of subjects and is an often used task in the
      study of trunk motor control. In between 2 blocks of the RAM the condition-specific
      interventions were given. The control condition consisted of RAM1 - 45 minute rest - RAM2;
      the physical fatigue condition consisted of RAM1 - 45 minute physical fatigue task - RAM2;
      the cognitive fatigue condition consisted of RAM1 - 45 minute cognitive fatigue task - RAM2.

      The physical fatiguing task was a static endurance task for the paravertebral muscles, i.e.
      modified Biering-Sörensen task, followed by a static endurance task for the abdominal
      muscles, i.e. a static abdominal curl in 45° of trunk flexion while seated.

      The cognitive fatiguing task was a modified incongruent Stroop color-word task for 45
      minutes.

      At the beginning of each test day several questionnaires were also administered to control
      for fatigue and physical activity, i.e. Checklist Individual Strength (CIS), Profile Of Mood
      States (POMS) and International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ).

      January - February 2018. an additional 6 subjects were tested in order to increase the sample
      size of this study.

      Statistical analysis will be performed to assess whether and to what extent both physical and
      cognitive fatigue might influence motor control as measured with EMG during RAM. Furthermore,
      the effect of both types of fatigue on cortical movement preparation will also be assessed
      based on the EEG measurements.
    
  