
    
      Polyps are a common finding during colonoscopy. It is current practice to remove these
      lesions, as some have the potential to turn into cancer. However, not all polyps are the
      same. Polyps can be of three different types:

        1. Hyperplastic, which have negligible potential to turn into cancer and if left would
           cause no harm. These account for around one third of all small polyps encountered

        2. Adenomas, which can turn into cancer and should be removed

        3. Polyp cancers, which should be either biopsied or removed completely

      The management pathway for polyps >10mm is very simple as they are either likely to be
      adenomas which need removal or cancers which need a biopsy and tattoo. There is a rare
      possibility of these big polyps being hyperplastic / serrated adenomas and given the risk of
      malignant transformation, they need removal as well.

      It has been traditionally felt that hyperplastic polyps cannot be separated clinically from
      adenomas or polyp cancers by the endoscopist. It is for this reason that all polyps are
      removed. However, polypectomy increases the risk of perforation and results in a significant
      cost in processing the samples. Recently it has been suggested that it is possible to
      differentiate neoplastic from non neoplastic lesions in the colon using skills in polyp
      surface pattern recognition.

      Kudo's pit pattern is an effective way of in-vivo prediction of histology and differentiating
      neoplastic from non neoplasic polyps. However, it was originally described using vial
      staining which is cumbersome, time consuming and is not possible to perform outside Japan due
      to lack of availability and fears of toxicity related to gentian violet. It does however
      produce excellent results when used for pit pattern recognition. (Hurlstone DP C. S., 2004)
      It works by irreversibly binding microbial DNA and directly inhibiting cell replication.
      (Wakelin LPG, 1981).

      Gentian violet is not the only way to examine the surface patterns of polyps. Many of the
      features can be seen with white light endoscopy. (Fu KI, 2004). Furthermore, there is
      extensive experience with other dies which are commonly used in Western Europe. Indigo
      carmine dye spray has been performed in studies in Japan, and has proven to be very effective
      in the assesment of polyp characteristics. It has been used for over 14 years in colonoscopy
      (Axelrad, 1996). Overall diagnostic accuracy by conventional view, chromoendoscopy and
      chromoendoscopy with magnification ranged from 68% to 83%, 82% to 92%, and 80% to 96%,
      respectively. (Axelrad AM, 1996) (Tung SY, 2001) (Eisen GM, 2002) (Su MY, 2004) (Apel D,
      2006). It has the advantage over gentian violet that it does not bind to tissues and is
      therefore very safe. It has been questioned whether widespread applications of the techniques
      could influence the indications for biopsy sampling during colonoscopy and the indication for
      mucosectomy (Yasushi Sano, 2005).

      When compared to standard colonoscopy, indigo carmine chromoendoscopy, with magnification,
      has been shown to increase the accuracy for polyp differentiation from 84% to 96% (Fu KI,
      2004). High-resolution indigo carmine chromoendoscopy demonstrated a small increase in
      accuracy over chromoendoscopy without magnification from 81% to 83% . (Hurlstone DP K. M.,
      2005).

      Because of its numerous benefits in lesion detection and assessment of polyps indigo carmine
      has become a standard part of colonoscopy and is recognised by the British Society of
      Gastroenterology as an important skill for the practicing endoscopist. It has become standard
      practice within Portsmouth Hospitals NHS trust when performing colonoscopy. This is a
      position which is reflected nationally in most large units which participate in the bowel
      cancer screening programme.

      White light endoscopy and chromoendoscopy are not the only methods of examining colonic
      polyps. Computed virtual colonoscopy, where a video computer processor within the endoscopy
      equipment enhances the endoscopic picture have become commonly available. There are systems
      available from all of the main endoscope manufacturers, including narrow band imaging from
      Olympus and i-scan from Pentax. Fujinon has developed a very effective post processor
      technology called FICE which helps define the surface pattern of polyps in great detail. This
      is now a standard feature on all of the endoscopes produced by the company. It has been shown
      in a limited number of studies to offer a potentially useful alternative to dye spray in
      predicting in-vivo histology. (J. Pohl, 2008). A prospective randomised multicentre study
      looked at 764 patients with FICE compared to white light with targeted indigocarmine spray.
      It found that FICE and indigocarmine were both able to differentiate adenomas from neoplasia.
      There was a sensitivity in differentiating adenomas from non-neoplastic polyps of 92.7%,with
      FICE, comparable but not superior to that of indigocarmine (90.4%), with no statistically
      significant difference between the two techniques observed. (p=0.44.) FICE did not shorten
      the procedure time. A prospective series looking at FICE in the evaluation of colononic
      polyps up to 2cm in size by the same team suggested a sensitivity of 89% could be achieved.
      Unfortunately these studies looked at larger lesions and therefore it is difficult to say
      whether this could be achieved with polyps <1cm, where accurate assessment is clearly more
      difficult. However, it is in the smaller lesions where the greatest gain in terms of a change
      in management exists. (Pohl J N.-T. M., 2008).

      It is generally accepted that further research is needed in this field. If it is possible for
      endoscopists to differentiate neoplastic from non neoplastic polyps the potential benefits
      both in terms of safety and histopathology costs would be significant. The current policy of
      polypectomy or biopsy of all polyps detected during colonoscopy is a very expensive option (£
      80-120) and carries a significant risk of perforation.

      Within Portsmouth Hospitals NHS trust it has become standard practice to assess all polyps
      with FICE and dye spray with indigo carmine prior to removal. This is consistent with current
      guidelines from the British society of Gastroenterologists and is important both in the
      detection and assessment of polyps. These techniques are established and their importance in
      colonoscopy is not under investigation. What is unclear is whether endoscopists are able to
      differentiate neoplastic from non-neoplastic lesions on a basis of surface pattern
      recognition accurately enough to be able to change clinical practice.

      We aim to assess the impact of surface pattern assessment on the potential management of
      patients, and whether it has the potential to safely replace the policy of biopsy /
      polypectomy for pateints with polyps <10mm in size.
    
  