
    
      The Society of Cardiothoracic surgeons suggest that 50% of patients undergoing cardiac
      surgery have a blood transfusion.

      Several studies indicate an increase in morbidity and mortality related to blood
      transfusions.

      Traditionally, the coagulation tests are performed in the hematology laboratory.

      Rotational thromboelastrometry is a useful method of assessing perioperative coagulation
      function in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      The presence of significant amounts of heparin in blood samples during cardiopulmonary bypass
      induces artifactual errors when thromboplastin is used as a reagent. For this reason, whole
      blood coagulation monitoring with ROTEM速 has not been feasible during cardiopulmonary bypass
      with heparin anticoagulation. Recently recombinant thromboplastin has come available. It's
      stability is guaranteed by the manufacturer for plasmatic heparin concentrations up to 5UI/l
      .

      Three of the available ROTEM速-tests are EXTEM (activation by recombinant thromboplastin),
      INTEM (activation by elagic acid) and HEPTEM. In the latter, heparinase, added to the INTEM
      reagent, eliminates heparin to reveal underlying coagulopathies.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of ROTEM速 analysis in the presence
      of very high concentration of heparin and to evaluate whether heparinase could reverse
      heparin's effect on EXTEM and INTEM during cardiopulmonary bypass.

      Arterial blood samples were drawn for analysis after induction of anesthesia (T0),10 minutes
      after the administration of heparin (T1), at unclamping of the aorta (T2) and after heparin
      reversal with protamine (T3). The following tests will be performed: EXTEM, INTEM, HEPTEM and
      a heparinase modified EXTEM. For the latter, recombinant thromboplatin instead of the elagic
      acid is used in the HEPTEM test. Heparin concentrations are measured at T1 and at the end of
      bypass (T2). HEPCON速 was used for heparin management.
    
  