
    
      Researchers have found a link between schizophrenia, high blood pressure, and insulin
      resistance; this link puts people with schizophrenia at an increased risk for diabetes and
      obesity. Weight reduction and maintenance is essential for decreasing these risks. Although
      data indicate that nonpharmacological interventions for weight loss are viable options,
      studies to determine their effectiveness have not been conducted. This study will determine
      the effectiveness of behavioral training for reducing weight in schizophrenia patients. This
      study will also determine the effects of weight reduction on cardiovascular risk factors in
      this population.

      This study comprises two phases. In Phase 1, participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either behavioral training or social skills training for 14 weeks. The behavioral
      training will teach participants ways to control their diet and increase their physical
      activity. The social skills training will teach participants how to indirectly control their
      weight by making social contacts and seeking social support. After 14 weeks, participants in
      the social skills training group and any participants who have not lost a specified amount of
      weight will complete the study; participants in the behavioral training group who have a 4%
      or more weight loss will be enrolled in Phase 2, a 24-month program designed to help
      participants maintain their weight loss. All participants in Phase 2 will continue to receive
      weekly behavioral training, but they will be randomly assigned to receive either behavioral
      training alone or behavioral training combined with biweekly booster treatments where
      participants discuss their response to different diet and exercise regimens and researchers
      discuss strategies for increasing one's success with the regimens. Interviews, self-report
      scales, and blood tests will be used to assess participants at study entry, after Phase 1,
      and at the end of the study. Assessments will include quality of life, self esteem, exercise
      frequency, blood pressure, serum lipids, and blood glucose.
    
  