
    
      Nearly 90% of abortions occur during the first trimester and a majority of these are
      performed by suction curettage in an outpatient setting using local anesthesia (Grimes, 2007;
      Lichtenberg, 2001). When only local anesthesia is used, 97% of women experience pain, and
      anxiety level is a positive predictor of pain during abortion (Bélanger, 1989). Although
      general anesthesia offers better agents for anxiety and pain management, this route is less
      commonly used because of prohibitive costs and potential complications (Grimes, 2007).
      Because many first trimester abortion providers utilize local anesthesia as primary pain
      management during the procedure, multiple agents and techniques have been investigated to
      supplement or enhance the effects of the local anesthetic. Investigated methods include time
      delay between paracervical block administration and cervical dilation, intrauterine lidocaine
      infusion, and various combinations of inhaled, oral, and intravenous analgesics and
      anxiolytics. Additionally, complementary and alternative regimens such as relaxation,
      distraction, hypnosis, and aromatherapy have also been evaluated as auxiliary analgesics and
      anxiolytics during first trimester abortion. Despite these attempts to improve the anxiety
      and pain associated with abortion under local anesthesia, the results and efficacy of these
      methods is variable and inconsistent.

      Music therapy is classified as a cognitive-behavioral intervention that helps patients by
      providing them with a greater sense of self-control in assessing and managing pain (AHCPR,
      1992). In 1992, recommendations by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality included
      music as one type of cognitive-behavioral intervention for pain management (AHCPR, 1992). The
      exact mechanism as to how music impacts pain sensory systems has not been fully elucidated,
      but it is thought to engage specific brain functions involved in memory, learning, and
      multiple motivational and emotional states (Nilsson, 2008). As the most influential theory on
      the nature of pain, the Gate Control Theory hypothesizes that cognitive-behavioral
      interventions work by closing the gate of nerve fibers that transmit ascending sensory
      information to the brain while concurrently modulating input from inhibitory systems and
      psychological factors, the sum of which leads to a reduction in the pain experience (Tse,
      2005; Sendelbach, 2006). The Gate Control Theory posits that music acts as a distracter,
      diverting attention away from a noxious stimulus by redirecting a person's attention or by
      involving the individual in a distracting task (Tse, 2005).

      The role of music as an auxiliary analgesic and anxiolytic has been evaluated in such
      outpatient procedures as colonoscopy, laceration repair, dental work, lithotripsy, nasal
      surgery, breast biopsy, and colposcopy (Chan, 2003). In addition to other nonpharmacologic
      approaches to pain management such as relaxation, distraction, and guided imagery, musical
      interventions have demonstrated favorable effects upon pain, anxiety, wound healing, and
      recovery among patients in the peri-operative setting (Laurion, 2003). Physiological
      parameters such as heart rate, blood pressure, and stress hormone levels improve under the
      influence of music (Leardi, 2007). A Cochrane Collaboration review on the use of music for
      pain relief found that music reduced pain intensity levels but recommended that music not be
      used for primary pain control (Cepeda, 2006). The authors also concluded that the impact of
      music on anxiety has not yet been determined and needs to be further investigated. Given
      music's demonstrated benefits as an auxiliary analgesic and anxiolytic in multiple operative
      settings, its role in the abortion setting deserves further examination. The objective of
      this study is to evaluate the role of music as an alternative agent for pain and anxiety
      management during first trimester abortion.

      A systematic review of 42 randomized controlled trials evaluated the effects of music in
      multiple peri-operative settings and found that the intervention had positive effects in
      reducing patient pain and anxiety in approximately half of the reviewed studies (Nilsson,
      2008). Many included trials were noted to be of "insufficient quality" and a meta-analysis
      could not be performed due to variation in the types of music used, the duration of listening
      time, and procedures investigated. Furthermore, some studies used non-validated
      questionnaires and had other methodological limitations. Nonetheless, the author concluded
      that peri-operative musical interventions are easy to implement and effective in reducing
      patient pain, anxiety, and stress (Nilsson, 2008).

      A 2006 Cochrane Collaboration review examined the effect of music on acute and chronic pain
      in 51 randomized controlled trials. They calculated the mean difference in pain intensity
      levels, percentage of patients with at least 50% pain relief, and opioid requirements among
      3663 subjects. The authors concluded that listening to music reduced pain intensity levels
      and opioid requirements but that the magnitude of these benefits is small with uncertain
      clinical significance (Cepeda, 2006). Although the pooled results indicated statistical
      significance in the reduction of post-operative pain intensity levels, the authors stated
      that the role of music in pain relief warrants further investigation as does its role as a
      potential anxiolytic. As musical interventions have not been shown to have adverse effects,
      it is worth pursuing this nonpharmacologic agent as a supplemental resource for patients
      undergoing medical procedures such as first trimester abortion.

      Only one study, published in 1975, has examined music as an auxiliary analgesic during first
      trimester abortion. This was a randomized controlled trial of 144 patients divided into 3
      groups who all received oral diazepam and a paracervical block with mepivacaine in addition
      to 1) no further anesthesia, 2) self-administered methoxyflurane, or 3) music via
      stereophonic headphones. Patients who listened to music during suction curettage reported
      less tension and less pain (Shapiro, 1975). Although this study showed a beneficial effect of
      music, its findings are limited by poor study descriptors of patient characteristics, an
      unspecified randomization procedure, and lack of appropriate statistical analysis. A
      non-validated pain questionnaire was utilized and there is minimal description of procedural
      methods, the intervention, and results. Given these limitations, its results may not be
      applicable by current randomized trial guidelines. Nonetheless, this is the only published
      study to examine the use music as an auxiliary analgesic during first trimester abortion.

      Because pain perception is also thought to be highly associated with comorbid conditions such
      as depression, anxiety, and substance abuse, the pain experience may influence overall
      satisfaction outcomes related to a specific event (Guzeldemir, 2008; Bair, 2007). The
      baseline presence of any of these conditions may impact one's response to pain management,
      anxiety status, and satisfaction associated with a procedure. In addition to overall
      satisfaction, we will assess for these comorbid conditions in our study.

      Today, music has become very portable in the form of digital music players such as the iPOD™.
      With 25% of Americans and 51% of American adolescents owning one of these devices, music is a
      familiar part of many lives (Pew, 2006). Pain studies evaluating musical interventions as
      auxiliary analgesia have used various types of music via different delivery systems (i.e.
      cassette/CD player with headphones, loudspeakers, live music by a music therapist) in
      different settings. Many of these trials have utilized self-selection of music and have
      included a variety of musical genres, specific sounds, white noise, and vocal suggestions.
      Although some studies indicate that slow and non-lyrical music of the patient's choice for at
      least 30 minutes at 60 decibel volume is ideal for optimal pain relief and relaxation, it is
      not known if these factors directly influence music's impact in reducing pain and anxiety
      (Nilsson, 2008).

      Additionally, there is mixed evidence on the role of patient choice in music selection and
      whether this affects the amount of pain or anxiety experienced. While some studies have
      advocated the use of self-selected music to enhance pain and anxiety reduction (Hekmat, 1993;
      Lee, 2004), the previously mentioned Cochrane review found that the decline in pain intensity
      was similar among patients whether or not the music was self-selected (Cepeda, 2006).

      Given the data on music's potential ability to positively influence surgical experiences, we
      believe that music as an auxiliary method of anxiety and pain management in first trimester
      abortion warrants further investigation. The proposed study will evaluate music's impact on
      anxiety and pain experienced during first trimester abortion performed with local anesthesia
      and how this might influence overall satisfaction experienced with the procedure. Given that
      50% of women who had abortions in 2005 were less than 25 years old (Gamble, 2008) and that
      this younger age group likely has increased familiarity with portable digital music players,
      this patient population may benefit from music as an auxiliary analgesic and anxiolytic
      during pregnancy termination. This research has the potential to expand the arsenal of
      low-cost, safe, and effective analgesics and anxiolytics available for surgical abortion, a
      commonly performed procedure across the United States and worldwide. The addition of music to
      first trimester abortion under local anesthesia provides an opportunity to improve the pain
      and anxiety associated with this procedure, especially given that many women of reproductive
      age utilize personal digital music players and may welcome this auxiliary analgesic and
      anxiolytic to their experience.

      The proposed study will be a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the hypothesis that
      intraoperative music reduces patient anxiety and pain during first trimester abortion. We
      will examine the role of music as an auxiliary analgesic and anxiolytic in conjunction with a
      standard pain control regimen used in first trimester suction aspiration procedures
      consisting of preoperative oral ibuprofen and local anesthesia using a 1% lidocaine
      paracervical block. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the control and
      intervention groups.
    
  