
    
      Physical activity (PA) can have positive health outcomes for children with type 1 diabetes
      (T1DM) such as improved diabetes control, lipid profile and body composition, yet activity
      levels are low. The unpredictable nature of children's everyday activity causes fluctuations
      in blood glucose (BG) level. Low and high BG level are side-effects of PA, have significant
      symptoms and can cause a range of chronic complications. Parents typically have
      responsibility for diabetes management in preadolescent children and perceive PA as a
      challenge due to constant concerns about BG levels (Quirk et al., 2015).

      Children and parents need support to help understand the relationship between PA and BG
      control and how to use PA as a vehicle through which to better manage the condition. T1DM
      healthcare professionals (HCPs) perceive a lack of i) competence, ii) confidence and iii)
      time to provide PA advice and education in the clinical setting. HCPs perceive a need for
      evidence-based resources to facilitate PA discussion, education and promotion (Quirk et al.,
      2015). Physical activity monitoring is already a widely recognised and accepted tool, with
      potential utility in paediatric diabetes.

      One such approach could be that HCPs graphically convey children's PA levels and use this to
      raise awareness and promote discussion about daily PA level. In those using constant glucose
      monitoring devices, daily BG values could be graphically documented to help explain the
      relationship between PA and BG level. These devices have shown acceptability among children
      with T1DM. However, whether they can facilitate PA discussion and education is unknown.

      This research will explore parents, children and HCPs' perceptions of PA monitoring in
      clinical practice. A PA monitoring programme will be developed, implemented in a small cohort
      of children with T1DM and evaluated for feasibility and acceptability. In the future,
      'physical activity clinical champions' could be trained to use activity monitoring for PA
      education and promotion in clinic settings.
    
  