
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Airway inflammation plays a key role in many airway diseases. Non invasive methods to study
      these inflammatory processes and to monitor airway diseases are in high demand. Stimulating
      interest is in breath analysis, such as the analysis of exhaled breath condensate (EBC), a
      technique of sampling the epithelial lining fluid of the lung (ELF), as an even easier way to
      assess airway inflammation (1,2). The appeal of EBC lies in its ability to collect
      non-invasively a wide range of nonvolatile molecules from the respiratory tract, the fact
      that it can be repeated frequently within short intervals without adverse events and that
      collection devices can be used in a wide range of settings including intensive care units
      (3,4,5,6).

      Analysis of EBC could not be limited to patient monitoring and understanding mechanisms of
      pulmonary disease. It also could become a useful tool for monitoring and screening for
      healthy individuals for possible early pulmonary tissue damage (6,7). There is a special need
      for more data on intra-subject and day-to-day variation, both essential for the decision as
      to whether a biomarker can serve as a research tool or even has the potential for disease
      monitoring in clinical practice (7).

      It has been recognized for some time that mechanical ventilation may induce lung injury and
      inflammation (8,9,10). Recent experimental and clinical data suggest that in healthy lungs,
      mechanical ventilation with tidal volume ranging between 7 and 12 ml/kg in the absence of
      positive end-expiratory pressure may lead to endothelial, extracellular matrix and peripheral
      airways damage without major inflammatory response, which further worsen with higher tidal
      volumes (15,34). Several mechanisms may explain damage to the lung structure induced by
      mechanical ventilation: regional over distension, 'low lung volume' associated with tidal
      airway closure, and inactivation of surfactant (15).

      High tidal volume ventilation has been shown to result in increased mortality while low tidal
      volume ventilation is regarded as a lung protective strategy in ALI, ARDS (11,12,13,35).

      In contrast, in other randomized studies (31,32) including a heterogeneous group of major
      thoracic and abdominal surgical procedures, protective mechanical ventilation was not
      associated with a decrease in intrapulmonary and systemic inflammation. Furthermore, there
      was no evidence that protective ventilation prevented lung adverse effect or decreased
      systemic cytokine levels in cardiac surgery (33).

      In line with these observations and considering that a practical parameter of increased
      mechanical stress of the lung remains to be demonstrated, studies may address the question
      whether the analysis of EBC biomarkers are related to ventilator-induced lung injury by low
      or high tidal volumes.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      The present study is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial that will take place in the
      ICU of the University Hospital of Larissa, Thessaly. Authorization has been given from the
      Scientific Council and the ethical committee of our hospital.

      Patients:

      ICU patients requiring mechanical ventilation because of stroke, subarachnoid and/or
      intracerebral hemorrhage and with healthy respiratory system (evaluated using criteria as the
      LISS - Murray Lung Injury Severity Score) (14).

      Interventions:

      EBC collection will be performed on mechanically ventilated patients through the endotracheal
      tube according to ATS/ERS task force 2005 (7). Patients must be hemodynamically and
      respiratory stable.

      All patients will be under sedation and will receive ventilation by volume control. The
      respiratory frequency will be adapted at the set tidal volume in order to maintain the pH
      values within normal limits (7.35-7.45). SaO2 will be maintained equal or superior to 95%.

      EBC will be collected by inserting a special conduit (FILT, lung and chest diagnostics Ltd.
      Berlin Germany) for the breath condensate collecting device (Ecoscreen, Jaeger, Germany) into
      the expiratory limb of the ventilator tubing. Collecting time for EBC will be 30 min. No
      humidification will be used during the collection.

      The acidity (pH) of EBC before and after de-aeration with an inert gas Argon, 350 ml/minutes
      for 10 minutes, (gas standardisation) (17) will be readily measured using a pH meter Jenway
      Model 3510.

      All samples will be stored at -80 ο C for subsequent mediator measurements. Variables of
      ventilation (frequency, PEEP, FIO2, Vt), lung mechanics, arterial pressure, heart rate,
      arterial blood saturation, ICP and gas blood samples examination will be registered before
      and during the EBC collection. Also will be registered indices of lung injury (PiO2/FiO2,
      LISS), indices of systemic inflammation (temperature, leucocyte and neutrophil counts in
      blood samples) during the observation period. Disease severity indices (SOFA, SAPS, APACHE
      II) will be registered during the initial assessment.

      EBC analysis:

      EBC collected will be analyzed for pH, 8-isoprostane, H2O2, nitrites/nitrates and cytokines.
      The measurement of biomarkers will be performed using standardized procedures, as previously
      described.

      pH measurements: pH will be measured as previously described (16,17). H2O2 measurements: H2O2
      concentration will be determined by an enzymatic assay using horseradish peroxidase (Sigma
      Chemicals, St. Louis, MO), as previously described (17,18,19,20).

      8-Isoprostane measurements: 8-Isoprostane will be determined by a competitive enzyme
      immunoassay kit (Cayman Chemical, Ann Arbor, MI), as previously described (17,18,21,29). The
      detection limit of the assay is 4 pg/ml.

      Nitrogen oxides, nitrite/nitrate (NO2/NO3), and related products measurements: will be
      performed as previously described (17,22). Briefly, will be determined by using
      spectrophotometric assays (Griess reaction) (23,24,25,26,27,28).

      Cytokines measurement: will be quantified by EIA/ELISA kits as previously described
      (24,25,29,30).

      Protocol Details:

      The patients after the initial assessment will be randomized to receive mechanical
      ventilation with 6 or 12 ml/Kg of ideal body weight calculated through the following
      equation:

      For men [(Height (cm)-154) x 0.9] +50 and For women [(Height (cm)-154) x 0.9] +45.5. The
      observation period will be a minimum of 10 days (if possible) and EBC collection will be
      performed within the first 24 hours of admission (day 0) and through the days 1,2,4,6,8,10.

      EBC collection at day 0 will be performed under both modalities of ventilation with the
      purpose to investigate the quantity and composition of the collected EBC from the same
      patient ventilated with different tidal volumes. For the next measurements, the EBC
      collection for each group will be performed under the preset conditions of ventilation.

      Complications such as VAP, ARDS or sepsis during the period of observation will be recorded.

      Statistical analysis:

      Analysis will be performed using SPSS for Windows v. 16.0. Normality of distribution will be
      checked with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Normally distributed data will be presented as mean ±
      standard deviation (SD), whereas skewed data as median (interquartile range). Comparisons
      between two groups will be evaluated with unpaired t tests for normally distributed and
      Mann-Whitney tests for skewed data. Comparisons between more than two groups will be
      performed with analysis of variance (ANOVA) with appropriate post hoc tests
    
  