
    
      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) proposed 9 new graphic warnings for cigarette
      packs in June 2011 to comply with the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act.
      However, tobacco industry litigation has delayed implementation of graphic warnings. A court
      ruling that struck down the labels criticized FDA for failing to "present any data - much
      less the substantial evidence required under the federal law - showing that enacting their
      proposed graphic warnings will accomplish the agency's stated objective of reducing smoking
      rates." This study will address this critique head-on by rigorously testing the impact of the
      graphic warnings on quit attempts in a randomized control trial.

      Recruitment: Smokers will first undergo screening online or call the study center to complete
      the screening questionnaire over the phone. Study staff will schedule eligible smokers for 5
      in-person visits. For each of their first 4 visits, smokers will be asked to bring the number
      of cigarettes they expect to smoke in an 8 day period.

      Informed Consent: Prior to consenting smokers, research staff will visually inspect photo
      identification of smokers who report or appear to be under age 27. At the beginning of the
      first appointment, study personnel will explain the consent form and ask the smoker to read
      the form. Once the participant has finished reading the form, the study personnel member will
      ask the participant if he or she has any questions. Then both parties will sign the consent
      form and the participant will receive a copy of the consent form.

      Randomization: After smokers have consented to participating in the study, study personnel
      will randomly assign them to a condition. The investigators will determine the randomization
      order a priori. Smokers have an equal chance of being randomized to receive one of four
      graphic warnings or one of four Surgeon General's warnings. They will receive the same
      warning on their packs during the study.

      Assessment: Participants will complete 6 computer-based surveys during the study. The first
      appointment will take around 60 minutes and each subsequent visit will take around 30-45
      minutes to complete. At their first visit, they will complete a "baseline pre-test," after
      which study personnel will show participants one of their cigarette packs with the assigned
      warning. Participants will be allowed to examine the pack. They will then return the pack to
      the study personnel and complete a "baseline post-test." At the next 3 appointments,
      participants will complete only one survey and their packs will be labeled. At the final
      appointment, they will only complete a survey.

      Detailed description of the intervention: While participants are taking the survey, research
      staff will apply study warning labels to participants' cigarette packs during the first 4
      visits. Participants assigned to the graphic warning condition will receive one of four
      graphic warning labels that will be applied and cover the top half of the front and back of
      their cigarette packs. The text for the graphic warnings was selected from the 2009 Family
      Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act and the images were proposed by the FDA.
      Participants in the Surgeon General's warning condition will receive one of four Surgeon
      General's Warnings that will be placed on the side of their packs on top of the Surgeon
      General's warning printed by the manufacturer. This procedure for the control condition is
      intended to control for the effects of labeling. The investigators will instruct participants
      in both conditions to use cigarettes from these labeled packs while they are in the study.
      Each week they will bring in 8 days' of cigarettes (one extra day to provide a buffer in case
      of rescheduled appointments or smoking more than anticipated) for labeling. Additionally,
      they will bring in any unused labeled packs from the previous appointment. The investigators
      will assess how many cigarettes participants smoke from labeled (i.e., study) and unlabeled
      (i.e., non-study) packs to calculate intervention dose (% of cigarettes smoked from labeled
      packs). At the end of the study, participants will receive a list of cessation resources.
      During the final appointment, participants will also report whether they knew anyone else in
      the study or saw another participant's labels, to assess potential contamination.
    
  