
    
      The study will be a prospective single blind randomized comparative trial. All patients
      presenting with choledocholithiasis will be considered for the study. If their ultrasound,
      computed tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates a large stone (>1cm) and they
      do not fulfill the exclusion criterion they will be eligible for the study. If a prior
      Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) demonstrates a stone >1cm, which could
      not be removed with standard methods, they will also be eligible. Randomization will be
      stratified based on whether or not the procedure is a first or repeat ERCP

      Patients will be randomized using a computer generated randomization schedule with concealed
      allocation in a 1:1 assignment (allocation ratio) to initial cholangioscopy guided lithoripsy
      versus initial papillary dilation. Randomization will be blocked in groups of 12.

      In those randomized to cholangioscopy-guided lithotripsy, the procedure will be performed in
      the standard manner using a single operator cholangioscopy system and a holmium laser or EHL
      (dependent on availability). Those in the papillary dilation arm will undergo the standard
      approach using the combined papillary dilation balloon sphincterotomy system. The patients
      will be blinded as to treatment arm.

      "Conventional" methods including mechanical lithotripsy or stent placement may be used to
      remove stones/debris in combination with the specified intervention, as is done for standard
      clinical care. Use of these strategies will be recorded

      If stone removal fails with the assigned strategy, this will be considered failure of the
      assigned intervention. This decision will be made by the attending endoscopist and recorded.
      The patient will then crossover into the other treatment arm.

      The primary outcome will be complete stone clearance in the first study procedure by the
      assigned method. Additional outcomes will be total procedure time, cost of equipment, and
      number and type of complications. Additional ERCP may be needed for complete removal in some
      cases (i.e. complete removal in first attempt is not possible), thus we will also compare the
      number of ERCP needed for final stone clearance and whether stone removal is eventually
      achieved by endoscopic methods (comparison will be on an intention to treat basis).
      Additionally, if patients require surgical stone removal for the standard clinical indication
      in the case that endoscopic strategies are not successful, this will be recorded.

      The patients will be followed clinically by the principal investigator assisted by a research
      coordinator on days 1,7 and 30 post procedures. This will be done as a brief follow up visit
      if the patient is still hospitalized or by telephone call thereafter.

      Thus, all procedures performed in this study represent standard clinical care, which would be
      used even if the patients did not take part in the study, except that the initial choice to
      use cholangioscopy guided lithotripsy versus papillary dilation will be randomized.
    
  