
    
      Design: The trial is an open label, single administration, ascending dose, single site trial
      using CTX neural stem cells with 24-month patient monitoring following treatment.

      Pre-treatment selection of patients : Males aged ≥60 years with unilateral ischaemic stroke
      affecting sub-cortical white matter and/or basal ganglia 6 months to 5 years prior to entry
      into the study, with persistent unilateral hemiparesis, a minimum infarct diameter of 1 cm
      and stable neurological functional deficit as determined by the NIH Stroke Scale, (measured
      twice at least 1 month apart), will be eligible for treatment.

      Treatment: The CTX cells will be injected by stereotaxic procedures into the putamen region
      of the brain of the patient under general anesthesia with imaging guidance to locate
      injection site. Four ascending doses of CTX cells will be tested in 12 patients (4 dosage
      groups of three patients at each dose level receiving 2 million, 5 million, 10 million or 20
      million cells). Patients will be admitted to hospital the day before surgery and prepared for
      CTX cell implantation to take place. Patients will be discharged two days after surgery.

      One patient will be treated at a time. An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      will make the decision to continue dosing at each dose level following satisfactory review of
      the 28 day safety data for the first patient at that dose level; and to increase the dose to
      the next level following satisfactory review of the 3 month safety data for all three
      patients in the previous dose group.

      Post treatment follow-up of patients: There will be 6 scheduled visits to clinic for
      monitoring and neurofunctional testing and 5 scheduled telephone contacts to monitor adverse
      events (AEs) and concomitant medications over the 2 year follow-up period.

      End-points: The primary end-point of the trial is safety, measured by numbers of relevant
      Serious Adverse Events, health screening, neurological assessment and scanning abnormalities.
      The secondary aim is to evaluate various MRI and other test measures for their potential as
      efficacy markers for subsequent trials.

      Post trial follow up: All trial patients will be flagged by the National Health Service
      Central Register (NHSCR) Scotland for life-long follow-up. In addition, all patients will be
      invited to take part in an 8-year follow up trial requiring an annual review by a suitable
      physician.
    
  