
    
      COPD is among the most common reasons for illness and fatality in adults worldwide, and it is
      expected that this trend will escalate radically by 2020 (1). Approximately 29% of patients
      admitted to Hospital with exacerbation will be readmitted within the first month (2), and
      after one year 46% of patients will have been readmitted on one or more occasions due to
      exacerbation (3).

      Therefore, trials have been carried out using different forms of digitally supported distance
      health interventions (telehealth nurse consultations) (4) of patients with COPD with a view
      to reducing the number of readmissions in a reliable way, measured in relation to mortality.
      Thus in these trials there are a certain indication that use of telehealth nurse
      consultations of patients with COPD is a treatment initiative that reliably can reduce the
      number of COPD patients readmitted with exacerbation.

      The number of randomized telehealth studies are however few (4;5), and there is a lack of
      documentation of the effect of telehealth monitoring.

      Therefore, a large randomized telehealth study with a clear set up was necessary.

      This study is a randomized multicenter trial that will take place at the acute admissions
      department and lung department at Odense University Hospital,Denmark

      We hypothesized that in a period of 26 weeks:

        1. The total number of readmissions can be reduced with 14%

        2. The time to the first readmission will be prolonged

        3. The number of readmissions with exacerbation can be reduced after telehealth
           consultations as a supplement to the conventional treatment compared with conventional
           treatment

        4. The total number of readmission days can be reduced after telehealth consultations as a
           supplement to the conventional treatment compared with conventional treatment

        5. The total number of readmission days with exacerbation can be reduced after telehealth
           consultations as a supplement to the conventional treatment compared with conventional
           treatment

        6. The mortality rate will remain unchanged after the telehealth consultations as a
           supplement to the conventional treatment compared with conventional treatment
    
  