
    
      Background: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) in pregnancy is a serious, but rare condition. There
      is no epidemiological data on this patient group from Norway, and there is generally little
      literature on the immediate and long-term outcome after such pregnancies. Approximately 50%
      of the women with VTE in pregnancy have known thrombophilia. These women also carry a
      considerably increased risk for intrauterine fetal death (IUFD). In this project we want to
      identify new thrombophilias as risk factors for VTE and IUFD in pregnancy.

      Aims:

      Using a case-control design we will investigate the following issues:

        -  Risk factors for VTE in pregnancy and IUFD

        -  Association between thrombophilia, VTE, and other vascular pregnancy complications
           including IUFD

        -  Association between thrombophilia and IUFD

        -  Long term effects of VTE in pregnancy and IUFD on future health including quality of
           life

        -  Association between "single nucleotide polymorphisms" (SNP) in genes coding for specific
           coagulation-, fibrinolysis-, inflammatory, and other relevant proteins and their
           phenotypic expression

        -  Association between relevant phenotypes of coagulation, fibrinolysis, inflammation, and
           other relevant pathways and their risk of disease

        -  Association between the frequency of specific SNPs that codes for coagulation-,
           fibrinolysis-, inflammatory, and other relevant proteins and risk for VTE

      Materials and Methods:

        -  300 women with a history of VTE in their pregnancy and 150 women with IUFD will be
           identified by the Norwegian patient registry (NPR) and the Medical Birth Registry (MFR).
           The medical records of these patients will be checked. The epidemiological data will be
           collected with the help of questionnaires that the patients will fill out and blood
           samples will be collected. Blood samples will be analyzed with the aim to check for
           known coagulation factors and thrombophilias as well as new gene polymorphisms.

        -  600 control women, from the maternity wards at Ullevål/Aker University Hospitals in the
           same time period, matched for age and ethnicity, will also answer questionnaires and
           donate blood samples. The medical records for these women will be checked.

      Ethical problems: This study raises no new ethical problems. The study is based on voluntary
      participation from the invited and informed consent for all analyzes of biological test
      material. The study design, data procedures and storing of biological material, will use
      methods that assure the patients privacy at all levels.

      The participants are invited to fill out a questionnaire concerning information of thrombosis
      in pregnancy and take one simple blood test. Women with symptoms of post thrombotic syndrome
      (PTS) will be offered a clinical examination of their lower extremities to verify the
      condition. The data will be de-identified and the individuals will not be able to be identify
      by other than those that have concession to the patient register established for this study.

      Blood tests will be stored in a biobank at Ullevål University Hospital (UUS) established for
      this study, and will only be used for research related problems that have to do with this
      study.

      Some patients could have a psychological reaction of the illness they experienced many years
      ago. The project leader or co-workers from the Hematology Department/Research Laboratory will
      handle this problem. These patients will be offered additional information on thrombosis in
      pregnancy.
    
  