
    
      Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nARMD), which by definition affects the over
      50s, accounts for more than 50% of visual impairment certifications in the United Kingdom1
      and a recent study2 estimates the prevalence in the UK at 1.2% in individuals aged 50 or
      more, 2.5% in those over 65, and 6.3% in those aged 80 or more. Neovascular ARMD is therefore
      likely to become a much more significant issue as the population ages, unless steps are taken
      now to find ways of limiting loss of vision: the same study2 suggests there are currently
      263,000 cases of nARMD in the UK, but the number is set to increase by almost a third by the
      year 2020. Importantly, individuals with poor vision also have a higher frequency of falls
      and of depression compared to aged-matched people with normal vision, and are likely to live
      alone and have additional health problems3, 4. Therefore nARMD significantly impacts on
      quality of life, to a much greater extent than appreciated by many health professionals: a
      key study5 reported that even mild sight impairment results in a 17% decrease in quality of
      life, whereas moderate and severe sight impairment result in a 40% and 63% decrease in
      quality of life respectively. It should be noted that a 63% decrease in quality of life is
      comparable to that encountered with advanced prostatic cancer with uncontrollable pain or a
      severe stroke that leaves a person bedridden, incontinent and requiring constant nursing
      care5.

      The advent of anti-VEGF therapy in nARMD and the approval of ranibizumab (Lucentis) in the UK
      by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) has dramatically improved the
      prognosis of patients with nARMD: vision can frequently be maintained or even improved,
      particularly if early detection and treatment occur6-9. However it is currently difficult to
      detect and monitor nARMD in its early stages and most individuals typically present to the
      ophthalmologist only once a certain degree of irreversible damage has occurred. The hallmark
      of nARMD is a choroidal neovascular membrane (CNV) 1, 10, 11, although changes occur locally
      before a CNV develops, as follows:

        1. Inflammatory mediators are released in the affected area and changes in metabolism
           develop12-15.

        2. The retina affected by the insult gradually loses its function10-12, 14-18. It has yet
           to be established at which point of CNV development the surrounding retina has
           detectable functional and structural abnormalities, however a wealth of literature10-12,
           14-19 suggests it starts when the patient is still asymptomatic and before currently
           available non-invasive imaging techniques are able to detect any abnormality. Many
           studies10, 12, 17, 18, 20 indicate that the above mentioned changes in metabolism
           determine abnormal function in the overlying photoreceptors/inner retina very early in
           the disease process, with some cone populations affected more than others18, 20, 21. The
           same studies suggest it is possible to detect this localised abnormal retinal function
           early with colour contrast sensitivity (CCS), especially in the blue-yellow (tritan)
           axis. The investigators therefore propose this technique can be utilised to identify
           people at risk of developing nARMD and those with the early, presymptomatic stage of the
           disease. The study will also evaluate other modalities which test either structure or
           function of the retina, to establish if any can be used for the early detection of
           nARMD.
    
  