
    
      Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a common complication of surgical patients,
      which manifested by reduced memory, attention and calculation abilities etc. Among different
      types of surgeries, the incidence of POCD in cardiac surgical patients are the highest, the
      prevalence of POCD on the day of discharge was as high as 53%, and 26% of patients still
      showed cognitive dysfunction three months after surgery. POCD can increase patients'
      hospitalization days, increase the consumption of medical resources and social security
      resources, seriously affect patients' postoperative quality of life, and even increase the
      mortality rate one year after surgery. There is no definite serum marker for the prediction
      and diagnosis of POCD. The diagnosis currently applied are a series of neuropsychological
      battery tests both before and after surgery. it's both time consuming and inapplicable to
      patients in severe conditions. The purpose of this trial is to screen out POCD serum markers
      as effective indicators for POCD prediction, early diagnosis of POCD, and assessment for
      therapeutic efficacy.

      At present, the pathogenesis of POCD is not clear. Aging, general anesthesia, heart surgery,
      preoperative cognitive impairment and cardiovascular diseases are high risk factors for POCD.
      At present, preoperative and postoperative neuropsychological behavior assessments is the
      only way to diagnose POCD, but it is time consuming, resource occupying, and also has
      learning effect. However, studies on serum markers that can predict the risk of POCD or for
      early diagnosis of POCD are still at a very preliminary stage. Study has found that plasma
      inflammatory factors: interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor-α level raised in
      POCD patients [1-2]. In addition, in microglial cells, inflammatory reaction mediated by
      S100β modulated the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) signaling pathway
      [3], and raise pro-inflammatory factor expressions [4], so S100β expression may be related to
      POCD occurrence. However, inflammatory related factors such as IL-1, IL-8 and TNF-α lack
      neurological or disease specificity. S100B, previously thought to have diagnostic effects of
      nerve injury, has not been confirmed in small sample correlation studies [5]. Therefore, it
      is of great clinical significance to collect reliable and powerful clinical research data to
      explore serum biomarkers for early prediction and diagnosis of POCD.

      The investigators have previously found that higher endogenous CystatinC level is an
      important protective mechanism against ischemic brain injury. Elevated serum Cystatin C,
      accompanied with brain cystatin C level elevation, can inhibit lysosome damage, promote
      autophagy [6] and induce ischemic tolerance in the brain. Myeloid differentiation protein
      (MD-2) is a secreted protein, composed of 160 amino acids and participate in TLR4 signaling
      pathway, mediated inflammatory response [7]. The investigator using an animal model of POCD
      also found that the MD2 expression is significantly increased after surgery.

      In addition, the methylation is an important modification way of proteins and nucleic acids,
      it regulates the expression of genes and is closely related to many diseases such as
      alzheimer's. Studies have shown that COASY and SPINT1[17], NCAPH2/LMF2[18] promoter region
      DNA methylation has diagnostic value for alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.
      Therefore, we speculate that changes in the DNA methylation markers of the central nervous
      system may be of early diagnostic value for POCD after cardiac surgery. Therefore, the
      detection of the central nervous system methylation label in the serum of patients after
      cardiac surgery will provide a new research direction for the clinical detection of central
      nervous system injury.

      Our previous clinical trial (NCT 02084030) indicates that, 6 SNP mutations on the CTNNA2 gene
      (SNPs cites at rs6739405、rs12467815、rs12472215、rs11126727、rs11126731、rs993607) has altered
      risk for POCD in elderly patients undergoing CPB. Since this gene functions as a linker
      between cadherin adhesion receptors and the cytoskeleton to regulate cell-cell adhesion and
      differentiation in the nervous system, it also regulates morphological plasticity of synapses
      and cerebellar and hippocampal lamination during development, we aim to verify if patients
      that has any of these mutations is more susceptible to POCD then patients that has none, or
      less of these mutations, using a more integrated neuropsychological test battery tests as
      compared to MMSE used in the previous trial.

      In conclusion, the investigators believe that serum central nerveous system (CNS) specific
      methylation markers, MD2 level and CystatinC level may have predictive and diagnostic value
      for POCD. This trial is to to evaluate POCD in 200 patients with cardiac surgery under CPB,
      test their perioperative serum MD2, CystatinC, and DNA methylation markers from the central
      nervous system, and explore their role in prediction and diagnosis of POCD.
    
  