
    
      Background:

      TB kills most people with HIV in Africa. TB is out of control. Healthcare professionals
      therefore need radically different approaches to deal with the disease. It is known that
      intensified case finding works in high HIV prevalence environments. However, the poor
      performance of conventional diagnostics makes the strategy costly and unpalatable for policy
      makers. If it can be shown that a package of new diagnostic technologies significantly
      enhances ease and speed of diagnosis, and time to treatment initiation when using intensified
      case finding, then this will usher the way for further studies and policy adjustments to
      tackle TB. Thus, the work, if found to be useful, could have major policy implications.

      Study hypothesis:

      Active community-based case finding using a package of diagnostic tools incorporating the new
      GeneXpert® Omni will detect untreated highly infectious tuberculosis cases (using cough
      aerosol sampling) and will reduce time to treatment initiation of confirmed TB cases and will
      increase the proportion of culture-positive TB cases initiating and completing TB treatment,
      compared to community based screening using a standard intensive-case finding strategy (smear
      microscopy).

      Study design A randomised controlled trial will be used to compare the two diagnostic
      packages.

      In the initial several months of the study, because of delays in procuring the newest locked
      in version of the Xpert Omni, investigators will use a mobile GeneXpert® 2 module instrument
      (and not the GeneXpert® Omni) in the intervention arm.

      The study staff will undergo separate training on the GeneXpert Omni platform before
      implementation in the main study. To ensure seamless continuation and minimise bias
      investigators will conduct a user appraisal and feasibility questionnaire and assessment as
      done previously in the Xpert RCT.

      Study significance

      ~6000 people will be screened to enrol 600 participants with suspected TB. Investigators
      expect to show that using the GeneXpert® Omni POC mobile clinic of 2 to 3-person team of
      healthcare workers in an inexpensive panel van will substantially reduce the time to
      treatment initiation, and the proportion of individuals initiating and completing TB
      treatment. At present, 50% of the TB caseload remains undiagnosed in the community and these
      cases as transmission sentinels that drive the epidemic. GeneXpert® Omni will be a simple and
      user-friendly approach to intensive case finding compared to a conventional GeneXpert®
      machine. The data accumulated here will also be used to model the likely impact of this
      intervention and its cost-effectiveness. These data have substantial implications for active
      case finding and public health strategy in TB and HIV endemic countries.

      Our preliminary studies have indicated that a third of community-diagnosed index cases are
      smear-positive. Investigators expect that approximately 25% of participants are CASS positive
      and therefore highly infectious. Investigators will also interrogate the contacts of these
      index cases. Uniquely, investigators will be able to quantify the duration AND the magnitude
      of infectiousness of index cases in the community. Thus, investigators will be able to later
      to model the impact of our intervention on disease burden.

      To the investigators' knowledge, the sputum characteristics of index cases who drive
      transmission in the community have never been comprehensively characterized. Next generation
      WGS will be used to compare the M.tb isolates obtained from passive case finding clinical
      cohorts that have already been completed from the same areas. The investigators have the
      necessary capability to perform WGS and RNAseq as outlined in our preliminary data. Nile red
      staining have already been performed on about 400 TB sputum samples. It is likely that the
      investigators will identify specific molecular biomarkers that, in conjunction with
      cavitation and HIV status, will predict cases who are more likely to transmit disease. This
      will generate preliminary data for a larger study that will aim to generate a bio-clinical
      score to identify high transmission risk index cases. The investigators will also determine
      levels of hetero-resistance and strain variability in isolates from CASS + participants. This
      will provide insights into strain variability, evolution, and transmission dynamics in the
      community.

      The RePORT consortium The investigators have also been invited to contribute data and
      specimens to the RePORT consortium (Regional Prospective Observational Research for
      Tuberculosis), that aims to create a multinational bank with the primary objective of
      providing specimens and data to RePORT consortia biomarker researchers and their
      collaborators over the next decade to achieve a better understanding of the prognosis of TB
      disease; and the pathogenesis of progression from TB exposure to disease.

      Methods Study Sites and Population The study will be conducted in Cape Town within high
      burden developing communities with high HIV prevalence (15-40%) and at their associated
      primary care TB clinics. This study will be conducted in congregate settings.

      Study procedure Each day during the week, a research nurse together with a local community
      health care worker (CHC) will travel, to the chosen site to perform community based
      screening. The vehicle will be equipped with portable awning providing shelter, fold up
      tables, HIV lateral flow testing capability, POC CD4 count estimator (PIMA), a small portable
      fold-up cubicle for privacy during sputum acquisition, and facilities to securely house and
      operate the GeneXpert® Omni machine.

      The weekly location for the community-based screening will be mapped out so that the entire
      community is adequately covered during the study period but will be clustered around
      community congregate settings. Community members will be encouraged to participate using a
      loudspeaker and vehicle and community-based advertising.

      All Participants will be counselled and tested for HIV using a rapid diagnostic kit as per
      the national guidelines. A positive HIV result will be confirmed by using a second
      finger-prick test. Incongruent results will be confirmed by an ELISA blood test. TB screening
      will depend on HIV status as outlined in the inclusion/exclusion criteria. The rationale for
      including all HIV-positive participants regardless of symptoms is outlined in "Background"
      above. Sputum will be collected in portable tents.

      All participants undergoing screening will have demographic details, 2 mobile numbers
      documented and tested, and if possible their addresses will be GPS-mapped. The team of
      research nurse and CHC will aim to screen between 15-20 consenting community members each
      morning. Participants found to be either HIV-infected or symptomatic for TB will then undergo
      randomised to either standard diagnostic tools (sputum smear and culture) or a package of
      novel diagnostic tools (urine LAM strip testing if HIV-infected, sputum MTB/RIF and culture).
      An SMS randomisation system will be used. A case record form will be completed for all
      participants undergoing randomisation to document relevant demographics, past medical,
      occupational and smoking history, TB symptoms and vital signs. Each patient will then be
      required to give the following samples at baseline:

      1) 2 or 3 sputum samples (>1ml each): 2 samples for GeneXpert® Omni MTB/RIF Assay and MTB
      culture (arm 1) OR

      1 sample for fluorescence smear microscopy and MTB culture (arm 2).

      1 sample for bio-banking 2) 25μl blood for POC CD4 testing (only if HIV positive) 3) A Urine
      Sample (15ml) 4) Whole blood for biobanking (10ml)

      Participants unable to spontaneously produce sufficient sputum will undergo sputum induction
      using the standard protocol and infection control. Participants randomized to arm 1 will have
      the GeneXpert® assay performed in the van.

      Chest X-rays will be performed on the following participants:

      All participants with active TB confirmed on GeneXpert, Smear or culture. All asymptomatic
      HIV positive participants. All participants with negative TB microscopy (HIV negative or
      positive), with ongoing TB symptoms at the 2-month follow-up visit.

      X-rays taken on asymptomatic HIV-positive participants will not be used to drive referral to
      community health centres and/or to advise on empirical treatment, but will be reviewed after
      the study is concluded to assess the degree of radiological features of TB in an asymptomatic
      cohort of ambulant HIV-positive participants.

      All newly diagnosed TB cases with POC MTB/RIF testing will be giving a letter to commence
      immediate TB treatment at the nearest DOTs clinic, and participants receiving smear + culture
      will be contacted telephonically or with home visits and given a letter to commence
      treatment. TB clinic registers will be visited for all participants commencing anti-TB
      treatment to determine patient outcomes and ascertain treatment completion status.

      Participants with positive diagnostic tests for TB will be recalled for cough aerosol sample
      testing (CASS), using a sampling system previously validated. Participants are instructed to
      cough into the CASS as frequently and as strongly as they can for 5 min. They are rested for
      5 min before a second 5-min period of coughing. The CASS uses an impactor with agar plates
      with pores of different sizes to capture droplets in the respirable range. Plates are read at
      1 week to detect contaminants, and then at 3 and 6 weeks to count CFU of MTB, which are
      confirmed by polymerase chain reaction. Culture+ isolates will be biobanked and DNA will be
      extracted for WGS.

      During this CASS-visit (which will take place prior to the initiation of treatment, but will
      not delay treatment commencement), the investigators will aim to collect the following
      samples from participants with positive diagnostic tests for TB:

      1) 1 or 2 Sputum samples (>1ml each):

      1 sample for biobanking

        1. additional sample for smear (for participants randomised to the GeneXpert arm). 2)
           ±35,5ml (±7 teaspoons) of whole blood for the following: Full blood count (3ml) HbA1c
           (3ml) Genetic analysis (4ml) PAXGene (2,5ml) PBMC (Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell)
           isolation and storage (10ml) IGRA (interferon-Gamma release assay) (3ml) Whole blood for
           biobanking (10ml) 3) A saliva sample (6ml)

      The following will be sent to the Central Bio-repository as part of the RePORT consortium
      collected at the defined timepoints:

      Whole blood (PAXgene RNA) Whole blood (IGRA) Whole blood (genetic analyses) PBMC Plasma
      Saliva (genetic analyses) Urine Sputum Extracted host RNA Mtb isolate

      Household contacts of sputum culture-positive participants will be contacted and offered
      screening by symptoms, chest X-ray and induced sputum (2 sputum samples for diagnostic
      testing if symptomatic or HIV positive, and 1 sample for biobanking), regardless of CASS
      status. This will enable quantification of infectivity and allow for modelling how early
      detection of TB in the community could potentially affect transmission dynamics.

      The following samples will also be collected at baseline, and will be biobanked with the
      sputum, for future studies of latent TB infection in close contacts of infectious
      participants: Blood (26ml), Urine (15ml), Saliva (6ml).

      Time-to-diagnosis and time-to treatment initiation will be recorded for all newly diagnosed
      TB cases and these participants will be referred for anti-TB treatment at the clinic. All
      smear and/or GeneXpert® negative participants with on-going TB symptoms will be reviewed by
      the attending clinic doctor and investigated in a standardized way.
    
  