
    
      After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the participant will be "randomized"
      into one of the study groups:

        -  G-CSF with meloxicam

        -  G-CSF with placebo (pills with no medicine)

      Randomization means that the participants are put into a group by chance. It is like flipping
      a coin. Neither the participant nor the research doctor will choose what group the
      participant will be in. The participant will have an equal chance of being placed in any
      group.

      - Study Drug (meloxicam or placebo): If the participant takes part in this research study,
      the participant will be given a study drug-dosing diary. The study drug will come as a pill
      that the participant will take by mouth daily for 5 days, starting 6 days (Day -6) before the
      participant is scheduled to undergo the first apheresis procedure (Day 0) and continuing
      until 2 days before apheresis (Day -2). The participant will take meloxicam or placebo for a
      total of 5 days. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the study
      drug(s).

      -G-CSF: All participants receive G-CSF as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous) in the
      clinic, daily starting 4 days (Day -4) before the first apheresis procedure (Day 0). The
      participant will continue to receive G-CSF for 3 days after apheresis.

      - Apheresis: The participant may receive up to 4 apheresis procedures, depending on how their
      body reacts to the stem cell mobilization. The participant will receive either meloxicam or
      placebo in combination with G-CSF on Days -6 to -2 as described above.

      Clinical Exams: While the participant is receiving this procedure, the participant will have
      regular physical exams and they will be asked specific questions about any problems that they
      might be having. The participant will also have blood tests every day to look at how their
      bone marrow is recovering, to give possible transfusional support, and how to see how their
      liver and kidneys are functioning.

      Planned Follow-up: The investigators would like to keep track of the participant's medical
      condition for the rest of their life. The investigators would like keep track of the
      participant's medical condition for 6 months after the study to see how they are doing.
    
  