
    
      Rationale: Sepsis is a very important cause of death in preterm infants. Survival from sepsis
      is often related to severe short and long term morbidity. Despite optimal antibiotic
      treatment, immaturity of the immune system in preterm neonates causes this severe sepsis
      related mortality and morbidity. There are strong indications that preterm neonates with
      sepsis could benefit, next to antibiotics, from treatment with pentoxifylline. Pentoxifylline
      which is registered for adults with intermittent claudication, is already used in preterm
      neonates with sepsis. Knowledge about optimal dosing is however limited.

      Objective: The main objective is to determine in what optimal dose pentoxifylline should be
      used in preterm infants suffering from sepsis. Previous clinical studies have already
      indicated the safety of the drug in preterm infants.

      Study design: Dose optimisation study in preterm born infants with late onset sepsis and
      increased inflammation. In this study different dosages will be evaluated, with dosage
      step-up and step-down in every 3 patients. Starting dose will be the dose as described in all
      previous studies. Around 30 included neonates are expected to be needed to determine the
      optimal dose using this study design. Subsequently, The optimal dose will be validated in 10
      preterm neonates.

      Study population: Preterm born neonates with a gestational age below 30 weeks and suspected
      late onset sepsis and relevant inflammation are eligible for inclusion. To quantify
      inflammation, an interleukin-6 above 500 pg/mL and/ or a C- reactive protein above 50 mg/L is
      needed at initiation of pentoxifylline therapy.

      Intervention: The intervention consists of intravenously administered pentoxifylline.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary outcome is the optimal dose of pentoxifylline.
      Optimized pentoxifylline dosage needs to be related with adequate biochemical response,
      adequate clinical response and no severe side effects/adverse drug reaction. In each patient
      it is determined if the patient has an adequate pentoxifylline dosage. The dosage is
      considered to be adequate if the biochemical response is adequate and the clinical outcome is
      adequate with no severe side effects. When 3 patients are treated with a certain dosage, a
      decision will be made whether to increase or decrease the dosage for the next 3 patients. If
      the dosage was considered inadequate (at least 2 patients in whom the dosage was inadequate)
      the dosage for the next patients will be increased. If the dosage was considered adequate(
      (at least 2 patients in whom the dosage was adequate) the dosage for the next patients will
      be decreased. Secondary endpoints include further understanding the inflammatory and
      immunological changes of preterm infants during sepsis with pentoxifylline treatment by
      measuring metabolomic biomarkers of the signalling and peroxidised lipid platform and 91
      inflammatory proteomics.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Pentoxifylline is already used at our neonatal intensive care unit for patients
      with sepsis, but data on the dose/response curve do not exist. Pentoxifylline has already
      been shown to have beneficial effects in humans and animal models of sepsis, especially in
      preterm infants. A meta-analysis showed that pentoxifylline increases the survival of preterm
      infants suffering from sepsis and suggests that pentoxifylline is well tolerated. No severe
      side effects have been detected in previous studies or in clinical practice of preterm
      infants. A therapeutic gain for participants of the study is expected because of the expected
      benefits from optimized pentoxifylline treatment. Improved outcome of neonatal sepsis is
      expected. During the study a limited amount of additional blood will be collected either from
      arterial lines or during routine blood drawing. No extra heelsticks or venipunctures will be
      performed for the study. A maximum amount of 3% of the total blood volume is used for
      research purposes in a 4 weeks period. No further additional burden is expected
    
  