
    
      Background

      Cisplatin (cis-DiammineDichloridoPlatinum, DDP) is an antineoplastic agent used in the
      treatment of solid malignant tumors in adults and is also a key part of treatment for many
      children and adolescents with cancer. However, treatment with Cisplatin carries the risk of
      serious dose-limiting adverse effects. Ototoxicity is of major concern since the associated
      hearing loss greatly impairs patients' quality of life and no preventive treatment is
      presently available. Cisplatin ototoxicity is an important problem for patients treated for
      head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) who receive repeatedly high doses.

      Cisplatin causes an accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cochlea, triggering
      damage to the outer hair cells of the organ of Corti. Sulfur-containing antioxidants can
      neutralize ROS following Cisplatin intoxication, and thus represent a potential preventive
      measure. A few sulfur-containing molecules have been studied. Experimental and human studies
      have shown that sodium thiosulfate (STS) can protect against Cisplatin-induced ototoxicity.
      However, when administered through the blood stream, STS interfere with Cisplatin treatment
      efficacy. To counter the ototoxic effects of Cisplatin treatment without impairing its
      efficacy, a local pharmacology approach directly aiming at the cochlea, would represent a
      powerful clinical strategy.

      The proposed study is the first to test the efficacy of STS administered locally in the
      middle ear to prevent Cisplatin-induced ototoxicity in humans.

      Objective

      The objective of this study is to test the efficacy of trans-tympanic injections of a sodium
      thiosulfate-hyaluronate gel prior to cisplatin treatments to prevent cisplatin-induced
      ototoxicity in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer.

      The principal objective is to test the efficacy of the trans-tympanic injections of the gel
      at pure tone high frequencies. Exploratory analyses for secondary objectives will assess 1)
      cochlear damage, specifically hair cell function and 2) hearing loss at frequencies used for
      speech perception. Other outcomes considered are the severity of ototoxicity and the adverse
      effects of the trans-tympanic injections.

      Methods

      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial. For each participant, one randomly
      selected ear will receive the treatment while the other ear will not. For ethical reasons,
      the control ear will not receive a placebo injection.

      Participants to the trial will be recruited at the radiation therapy department of the CHU de
      Québec. Eligible participants are patients newly diagnosed with a locally advanced squamous
      cell carcinoma of the head and neck scheduled to be treated with concomitant chemoradiation.
      This treatment includes Cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on days 1, 22, and 43 after the first radiation
      fraction.

      At the end of the first day of radiation therapy, the pharmacy department of the CHU de
      Québec will prepare the sodium thiosulfate hyaluronate gel by mixing 0.55 ml of a 25%
      solution of sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate (Seacalphyx, Drug identification number (DIN)
      02386666, Seaford Pharmaceuticals Inc.) and 0.55 ml of a hyaluronate gel (Healon 10 mg,
      Abbott Medical Optics Inc.). After a local anesthesia of the tympanic membrane, the otologist
      will deposit 0.1 ml of the gel exactly on the round window of the middle ear. From there the
      STS should diffuse towards the cochlea. The same procedure will be repeated on the eve of the
      subsequent Cisplatin treatments on days 22 and 43.

      To assess the effect of the trial intervention, a complete audiologic evaluation will be
      conducted before and one month after the end of chemoradiation therapy. The CHU de Québec
      audiologists will perform audiograms at frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 14 kHz. Sound
      intensity will be measured as dBHL(decibel hearing level). Speech reception thresholds will
      also be assessed. In addition, distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) recording
      will also be performed. Otoacoustic emissions measurements could detect hair cell damage due
      to Cisplatin early. The final audiologic evaluation will be conducted by an audiologist
      blinded to the ear assignment who would not have access to the trial and hospital records.

      Adverse effects of the transtympanic injection will be documented according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0 (CTCAE). In addition, to identify unexpected
      adverse effects of the trial intervention on hearing, a shorter unblinded audiogram will be
      conducted before proceeding to the second and third transtympanic injections. Data from these
      audiograms will not be used in the main analysis.The follow-up for audiologic safety
      monitoring will be continued for one year after the end of the trial.

      The principal outcome is the hearing loss defined by the difference between the average
      permanent threshold shift (PTS) in dB (decibel) at four pure tone high frequencies (9, 10,
      12.5 and 14 kHz) using the data from the audiograms done before and after Cisplatin therapy,
      for each patient and for each ear. The average PTS in dB at these pure tone high frequencies
      will be compared between the treated and the control ears using a t-test for paired data. A
      planned interim analysis will be conducted when half of the anticipated participants would
      have completed the follow-up. In the interim analysis, the test for superiority will be done
      with two-sided alpha=0.01 and the results shown only to the Data and Safety Monitoring
      Committee (DSMC). If the DSMC recommendation is to continue the trial as planned, the final
      analysis will be done with two-sided alpha=0.045 in order to keep the trial overall
      statistical significance level to 0.05.

      Exploratory analyses for secondary outcomes will assess 1) cochlear damage, specifically hair
      cell function obtained from the results of DPOAEs, ands 2) the difference between the PTS in
      dB at pure tone averages (0.5 to 8 kHz), which represent frequencies for speech perception.
      Other outcomes considered are ototoxicity severity according to CTCAE, and adverse effects of
      the transtympanic injections.

      The investigators have established an independent DSMC to overview the conduct of the trial
      comprising experts in biostatistics, audiology, and haemato-oncology.
    
  