
    
      Hypothesis: Oncological patients presenting with respiratory problems will benefit both at a
      functional level and at a level of quality of life from the inclusion of a program of
      integral respiratory rehabilitation from the perspective of nursing and occupational therapy
      at the time of admission hospital for an exacerbation of his respiratory symptoms.

      Main objective: to verify the effectiveness of a comprehensive respiratory rehabilitation
      program carried out from the perspective of an interdisciplinary team made up of nurses,
      occupational therapists and doctors in the improvement of the respiratory problem referred to
      oncological disease.

      Design: experimental, randomized, stratified, longitudinal prospective study through a
      parallel scheme of fixed assignment with experimental group and control group.

      Location: Medical Oncology Service of the University Hospital of Salamanca.

      PROCESS

      The study will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Oncology
      Service of the University Hospital of Salamanca.

      Prior authorization by the patient after informed consent read, understood and signed will
      proceed to randomization. The subjects will be assigned prospectively, to the study, through
      a randomization process, using random numbers generated by computer, to the two conditions of
      the study: Control condition: Group I and Experimental condition: Group II.

      In the generated table, those individuals that correlate with an odd number will be assigned
      to the control condition, while on the contrary, those with even numbers will correspond to
      the experimental group.

      In the first, the control group will proceed to carry out an exhaustive evaluation at the
      time of admission and at the time of discharge, which will consist of: BODE index, which
      measures muscle mass index (BMI), dyspnea level by Medical Research Council scale, exercise
      capacity by 6-minute walk test and forced expiratory volume during the first second (FEV1);
      With all this data the investigators will establish a score in this index. The investigators
      will also value activities of daily living (AVD), thanks to the BARTHEL index and Health
      Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) thanks to the EuroQol-5D.

      Finally, the investigators will take into account a series of intervening variables collected
      in a database, previously prepared solely and exclusively for the realization of this
      project.

      In the second, the experimental group, in addition to performing the same assessment, upon
      admission and discharge, as in the control group, will be carried out with each individual
      sessions of Integral Respiratory Rehabilitation, by professionals from the disciplines of
      nursing and occupational therapy, on a daily basis with an approximate duration of 30-45
      minutes.

      INTEGRAL RESPIRATORY REHABILITATION PROGRAM

      The work methodology used will follow the theoretical basis of Rehabilitation based on
      functional integration. It is a new method of intervention in patients in acute and subacute
      phase, based fundamentally on "treating dysfunction with function".

      It emerged to respond to the continuing demands of patients and caregivers in the geriatric
      service, oriented towards the need to achieve greater patient independence. There was a
      demotivation of the patients towards the performance of conventional therapeutic treatments
      focused on the deficit. For this, it was necessary to create a new intervention method that
      would achieve the greatest possible functionality in the shortest period of time (stays in
      very mild acute units), seeking much more effective, fast and dynamic treatments.

      Functional mobility will be the central axis of the treatment. With this type of
      intervention, the reinforcement of the patient's functional gain will be immediate, so that
      both he and his family / caregiver will be more involved with the treatment. It can be said
      that the level of collaboration increases, ensuring that during the rest of the day, in which
      the patient does not receive interventions, the benefits obtained continue to be enhanced
      (this is what the investigators call 24-hour therapy), stimulating and mobilizing the patient
      outside of the room (wandering around, in a wheelchair ...) taking it to the bathroom,
      letting them eat alone ... in short, promoting their independence and preventing the
      respiratory patient cycle from being fulfilled, which will lead to loss of functionality
      resulting from dyspnea that will secondarily worsen the quality of individual's life

      The intervention will be carried out thanks to the "reeducation to the effort" carried out in
      the individuals, which will have the following interventions:

        -  Progressive mobilization.

        -  Gradation and simplification of activities.

        -  Teaching energy saving techniques.

        -  Modification of daily activities.

        -  Breathing exercises.

        -  Airway permeabilization techniques.
    
  