
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the utility of the ExSpiron Respiratory Variation
      Monitor in patients undergoing an interventional procedure with anesthesia. The primary
      outcome measure will be the average minute ventilation of the patient during the procedure.
      This study will also examine the correlation between clinical interventions such as drug
      administrations or airway maneuvers with data from the monitor. Additionally the study may
      provide information about the ability of this new monitoring system to prevent hypoxemia
      during these procedures and to consider its utility, compared with capnography, to detect
      hypopnea.

      Background Assessing the adequacy of ventilation during Monitored Anesthesia Care (MAC) and
      sedation is difficult. Agents used to provide procedural sedation can depress ventilatory
      drive and can interfere with airway patency, making it much more likely that the patient will
      hypoventilate and experience partial or complete obstruction to ventilation. [It is actually
      clinically easier to administer general anesthesia and insert an airway management device
      such as an endotracheal tube or a laryngeal mask airway , however given the superior recovery
      profile following sedation vs. general anesthesia, it is usually preferable to administer
      sedation, if the procedure can be performed with its use.] The American Society of
      Anesthesiologists maintains a database of closed malpractice claims which allows analysis of
      patterns of injury. A study considering claims from MAC/sedation cases found that 40% of the
      MAC claims resulted in death or brain damage, that 25% of the claims that were associated
      with oversedation/hypoventilation occurred in the endoscopy suite, and that 44% of the
      oversedation cases could have been prevented by better monitoring.1 A study comparing claims
      from remote locations (such as endoscopy) with operating rooms, found that 50% of remote
      location claims involving monitored anesthesia care, the proportion of claims for death was
      increased in remote location claims [54 vs. 29% (operating room claims)], respiratory
      damaging events were more common in remote location claims (44 vs. 20%), with inadequate
      oxygenation/ventilation the most common specific event (21 vs. 3% in operating room claims),
      and that remote location claims were more often judged as being preventable by better
      monitoring (32 vs. 8% for operating room claims).2

      Upper endoscopy procedures, such as upper GI endoscopy and endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), are particularly challenging where the anesthesiologist has
      limited access to the patient's head and is working in darkened rooms. Indeed investigators
      have found it very difficult to find a combination of propofol and short acting opioid that
      allows instrumentation of the esophagus without "intolerable ventilatory depression".3 Trying
      to assess ventilation by observing chest excursion or listening to ventilation with a
      stethoscope under these conditions can be difficult and can be done only periodically.
      Side-stream nasal cannula end-tidal capnography offers a possible solution, but the cannula
      can become dislodged and the proceduralist's endoscope often interferes with its function.
      End-tidal capnography in the non-intubated patient is very insensitive to changes in minute
      ventilation. At best, this technology can usually assess only the presence or absence of
      ventilation: there is limited ability to judge the adequacy of ventilation or to quantify
      it.4

      The Study Device The ExSpiron Respiratory Volume Monitor (Respiratory Motion, Inc., Waltham
      MA) has FDA 501(k) clearance to be used for patient care. It consists of a proprietary PadSet
      that is placed on the chest in the mid-axillary line and connected to a free standing
      monitor. This monitor measures and analyzes the changes in thoracic electrical impedance that
      occur during the respiratory duty cycle. It is able to quantify respiratory rate and also
      determine tidal volume and minute ventilation as well as graphically display changes in lung
      volumes. It has been shown to accurately measure the effect of interventions (medications,
      airway maneuvers) in endoscopy patients.5 Preliminary work has determined optimal lead
      placement demonstrated excellent correlation to spirometry with an R value of 0.94-0.98 and
      excellent accuracy and precision.6

      Preliminary work cited below has shown that the monitor provides information about the effect
      of medications and airway maneuvers on breathing patterns that is not available with routine
      monitoring. This study seeks to extend that knowledge by investigating whether using this
      information in real-time results in different respiratory measurements compared to patients
      with routine monitoring.
    
  