
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Randomized Trial

      STUDY SETTING/LOCATION:

      The study will be conducted in a single tertiary center, Urology and Nephrology Centre in
      Mansoura, Egypt.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Adults (>18years) with primary single renal stone amenable for SWL according to EUA
      guidelines (C. TÜRK, 2019) .

      Inclusion criteria Adult patient with ≤ 2 cm single calyceal renal stone in a normal
      functioning kidney.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Contraindications to ESWL:

             -  Uncontrolled Hypertension

             -  Renal insufficiency

             -  Diabetic patient

             -  Coagulopathy

             -  Morbid obesity

             -  Upper urinary tract obstruction

             -  Active urinary tract infection

        2. Previous surgical or SWL treatment of renal stones.

        3. Congenital renal anomalies and solitary kidney

        4. Pediatric patients (age <18 years). STUDY GROUPS Patient fulfilling the study criteria
           will be randomly allocated to one of three groups (50 Patient in each): Group 1 will
           undergo SWL with 3 days between each session. Group 2 will undergo SWL with 7 days
           between each session and Group 3 will undergo SWL with 14 days between each session.

      Each patient will serve as internal control through comparing both pre-ESWL and post-ESWL
      values of our study parameters. / Candidates Potential participants will be invited to
      participate in this study after signing an informed consent. Potential participants will be
      given enough information, in a way they will understand, about the potential risks and
      benefits of being involved in this clinical study.

      Baseline evaluation (Before ESWL) (S0):

      Complete history and physical examination. Laboratory Investigations

      Blood Samples:

      Blood sample will be withdrawn Pre-ESWL (B.S0) for:

        -  CBC

        -  Serum creatinine

        -  Prothrombin concentration

      Urine Samples:

        -  Samples of urine will be obtained before ESWL session(U.S0) for Urine analysis
           &estimation of KIM-1

        -  Urine culture will be obtained in cases of pyuria

      Radiological investigation:

        -  NCCT will be performed. Stone criteria will be identified as regard to volumes, site,
           location, stone density and associated hydronephrosis.

        -  I.V.P (intravenous pyelography) will be performed if needed to exclude the presence of
           narrow neck calyx or stones in closed calyces.

        -  Dynamic renal scintigraphic scanning using technetium-99m Diethylene Triamine
           Pentaacetic Acid (TC-99m DTPA). The renal uptake, percentage of uptake from the injected
           dose, split function, ERPF, corrected glomerular filtration rate (GFR), time to peak
           clearance (T max), and half-time clearance will be calculated, because these parameters
           are helpful indicators in the evaluation of renal function.

        -  Functional MRI assessment to evaluate the renal tissue oxygenation using Blood-Oxygen
           Level Dependent (BOLD) and possible anatomical changes

      Randomization Randomization will be performed using computer generated, sequentially numbered
      method.

      Procedure technique:

      The following protocol will be applied for all patients in study groups. SWL will be
      performed using the Dornier Gemini lithotripter (Dornier MedTech, Wessling, Germany) . A
      total of 3 000 shocks will be delivered at 80 shocks/min. The patient will receive 1 mg/kg
      pethidine i.v. for analgesia. Treatment will begin at machine power step 1, which will
      deliver 49 MPa focal pressure and 0.35 mJ/mm2. Power will be gradually increased by one step
      for each 200 shocks up to step 4, which deliver 70 MPa and 0.7 mJ/mm2. The maximum session
      number will be 3 session. Patient treated with <2 sessions will be excluded from the
      analysis.

      After 1st ESWL session:

        -  Urine sample will be obtained 2to 4 hours after the end of the first session (U.S1) for
           estimation of urinary proteinuria and estimation of KIM-1

        -  Visual analogue scale will be compared between the study groups

        -  Non contrast spiral CT (low dose) will be performed before 2nd session to detect
           residual fragments, presence of obstruction and the need for re-treatment.

        -  Functional MRI assessment to evaluate the renal tissue oxygenation.

      After 2nd ESWL session:

        -  Urine sample will be obtained after 2 to 4 hours after the second session (U.S2) for
           proteinuria and estimation of KIM-1.

        -  Visual analogue scale.

        -  Non contrast spiral CT (low dose will be performed before 3rd session to detect residual
           fragments, presence of obstruction and the need for re-treatment.

        -  Functional MRI assessment to evaluate the renal tissue oxygenation.

      After 3 months of the treatment :

        -  Samples of urine will be obtained after 3 month from the start of treatment U.S3 for
           Urine analysis & estimation of urinary proteinuria and estimation of KIM-1

        -  Blood sample will be withdrawn (B.S3) for:

             -  CBC

             -  Serum creatinine and calculation of eGFR values

        -  NCCT will be done after 3 months of the last session of ESWL for detection of the stone
           free rate.

        -  Dynamic renal scintigraphic scanning using TC-99m DTPA as described before.

        -  Functional MRI assessment to evaluate the renal tissue oxygenation Statistical analysis
           Analysis of data will be performed with Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS)
           software. Continuous data will be presented as mean ± SD when normally distributed and
           as medium and range when non-normally distributed. Categorical data will be presented as
           frequency and percentage. Comparison between mean ± SD between the three groups will be
           carried out by ANOVA test. Comparison between the median and range between the 3 groups
           will be performed by Kruskal -Wallis test. Comparison between categorical variables
           between groups will be performed using Chi-square or Fisher Exact test as appropriate.
           Regression analysis to estimate the best model which can predict the related kidney
           injury. In all comparison, a P.value < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  