
    
      Parenteral nutrition associated cholestasis (PNAC) is one of the main causes of death during
      long-term home parenteral nutrition (HPN). In one study 65% of patients on NPN developed PNAC
      after a median of 6 months and 41.5% developed HPN associated liver disease after a median of
      17 months. It is thought that this condition develops due to changes in bile acid
      conjugation. Bile acids are conjugated with either taurine or glycine before their secretion
      in bile. Man obtains taurine mostly from the diet and hepatic taurine conjugation of bile
      acids accounts for 30-40% of the total bile acid pool. Taurine-conjugated bile acids are more
      water soluble and less toxic than glycine-conjugated bile acids. The ratio of glycine to
      taurine conjugated bile acids appears to be important and studies in rats have found that the
      bile acid sulfolithocholate, which is conjugated with glycine, was cholestatic while the
      taurine conjugated was not. Further studies in guinea pigs have shown that dietary taurine
      supplements prevent the cholestasis induced by sulfolithocholate by increasing the percentage
      of taurine conjugated bile acids. Patients on intravenous nutrition with intestinal failure
      may not re-absorb bile acids normally and may have increased losses of taurine conjugated of
      bile acids. They have also been found to have low levels of taurine. It is thought that
      chronic taurine deficiency, by altering the pattern of conjugation of bile acids, may
      predispose to cholestasis and ultimately severe hepatic dysfunction. In a study of
      hepatobiliary surgical patients given dietary taurine post operatively, there was enhanced
      conjugation and secretion of bile acids. Bilirubin levels fell during taurine supplementation
      compared to patients not receiving taurine although this was not significant. We are going to
      investigate if parenteral taurine supplementation is beneficial in our patients experiencing
      this condition.
    
  