
    
      Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disease which affects approximately 70,000 patients in
      Hong Kong and 50 billion people worldwide. Among these patients, one-third remained
      unresponsive to antiepileptic agents. Continual drug manipulation is an essential therapeutic
      option for these patients with refractory epilepsy. In particular, rational polytherapy has
      become the mainstay of treatment for the sub-group of patients who have failed two or more
      antiepileptic drugs (AEDs).

      Using AEDs with different mechanisms of action is a strategy adopted by many doctors around
      the world. In this regard, perampanel (PER) is an agent which is first in its class, with
      specific antagonistic action on ionotropic α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic
      acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor of post-synaptic neurons. The pharmacokinetics of PER
      suggested that it has a half-life of approximately 105 hours and the steady-state
      concentrations that can be reached in 14 days. PER is approximately 95% bound to plasma
      proteins. This metabolism is mediated by CYP 3A4 or CYP 3A5. The usual dosage of PER is
      between 2mg and 12 mg. PER can be administered once daily.

      A total of five clinical studies demonstrated the efficacy of PER among patients with
      refractory epilepsy. These were all double-blind studies and all of them evaluated the 50%
      responder rate as a seizure outcome. The corresponding risk ratio for 50% responder rates for
      4mg, 8mg and 12mg were 1.54, 1.8 and 1.72. The most common treatment-emergent adverse effects
      were dizziness, drowsiness, headache, fatigue, nasopharyngitis. The pooled results suggested
      that a higher dose was more efficacious if the side effects could be tolerated. There was an
      on-going study on the use of PER among patients with secondarily generalized seizures.
      Perampanel has been approved in many countries such as USA, EU, Australia, Canada,
      Switzerland, Singapore, and Malaysia, as an adjunctive therapy for refractory partial
      seizures with or without secondary generalisation among patients above 12 years of age.

      A substantial amount of research has shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDA) may
      play a key role in the pathophysiology of several neurological diseases, including epilepsy.
      Animal models of epilepsy and clinical studies demonstrate that NMDA receptors activity and
      expression can be altered in association with epilepsy and particularly in some specific
      seizure types. NMDA receptor antagonists have been shown to have antiepileptic effects in
      both clinical and preclinical studies. There is some evidence that conventional antiepileptic
      drugs may also affect NMDA receptor function.
    
  