
    
      Preterm infants are born at biological risk for poor health and developmental outcomes; and
      those born to low-income families face additional social risks known to further interfere
      with healthy child development. In its 2006 report, Preterm Birth, the Institute of Medicine
      (IOM) stated the public health importance of optimizing the developmental outcomes of preterm
      infants, and specifically called for novel postnatal intervention strategies to accomplish
      this goal. Our proposed strategy is based on the premise that preventing maternal depression
      - and optimizing maternal functioning in specific domains that mediate the relationship
      between maternal depression and adverse child effects - will ultimately improve the
      developmental outcomes of this vulnerable child population.

      Problem Solving Education (PSE) is a cognitive behavioral strategy that aims to impart
      recipients with skills to reduce the impact of stress on personal functioning, and thereby
      prevent depression. The present project is a randomized trial of a 6-session intervention
      based on PSE. the investigators aim to enroll 325 mother-infant dyads in four NICUs - Boston
      Medical Center, Tufts Medical Center, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and Brigham and
      Womens Hospital. Over 12-months of follow-up, the investigators will assess the effects of
      PSE on a series of outcome measures for mothers, a series of measures that represent risk
      mechanisms by which maternal depression is theorized to impact young children, and a series
      of child functioning measures.

        1. Primary aims. Regarding outcomes for mothers, the investigators aim to:

             1. Decrease the incidence of major depressive episode (MDE) and improve depressive
                symptom trajectories during the first postpartum year; and

             2. Improve general and parental functioning, as measured by valid and reliable scales.

        2. Secondary aims. Regarding risk mechanisms and child outcomes, the investigators aim to:

             1. Improve mothers' sense of mastery, and decrease their caregiver burden and social
                isolation;

             2. Improve adherence to evidence-based quality indicators for NICU follow-up care;

             3. Improve maternal sensitivity and mother-child interaction patterns; and

             4. Improve infant social engagement, emotionality, and cognitive functioning.

        3. Exploratory aims. the investigators will explore the role of a brief set of potential
           intervention moderators:

             1. On the infant level: severity of infant illness.

             2. On the maternal and family level: maternal trauma history, extended family
                functioning, and intervention adherence.
    
  