
    
      In the study investigators will voluntarily enroll all participants within
      inclusion/exclusion criteria that are willing to participate in the study. Investigators will
      anticipate that for approx. 150-200 healthy adult PBD participants investigators will require
      approx. 2555 invited and interviewed candidates, of both sexes, aged 18-80 years, without
      restrictions on current body mass index (BMI) status, that are on PBD for 0.5-10 years and
      live a healthy and active lifestyle.

      The methods to be used are a medically approved bioimpedance body composition monitor
      (Tanita, 780 S MA, Tokyo, Japan), medically approved body weight scale and body height gauge
      (MPE 250K100HM), a 3-day dietary record (3-DR), one adopted by NIH: socio-demographic,
      economic status and motive for PBD questionnaire, and three standardized questionnaires: (1)
      habitual and organized physical activity, and the frequency of sitting (IPAQ-long), (2)
      stress (PSQ-30), and (3) quality of sleep (PSQI).

      Concerning 3-DR, the study participants will weight and record all foods, beverages consumed,
      as well as leftovers, and dietary supplements over three consecutive days (two weekdays and
      one weekend) using electronic kitchen scales. The study participants will choose the day of
      the beginning of dietary recording within a given period (i. e.: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday or
      Thursday, Friday, Saturday). When exact weighing will not be possible (e.g., in case of
      eating out), household measures (spoon, cup, glass, etc.) and a picture book with household
      measures in adults' portion sizes (photos of reference foods with their actual gram weight)
      (NIJZ, 2016), allowed semi-quantitative recording. For the evaluation of dietary intake,
      investigators will use dietary software, Open Platform for Clinical Nutrition (OPEN), which
      is a web-based application (http://opkp.si/) and has been developed by the Jozef Stefan
      Institute and supported by the EuroFIR AISBL (http://eurofir.org) and the European Federation
      of the Association of Dietitians (EFAD). Dietary software has been upgraded to 3-DR
      methodology.

      Food intake data (from 3-DR) will be used for assessment of energy, macro- and micronutrients
      intakes using OPEN. The energy and nutrient contents of commercial food or home prepared
      foods, will estimated by recipe simulation using labelled ingredients and nutrient contents.
      OPEN will be continuously updated by adding those products or recopies recorded by study
      participants on PBD.

      In order to assess the nutritional intake from dietary supplements, we will use Res-Pons
      d.o.o. services, which professionally manages the database with all dietary supplements
      products on the Slovenian market (Pretehtajte.si, 2018).

      Investigators will also record their maximum (lifetime) body weight, body weight upon
      entering the PBD lifestyle, and using data taken blood analysis to collect their basic
      biochemistry results, measured in a standard and comparable method (plasma lipids, uric acid
      and a hemogram), and data on current blood pressure status.
    
  