
    
      Screen time is a major risk factor for childhood obesity and inadequate physical activity,
      both of which are determinants of type 2 diabetes (T2D), cardiovascular disease, and multiple
      cancers. Latinos are the largest and fastest growing minority in the US. Because US Latino
      children have more screen time and higher rates of obesity than their non-Latino White peers,
      interventions to reduce screen time adapted for Latino preschoolers are necessary to reduce
      health inequities related to obesity and T2D in the US. However, a systematic review reported
      no successful screen time reduction interventions among Latino preschoolers.

      The investigative team's pilot study tested the culturally adapted Fit 5 Kids screen time
      reduction curriculum among Latino preschoolers in Head Start. This short term cluster
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) is the only successful screen time reduction program for
      Latino preschoolers, having significantly reduced screen time by over 25 minutes/day. The
      investigative team's culturally adapted, multi-level intervention consists of lessons taught
      by study staff directly to preschoolers during Head Start, a weekly parent newsletter, and
      parenting tips via text messages several times/week. The investigative team will use a social
      ecological model and consider multiple levels of influences for analyses: (1)
      individual-level influences, e.g., acculturation and social cognitive theory, (2) families,
      e.g., screen time parenting practices, (3) schools, and (4) macro-environmental influences,
      e.g., neighborhood disorder. Building on this pilot work, the investigative team proposes a
      long term, efficacy, cluster RCT of the culturally adapted Fit 5 Kids among Latino
      preschoolers in Head Start from three US settings: Seattle, Houston, and the Central Valley
      of Washington State. Among 280 Latino 3-5 year olds at 20 Head Start centers, the
      investigative team's Specific Aims (SA) and Hypotheses (H) include:

      SA1) To conduct a cluster RCT of the culturally adapted Fit 5 Kids curriculum to evaluate its
      efficacy in reducing screen time and excessive weight gain over a school year (8-months) H1)
      Fit 5 Kids will decrease children's screen time, BMI z-scores and dietary energy intake, and
      increase fruit/vegetable intake, skin carotenoids, and moderate/vigorous physical activity
      (MVPA) compared to controls

      SA2) To examine mediators and moderators associated with reducing Latino preschoolers' screen
      time H2) Parents' outcome expectations, self-efficacy, and TV parenting practices will
      mediate the relationship between Fit 5 Kids and changes to preschoolers' screen time H3)
      Depressive symptoms, stress, and social support will moderate changes to preschoolers' screen
      time

      The proposed Fit 5 Kids RCT will confirm the pilot's promising results, and the larger sample
      will allow for mediation analyses to better understand mechanisms. This research will provide
      justification for a future community effectiveness trial with implementation by Head Start
      teachers, and the eventual widespread implementation of Fit 5 Kids in Head Start centers
      nationally.
    
  