
    
      Consecutive patients, aged 45 years and older, who are scheduled for primary total hip or
      knee arthroplasty due to osteoarthritis will be randomized to an intervention or control (no
      intervention) group. All patients will be interviewed by telephone prior to the intervention,
      by an interviewer blinded to group status, to collect data on current leisure activity and
      expected activity at 6 months after surgery. Patients will also complete a questionnaire to
      collect data on sociodemographic characteristics, comorbidities (American Academy of
      Orthopaedic Surgeons Comorbidity Index), pain intensity (0-10 scale), health-related quality
      of life (SF-12), hip-/knee-specific outcomes (Hip Dysfunction and Osteoarthritis Outcome
      Score/Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score), general expectations (Hospital for
      Special Surgery Total Hip/Knee Replacement Expectations Surveys), and stage of readiness for
      change.

      All patients will receive usual medical care before surgery and visit the clinic to meet with
      the surgeon and nurse/physician assistant, and undergo pre-operative laboratory testing.
      Patients in the intervention group will also meet with a member of the research team to
      complete a 10-item pre-test, to assess knowledge of the key concepts in the intervention, and
      then be presented with a 20-minute slide presentation. The presentation will educate patients
      on the: 1) definition of physical activity and its associated health benefits for the general
      population and people with arthritis, (2) 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, 3)
      appropriate types of aerobic activities that patients should engage in after THA/TKA (e.g.,
      no- or low-impact activities), (4) appropriate intensity level for activities after THA/TKA
      (e.g., at least moderate intensity), (5) appropriate duration of participation in activities
      (e.g., in increments of 10 or more minutes), and (6) the appropriate amount of activity per
      week (e.g., ≥ 2.5 hours [150 minutes]).

      Patients will then complete a satisfaction survey that will provide feedback on the content,
      format, and length of the intervention, and a post-test to measure mastery of the
      intervention material. The post-test will contain the same questions as the pre-test, but in
      a different order. The control group will not meet with the research team during their
      pre-operative visit. The control group will receive a written version of the intervention at
      the end of the study.

      All patients will be re-interviewed by telephone one week after their visit to reassess
      leisure activity expectations. Data analyses will be conducted to determine: 1) the direction
      and magnitude of change expected in leisure activity between baseline and 6 months, 2) the
      change in the proportion of patients who expect to meet national physical activity guidelines
      6 month after surgery, and 3) whether or not the intervention modified the type, frequency,
      duration, or intensity of expected leisure activity from pre- to post-administration.
    
  