
    
      School-based, family-centered interventions for reducing substance use in adolescence have
      been shown to be highly effective and result in reductions in problem behavior, achievement
      problems, depression, and substance use over time. Although these interventions have been
      shown to be effective in efficacy trials across the United States, few schools have the
      resources to implement these interventions without substantial support. Barriers such as low
      staffing, poorly trained staff, and limited resources prevent the successful uptake of
      family-centered interventions in schools, yet most school systems are supportive of enhancing
      family-school partnerships. Because school systems lack the necessary infrastructure and
      resources to deliver such an intervention, they would benefit from an online package that is
      evidence based and accessible to parents. However, few family-centered, web-based
      interventions for substance use prevention exist on the Internet, and few if any are derived
      from empirically based programs.

      To address this gap, project investigators are developing and will be testing the efficacy of
      an online version of the Family Check-Up (FCU) for schools that parents can use either at the
      school or at home. The FCU is a school-based, model-driven intervention that has been
      developed during the past 20 years and has been iteratively revised on the basis of multiple
      intervention trials with diverse populations. This study is building upon the investigators'
      successful program of research by developing and testing the efficacy of The FCU-Online. It
      is designed to incorporate the successful components of the original FCU, such as a
      strengths-based assessment that is norm referenced, feedback using motivational interviewing,
      and follow-up modules that focus on enhancing parenting skills and family management in early
      adolescence. This research is designed to randomly assign 300 families to receive middle
      school as usual, the FCU-Online web/mobile only, or the FCU-Online web/mobile+coach version.
      Research on the delivery of mental health interventions via the Internet suggests that a
      coach or "in person" contact enhances outcomes; however, programs that require no coaching or
      in-person contact may have a larger public health impact. A coach version of the intervention
      will be compared with an online-only version that requires no staffing at schools. Project
      investigators will test the efficacy of this online version with respect to changing key
      parenting constructs, such as positive parenting and parental monitoring. It is predicted
      that changes in parenting will lead to reductions in risk behavior, such as problem behavior
      at school and substance use. This research will significantly contribute to researchers'
      understanding of effective interventions for adolescents that reduce risk behavior and
      substance use during the transition to high school, and it can significantly contribute to
      the overall uptake and dissemination of family-centered interventions in schools.

      Specific aims of this study are as follows:

      Aim 1: Design and evaluate a web-based FCU intervention for at-risk families of early
      adolescents (ages 11-14) that is guided by feedback from focus groups and targets known risk
      factors of later substance use. The program will feature online assessment and feedback to
      caretakers delivered via either phone or Internet. An intervention website application and
      mobile messaging will support delivery of program modules and help motivate and facilitate
      tracking of activities. Examples will be presented to potential users, including parents and
      school personnel, to assess feasibility and usability. A 6-month pilot study will test all
      recruitment, assessment, and intervention procedures.

      Aim 2: Examine the efficacy of the FCU-Online intervention by conducting a randomized,
      controlled trial of 300 at-risk middle school youths. Research suggests that a live coach
      enhances outcomes associated with web-based interventions; however, a web-based intervention
      that requires no coaching can be widely disseminated and has greater potential for a large
      public health impact. The investigators propose to examine outcomes associated with a
      web/mobile+coach version and a web/mobile-only version of the FCU. Families will be randomly
      assigned to the FCU-Online intervention (100 web/mobile+coach, 100 web/mobile only) or middle
      school as usual (n = 100).

      Aim 2.1. Evaluate main effects of both versions of the FCU-Online, including academic
      achievement, behavioral control, family cohesiveness, and delayed onset of substance use.

      Aim 2.2. Test a developmental, mediational model in which parenting skills and behavior
      mediate changes in youth behavior over time. It is expected that families who receive the FCU
      will show reductions in growth of youths' risk behavior, compared with the control group.
      Reductions will be mediated by positive changes in parenting behaviors and parenting skill
      development.

      Aim 2.3. Examine moderators, including gender, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status, and model
      intervention effects by testing moderators over time. The investigators will assess the
      feasibility of the FCU as an Internet-delivered intervention in middle schools, the extent to
      which participants engage in the intervention and complete the program, satisfaction with the
      program, and effects of the FCU on improved parenting skills, positive youth adjustment, and
      reductions in youth problem behavior over 2 years.

      Aim 2.4. Examine factors related to successful uptake and implementation of the intervention
      in schools. The public health impact of an Internet intervention is diminished if uptake of
      the intervention is poor. To understand factors related to implementation in schools, school
      personnel will be trained at the end of the project in delivery of the FCU-Online
      intervention. The investigators will assess feasibility, usage, coach fidelity, and uptake
      through engagement data collected via the website. Data from teachers and school
      administrators will be collected to examine factors that promote implementation in schools
      and that further researchers' understanding of how this intervention will be applied in a
      real-world setting.
    
  