
    
      A total of 44 young female participants will be recruited in this study after signing a
      written consent. Participants will be attending a 1 hour orientation session prior to yoga
      therapy providing a general introduction that includes principles, effectiveness and use of
      props in Iyengar yoga. A schedule will be design by the researcher for group yoga therapy of
      the participant twice a week, each session lasting for 75- minutes for the duration of 8
      weeks by a certified yoga instructor and an assistant. Participants will also instruct to
      practice yoga at home for 1 additional day per week and to record the dates and duration of
      practice at home. A manual will be given to the participants with written descriptions in
      both English and Urdu with pictures portraying each of the key yoga postures performed in the
      classes. Tips on how to practice each posture safely and comfortably and how to adapt each
      posture to improve incontinence and pelvic floor function will also be provided in the
      manual.

      Protocols for Yoga Group:

      The protocols for Iyengar yoga Therapy will be based on 2 days supervised group yoga classes
      with an additional 1 day of home yoga performed per week for 8-weeks. Each session will be
      performed for 75 minutes. This protocol will include 5 phases 1) warm up 2) Pranayamas 3)
      Active Phase 4) Restorative Phase 5) Meditation.

      Warm up:

      Warm up will be performed with slow movement combined with breathing for 10 minutes in order
      to increase core body temperature, lubrication of joint, make connection of mind body spirit
      and improve blood circulation. Four different postures that will be performed by the
      participants under the supervision of certified yoga therapist includes cat/cow, wag the
      tail, thoracic rotation and rock backs. Each posture will be repeated with 5-10 breaths
      (Miller, 2017).

      Pranayamas:

      This phase will be consisted of 2 kinds of breathing patterns including Bhramari breathing.
      This will be performed 5 times with the hold of 10 seconds and Nadi Shodhana breathing. This
      will be repeated 10 times with the hold of 10 seconds.

      Active Phase:

      Active phase will be focused on 12 Asanas that are performed in Standing, Sitting and supine
      positions, directly addressing pelvic floor muscles. In standing postures, Trikonasana,
      Parsvokonasana, Tadasana, Parsvottasana, Virabhadrasana II, Utkatasana whereas, In Sitting
      postures, Bharadvajasana, Malasana, Baddha Konasana, and In Supine postures participants will
      instruct to perform Supta Padagushthasana, Supta Baddha Konasana, Salamba Set Bandhasana.

      All of the Asanas will be performed with 5 repetitions. Participants will be maintaining each
      position for the duration of 15 seconds whereas; intermittent rest of 30 seconds will be
      given between each yoga posture.

      Restorative Phase:

      This phase will be focused on postures that rejuvenate the body, mind and spirit while
      reducing stress and tension of the body. It consists of two postures Viparita Karani
      Variation and Savasana. Participants must stay in each posture for 4-5 minutes. Meditation:

      Meditation guided by breath and mind awareness of the whole body for 10 minutes with calm
      music.
    
  