
    
      There are 2 phases to this research project: (1) an initial baseline study to compare
      patients with Becker muscular dystrophy against healthy control subjects, and (2) a
      subsequent brief treatment trial only in the muscular dystrophy patients (healthy controls
      will not participate in this second phase of the study).

      The baseline study involves an intake history, physical examination, and phlebotomy for blood
      chemistries and DNA followed by (a) MRI scans of the forearm muscles before and after a brief
      bout of handgrip exercise approximately 1-1.5 hours to complete), and (b) non-invasive
      forearm blood flow studies (Near Infrared Spectroscopy, Doppler Ultrasound) before and after
      a brief bout of handgrip exercise (approximately 3-5 hours to complete). Blood flow studies
      will be performed with the subject's lower body enclosed in an airtight chamber. Blood flow
      and oxygen delivery to the forearm muscles will be measured before and during application of
      lower body negative pressure at rest and during handgrip exercise. Lower body negative
      pressure simulates the blood flow changes that normally occur when a person sits up after
      lying down.

      The results of the baseline study will determine which patients meet preset eligibility
      criteria to participate in the medication phase of the study. These criteria include (1)
      normal kidney and liver function tests and normal BNP levels (the latter to exclude heart
      failure), and (2) abnormal MRI and blood flow responses to handgrip exercise. Eligible
      patients will be asked to repeat the above laboratory procedures on two more study days: one
      day after receiving 2 pills of tadalafil (a PDE5A inhibitor that is longer-lasting than
      Viagra) and another day after receiving 2 placebo pills. Study procedures can be broken up
      into two separate days for scheduling purposes and/or to avoid fatigue. Patients completing
      the trial will receive both study medications and the order will be random.

      In summary, healthy control subjects will only undergo the baseline study whereas Becker
      muscular dystrophy patients completing all phases of the project will have 3 separate study
      days (baseline, tadalafil, and placebo) and 2 medication visits (to receive the study
      medication and have their blood pressure checked by a study physician). Study days will be
      separated by at least two weeks to allow time for test results, to rest the forearm muscles
      between exercise bouts, and to ensure complete elimination of tadalafil.

      We plan to enroll 24 adult men with Becker muscular dystrophy, of whom 12 men will have
      dystrophin gene deletions between exons 41-46, and 24 healthy control subjects.
    
  