
    
      Medicines can delay gastric emptying and produce similar symptoms to gastroparesis. In
      particular, narcotic analgesics, can produce a gastroparesis picture, by delaying gastric
      emptying. The slowing effect of opioids on gastric, small bowel, and colonic motility has
      been well characterized. Unfortunately, many of these patients cannot stop their pain
      medications due to their underlying condition, such as back pain, fibromyalgia. On top of
      this, the narcotics can reduce the effectiveness of prokinetics agents used to treat
      gastroparesis, such as metoclopramide and domperidone. At this time, there is no good
      treatment for gastroparesis, especially for opioid-related gastroparesis.

      Data suggests a relationship between opioid use and decreased gastric motility. Literature
      suggests that peripherally acting opioid agonist may provide relief in the instance of GI
      dysfunction (Holzer 2007). Movantik (Naloxegol) is an opioid agonist specifically designed to
      work outside of the central nervous system. Movantik (Naloxegol) can alleviate the adverse
      effects associated in chronic pain patients on opioid treatment - reduction of the undesired
      peripheral effects of opioids without disrupting analgesic effects. The use of Movantik
      (Naloxegol) has the potential to improve gastric dysmotility while preserving pain relief of
      the opioid analgesic.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of naloxegol in opioid-related
      gastroparesis. This will be a randomized, double-blind study comparing Movantik 25 mg to
      placebo. The dose of Movantik is the dose that is currently FDA approved for opioid-induced
      constipation. The four-week study period is the duration of the phase 2b studies for Movantik
      for opioid-induced constipation in which the response rates were 60% and 35% with active
      treatment and placebo (Chey 2015).

      The investigators have included a unique aspect of this study to better balance the benefits
      for patients participating in this randomized double-blind study in which half the patients
      receive a placebo agent. All patients in the treatment group and the placebo group will be
      invited to participate in the 4-week open-label extension for this study. This also serves to
      study the duration of the potential favorable effects of Movantik (Naloxegol) in this patient
      population as well as offering an extended time period to assess safety and tolerability.
    
  