
    
      Nitric oxide (NO) is an important substance produced continuously by all blood vessels. It is
      thought to maintain health, in part, by preventing and suppressing inflammatory responses. NO
      is normally generated at the endothelium by a group of important enzymes called nitric oxide
      synthases. However, in chronic inflammatory states such as those seen in cardiovascular
      disease (CVD), the endothelial isoform of the enzyme becomes dysfunctional and produces less
      NO, and the NO that is produced is scavenged by the products of oxidative stress.

      Giving NO back to the blood vessel to mediate its beneficial effects is not straightforward.
      However, the Ahluwalia Group have shown that dietary inorganic nitrate, both as a capsule and
      a dietary intervention with nitrate-rich beetroot juice, has a number of beneficial effects
      in CVD states. This beneficial effect is mediated through it's endogenous conversion from
      nitrate to nitrite in the mouth, and then from nitrite to NO via nitrite reductases within
      the blood vessel. The Investigators have shown benefit of inorganic nitrate in pre-clinical
      models of CVD, early mechanistic studies in healthy volunteers, and anti-inflammatory
      benefits in patients with hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia and those suffering acute heart
      attacks.

      The Investigators wish to prospectively investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of
      inorganic nitrate using a cantharidin-induced blister model of acute inflammation. This
      allows investigation of the innate immune system's response to an acute insult and
      characterise the inflammatory and resolution phases. Cantharidin is commonly used as a
      vesicant in the treatment of plantar verrucae and molluscum contagiosum, and experimentally
      to study the pharmacokinetics of drugs within the interstitial space.

      This will be a double-blind placebo-controlled parallel limb study supplementing 24 healthy
      volunteers with dietary-rich beetroot juice versus nitrate-deplete placebo juice, to
      investigate blister formation, and inflammatory cell recruitment and activation.
    
  