
    
      Primary and secondary prevention trials with statins, as well as with antiplatelet, clearly
      demonstrated that these drugs are able to reduce cardiovascular events. Even if the principal
      mechanism of action of statins is to lower cholesterol, other effects, the so-called
      pleiotropic effects, have been considered as adjunctive properties potentially accounting for
      the antiatherosclerotic effect of statins.

      Inhibition of oxidative stress may be considered an intriguing pleiotropic effect in view of
      the fact that oxidative stress is thought to be a key event in the initiation and progression
      of atherosclerotic disease. Reduction of several markers of oxidative stress including
      isoprostanes, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and nitrotyrosine have been observed after
      statin treatment. NADPH oxidase is among the most important sources of reactive oxygen
      species involved in atherosclerotic disease. The investigators developed an ELISA to evaluate
      serum levels of soluble-gp91phox, the catalytic core of phagocyte NADPH oxidase. Recently the
      investigators showed that statins (30 days treatment) exert an antioxidant effect via
      inhibition of soluble gp91phox expression.

      The exact mechanism by which atorvastatin reduces NADPH oxidase, however, is unclear. Recent
      study showed that statin treatment inhibits leukocyte ROCK activity, a protein kinase
      implicated in the activation of NADPH oxidase, with a mechanism that seems to be independent
      from lowering cholesterol.

      Accelerated atherosclerosis is a typical feature of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Thus,
      patients with T2DM have a 2- to 4-fold increased risk of cardiovascular diseases (CAD) and 2-
      to 6-fold increased risk of stroke.

      Platelets play a major role in the etiology of atherosclerotic disease, as shown by the
      significant decrease of cardiovascular events in patients treated with aspirin, an inhibitor
      of COX1 that prevents platelet thromboxane (Tx) A2 formation. Despite this, interventional
      trials with aspirin in diabetic patients failed to show a beneficial effect. It has been
      previously demonstrated that COX1 inhibition determines a shift in arachidonic acid
      metabolism towards other pathways, such as the lipooxygenase system. The investigators
      speculate that COX1 inhibition could also be associated with increased conversion of
      arachidonic acid to platelet isoprostane formation; the increase of platelet isoprostanes
      would balance the inhibition of TxA2, thus hampering the antiplatelet effect of aspirin. As
      reported above, statins have been reported to down-regulate systemic isoprostanes with a
      mechanism that may involve inhibition of NADPH oxidase,therefore it could be interesting to
      examine if statins improve the antiplatelet effect of aspirin via inhibition of platelet
      isoprostanes.

      To further study the mechanism(s) implicate in gp91phox downregulation by statin the
      investigators planned the present study in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

      Furthermore, the second part of the study will be addressed to evaluate the synergistic role
      of atorvastatin with aspirin treatment in Type 2 Diabetes mellitus patients.
    
  