
    
      The aim of this study is compare the amount of post-operative pain relief provided by two
      different methods of local anaesthetic injection techniques used in total knee replacement
      surgery.

      'Enhanced Recovery After Surgery' protocols has significantly shortened recovery-time and
      length of hospital admission after total knee replacement (TKR). A major factor in this
      improvement has been the incorporation of multi- modal therapies which deliver adequate pain
      relief, limit post-operative nausea and enable early mobilisation.

      Peripheral nerve blocks are performed by the anaesthetist immediately prior to surgery. This
      involves injecting local anaesthetic around the nerves which supply sensation around the
      knee. Injecting directly into the nerve can damage it and lead to significant disability. For
      this reason peripheral nerve blocks are often performed under ultrasound guidance. This can
      be time-consuming and does not negate the risk of nerve injury.

      Peri-articular infiltration is performed during the operation by the surgeon. In the knee
      this involves injecting a solution of local anaesthetic into multiple specified soft-tissue
      and bony regions around the knee. It is performed blind without ultrasound guidance and also
      carries risk of nerve injury.

      Intra-articular injections involve the surgeon injecting local anaesthetic solution into the
      knee joint itself. During TKR, this can be performed after closure of the joint capsule
      immediately prior to skin closure. This avoids risks to nerves and arteries as it is placed
      into the large knee joint, and not blindly around the joint capsule. In addition, it is
      simple to perform and less time-consuming than peri-articular infiltration.

      Randomised controlled trials have previously compared femoral (peripheral) nerve blocks to
      periarticular infiltration, periarticular infiltration with and without posterior capsule
      infiltration, and periarticular infiltration to the front versus the back of the knee.
      However, to our knowledge the technique of intra-articular injection has not been compared to
      peri- articular infiltration for immediate post-operative analgesia following total knee
      arthroplasty

      Study Design A double-blind randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted in a single
      hospital, with four Consultant Knee Surgeons recruiting patients. It is anticipated from a
      previous RCT performed at the same centre, that recruitment be completed within 2 years.

      Participants All patients undergoing primary total knee replacement for osteoarthritis under
      the care of 4 Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeons at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh will be
      assessed for eligibility for study enrolment.

      All patients will receive trial information (patient information sheet) when they are placed
      on the waiting list for TKR. Patients currently wait 12 weeks for surgery. When patients are
      reviewed at a pre-assessment clinic 2-4 weeks prior surgery, those who fulfil the inclusion
      criteria will have the trial explained in full by the research team, supervised by the lead
      investigator Ms Chloe Scott, and will decide whether they wish to be involved. Informed
      consent will be obtained at this stage. Patients will then have 2-4 weeks before surgery to
      opt out of the study if they wish.

      Power Calculation Audit of 10 TKR patients measuring VAS pain scores at 6 and 24 hours has
      demonstrated a standard deviation of 2.14 points. The minimum clinically important difference
      (MCID) for this score is 12mm (1.2 points). Assuming approximate normality for the VAS,
      primary outcome data on 102 patients (51 in each arm) will be required for 80% power at 5%
      significance. Allowing for a dropout rate of 10%, 120 patients will be recruited.

      Randomization A total of 120 participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either
      Treatment Group 1 (periarticular infiltration) or Treatment Group 2 (intraarticular
      injection) using the sealed opaque envelope randomization technique. This will be performed
      after spinal anaesthetic has been administered before surgery commences.

      Baseline information All patients will be initially evaluated with a complete history and
      physical examination. For all patients entering the study the following baseline information
      will be recorded: Age, sex, BMI, Kellgren-Lawrence grade of osteoarthritis, preoperative
      analgesia regime, length of knee pain duration, employment status, and postcode. Baseline VAS
      Pain scores, Oxford Knee Scores and EQ-5D scores will be collected as is routine for all of
      our arthroplasty patients.

      Peri-operative Protocol All patients will be admitted on the day of surgery and undergo a
      standardised enhanced recovery anaesthetic protocol including spinal anaesthetic (with no
      intrathecal diamorphine) and no peripheral nerve blocks (femoral, sciatic or adductor canal).

      All patients will undergo a cemented Triathlon (Stryker, Mahwah, NJ, USA) cruciate retaining
      TKR.

      All patients will be prescribed standardised post-operative analgesia including Oxycodone MR
      15mg twice daily for 4 doses with stepdown to weaker opiate, usually Cocodamol 30/500 2 tabs
      4 times per day, Oxycodone IR 5-10mg prn for breakthrough pain.

      Patients will be placed first or second on the operating list to enable VAS pain scores to be
      collected at the assigned times.

      Multimodal injection The injection will consist of the same drugs for all patients: 150mg
      levobupivacaine 0.25%, 10mg morphine; and 30mg ketorolac made up to a volume of 150ml with
      saline.

      The difference between treatment groups is how the multimodal injection is administered:
      either by periarticular infiltration around the knee, or by simple intra-articular injection
      after the knee joint capsule has been closed.

      Treatment group 1: Periarticular infiltration

      Intra-operatively after bone cuts have been made and prior to implant cementation, the
      multimodal injection will be infiltrated around the knee at 6 specific sites:

        1. Medial femoral condyle periosteum

        2. Medial gutter

        3. Lateral femoral condyle periosteum

        4. Lateral gutter

        5. Posteromedial capsule

        6. Posterolateral capsule

      Treatment Group 2: Intra-articular infiltration After implant cementation and watertight
      joint capsular closure, the multimodal injection will be injected intra-articularly through
      the closed capsule.

      Post-operative protocol and Follow-up Postoperatively patients will complete a VAS pain score
      at 6, 12 24 and 48 hours postoperatively with research staff blinded to the infiltration
      technique employed. All analgesia required in the first 24 hours will be recorded and an
      opiate equivalency dose calculator used to determine opiate intake (Joint Formulary Committee
      2016). At 48 hours, in addition to recording a VAS pain score, patients will be asked how
      satisfied they were with their pain relief as scored on a 5 point Likert score from very
      satisfied to very dissatisfied.

      Patients will then undergo routine postoperative management with review by arthroplasty
      practitioners blinded to their treatment arm at 6 weeks where they will be examined and will
      be asked to complete an adverse events questionnaire.

      Patient reported outcomes including Oxford Knee Scores and EQ-5D scores will be collected as
      standard at 12 months.
    
  