
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a heart rhythm disorder in which the normal beating in the upper
      chambers of the heart is irregular, leading to poor blood flow to the lower chambers. Risk
      factors include older age, high blood pressure, obesity, European ancestry, diabetes, heart
      failure, ischemic heart disease, hyperthyroidism, chronic kidney disease, heavy alcohol use,
      and enlarged heart chambers on the left side [3]. AF increases a person's risk for stroke and
      contributes to an estimated 130,000 deaths each year [1]. Treatment generally includes
      medication, surgery, and/or healthy lifestyle changes [1]. Electrical cardioversion, in which
      the patient must undergo sedation or general anesthesia, is also used to convert patients
      with persistent AF to normal sinus rhythm. Electrical cardioversion has been associated with
      a high initial success rate of 68-98% [4], but long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm has
      proved challenging [5]. Due to the potential risks incurred to the patient, it is important
      to understand which patients are good candidates for cardioversion therapy. A review article
      describes that duration of AF, sex, age, weight smoking status, number of shocks at
      cardioversion, post-ablation procedure, medications, hypertension, diabetes, Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), obstructive sleep apnea, renal impairment,
      hyperthyroidism, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, left systolic
      dysfunction, left diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular hypertrophy, valvular heart
      disease, and left atrial size have each been found to be associated with maintenance of sinus
      rhythm [6].

      Echocardiography has been increasing used in understanding the cardiac structure and risk of
      stroke among patients with AF, with left atrial size, left ventricular wall thickness, and
      left ventricular dysfunction recognized as independent predictors of AF [7]. Increasing
      evidence supports that the left atrial strain measurements can be a predictor of outcomes
      among AF patients, including stroke and AF recurrence after catheter ablation [8], [9]. The
      investigators aim to further explore left atrial strain measurements, including left atrial
      global longitudinal strain (LA GLS), as predictors of maintenance of normal sinus rhythm
      post- cardioversion. It is anticipated that a lower LA GLS will predict AF recurrence. To do
      this, the investigators will study patients with AF at Pen Bay Medical Center who have
      undergone cardioversion, measuring their LA GLS pre-cardioversion, and assess maintenance of
      sinus rhythm 6 months post-cardioversion. It is anticipated that this study will confirm LA
      GLS as a marker for maintenance of sinus rhythm post-cardioversion.
    
  