
    
      Rectal cancer comprises the most in colorectal cancer around the world, among which surgery
      remains the optimal therapeutic intervention. The TME (Total Mesorectal Excision), proposed
      by Bill Heald, provides novel insights for the eradication of possible disseminated cancer
      cells and therefore reduces the recurrence and mortality rates. However, either laparoscopic
      or open TME surgery is limited by the pelvic space and further improvement. For the last
      decade, the emerging of the natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) offers an
      alternative pattern for rectal cancer surgery, among which, the TaTME (transanal total
      mesorectal excision) represents the most optimized surgery techniques. Derived from TME,
      NOTES and modified laparoscopic instruments, TaTME facilitates the dissection process of
      rectal cancer from caudal to cranial, from indirect to direct vision. TaTME allows for
      accurate confirmation of resected margin with proper transecting level, better dissection of
      mesorectum and protection of sphincter, a qualified end-to-end anastomosis and reduced need
      of endolinear stapler and possible leakage afterwards. However, various kinds of instruments
      and surgical procedures have been proposed to complete TaTME, all of which have been
      validated by preclinical and clinical trials in small size. Of note, this study is initiated
      to apply a suit of instruments specifically designed for TaTME ( GelPoint pathway CS-Compact)
      and clinically evaluate the feasibility and safety of the new instruments without comparison
      to other prevailing ones. The CS-Compact and GelPoint pathway has been confirmed both safe
      and feasible to operate in preclinical trials and clinical trials in western. This study
      strictly examines the corresponding issues in Chinese rectal cancer patients. The surgeons in
      our institute have successfully completed the training programs of TaTME in preclinical
      trials, in animal models and cadavers. Clinical skills and knowledge to safe operations are
      qualified.
    
  