
    
      In an attempt to develop a new opiate detoxification approach, the authors assessed the
      efficacy of buspirone in the treatment of acute heroin withdrawal. Buspirone, a drug
      interacting with the serotonergic system was selected because there is evidence that a
      decrease in serotonergic neurotransmission may be involved in opiate withdrawal
      symptomatology.

      Hospitalized heroin addicts were randomized to 4 groups: 1) placebo; 2) methadone; 3)
      buspirone 30 mg daily; 4) buspirone 45 mg daily. The double-blind trial started in all
      patients with a 5-day methadone stabilization period ending with a 30 mg dose. This was
      followed from day 6 through 12 by placebo in group 1 and by a methadone taper in group 2.
      Because of its delayed action, buspirone was started on day 1 in groups 3 and 4 and was
      continued, after methadone discontinuation, through day 12. On day 13, drugs and placebo were
      discontinued and patients observed through day 14. Withdrawal symptoms were assessed with the
      "Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale" (SOWS) and the "Objective Opiate Withdrawal Scale"
      (OOWS). Participants met with a research assistant daily for 30 minutes while on an inpatient
      unit. The study did not interfere with the scheduled ward activities. Results so far indicate
      that the SOWS and OOWS scores were significantly higher in the Placebo group than in the
      Methadone, Buspirone 30 mg and Buspirone 45 mg groups. There were no significant differences
      in SOWS or OOWS scores when the Methadone group was compared to each of the two Buspirone
      groups or when the two Buspirone groups were compared to one another. Thus buspirone, a non
      opiate drug with no abuse potential, a safe side effect profile and no withdrawal symptoms at
      doses of 30 and 45 mg, was as effective as a methadone taper in alleviating the withdrawal
      symptoms of heroin addicts stabilized for 5 days with, and then withdrawn from, methadone.
      Additional analyses will be performed using data collected in the course of the study.
    
  