
    
      The purpose of this project is to develop, test, and disseminate an approach to reducing and
      resolving pain in children with developmental brain disorders, specifically those with severe
      neurological impairments (SNI). It focuses on the problem of ongoing, unexplained, and
      difficult-to-treat pain and irritability that many children with SNI, and their families,
      experience over time. The goal is to improve the assessment and treatment of pain and
      irritability in children diagnosed with complex health conditions and multiple disabilities,
      who have limited communication and cognition.

      The plan is to evaluate the effectiveness of an integrated clinical pathway (i.e. a
      sequential order of standardized evaluation steps) for managing unexplained pain and
      irritability in these vulnerable children.

      BACKGROUND Pain is the most common symptom reported by the parents and caregivers of children
      with SNI, however, pain is notoriously difficult to identify, and therefore treat, in
      non-verbal children because their signals of distress are ambiguous and hard to decode.
      Typical distress behaviours include crying, tears, facial grimace, limb withdrawal, arching,
      hypertonicity, and decreased sleep. More mobile children may curl up into a ball, fling their
      arms or legs, or engage in self-injurious behaviour; conversely they may display decreased
      activity.

      Children with SNI may experience nociceptive-inflammatory pain as a result of their specific
      medical condition (e.g. joint contractures) or from many procedures that they experience
      (e.g. injections). Often, however, it is not clear what underlies the pain behavior. Parents
      are experts in identifying pain behaviours in their own child, but consider their
      interpretation to be a complex and uncertain process. As well, while pain behaviours can be
      described by clinicians and parents, the behaviours themselves are subjective, ambiguous, and
      can reflect a variety of problems in addition to pain. Unless an obvious
      nociceptive-inflammatory trigger such as an injury is witnessed, parents and clinicians find
      it very difficult to ascribe all of the pain-like behaviours observed in children with SNI to
      pain as defined by the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP). In this
      context, the term "pain" does not serve as a descriptive label. Therefore, the investigators
      describe pain behaviour episodes using a less deterministic term, "pain and irritability,"
      acknowledging that the behaviour is certainly negative in the eyes of the witnessing
      caregiver. The team has defined this entity as Pain and Irritability of Unknown Origin
      (PIUO).

      HYPOTHESIS The overall hypothesis is that children participating in the PIUO Pathway will
      experience improvement or resolution of PIUO from baseline to post-study, compared to
      children receiving treatment as usual while on the waitlist.

      The goal is to improve PIUO beyond what has been undertaken by the child's usual clinical
      teams. The primary outcome is improved pain control for non-verbal children with SNI as shown
      in a reduction of pain and irritability episodes and their severity. Secondary outcomes
      include decreased pain severity; improved family quality of life and ease of implementation
      of the PIUO Pathway for clinicians.

      STUDY DESIGN Interventions for resolving PIUO are time- and resource-intensive. They require
      a focused approach to assessing all the underlying possibilities for the PIUO and addressing
      each potential source of pain one at a time. Tackling PIUO requires systematic,
      comprehensive, process-oriented thinking applied by an interdisciplinary team with
      flexibility in terms of approach and time. There have been recommendations in the literature
      about how to approach the problem of PIUO in children with SNI, but these recommendations
      have never been subjected to systemic evaluation as complex interventions, for example by
      following an integrated clinical pathway.

      Integrated clinical pathways (also called "care pathways" or "critical pathways") are
      structured, sequenced approaches guiding the delivery of healthcare, often with a
      multidisciplinary perspective. They provide algorithms to be followed in the assessment and
      treatment of conditions, but are not intended to be rigidly followed; instead, integrated
      clinical pathways delineate a foundation for a clinician's approach to a complex problem,
      thereby avoiding inefficiencies in evaluation or resource use. Integrated clinical pathways
      are a form of Complex Interventions and have been developed for sickle cell pain, childhood
      asthma, appendicitis, autoimmune conditions, in-born errors of metabolism, and cerebrospinal
      fluid shunt management. Despite their complexity, integrated clinical pathways are
      appropriate interventions for evaluation by Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). RCTs of
      integrated clinical pathways have been proposed and/or completed for complex, multi-factorial
      patient problems including lung disease, heart failure, gastrointestinal surgery, stroke, and
      hip fractures.

      In this study, the investigators will use a waitlist-controlled RCT design, with 120 children
      randomized to PIUO Pathway or waitlist (standard care) treatment arms. This design was chosen
      strategically, with consideration of both the special pediatric population being studied and
      the ethical inappropriateness of randomly assigning children to a placebo group when pain is
      the target condition.
    
  