
    
      Sepsis is a life-threatening condition that has doubled in incidence over the past decade,
      and timely aggressive medical intervention has been shown to save lives. Rural sepsis
      patients have a 38% higher mortality rate, possibly attributable to delays in early sepsis
      care. This effect persists even among patients who are transferred between hospitals and who
      bypass rural hospitals. With 17% of all hospital deaths attributable to sepsis and 19% of
      Americans living in rural areas, there is a critical need to identify strategies to reduce
      the disparities in outcomes between rural and urban sepsis care.

      Rural ED-based telemedicine has been proposed to standardize care and support local
      clinicians in rural hospitals. Telemedicine networks provide a real-time, high-definition
      on-demand video connection between a rural hospital and a tertiary hub 24 h daily. Based in
      Sioux Falls, South Dakota, Avera eCare is a tele-emergency network that serves as a hub for a
      140-hospital network that spans 12 rural Midwestern states. It is the largest rural ED-based
      telehealth network in North America, and a network the investigators have studied previously.

      Our central hypothesis is that telemedicine will improve clinical outcomes through improved
      adherence with Surviving Sepsis Campaign (SSC) guidelines. Using comparative effectiveness
      methods and a patient-centered outcomes research (PCOR) approach, this study will test the
      hypotheses with the following specific aims:

        1. To measure the association between rural ED-based telemedicine use, guideline adherence,
           and clinical outcomes using an observational cohort comparative effectiveness research
           study. Rural clinicians choose whether individual sepsis patients will be treated with
           telemedicine-supplemented care. Medical records will be analyzed from patients with
           severe sepsis who present to 25 rural hospital EDs that are part of a telemedicine
           network to estimate the effect of telemedicine on changing early SSC guideline
           adherence. Guideline adherence has been studied extensively as an outcome of sepsis
           implementation studies. The study will also analyze the impact of telemedicine on
           clinical outcomes, such as mechanical ventilation, hospital length-of-stay, and
           survival, using mediation analysis in a propensity-matched cohort design. Our working
           hypothesis is that telemedicine consultation will improve SSC guideline adherence and
           will reduce delays in care, leading to improved clinical outcomes.

        2. To measure the effect of ED-based telemedicine on guideline adherence among patients who
           have telemedicine available but not used. In addition to the effect of use for
           individual patient care, telemedicine interactions may provide ongoing training for
           providers and nurses and influence care even for patients for whom telemedicine is not
           used. This effect may result from a learning effect in which local providers adopt
           practices they observe in telemedicine-consulted patients. The investigators will use
           hospital fixed-effects models to measure this association. The working hypothesis is
           that guideline adherence will increase after telemedicine adoption even in
           non-telemedicine patients, and adherence will be associated with the number of prior
           telemedicine sepsis encounters (dose-response).

      The rationale for this research is that dissemination and implementation of best practices
      through rural networks remains difficult, but telemedicine offers one potential solution.
      Sepsis is an ideal model to study the effect of telemedicine because it differs from other
      acute care conditions treated in rural hospitals (e.g., trauma, myocardial infarction) in
      that early treatment provided in rural hospitals may be more important than rapid transfer to
      tertiary centers. Focusing on telemedicine in rural sepsis care will serve as a powerful
      model for examining strategies for disseminating innovations across rural networks.
    
  