
    
      After standard external monitors, pulse oximeter, electrocardiogram, noninvasive blood
      pressure, were applied on subject's arrival in the operation room. Subjects had an
      intravenous line placed in the upper extremity. Patients received midazolam (0.015-0.03
      mg.kg-1), sulfentanil (0.10-0.15µg.kg-1) by infusion, in divided doses, before lumbar plexus
      and sciatic nerve blocking and supplemental 100% oxygen (3 L.min-1) was administered by
      facemask spontaneously breathing during the procedure. The procedure was performed by two
      anesthesiologists with extensive experience in nerve block. After sterile preparation and
      draping, PNBs were administered using a 21-gauge, 100-mm Stimuplex block needle and a nerve
      stimulator. A posterior approach to lumbar plexus block was performed with patient in the
      lateral decubitus position and after a quadriceps muscle response had been identified with
      nerve stimulator settings at 2 HZ frequency and current between 0.3 and 0.5 mA, and 0.2%
      ropivacaine (25-30 mL) was injected slowly. Sciatic nerve block was performed in the same
      position after a twitch of hamstrings, soleus, foot, or toes, had been elicited using the
      similar current, and 0.2% ropivacaine (15-20 mL) was injected slowly.

      After nerve blocks finished, a standardized balanced anesthetic technique was provided in
      both groups. Anesthesia was administered with etomidate (0.1-0.2mg.kg-1) and rocuronium
      (0.4-0.6 mg.kg-1), and then suitable laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was facilitated with a
      respiratory rate of 10-12 bpm, an I:E ratio of 1:2 and an FiO2 of 0.6. Tidal volume will be
      adjusted to an end tidal CO2 of 35-40 mmHg. Maintaining with remifentanil (0.05-0.30
      µg.kg-1.min-1), target concentrations of propofol (0.3-2.0 µg.mL-1) and sevoflurane (0.4
      MAC). Infusion rates of propofol and remifentanil varied according to clinical judgment and
      bispectral index (BIS) range between 40 and 60. All procedures were performed by two veteran
      anesthesiologists.

      Every patient shows signs of inadequate anesthesia such as an increase in systolic arterial
      blood pressure > 20% from baseline or a heart rate greater than 90 in the absence of
      hypovolemia, sweating, flushing or movement, sulfentanil, 5-10µg, may be administered.
      Persistent hypertension without signs of inadequate anesthesia will be treated with
      nicardipine, 0.4 mg IV, every 3 min until return to baseline value. In both groups patients
      with a heart rate less than 50 bpm not correlated with blood pressure variation will receive
      atropine 0.3 mg every 3 minutes until heart rate is back to at least 50 bpm. In all patients,
      from anesthetic induction to end of surgery, a decrease in systolic blood pressure of more
      than 30% less than baseline values will be treated with ephedrine 6 mg or phenylephrine 100
      µg every 3 min until return to baseline value. Propofol will be stopped at completion of skin
      closure. Intraoperatively, each patient will also receive 2 mg of tropisetron to decrease
      postoperative nausea.

      Postoperative pain was controlled for all patients routinely by intravenous sulfentanil
      patient-controlled analgesia (PICA) in combination with Parecoxib (40 mg, every 12 h), a
      selective COX-2 inhibiter. PICA was continued with sulfentanil (0.9µg.h-1) and 0.9 µg
      sulfentanil bolus with a 8-min lockout time. Oral oxycodone 0.2 mg was administered
      necessarily.

      The doses of all IV drugs and duration of anesthesia and surgery will be recorded. Ephedrine
      and phenylephrine consumption and the amount of intravascular fluid administration and all
      the intraoperative drug dose adjustments will be recorded. The esophageal temperature of the
      patients will be monitored and maintained at 36 ℃using a force-air warming blanket and warmed
      i.v. fluids. Postoperative Recovery of the PQRS will be measured on presurgery, 15 minute, 40
      minute, 1 day, 3day, 7day postoperatively.

      Cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and Pulmonary complications (7days postoperation ),
      C-reacting protein (CRP) measured preoperatively and on 1, 3 and 7 day postoperatively.
      Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) measured preoperatively and on 1, 3 and 7 day
      postoperatively, IL-6 measured preoperatively and on 1, 3 and 7 day postoperatively;blood
      sugar measured preoperatively on 1, 3 and 7 day postoperatively, nervous system complications
      and charge measured before left hospital.
    
  