
    
      The investigators will conduct this study in 3 phases, employ Community Engaged Research
      (CEnR), and use guidelines for community participation developed through Yale Center for
      Clinical Investigation (YCCI/Yale's CTSA). The Social Ecological Model, depicting
      interactions among the environment, individual, family, community, and society as they
      influence health, will guide the study. The key informants and community and clinical
      stakeholders represent layers of the model49-51 acknowledging the critical intersection
      between the model components and health promotion behavior (i.e., healthy sleep habits).

      Community Engagement. The investigators will extend the CEnR process begun in our preliminary
      work to engage two groups of community stakeholders: parents of children between the ages of
      6-36 months and pediatric primary care clinicians who provide health care to those children.
      The investigators will invite 8-10 volunteers (pediatricians, nurse practitioners, parents of
      6-18 month old children, parents of 19-36 month olds) to join our team as members of a
      Community Advisory Committee that will meet quarterly throughout this project to assist with
      oversight and share decision-making about methods, interpretation of findings, and
      intervention development, implementation, evaluation, and dissemination. The investigators
      will meet at convenient times and locations and use conference calls if preferred. The
      investigators will compensate parents and providers for time spent in study activities and
      reimburse parents for taxi cab fare. The investigators will provide onsite childcare in a
      separate room from the interviews. The investigators will offer committee members
      co-authorship on reports and collaboration on disseminating information on sleep habits into
      the community. The investigators will also invite them to continue to guide future studies
      and intervention projects. Consistent with a CEnR approach, The investigators will include
      them as full partners in future collaborations as preferred.

      In Phase I/Aims 1 & 2 the investigators will employ a convergent mixed methods approach in
      which the investigators will collect quantitative (questionnaires) and qualitative interview
      data (semi-structured interview) about parents' perceptions of children's sleep, sleep
      habits, sleep difficulty, and sleep-promoting interventions (Aim 1). The investigators will
      also use semi-structured interviews to elicit perceptions about the importance of sleep,
      promotion of healthy sleep habits, sleep assessment, sleep difficulties, and barrier and
      facilitators to sleep promotion, assessment, and intervention from primary care clinicians
      (Aim 2).

      In Phase II/Aim 3 the investigators will collaborate with the Community Advisory Board to
      draft a sleep promotion program, based on phase I results and the literature. Deliverables
      will include objectives, content, procedures, protocols, patient materials, intervention
      fidelity procedures, and delivery methods, including a possible prototype of an mHealth
      approach. The investigators will use an iterative method, including focus groups with our two
      communities, for member checking and cognitive interviewing to assess feasibility, cultural
      relevance and acceptability of the intervention. Investigators will conduct feasibility
      testing of the sleep promotion intervention in one childcare center.
    
  