
    
      Aims

      Aim 1 To evaluate the long-term effects of a patient education program and a 12 week exercise
      therapy program (IG) compared to patient education only (CG) on hip function, quality of life
      and physical function in patients with hip OA not eligible for total hip arthroplasty (THA)
      at time of inclusion Aim 2

        1. To examine differences in radiographic changes between those individuals who went
           through a patient education program and a 12 week exercise therapy program (IG) compared
           to those who only went through a patient education program (CG) 2 years after inclusion.

        2. To examine predictive factors for radiographic changes and changes in hip function at a
           2 year follow-up after inclusion.

      Aim 3

        1. To evaluate hip function, quality of life and physical function in those patients who
           have gone through total hip arthroplasty (THA)

        2. To examine differences in hip function, quality of life, and physical function in
           patients who prior to surgery went through a patient education program and a 12 week
           exercise therapy program (IG) compared those patients who went through a patient
           education program only (CG) 6 months after THA.

      Material and methods

      Design:

      This study is a prospective, randomized clinical trial examining the long term effect of two
      different interventions for patients with hip OA. The long term follow-up is based on an
      ongoing study (03a-2005-NAR) on short term outcome.

      Patients:

      109 patients were recruited from Orthopaedic Center, Ullevål University Hospital, NIMI, and
      Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo from April 2005 till October 2007.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Patients between 40 and 80 years old with uni- or bilateral hip disability not eligible for
      hip surgery will be recruited from Orthopaedic Centre, Ullevål University Hospital, NIMI, and
      Diakonhjemmets Sykehus (Hospital), Oslo. Inclusion criteria for all subjects are:

        -  Harris Hip Score (35) between 60 and 95, and hip pain of more than 3 months.

        -  Radiographic verified hip OA,classified by an orthopaedic surgeon (LN), according to
           Danielsson's criteria for radiographic hip OA.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patients will be excluded if they have a history of resent trauma or functional impairment to
      the lower limbs or diseases which might interfere with participation (rheumatoid arthritis,
      cancer, osteoporosis, severe back pain, knee OA).

      Patients with co-morbidities not tolerating physical activities will be excluded.

      Interventions:

      The interventions are described in the registration concerning the short-term follow-up study
      (03a-2005-NAR).

      Outcome Measurements:

      The primary end point for Aim 1 and 3 is WOMAC (hip function), and the primary endpoint for
      Aim 2 is radiographic changes using the Danielsson's criteria for minimal joint space.

      Pain and Functional Activity: The primary (main) outcome measurement is the self-reported
      functional outcome measure, the disease-specific questionnaire Western Ontario and McMaster
      Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). WOMAC is found to be a valid, reliable and
      responsive outcome measure in patients with hip OA.

      The self-reported Physical Activity Score for the Elderly (PASE) will be used to record the
      individuals activity level prior to inclusion and at follow-up intervals. Hip pain will be
      recorded on a visual analogue scale (VAS) rating from 0 to 100 mm; 0 represents "no pain" and
      100 represents "as much pain he/she can possibly imagine". The pain will be recorded after
      the 6 minutes walking test (se below).

      Six minute walk test (Enright, 2003): Observed functional capacity and cardiovascular fitness
      will be assessed by a six minute walk test. This test has been reliability estimated for
      older adults and validated for older adults and individuals with total hip arthroplasty.

      Health related quality of life and pain management: Quality of life will be assessed by using
      the self-administered generic questionnaire 36-item short-form health survey (SF-36) version
      2.

      Muscle strength: Isokinetic muscle strength will be tested in Technogym REV 9000 (Gambettola,
      Italia) and measured as peak torque at 60°s-1 for hip flexion/extension, knee
      flexion/extension and ankle flexion/extension.

      Cardiovascular Fitness (Åstrand & Rodahl, 1986): Tested by a sub-maximal bicycle ergometer
      test according to the method described by Åstrand & Rodahl. The load will be adjusted to each
      subject. Results will be corrected for age and gender and expressed in ml O2 / kg / min.

      Range of motion: Measured with a plastic goniometer. Flexion, abduction, and adduction is
      registered in supine position, with a fixation of the contralateral leg. Internal and
      external rotation is registered in prone position with fixation over buttocks. Extension is
      registered according to Thomas test.

      Radiographic examination: Hip X-rays will be taken at inclusion and at 2 year follow-up, and
      are classified by an orthopaedic surgeon (LN), according to Danielsson's criteria for
      radiographic hip OA.

      Data Collections and Follow-Up:

      Data will be collected at inclusion, after the 12 weeks intervention period, and at
      follow-ups at 6 months, 1 year and 2 years. Data from all outcome measurements will be
      collected from all patients at all follow-ups, except at 1 year follow-up, where only the
      questionnaires will be included. Radiographic examination is only included at inclusion and
      at 2 year follow-up.

      Power Calculations:

      The WOMAC Index is the main outcome measurement. Power calculations based on a standard
      deviation of 23 mm, and a minimum clinically important difference of 15 mm between groups
      calculated that there is a need for 49 patients in each group. To account for drop-outs, a
      total of 109 patients is included in the RCT.

      Blinding:

      Personnel responsible for the intervention will not be involved in data collection. Physical
      therapists collecting data will be blinded for patients' group allocation. A research
      coordinate person, not involved in any part of the study intervention or data collections,
      will be responsible for randomization procedures (give subjects information about group
      allocation)

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data in the randomized controlled trial will be analyzed both according to the intention to
      treat principles and additional analysis for the compliers adhering to the exercise protocol
      at a cut-off value of 24 or more training sessions.

      Registration of Complications, Drop-Outs and Compliance:

      Complications and drop-outs will be registered by persons responsible for data collection.
      There will be used intention to treat analysis. Compliance to the patient education and the
      exercise protocol will be registered by the physical therapists responsible for the
      treatment.

      Ethics:

      All patients and control subjects will receive written and oral information about the study
      and sign an informed consent before inclusion. The project will be performed according to
      recommendations of the Helsinki Declaration. Approval is obtained from the Regional Committee
      of Medical Research Ethics.
    
  