
    
      Thoracic operations are among the most post-operative painful surgeries. Without a doubt, the
      emergence of the thoracoscopic approaches has decreased pain severity. The classical methods
      of pain control that is used in the open thoracic procedures are not suitable in the
      thoracoscopic milieu. As such, pain control methods should be examined. The most accepted
      methods are those using different anesthetic blocks based on local anesthetic (Bupivacaine),
      whether in intercostal block or paravertebral one. Today the investigators use intercostal
      block consistently in thoracospoic procedures.

      Recently, the use of the pectoral nerve block (Pecs II) has emerged for different chest wall
      surgeries, which has proved to be helpful. As a consequence,the investigators want to examine
      the efficiency of this block in the control of postoperative pain after thoracoscopic
      procedures.

      In this prospective comparative study, patients will be randomly classified into two groups.
      In the control group, patients will get intercostal block at the end of the surgery and after
      then will be treated by the customary postoperative pain control regimen. This group
      represents the existent treating policy.

      In the research group, patients with get PECS II block at the end of the surgery and will get
      a similar postoperative pain control regimen.

      The follow up will include checking the pain level in the postoperative days, the extent of
      the pain relief medication until the discharge, and patient evaluation at the first
      post-discharge inspection.

      The study will include 40 patients in each arm, which will be older than 18 years without
      gender limitations. This study will not include people with special demands.

      Main inclusion criteria: patients planned for thoracoscopic procedures in the investigators
      department, capable of understanding, reading and signing on the consent form.

      Main exclusion criteria: re-operation in the early post-operative period, re-operation at the
      same side, a known allergy to BUPIVACAINE.

      In the case of conversion from thoracoscopic to open approach, patients will be expelled from
      the study.

      The block will be performed solely by the surgeon or the anesthesiologist. Follow-up period
      will include the postoperative hospitalization period until the first post-discharge
      inspection.
    
  