
    
      Tumor and normal cells display differential sensitivity to nutrient and growth factor
      deprivation. Due to high proliferation rates, most tumor cells depend on continuous energy
      and metabolic replenishment to renew and duplicate their intracellular components, such as
      lipid membranes, organelles, DNA and proteins; moreover, as a consequence of constitutive
      activation of oncogenic pathways, they are unable to halt their proliferation during
      starvation. This exposes them to acute energetic and anabolic crisis when nutrients (e.g.
      glucose, amino acids) and growth factors (e.g. insulin) in the extracellular environment are
      scarce. Starvation-induced toxicity is even higher when tumor cells are exposed to cytotoxic
      compounds, such as DNA damaging agents. Indeed, repair mechanisms that are essential to
      survive damage induced by cytotoxic chemotherapy require energy (in the form of ATP units)
      and metabolic precursors (e.g., nucleotides) that are potentially reduced at the tumor site
      during nutrient deprivation.

      Conversely, cells of healthy tissues are more capable of adapting their proliferation and
      metabolism to the metabolic contexture. In conditions of nutrient and growth factor
      deprivation, most normal cells enter a quiescent proliferative status, thus reducing energy-
      and metabolite-requiring processes, such as DNA, lipid and protein synthesis; they also
      activate catabolic processes, such as autophagy, which provide the minimal amount of
      metabolites to survive starvation. Proliferative quiescence not only prevents the occurrence
      of damage to intracellular structures and orgenelles, but also favors their repair by sparing
      energy units and essential metabolites.

      This differential response to starvation by cancer and normal cells could be potentially
      exploited to selectively target in vivo human cancers, while sparing healthy tissues. Cyclic
      fasting or a plant-based, calorie-restricted, low-carbohydrate low-protein diet known as
      fasting mimicking diet (FMD), are two approaches that have emerged in recent years to
      selectively target the metabolic vulnerabilities of malignant cells. Indeed, they are capable
      of inducing meaningful modifications in systemic metabolism, such as reduction of blood
      glucose insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) in both mice and healthy volunteers.

      Studies performed in preclinical models of several cancers have demonstrated that cyclic
      fasting/FMD produce synergistic anticancer effects when combined with cytotoxic chemotherapy,
      while protecting normal tissues and stimulating antitumor immunity. So far, only a few
      studies have tested the effects of fasting/FMD in healthy volunteers or cancer patients.

      In healthy volunteers, three consecutive cycles of FMD have been shown to be safe and
      associated with meaningful changes in risk factors for chronic diseases. In cancer patients,
      a few small studies have demonstrated that short-term fasting (1-3 consecutive days every 3-4
      weeks) is feasible and safe in combination with standard chemotherapy, including
      platinum-based chemotherapy. However, the effects of the FMD in cancer patients have not been
      investigated so far.

      This study,aims to test the safety, feasibility and metabolic effects of the
      fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) in patients with different malignant neoplasms.

      Patients highly motivated to follow the FMD in combination with their standard treatments,
      will be considered for enrollment in this study. All enrolled patients will be prescribed the
      same 5-day FMD regimen, which consists of a calorie-restricted (about 600 Kcal on day 1, 300
      Kcal/day on days 2 to 5), low-carbohydrate, low-protein diet, which will be repeated every
      21-28 days. A maximum of 8 consecutive FMD cycles will be prescribed. During each of the 5
      days on FMD, patients will have at least one daily contact (by email or phone) with the study
      staff to communicate body weight, blood pressure, health conditions, adverse events and the
      amount of food and beverages introduced (also reported in daily food diaries). In the
      interval between consecutive FMD cycles, patients will not be prescribed any maintenance
      diet, but will receive generic dietary recommendations based on World Cancer Research Fund
      (WCRF 2007) or the American Cancer Society (ACS 2012) recommendations for cancer prevention
      and cancer survivors.

      Patients with any malignancy, except for small cell neuroendocrine tumors, and any disease
      stage are potentially eligible for this study. Patients with a body mass index (BMI) < 20
      kg/m2, as well as patients who lost more than 5% of their basal weight in the last 3 months,
      will be excluded from the study. Patients with severe comorbidities, or diabetes mellitus
      requiring pharmacologic therapies, will be also excluded. The FMD will be permanently
      discontinued in the case of FMD-related grade 4 adverse events (AEs) or serious adverse
      events (SAEs), or in the case that patient BMI goes below 20 kg/m2 during the FMD and is not
      restored between two consecutive FMD cycles.

      Patients enrolled in this study will receive standard-of-care treatment for their tumor,
      including chemotherapy, radiotherapy, molecular target therapy, immunotherapy or best
      supportive care. Both patients with metastatic disease and patients undergoing adjuvant
      therapy after curative surgery will be candidate to enter this protocol.

      The primary endpoint of the study is safety of the FMD in combination with standard antitumor
      treatments. Safety will be assessed by reporting and grading FMD-related AEs according to NCI
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAEs) v 4.03. SAEs will be also reported.

      FMD feasibility, FMD-induced metabolic effects, weight changes, and modifications of other
      blood and biochemical parameters will be secondary endpoints.

      Feasibility will be assessed by evaluating the patient ability to comply with the prescribed
      dietary scheme. To do so, all patients will fill a daily food diary during each of the 5 days
      on FMD. At the end of the study, diaries will be analyzed. Based on the presence of major and
      minor deviations from the prescribed dietary scheme, patients will be defined as "compliant"
      or "not compliant".

      FMD-induced metabolic effects will be quantified by measuring blood and urine metabolites and
      growth factors before the initiation and at completion of each FMD cycle (i.e. before
      resuming the normal diet). Absolute and relative metabolite and growth factor modifications
      will be reported. Standard metabolites (e.g. blood glucose, triglycerides, total and HDL
      cholesterol, urine ketone bodies) will be measured. In selected patients, plasma and whole
      blood fatty acids and some amino acids will be measured too.

      The effect of the FMD on patient weight will be assessed by measuring absolute and relative
      weight changes during each FMD cycle and along with subsequent cycles.

      Changes occurring in other blood parameters, including blood cell counts, aspartate and
      alanine transaminases, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and uric acid, C reactive protein,
      total proteins and albumin, will be also measured before and at the end of each FMD cycle.

      Finally, diet-induced changes in peripheral blood fatty acid and phospholipid profiles, as
      well as of immune cell populations, will be assessed in selected patients as exploratory
      analyses.
    
  