
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the response rate in patients with progressive, advanced ovarian epithelial
           cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer who have methylated hMLH1
           DNA in plasma treated with carboplatin with vs without decitabine.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the response rate in all patients (regardless of methylation status) treated
           with these regimens.

        -  To compare the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  To compare the safety and tolerability of these regimens.

        -  To determine the feasibility of combining decitabine with carboplatin.

        -  To determine the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to carboplatin.

        -  To study the relationship between peak plasma levels of decitabine and global or CpG
           island specific methylation.

        -  To study the relationship between global and gene specific methylation in peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells and response.

      Tertiary

        -  To correlate the methylation status of genes associated with drug resistance detected in
           plasma DNA with response.

        -  To determine the sensitivity and specificity of methylation of genes associated with
           drug resistance detected in plasma DNA as a predictor of methylation status in tumor
           cells isolated from ascites or tumor biopsy.

        -  To study methylation and expression of genes in tumor cells isolated from ascites or
           tumor biopsy before and after treatment with decitabine and/or carboplatin.

        -  To investigate any correlation between methylation and expression of genes in surrogate
           tissues, body fluids, or tumor cells and response or progression-free survival.

        -  To examine markers of cell death in plasma.

        -  To compare the methylation in tumor taken at the time of presentation vs at the time of
           treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior first-line
      treatment (platinum alone vs platinum and taxane vs platinum and other combination), WHO
      performance status (0 vs 1 vs 2), measurable disease criteria (RECIST criteria vs CA-125
      criteria vs both), participating center, and the number of prior platinum-based regimens (1
      vs 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive decitabine IV over 6 hours on day 1 and carboplatin IV over
           30-60 minutes on day 8.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacodynamic studies. Samples
      are assessed for methylation of hMLH1 by methylation-specific PCR; global DNA methylation by
      high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) ; methylation of the MAGE-1A gene promoter by
      methylation-specific PCR or bisulfite pyrosequencing; and markers of apoptosis by ELISA.
      Pharmacokinetic studies of decitabine are also performed using blood samples from patients
      randomized to arm II. Ascitic fluid and/or tumor tissue samples may also be collected for
      pharmacodynamic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 28 days and then every 2 months
      thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  