
    
      This will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled study that tests the effects of a 7-day
      treatment with 600 mg mifepristone, or placebo, on cognitive function, tobacco withdrawal
      severity and smoking behavior. Once the intake and physical examination is completed and
      eligibility is determined, subjects will participate in a baseline session to become familiar
      with the study procedures and to assess baseline measures of withdrawal, smoking urges, pain
      sensitivity, and cognitive performance. Subjects will be asked to refrain from consuming
      alcoholic beverages and drugs during their study participation. This will be verified by
      urine drug screening and breathalyzer before the session and during outpatient visits. If
      results indicate non-compliance with these study procedures, subjects will be discharged from
      the study.

      Participants will be assessed for compliance with medication treatment, withdrawal severity,
      recent smoking behavior, and cognitive function during treatment visits on Days 1 and 4. On
      Day 7, following overnight abstinence from smoking, participants will attend a test session
      that models relapse to smoking. During this session, subjects will have the option to smoke,
      or to delay smoking in exchange for monetary compensation (45). To examine if mifepristone's
      proposed therapeutic effects last beyond the treatment duration (as observed in previous
      studies), there will be 1-week and 1-month follow-up assessments on smoking behavior, urges
      to smoke, endocrine biomarkers, and cognitive function.

      Participants in each group will complete the laboratory-based, delayed smoking procedure in a
      designated, negative pressure room in Bldg. 36 of the West Haven VA just after assessing pain
      sensitivity with the cPT. This sequence allows the cPT to assess pain sensitivity, a
      potential biomarker of relapse behavior, and to also be used as a mild stressor prior to
      participation in the smoking relapse model. Participants will be instructed to abstain from
      smoking after 10 pm the night before Test Sessions. Abstinence will be confirmed the morning
      of the session by measuring a breath CO level of < 8 ppm.
    
  