
    
      The G-Power 3.0.10. Computed required sample size (alpha:0.05, effect size:0.3 and power 0.8)
      related to t-test of the difference between two dependent means(matched pairs) according to
      the 5% change of before and after heartbeat outcome parameters with Standard derivations of (
      -/+12 to +/-15). The total sample size of ninety participants is evaluated to be enough for
      the study. However, fifty participants are planned to be enrolled in each group (a total of
      100 participants) to compensate for possible losses in this prospective, randomized clinical
      study. Six parameters will be evaluated, and three scales will be performed in each group.
      The six parameters are Heart Rate-1, Spo2-1, Body Temperature-1, Heart Rate-2, Spo2-2, Body
      Temperature-2. The three scales are 11 point Verbal Numeric Rating Scale-1, 11 point Verbal
      Numeric Rating Scale-2, and Visual Analog Scale. Those parameters will be measured
      non-invasively, without causing any pain.

      The randomization is planned to be done with the sealed envelope modeling. One of the
      envelopes is planned to be chosen by each participant after the written consent form approval
      from the child and his/her parents. The envelopes have either a "C" letter or "L" letter
      inside representing C as {Group C: "The Control Group"}, representing L as {Group L: "The
      Lidocaine Group"} will be opened by the principal investigator. The bottle 1(Serum
      Physiologic inside) or bottle 2( Lidocaine inside) will be given to the ward nurse according
      to the letters in the envelope. The ward nurse will be blinded according to the ingredients
      in the bottles. The outcome parameters and the scales will be recorded by the nurse in the
      investigation. The nurse in the investigation will be blinded about the groups, the envelopes
      and the ingredients performed to the participants.

      The study is planned to last in 4 months (16 weeks) time. However, in the middle of the
      study( 25 participants undertaken within each group), post-doc tests are planned to be done.
      If the power of the study according to the post-Hoc tests are more than 80%, the study will
      be stopped.
    
  