
    
      The study will be designed as a single-center prospective randomized controlled trial.
      Subjects will be assigned to the standard of care dietary recommendations handout vs a mobile
      application that analyzes sodium content of shopping lists that are created prior to shopping
      trips to the grocery store. The intervention will be administered for 8 weeks. The trial will
      be split into two phases, 1) Pilot phase, and 2) Trial phase. Once we have enrolled 20
      subjects in the intervention arm, we will analyze whether an appropriate percentage of
      subjects have completed the study and adequate data is being collected. At the end of the
      trial, outcomes will be measured as follows:

        1. Mean change in score on a Knowledge of Low Sodium Diet validated questionnaire completed
           at baseline and at the end of the study (primary outcome)

           -- The minimum and maximum scores are 0 and 26, respectively. A higher score indicates a
           better knowledge of LSD and we hypothesize that use of the software application will
           result in a higher score on the questionnaire.

        2. Mean change in urinary sodium measured on two baseline 24hr collections and two end of
           study 24hr collections (primary outcome)

           -- We hypothesize that an always-available application that helps guide subjects in
           grocery choices will decrease the 24hr sodium level compared to the control group

        3. Within-group assessment of how often the Healthcart application is used to create
           shopping carts and recording of changes in shopping cart sodium score over the study
           period (secondary outcome)

           -- Healthcare interventions delivered via mobile applications are quite novel at this
           time and the data regarding uptake and usage is limited. These outcome measures will add
           to this body of data.

        4. Clinical data (exploratory outcomes)
    
  