
    
      Musculoskeletal diseases, such as neck and low back pain, are widespread disorders in many
      developed countries. Their management is challenging, and it may have mounting socioeconomic
      burden. Several evidences in the literature demonstrate the efficacy of many therapeutic
      strategies in the treatment of these conditions, based on pharmacological or surgical
      interventions. Physical medicine therapies are good alternatives that may have beneficial
      effects, especially when used as first line of intervention before approaching more expensive
      pharmacological or invasive medications. The beneficial analgesic effects of Applicatio
      Epispasticorum of Rubefacenciae (redden skin substances), is known since 1830 as a treatment
      for pain, cramps, and disorders of the musculoskeletal system. Herbal cataplasms containing
      rubefacient substances, such as Cayenne pepper (CP), are commonly used as natural medications
      to treat painful or aching areas in the case of acute or chronic back pain, and rheumatisms.
      They are also used in pain involving joints caused by osteoarthritis. A galenic preparation
      composed of rubefacient substances of vegetable origin, which generated vasodilation and
      increase in blood circulation on the treated areas, was first prescribed in 1909 by Dr.
      Giuseppe Munari to treat pain of various areas of the locomotive system. He proposed a method
      based on applications prepared according to his own galenic formula that have become famous
      all over Italy and Europe. In Vienna and lower Austria, a Munari-like application containing
      CP and Kaolin powder in mixed proportion, is commonly used to treat musculoskeletal
      conditions of pain especially of the low back. The research on responses to CPC applications,
      particularly in combination with other modalities is scarce.

      Therefore, the aims of the present study are firstly to evaluate the effects of 10x 20min CP
      cataplasm application on selected functional and molecular parameters on healthy subjects.
      Then, the same applications will be used on subjects suffering from low back pain (LBP) -
      both as a single treatment and in combination with electrical stimulation and massage.
    
  