
    
      Vocal fold paralysis is a clinical condition that arises commonly as a complication of
      surgery, endotracheal intubation, malignancy, or idiopathic etiologies. It often results in
      glottal insufficiency, which is the inability of the true vocal folds to meet and achieve
      complete closure during normal physiologic functions such as speech, swallowing, and
      coughing. The presence of vocal fold paralysis with glottal insufficiency can lead to
      decreased quality-of-life, as well as increase risks of complications such as aspiration
      pneumonia.

      Current treatments for vocal fold paralysis are based around techniques to medialize the
      paralyzed vocal fold. One manner in which this is done is via injection of a filler or
      bulking agent into the vocal fold in order to augment it. Injection augmentation has many
      advantages including its minimally invasive nature, overall safety and low risk/complication
      rate, immediate clinical effect, and ability to perform it at the bedside or in-office.
      Various materials are used for injection augmentation including autologous fat, hyaluronic
      acid, collagen, carboxymethylcellulose, and calcium hydroxyapatite. However, all of the
      current injection choices have individual limitations such as temporary effect,
      unpredictability due to variable resorption by the body, unfavorable mechanical properties,
      and challenging handling attributes.

      Silk is derived from the Bombyx mori silk worm and has a long history as a surgical
      biomaterial. Surgical scaffolds derived from silk have been used for reconstructive surgery,
      due to its ability to allow cellular infiltration and encourage tissue
      regeneration/remodeling. Given the potential advantages of such a material, Brown et al
      engineered and studied a novel silk protein microparticle-based filler material suitable for
      injection augmentation.

      Patients with unilateral vocal fold paralysis identified at the study sites will be offered
      participation in this study to receive injection augmentation of the paralyzed vocal fold
      with the filler material under investigation. Outcome measures evaluated pre- and
      post-injection and over follow-up visits will include various patient reported quality of
      life indices, objective clinical assessments of voice, laryngeal videostroboscopy
      examinations, and acoustic/aerodynamic testing. The investigators hypothesize that the novel
      silk protein microparticle-based filler will have a favorable safety profile for use as an
      injectable material in the human larynx and it will produce durable clinical benefit lasting
      up to 12 months.
    
  