
    
      The relationship between depression and anxiety disorders has long been described, and
      comorbid depression and anxiety are highly prevalent conditions. The current study will focus
      on mild to moderate depressive and anxiety symptoms and include a variety of individuals from
      the depression and anxiety spectrum disorders.The objectives of the current study are to
      evaluate the antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy of SZ-05 treatment in a 6-week
      double-blind randomized trial, and underlying the molecular mechanisms.

      Clinical trial study design:

      A randomized, double-blind controlled trial will be performed. Patients will be randomized to
      SZ-05 (2.5 gr (14); 2-3 capsules twice a day, and 1 placebo capsule) or escitalopram (10 mg
      capsule plus 5 placebo capsules at the same regime as SZ-05) daily treatment at a ratio of
      2:1. Overall the study will be conducted for 8 weeks, and will include six weeks of
      double-blind controlled trial, followed by two weeks of escitalopram treatment. 30 patients
      will be enrolled to each arm of the trial (overall 60 patients will be recruited). After
      baseline evaluation and signing informed consent, subjects will be asked to fill a
      socio-demographic questionnaire, and to undergo a clinical differential diagnosis using the
      Symptoms Check List (SCL)-90, Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Hamilton anxiety rating scale
      (HAM-A), Hamilton depression rating scale (HAM-D), Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS), and two
      visual analogue scales (VAS)- general anxiety, and mood. Subjects will be monitored at
      baseline and every two weeks for six weeks, and every week in the last two weeks of the trial
      using HAM-A, HAM-D, VASs and SDS. Adverse effects will be documented every evaluation using
      the Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale. Subjects will be monitoring for heart rate and blood
      pressure at baseline and every week till the end of the trial. The herbal treatment and
      escitalopram will be added to the current drug treatment (non-antidepressant). Any change in
      the patient non-antidepressant treatment is required to be reported to the study personnel.
    
  