
    
      Peripheral neuropathy is one of the most common chronic diseases and a leading cause of adult
      disability in the U.S. Diabetic neuropathy represents over a third of all neuropathies,
      making diabetes the leading cause of peripheral neuropathy, affecting about 15-18 million
      Americans.

      Living with neuropathy can cause tremendous frustration and social isolation. The daily
      chronic pain impacts day-to-day functionality resulting in physical and psychological
      problems including impaired concentration, anxiety, depression, a decline in cognitive
      abilities, and sleep difficulties which in turn can lead to irritability and increased pain
      sensitivity. Additionally, the economic burden from medical costs and workplace productivity
      losses are high and on the rise as the incidence of peripheral neuropathy increases.

      Peripheral neuropathy describes damage to the peripheral nervous system that interferes with
      vital nerve connections, distorting and sometimes interrupting messages between the brain and
      the rest of the body. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a chronic acquired form of nerve
      damage that can occur in individuals with diabetes wherein the primary cause is damage to
      nerve fibers and blood vessels from prolonged exposure to high blood sugar (glucose). While
      the precise mechanism for this damage remains unclear, a combination of factors likely plays
      a role, including the complex interaction between nerves and blood vessels. High blood
      glucose interferes with the ability of the nerves to transmit signals and weakens the walls
      of the small blood vessels (capillaries) that supply the nerves with oxygen and nutrients.

      The primary and most debilitating symptom of diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a sensation of
      tingling, prickling, buzzing, pinching, burning, and/or sharp jabbing stabbing pain in the
      feet.

      Nerve pain from diabetic peripheral neuropathy can be severe, constant, and difficult to
      treat. Current therapies include an array of over-the-counter and prescription medications or
      alternative treatment options such as injections or patches of local anesthetics; surgical
      destruction of nerves; implantation of a device to relieve pain; transcutaneous
      electrotherapy (TENS); hand or foot braces and orthopedic shoes.

      Low Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) communicates information to the receptors on the membrane of
      the cell and mitochondrion (the enzymatic engine of the cell). This energetic information
      reaches the cell's DNA, which directly controls cell function. When the cells receive better
      information, they work better, as do the tissues they comprise, like bones, cartilage,
      tendons, ligaments, etc. In this way, LLLT promotes the healing and regeneration of damaged
      tissues, having both local effects on tissue function and also systemic effects carried
      throughout the body by the blood and acupuncture meridians. The key basic physiological
      effects of low level laser light include increased cell membrane polarization and
      permeability; Adenosine-5-triphosphate (ATP) production and respiratory chain activity;
      enzyme activity; collagen and epithelial production; capillary formation; macrophage (immune)
      activity; analgesic effects due to elevated endorphin production, electrolytic nerve
      blockage, and improved blood and lymph flow; anti-inflammatory effect due to improved
      circulation and accelerated tissue regeneration; and increased production of antioxidants. Of
      additional benefit is that light energy from low level lasers will only be absorbed by cells
      and tissues that are not functioning normally and has no effect on healthy cells.

      Therefore, low level laser therapy has the potential benefit of providing an effective means
      of reducing low back pain that is simple, quick, non-invasive and side-effect free.
    
  