
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if one or both of the proposed intraperitoneal chemotherapy regimens improves
      the progression-free survival (PFS) event rate compared to standard intravenous chemotherapy
      for first-line treatment of patients diagnosed with advanced stage ovarian, peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer.

      II. If both intraperitoneal (IP) regimens significantly improve the PFS event rate compared
      to the standard regimen, then a second study objective is to determine whether IP cisplatin
      and intravenous (IV) paclitaxel on day one plus IP paclitaxel on day eight improves the PFS
      event rate when compared to the IP carboplatin and IV paclitaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if intraperitoneal chemotherapy reduces the overall death rate compared to
      standard intravenous chemotherapy.

      II. To assess the frequency and severity of adverse events as defined by Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0.

      III. To compare the patient-reported outcomes on: Quality of Life (Function Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy-Ovarian-Trial Outcome Index [FACT-O-TOI]), Neuropathy (FACT-Gynecologic
      Oncology Group/Neurotoxicity [GOG/NTX4] scale), Abdominal discomfort (FACT-GOG/AD scale),
      Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue scale), and Nausea (item from FACT-O-TOI).

      IV. To assess the frequency and the reasons for early discontinuation of the study
      treatments.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research and examine the
      association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and measures of clinical outcome
      including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

      II. To bank archival tumor for research and examine the association between tumor markers and
      measures of clinical outcome including overall survival, progression-free survival and
      adverse events.

      III. Patients will be encouraged to enroll on the companion translational research protocol
      (CEM0703 under development).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 in
      courses 2-6. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone in courses 7-22
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel as in Arm I and carboplatin IP on day 1. Patients also
      receive bevacizumab as in Arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone as
      in Arm I.

      ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1, cisplatin IP on day 2, and
      paclitaxel IP on day 8. Patients also receive bevacizumab as in Arm I. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive bevacizumab alone as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  