
    
      All older adults experience some degree of cognitive compromise as they age and approximately
      32 percent of adults aged 85 and older suffer from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Alzheimer's
      Association estimates that delaying the onset of AD symptoms by only five years would reduce
      the rate of incidence by 50 percent! The present clinical trial builds on a wealth of
      observational work and more recent experimental research conducted in the PI's lab, which
      suggests that an important element of maintaining cognitive vitality for life is sustained
      engagement in mentally-challenging activities. In a U.S. sample of cognitively normal adults,
      we recently demonstrated that older adults who were randomly assigned to learn digital
      photography, quilting, or both, in fast-paced, demanding classes for 15 hours per week for
      three months, showed enhanced episodic memory function-both at the end of the engagement
      period and, importantly, one year later (Park et al., 2014). The observed memory improvements
      were in comparison to two active control conditions that were low in new learning: a social
      engagement group that had fun but did not engage in active learning, and a placebo condition
      where participants worked on low-effort cognitive tasks that relied on use of previous
      knowledge. We also found similar facilitation effects when older adults were trained to use
      many different applications on an iPad. The lab most recently reported that older
      participants who participated in high-effort engagement conditions showed an increase in
      neural efficiency, exhibiting a change in neural activity from a pre-intervention pattern
      characteristic of older adults to a post-intervention pattern typical of young adults. Based
      on these findings, which included relatively small numbers of subjects, we will conduct a
      larger clinical trial to determine whether mentally challenging activities facilitate memory
      in cognitively normal adults via changes of neural structure and function. We propose to
      conduct a clinical trial study that will (a) evaluate the efficacy of different types of
      engagement in improving cognitive function in older adults, (b) examine the likelihood that
      mental effort invested is the underlying mechanism accounting for engagement effects, (c)
      show whether engaging in high-demand activities results in reliable brain changes. We expect
      to demonstrate that when older adults engage for a sustained period of time in high-effort
      tasks (learning photography), both their memory and the modulation capacity of their brain
      will increase.

      Randomization Procedure and Statistical Analyses:

      Potential participants will complete an initial eligibility form. We will contact those who
      are deemed eligible, and we will follow up with a TICS cognitive phone interview screening
      and provide the link to an on-line demographic enrollment questionnaire.

      We will invite subjects who pass these screens to attend an informational session. At these
      sessions, project RAs will consent potential participants and have them complete the MRI
      screening form. We will schedule consenting participants for cognitive testing and MRI scans
      (if applicable).

      During the 3-week period set aside for cognitive and MRI testing, we will assign subjects
      among the three treatment arms using a centrally created randomization scheme. Because
      baseline data for all potential participants will be available at the time of randomization,
      we will use the rerandomization method of Morgan and Rubin (2012 Annals of Statistics
      40:1263), which can achieve improved covariate balance in this setting. We will generate a
      series of randomizations and evaluate them for balance on age, education, and sex,
      designating balance in terms of the MANOVA F statistic comparing the distributions of the
      covariates across the treatment groups. Once we identify a randomization that meets this
      criterion, we will apply it to the eligible participants.

      Preliminary Analyses. In initial analyses, we will summarize categorical variables by
      proportions and continuous variables by means and quantiles. We will graph continuous
      variables and assess them for skewness, transforming if necessary (for example by logs or
      square roots) to render them more nearly normally distributed. We will explore relationships
      among variables by examining scatter plots and correlation matrices. We will conduct all
      analyses in R (version 3.3.2 or later) or SAS (version 9.4 or later).

      Analysis of Primary Outcome Variables. The primary cognitive outcome endpoint will be a
      composite, scalar episodic memory score. This measure will exhibit substantial
      between-subject variability, in that subjects who give high scores at baseline are likely to
      give high scores at follow-up as well. To account for this, in primary analyses we will
      adjust for baseline levels by analysis of covariance - i.e., including baseline values
      together with treatment arm in a regression model for the post-treatment outcome.
      Alternatively (and equivalently), we can analyze the outcome variable in a mixed model,
      evaluating a treatment effect by estimating a time-by-treatment interaction, including
      pre-treatment (baseline) and end-of-treatment (14-week) outcome. As a secondary analysis to
      further elucidate the magnitude and timing of treatment effects, we will seek to create
      parsimonious models of this outcome as a function of time, treatment arm, stratification
      factors (age, sex, education) and potentially other factors measured at baseline.

      The primary brain outcome will be a vector measure of fMRI activation in the four brain
      regions of interest: mid-cingulate, precuneus, intraparietal suclus, and inferior temporal
      gyrus. This measure is also likely to exhibit substantial between-subject variability. We
      will again analyze the outcome variable in a mixed model, evaluating the treatment effect by
      estimating a time-by-treatment interaction, and conduct a secondary analysis where we model
      activation in the four regions as functions of time, treatment arm, stratification factors
      (age, sex, education) and potentially other factors measured at baseline.
    
  