
    
      Healthcare associated infection (HAI) also known as Nosocomial Infection (NI) is costly to
      the NHS and distressing to patients. It leads to increased morbidity and mortality, increased
      length of stay and often requires additional treatments. Information on the impact in terms
      of additional cost of treatment, reduction in quality of life and cost to society is not
      fully described. This study will collect epidemiological and economic data on patients with
      and without HAI and develop a framework around which the cost effectiveness of a range of
      Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) interventions can be assessed.

      The study will be delivered as 4 distinct but overlapping work Phases Phase 1 will describe
      the incidence of HAI (defined by ECDC case definitions) in an admission cohort. This phase is
      a surveillance project.

      Phase 2: Will describe the impact of HAI on care in hospital -as many patients as possible
      who acquired HAI and twice as many non-HAI comparators will be recruited. Patients or their
      guardians or nearest relative will be told about the study and asked if they are willing to
      provide consent to complete a number of questionnaires. This phase will include case note
      review by ECONI research nurses and a patient questionnaire.

      Phase 3: Will investigate the impact of HAI on patient care post discharge (use of Health and
      Social Care resources outside of Hospital), Quality of Life and personal expenses) -
      questionnaire to patients to ask about impact on their overall health and wellbeing and
      personal expenses. This will involve patients completing a paper questionnaire at one, three,
      six and twelve months after they have been discharged from hospital. This phase will include
      a nested qualitative study which will interview 20-30 patients who acquired HAI to further
      investigate the impact of HAI on their lives and livelihoods Phase 4: This phase will not
      involve any patient interaction. It will develop a framework to support modelling for
      decision making for future investment in Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) based on data
      collected within Phase one to three above. The information collected during the first three
      phases will be used to model possible outcomes of infection prevention and control measures.
      This will be a modelling exercise using data collected within Phase 1, 2 and 3 and the
      protocol for this work will be described elsewhere.

      Phase 2 and 3 will be a cohort of as many patients as possible with HAI and a sample of
      non-HAI patients (twice the number of HAI patients) who consent to participate in the study
      within the year of recruitment.

      Modes of data collection

        1. Research Nurse administered questionnaire on recruitment quality of life questionnaire
           on recruitment

        2. Day before discharge quality of life questionnaire

        3. 1 month post discharge questionnaire

        4. 3 month post discharge questionnaire

        5. 6 month post discharge questionnaire

        6. 12 month post discharge questionnaire

        7. Record linkage - SMOR00, SMR01, PRISMA, District nursing

        8. 1,500-3,000 patients recruited for follow up.

        9. All admissions to study hospitals for record linkage. Follow up duration 1 year post
           discharge from admission when patient was recruited.

      Data will be collected using a Redcap database. Where possible controlled lists will be
      included within the database to ensure consistency of reporting. Validation visits to study
      sites will be undertaken throughout the study data collection period. Standard operating
      procedures will be developed for the ECONI team to use during recruitment and data
      collection. A data dictionary will be developed to record all data items recorded during the
      study, where these data were sourced, the choices available and the field-names within the
      data set. A publications and communication plan has been developed for the study and an
      analysis plan will be developed linking each of the objectives to a peer reviewed
      publication. A number of systematic reviews have be undertaken in the development of the
      ECONI study protocol.
    
  