
    
      This study will be conducted in two parts, run sequentially: Part A of the study will
      evaluate the safety and preliminary signs of efficacy for the combination of CMP-001 and
      atezolizumab. Part B of the study will evaluate the addition of radiation therapy to the
      combination of CMP-001 and atezolizumab.

      Each part of the study will follow a Simon 2-stage Optimal Design approach. Part A and Part B
      of the study will commence with a safety run in of 5 participants treated with the
      combination treatment (CMP-001 and atezolizumab in Part A; and CMP-001, atezolizumab and
      radiation therapy in Part B). After the first 5 participants have passed a safety
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period of 30 days and upon approval from the Safety
      Review Committee (SRC), both parts of the study will continue with enrollment of an
      additional 7 participants in each part to complete Stage 1 of respective parts. If an
      acceptable safety profile is established and at least 2 responders out of 12 evaluable
      participants (that is, complete and partial responders based on Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors [RECIST] version 1.1 [v1.1] or RECIST v1.1 for immune-based therapeutics
      [iRECIST] criteria) in Stage 1), the study will enroll an additional 23 evaluable
      participants in Stage 2 of each part. A maximum of 35 evaluable participants will be enrolled
      in each Part A and Part B.

      Participants enrolled in Part A with documented progression per RECIST v1.1 on the
      combination of CMP-001 and atezolizumab have the option to receive radiation therapy add-on
      treatment after documented disease progression per computed tomography (CT)/magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) scan. The total number of
      participants enrolled into the Part A optional radiation therapy add-on may not exceed the
      total number of participants enrolled in Part A. Enrollment of participants in Part A
      optional radiation therapy add-on will not affect enrollment in Part B of the study as these
      participants will be evaluated separately.

      Participants will continue treatment with CMP-001 in combination with atezolizumab as long as
      they do not experience unacceptable toxicities and when, according to the Investigator,
      continued treatment is in the participant's best interest.
    
  