
    
      VT30-101 is designed as a Phase 1/2, first-in-human study of topically administered VT30 to
      subjects with cutaneous venous malformations (VMs), lymphatic malformations (LMs), or mixed
      venolymphatic malformations (VLMs) associated with phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic
      alpha polypeptide (PIK3CA) or tyrosine receptor kinase (TEK) mutations. Capillary involvement
      and/or extension of the lesion into subcutaneous tissues is permitted.

      The study will occur in 2 parts, and in both study parts, subjects will participate in a
      Screening Period (up to 6 weeks) before beginning the indicated Treatment Period.

      Part 1 will be an open-label, 4-sequence, escalating repeat-application study comprised of up
      to 4 cohorts (3 subjects per cohort, with 3 up to 6 in Cohort 4, or the final Part 1 cohort).
      In each cohort, subjects will be given topical VT30 for a 4-week Treatment Period. Subjects
      will begin treatment with the designated dose on Day 1. After 2 weeks, the Investigator will
      examine the treated surface area and determine if the formulation is tolerated such that the
      subject may apply the next dose strength of VT30 gel for the remaining duration of the
      Treatment Period.

      Specifically, the following gel dose strengths (concentrations) are planned for Cohorts 1
      through 3 in Part 1:

        -  Cohort 1: initiate dosing with 0.12% (w/w) gel and progress to 0.6% (w/w) gel for the
           final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)

        -  Cohort 2: initiate dosing with 0.6% (w/w) gel and progress to 1.2% (w/w) gel for the
           final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)

        -  Cohort 3: initiate dosing with 1.2% (w/w) gel and progress to 2.3% (w/w) gel for the
           final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)

      A Safety Review Committee (SRC), with sponsor, investigator and independent medical
      representation, will provide oversight and guidance for study conduct. After 3 subjects have
      been dosed for at least 21 days in any of the first three Part 1 cohorts, the SRC may request
      additional data, approve initiation of the subsequent cohort, or mandate that additional
      subjects to be enrolled at either the higher or lower dose within the cohort.

      After 9 subjects in Cohorts 1 through 3 (3 subjects per cohort) have completed the 4-week
      Treatment Period, the SRC will determine if additional subjects should be assigned to Cohort
      4 (or the final Part 1 cohort) to receive the MTD (maximum tolerated dose) or MFD (maximum
      feasible dose) strength of VT30. Subjects in Cohort 4 will receive the designated dose
      strength and regimen of VT30 for a full 4 weeks.

      Following the completion of Cohort 4 in Part 1, the SRC will determine whether to authorize
      initiation of Part 2 and will confirm the dose level and regimen to be administered in Part
      2.

      Part 2 will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study containing 36 subjects
      assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive either VT30 or placebo. Up to 12 subjects who complete
      Part 1 may enroll in Part 2, provided they meet all Part 2-specific inclusion criteria with
      no applicable exclusions.

      After the first 12 subjects in Part 2 have completed 4 weeks of treatment, the SRC will
      conduct a review of blinded safety data to confirm no revisions or changes are needed to the
      protocol. Subsequent reviews may also be conducted to ensure continued acceptable safety and
      tolerability.

      After subjects complete their designated Treatment Period (in Part 1 or Part 2), they will
      participate in a 4-week post treatment Follow-up Period.
    
  