
    
      UROGEN WELL D-ONE is a new rapid culture-based benchtop diagnostic for the detection of
      urinary tract infections and urethritis. It detects the causative organisms and determines
      their antibiotic resistance. The novel test can detect bacterial infections such as E. coli,
      Staphylococcus spp., Enterococcus, Group B Streptococci, Mycoplasma spp, Ureaplasma spp,
      Neisseria spp, Gardnerella vaginalis, the protozoa Trichomonas vaginalis and Candida
      albicans. As such this diagnostic could be a very good tool to detect infection, identify the
      organism responsible for infection and with determination of antimicrobial susceptibility,
      guide treatment of these infections.

      BACKGROUND- Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a severe public health problem and are caused
      by a range of pathogens. High recurrence rates and increasing antimicrobial resistance among
      uropathogens threaten to greatly increase the economic burden of these infections. Urinary
      tract infections (UTIs) are some of the most common bacterial infections, affecting 150
      million people each year worldwide1 UTIs are caused by both Gram-negative and Gram-positive
      bacteria, as well as by certain fungi. The most common causative agent for both uncomplicated
      and complicated UTIs is uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC). For the agents involved in
      uncomplicated UTIs, UPEC is followed in prevalence by Staphylococcus saprophyticus,
      Enterococcus faecalis, group B Streptococcus (GBS), Neisseria spp., Staphylococcus aureus and
      Candida spp.2-5 Multidrug-resistant uropathogenic organisms are becoming an expanding public
      health threat, as Enterobacteriaceae family members increasingly acquire extended-spectrum
      β-lactamases, such as cefotaximases, oxacillinases, AmpC-type β-lactamases and
      carbapenemases.8-9. Routine testing techniques currently used for antibiotic sensitivity of
      pathogens causing UTIs can take 2-3 days to perform and so accurate treatment is often
      delayed. This delays treatment and can lead to increased morbidity.

      Urethritis or inflammation of the urethra, is a multifactorial condition which is sexually
      acquired in the majority of (but not all) cases. It is characterised by urethral discharge,
      dysuria and/or urethral discomfort. Urethritis is described as either gonococcal, when
      Neisseria gonorrhoeae is detected, or nongonococcal (NGU) when it is not. Organisms
      implicated in this disease are commonly Chlamydia trachomatis, Mycoplasma spp, Ureaplasma
      spp, Trichomonas vaginalis and Candida. A number of studies indicate that antibiotic
      resistance in some of these organisms leads to microbiological failure of treatment, up to
      68% for tetracyclines.11,13,14 , up to 33% for macrolides 10,11,13-18 and that mutations in
      the quinolone-resistance determining regions (QRDRs) of the gyrA and parC genes can occur
      with a prevalence of 10%19. Persistent NGU, when symptoms do not resolve following treatment,
      occurs in 15%-25% of patients following initial treatment of acute NGU. Recurrent NGU is
      empirically defined as the recurrence occurs in 10%-20% of patients.12,20 The aetiology of
      persistent NGU is probably multifactorial with a persistent infectious agent being identified
      in 50% of cases.11,12,20,21 Currently, testing for the detection of UTI and urethritis is
      expensive, requires highly trained laboratory staff and takes 48-72 hours. This delays
      treatment and can lead to increased morbidity. However, UROGEN WELL D-ONE is a new rapid
      culture-based clinical diagnostic assay, which will improve clinical provision for the
      detection of the cause of urinary tract infections and urethritis from urine samples e.g E.
      coli, Gardnerella vaginalis, Group B Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, Neisseria spp.,
      Enterococcus, E. Coli, Mycoplasma and Ureaplasma spp, the protozoa Trichomonas vaginalis and
      Candida albicans. It will also demonstrate their antimicrobial susceptibility. Importantly it
      uses the correct CLSI antibiotic threshold concentrations to determine antimicrobial
      resistance and does not require specialist equipment.

      In summary, UROGEN WELL D-ONE has the potential to allow rapid detection of the common
      organisms that cause UTI and urethritis and guide antibiotic treatment, with a turnaround
      time of 18 hours. This has highly significant positive outcomes for patients and reduce
      empirical treatment of infection.
    
  