
    
      In general, T cell responses to viral infections occur in three distinct stages: expansion,
      contraction and memory. During expansion, antigen-specific CD8+ T cells proliferate to
      increase in numbers as well as acquire the ability to kill virus infected cells i.e become
      'effectors'. Once the virus is cleared, 90-95% of the effectors die. The small pool of
      remaining cells differentiates gradually to become memory cells and provide life-long
      protection. The rate of cell division is distinct in the generation of effectors and memory
      cell maintenance. These concepts have been primarily derived from mouse studies. Human CD8+ T
      cell turnover is not completely understood because of the lack of appropriate tools and
      techniques suitable for human studies.

      In this protocol, we want to understand the lifespan and decay curve of effector CD8+ T cells
      and the rate of homeostatic turnover of memory CD8+ (CD28+/- subsets) T cells after 17D YFV
      immunization using an innovative method developed by Dr. Marc Hellerstein's group (at the
      University of California, Berkeley) for measuring DNA replication and cell proliferation in
      humans using a naturally occurring stable isotope called deuterium (2H). This technique has
      been used to track the turnover of a number of human cell types in vivo. We plan to use 2H
      labeling to track YFV specific CD8+ T cells in human vaccinees (HLA-A2 positive participants
      only). The availability of a T cell epitope (A2-NS4B214), a major component of the human YFV
      specific CD8+ T cell response, allows for the longitudinal analysis of virus specific CD8+ T
      cells. The unique feature of this study is that it allows for tracking of differentiation of
      YFV specific CD8+ T cells in humans. Thus, we can overcome the inherent limitations due to
      heterogeneity in cross-sectional studies that involve bulk CD8+ T cells.

      We plan to enroll 50 healthy, adult volunteers (18-45 of age) for Projects 1 and 2 to study
      memory CD8 T cell responses. All subjects will receive the FDA approved YFV-17D vaccine (at
      the FDA approved dose and route of administration). CD28 expression will be determined to see
      if it is coupled to the generation and/or maintenance of YFV-specific memory CD8 T cells.
      Phenotypic differences between CD28+ and CD28-_YFV-specific CD8 T cells will be studied to
      determine differences in longevity. Gene expression profiles of CD28+ and CD28 YFV-specific
      CD8 T cells will be determined. The influence of IL-7 and IL-15 on survival of YFV-specific
      CD8 T cells will be studied. This information will be gained from YFV specific cells isolated
      at Day 0, 14, 28 and 3 to 6 months, 1-2 years and >5 years after vaccination.

      The study will be conducted at the Hope Clinic of Emory Vaccine Center. Individuals who are
      planning to travel to yellow fever endemic areas and who require the vaccine for travel
      purposes as well as non-travelers will be recruited into the study. Potential participants
      may be recruited from the Emory Travel Well Clinic or the CDC employee health or the Emory
      University campus or the general population of metro Atlanta using radio and print
      advertisements, electronic mailings, Internet postings, flyers, and posters. IRB approval
      from Emory University will be obtained prior to the initiation of the study.

      There will be a screening visit to determine the eligibility for the study. Signed informed
      consent forms will be obtained prior to the initiation of study procedures. The inclusion and
      exclusion criteria and a brief history and physical examination will be performed. In
      addition, participants will be asked to undergo phlebotomy to determine the HLA type.
      Participants who are positive for the HLA A202 allele, will be asked to participate in this
      study. It is estimated that 25% of the Caucasian US population will be positive for this
      allele. Participants who test negative for this allele will be offered other vaccine trials
      that are being conducted at the Emory Hope clinic and their participation in this protocol
      will end.

      Prior to the administration of the yellow fever vaccine, the risk-benefit ratio of the
      vaccine-related adverse events versus the risk of contracting yellow fever is determined.
      Healthy individuals who have not been previously vaccinated with YFV vaccine will be included
      in the study. Both female and male volunteers will be recruited.

      We plan to enroll 50 healthy volunteers between 18 to 45 years of age. In order to meet these
      enrollment goals, we may need to screen 200 subjects. All subjects will receive the FDA
      approved YFV-17D vaccine (at the FDA approved dose and route of administration) once on day 0
      of the study visit. Blood specimens will be obtained from the volunteers on Day 0, and on
      scheduled time points post-vaccination. The total volume of blood drawn will not exceed the
      Red Cross limit of 473mls in 56 days.

      The study volunteers will be maintained on a 100ml - 150ml daily intake of 2H2O, with a goal
      of maintaining 1.5-2% body water enrichment (assuming total body water turnover of ~3.5
      liters per day in healthy, ambulatory subjects). Plasma and saliva samples will be obtained
      during the 2H2O administration protocol for measurement of body 2H2O enrichment.
    
  