
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) characterized by diarrhea,
      abdominal pain and bleeding. There are several treatment options but the most-widely used for
      acute therapy are corticosteroids (CS), however, CS are often associated with severe side
      effects. The administration of a formula for exclusive feeding (EEN) is well-established as
      an alternative to CS in children with Crohn's disease (CD). EEN has been proposed to reduce
      inflammation in the gut. However, this intervention is not routinely used in adults, in part
      because of uncertainty regarding the magnitude of the benefit of EEN reported in previous
      studies. Although few studies have examined the effects of EEN in adult patients with active
      CD, the potentially synergistic effects of adding EEN to the conventional CS was not
      explored. Furthermore, it is also possible that the addition of EEN allows to decrease the
      duration of CS therapy; however, this was not investigated before.

      The investigators propose that an oral formula may help decrease gut inflammation and improve
      nutritional status through modulation of gut bacteria. The investigators will therefore
      evaluate the effect of exclusive formula feeding therapy in addition to different regimes of
      CS therapy compared to CS alone in adult patients with active CD, on symptoms and
      inflammation after 6 weeks of treatment. Participants will be randomized to three treatment
      arms: standard CS, standard CS with EEN, short course CS with EEN. The investigators will
      collect information through questionnaires that assess gut symptoms, quality of life, mood
      changes and dietary patterns. To investigate potential mechanisms, the investigators will
      collect stool samples to characterize gut bacterial profiles, blood to determine inflammatory
      markers and evaluate gut movements (motility) before, and after the treatment. The
      investigators hope that the results will lead to better understanding of the beneficial
      effect of exclusive formula feeding in addition to CS as a more efficacious alternative than
      CS alone, and to understand the mechanisms of this therapy.
    
  