
    
      Study A: Individuals who are infected with HIV can benefit from therapy with an effective
      anti-AIDS virus agent. ZDV is a potent inhibitor of HIV in vitro (test tube) and is safe in
      humans at the dose planned. It may be effective in preventing the development of AIDS or ARC
      in hemophiliacs who have the HIV antibody in their blood. The pharmacokinetic studies are
      especially important because the high prevalence of hepatic disease in this population may
      affect the metabolism and blood levels of ZDV.

      Study B: HIV is transmitted by sexual contact, and wives of infected hemophilic patients have
      become infected during long-term sexual relationships. Transmission of the virus does not
      occur during casual family contact. This study will aid in determining if therapy influences
      the transmission of HIV, because the wives of hemophiliacs generally have no risk for HIV
      infection other than sexual contact with their spouse.

      Study A: Patients selected for the study are randomly assigned to placebo (inactive
      medication) or ZDV taken every 4 hours while the patient is awake for a total of 5 doses per
      day. The patient's immune function and clinical condition are monitored with periodic virus
      cultures, p24 antigen assays, estimates of lymphocyte type and numbers, cell surface markers,
      and frequent clinical evaluations to see if these are markers of drug efficacy. Patients
      continue on their regimen until the final analysis of the data, which could occur up to 3
      years after the last patient is entered into the study. Amendment: Based on data from ACTG
      019 this protocol has been closed to further accrual. All patients entered in this study will
      be unblinded as to treatment received. Patients will be informed of results of ACTG 019 and
      be requested to sign a modified statement of consent approved by the local Institutional
      Review Board. All patients currently receiving study therapy will be offered open-label ZDV.
      Patients temporarily discontinued from study therapy at this time will be offered open-label
      ZDV when toxicity resolves (less than or equal to Grade 2 hemoglobin or neutrophil toxicity,
      less than or equal to Grade 1 all other toxicities). Patients who have been permanently
      discontinued from study therapy will not be eligible for open-label ZDV through this
      protocol. Modification of dose is recommended, however, patients who elect to continue
      current dose of ZDV after being informed of results of ACTG 019 will be allowed to do so. All
      patients enrolled in this study will continue to be followed until termination of this study.
      Above amendment added 11/01/89.

      Study B: The wife or other female sexual partner is interviewed once at the beginning of the
      study and again when Study A is completed. The interview takes about 10 minutes and includes
      questions about the couple's sexual activity to help define the risk of becoming infected
      with HIV. In addition, blood is drawn to test for antibodies to HIV. The questionnaire and
      blood sample will be repeated at the time the patient is switched from blinded study therapy
      to open-label ZDV. (AMENDED 11/01/89) The results of the blood test are given to the person
      being tested. Information about the transmission of HIV and counseling are provided. It is
      recommended that the wife abstain from sexual contact with her husband, but if she does not,
      the use of condoms or condoms plus a spermicide is recommended. The decision about the type
      of precautions to take does not influence the opportunity to participate in the study.
    
  