
    
      Kidney transplantation is the preferred treatment to dialysis for most people with kidney
      failure. However, the current waiting time to receive a kidney from a deceased donor is
      greater than 5 years in some parts of the United States. Kidneys from living donors have
      increased the number of kidneys available for transplantation and decreased the waiting
      period for those needing a transplant. Living kidney donation also provides several
      advantages over deceased donor kidneys, including more timely transplantation and longer
      function of the transplanted kidney. Despite these facts, there is inadequate information
      about whether living kidney donation may have serious adverse effects on the donor's health.
      Long-term data on the health risks of living donation are needed.

      The purpose of this study is to establish and analyze a database of information on living
      donors who have or are going to donate a kidney at three transplant centers with longstanding
      live kidney donation programs through June 2011. Donor and recipient characteristics as well
      as specific data on kidney failure, heart disease, and death will be collected. National
      databases such as the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients, the Social Security Death
      Master File, the National Death Index and records maintained by the Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services for patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) will be used to supplement
      data provided by the participating transplant centers. After establishing the database,
      researchers expect to 1) determine the long-term risk of live kidney donation and 2) identify
      donor characteristics associated with higher risk for health problems after donation. Death,
      cause of death, and incidence of ESRD will be compared to those rates reported by the Centers
      for Disease Control and Prevention for the U.S. population during the same time period.

      There will be no study visits for this study. Investigators will gather data from the medical
      charts of all live kidney donors from the three transplant centers through June 2011.
    
  