
    
      The program is designed to serve individuals with severe and persistent mental illnesses who
      have been repeatedly hospitalized, are repeat users of community crisis services, or are
      frequently in contact with the criminal justice system. There are several objectives of this
      new approach. First, the investigators believe that these patients are invested in working
      with the daily dispensing program to stay well, but individual factors related to their
      personal background or symptoms of their illness contribute to frequent non-adherence to
      medications. Non-adherence to medications then leads to behaviour that results in frequent
      use of very expensive services such as the criminal justice system, acute care hospital beds,
      and crisis services. Working collaboratively with the patient to improve adherence to
      medications in partnership with a private pharmacy that absorbs costs of the program is a
      less coercive model than injectable medications, which is the current standard for working
      with this population. In addition, oral medications are much less expensive than the newer
      injectable antipsychotics and the costs of running a "depot clinic" where the injectable
      medications are provided. At this time, there has been no effective program to ensure
      compliance with oral medications in the published literature.

      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of this new model for
      decreasing the harmful effects of relapses to psychosis resulting from non-adherence to
      medications. Specifically, the investigators plan to examine whether or not this program
      results in less use of crisis services, acute care hospitalization and less contact with the
      criminal justice system. The investigators plan to evaluate client response through a
      self-reported measure and to assess client satisfaction by conducting participant
      satisfaction survey for the program. Key stakeholders will be engaged during the process
      (e.g., community mental health workers, probation officers, pharmacists) to gather
      information and suggestions regarding the daily dispensing program. Based on feedback from
      clients and stakeholders, the investigators will then aim to implement improvements to the
      process to optimize its effectiveness.
    
  