
    
      Background and rationale of study

      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic disease, it is characterised by persistent and diffused
      musculoskeletal pain with not well defined etiology. Fibromyalgia often occurs in comorbidity
      with other functional, organic and psychiatric pathologies. The main clinical manifestation
      of FM is pain, which is predominantly described by people with fibromyalgia as a burning
      sensation, stiffness, contracture and tension. Pain varies depending on moments of the day,
      activity levels, weather conditions, sleep cycle and perceived distress. Patients suffering
      from fibromyalgia commonly have functional disorders, including persistent
      fatigue,dysregulated sleep, cognitive slowness, bowel disorders, paresthesia. Futhermore,
      fibromyalgia occurs in comorbidity with depression with a percentage that varies between 22%
      and 80% (3,4). Moreover, some patients with fibromyalgia have anxiety disorder and other
      syndromes related to stress as irritable bowel. The prevalence of fibromyalgia in general
      population is 2%, with a peak of onset between 45-60 years. The gender prevalence varies
      between 0.5% and 5%, it is more common between women (~ 4.2%) than men (~0.2%).

      Fibromyalgia has an important impact on the quality of life. Biofeedback is one of the
      medical devices used for the treatment of fibromyalgia, that aimes to riduce the typical
      symptoms and improve QoL.

      Biofeedback allows to learn self-regulation of some physiological processes through feedback
      of recorded parameters and the goal is improving health and its performances.

      Biofeedback measures muscle activity, skin temperature, electrodermal activity (sudoriparous
      glands activity), respiration, heart rate, blood pressure, electrical brain activity and
      bloodstream, it also gives a quick feedback of those personal measurements to the patient, in
      this way biofeedback teaches people to have a more active role in maintaining a good
      personal, mental and physical health (quickly and thoroughly it give person feedback of
      activity and biofeedback teaches people to take a more active role in maintaining personal
      health and mental health and physical health).

      Biofeedback equipment is classified by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as medical
      device class II and this type of equipment/treatment has shown evidence regarding stress
      management (evidence were shown as regards stress menagement).

      In fibromyalgia, the greatest benefits from using biofeedback are: improvement of sleep
      quality, improvement of self- efficacy, improvement of pain threshold, and improvement of
      emotional adjustment. In particular, a study conducted with HRV biofeedback, in which the
      sample learned resonance frequency breathing, showed dicreases in depression and pain and
      improved the person's system functioning.

      Study objectives

      The main objective of the study is to verify the feasibility of an HVR biofeedback training
      protocol in patients with fibromyalgia, and also to produce a preliminary measurement of the
      possible improvement induced by the technique in relation to:Quality of life; Quality of
      sleep; Perception of pain; Depressive symptomatology; Anxious symptomatology This measure
      will be useful to estimate the expected improvement in future case-control studies. Study
      design

      This is a controlled clinical trial with crossover and comparison between usual care and
      biofeedback training, plus usual care.
    
  