
    
      Methods: Parents or legal guardians will be approached to provide written, informed consent.
      To allow for at least three sub groups of cardiac anomalies (with 20 patients per group), 60
      children, less than one year of age, with CHD will be recruited from the Pediatric Cardiology
      inpatient ward at Stollery Children's Hospital. Sixty age matched controls, without acute
      respiratory illness, will be recruited from the General Pediatric inpatient ward. All
      subjects will be breathing room air at the time of nNO measurement.

      Subjects: This is a pilot study to gather data to power future studies. The investigators aim
      to recruit 60 subjects with CHD and 60 normal controls without CHD. 60 subjects will allow
      for at least three sub groups of cardiac anomalies with 20 subjects per group.

      Control group: The control group will consist of age matched infants, less than one year of
      age, without CHD or acute respiratory illness. They will also require written informed
      consent and will have to be breathing room air at the time of the nNO test.

      Investigational device: For nNO assessment, an inert nitric oxide (NO) sampling line with a
      disposable foam olive (DirectMed Inc., Glen Cove, NY) will be placed into one of the
      subject's nostrils while the contralateral nostril is left open. Air will be then sampled at
      a constant rate of 0.3 Liters/min from the nose by a chemiluminescent analyzer which provides
      measurement of the nNO level in parts per billion (ppb). All nNO measurements will be
      performed with the subjects supine. Measurements will be obtained using a NO analyzer (CLD 88
      SP, ECO PHYSICS AG, Duerten, Switzerland) available at Stollery Children's Hospital. The
      analyzer will be calibrated according to the manufacturer's specifications. Two samples will
      be taken five minutes apart, to assess for test-retest reproducibility, with results for each
      patient being averaged over the two samples. The test is not painful and each sample takes
      less than a minute.
    
  