
    
      Prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts could be achieved by immunization with the
      prophylactic human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines commercially available. However, in the U.S.
      only 38% of females and 14% of males in the recommended age group (9-26 years) receive the
      complete, three-dose HPV vaccine. Because the HPV vaccine is covered under the Vaccine for
      Children Program, the underinsured and uninsured have no-cost access. Nonetheless, data from
      Los Angeles county suggest that HPV vaccination rates among the uninsured and underinsured
      groups are significantly lower than the national average, likely related to knowledge of the
      vaccine, transportation, number of doses and concern of side effects. The primary objective
      of this pilot study is to evaluate the efficacy of health oriented text messaging to increase
      HPV vaccine uptake versus standard health messaging (Center for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) HPV vaccine information flyers).

      The investigators hypothesize HPV vaccine uptake will be improved through the receipt of
      general health messaging that includes HPV vaccine messages. Such messaging will increase
      knowledge about HPV vaccine availability, as well as improve the perceptions around HPV
      vaccination. Text messaging will also be more successful in reaching large population groups
      than traditional flyers/information pamphlets used in clinics.

      First, among our three participating clinics, the investigators convened community advisory
      boards (CABs) of individuals who are English and Spanish speaking to identify appropriate
      text messages including content, length of message and frequency of messaging (once a week,
      every other week). Topics included HPV vaccine messages, contraceptive information on
      hormonal contraception, long-acting reversible contraceptive (LARC) methods, dysmenorrhea,
      frequent menses, and vaginal discharge. The investigators focused on all topics and
      specifically messaging of HPV vaccine that are considered neutral and yet compelling. The
      investigators built upon the feedback obtained from the CAB. Each clinic serves at least 500
      uninsured and underinsured children that offer regular HPV vaccination to these children. Of
      these three clinics, two of the sites will be randomized to the intervention arm (text
      messaging) and 1 site to have CDC flyers only. The sites currently collect information on all
      immunization given at their site. The sites will de-identify their vaccine rates for HPV at
      the end of the study and send us the de-identified data sets for vaccine rates, age (not
      birth date) and number of nursing/doctor visits made by age group.
    
  