
    
      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are a major postoperative complication after abdominal
      surgery, especially in the colorectal field. With a reported incidence of over 20%, SSIs
      significantly increase the length of stay (LOS), readmission rate, expenses, and mortality .
      Therefore, the identification of an effective method of reducing SSIs incidence is critically
      important.

      Colonic bacterial florae are considered to be the major cause of SSIs after elective
      colorectal procedures, but the most effective means of decreasing this bacterial load remains
      under debate. Pre-operative mechanical bowel preparation (MBP) was first utilized by
      surgeons, as it can theoretically remove stool content and associated bacterial load within
      the bowel and surgical field, thus reducing risk of SSIs. More recently, as antibiotics have
      come to be widely utilized, the pre-operative administration of un-absorbed oral antibiotics
      (OA) in combination with MBP was widely conducted.

      Multiple trials have been performed to explore the best bowel preparation strategies, but
      their results remain controversial. Since 2005, several RCTs and meta-analyses have
      demonstrated MBP alone was not associated with a reduced incidence of SSIs related to
      patients that did not undergo MBP, whereas MBP patients exhibited paradoxical increases in
      postoperative ileus, anastomotic leakage, and other complications. Recently, the merit of OA
      and MBP has been re-discovered in several related retrospective studies which demonstrated a
      significant decrease in the rate of SSIs.However, as information in these trials was exacted
      from national databases without any detailed matching between patient groups, the existence
      of bias in these trials may affect the validity of their results. Furthermore, none of these
      studies assessed the relative prophylactic effects of the novel MBP mode in right or
      left-side colorectal surgery.
    
  