
    
      Placenta previa is defined as complete or partial implantation of the placenta in the lower
      segment of the uterus, Patients present with bleeding per vagina occurring usually in the
      second and third trimester. Bleeding in placenta previa is associated with maternal morbidity
      and mortality. Transfusion therapy is integral in the acute management of major obstetric
      hemorrhage. The most important pregnancy related condition leading to bleeding with high
      mortality and morbidity rates is DIC. Patients exhibit a tendency for severe bleeding
      associated with the consumption of platelets and coagulation factors. Massive blood
      transfusions are listed as the main maternal morbidity indicators6.Therefore, early detection
      of these predictors of DIC and timely intervention of this life-threatening condition is very
      important. DIC is a clinical-laboratory diagnosis, and laboratory changes need to be
      interpreted with knowledge of the patient's underlying disorder. Several laboratory
      parameters are analyzed together as part of a diagnostic algorithm that includes: Prothrombin
      time (PT), Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), the platelet count, fibrinogen
      level, and a marker of fibrin degradation, e.g., D-dimer or the soluble fibrin monomer (SFM)
      8. None of these markers are taken in isolation, and a combination of results at different
      time points is particularly helpful in determining the presence of DIC, owing to the
      multifaceted nature of DIC9, These reasons highlight a strong need for the development of a
      point-of-care testing system to accurately and reliably diagnose DIC. Thromboelastography
      (TEM) provides an extended reflection of clot initiation, propagation, and lysis in whole
      blood. TEM uses three tests: FIBTEM to reveal impaired fibrinogen function, INTEM to reveal
      coagulation factor deficiency and EXTEM to reveal extrinsic pathway defects
    
  