
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The magnitude of clinical problems associated with autonomic dysfunction in children with
      symptomatic HIV infection is great. Hemodynamic abnormalities, dysrhythmias, unexplained
      arrest and/or sudden death are common in HIV positive children, especially when acute
      deterioration, interventions or neurologic involvement is present. If cardiac dysautonomia is
      predictive of adverse outcomes in HIV infected children, then a future prospective trial of
      beta-adrenergic antagonist therapy may be warranted.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      An analysis was performed on data collected under the NHLBI-sponsored multicenter study
      entitled 'Pediatric Pulmonary and Cardiovascular Complications of Vertically Transmitted
      Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection' and abbreviated P2C2. The P2C2 study was
      performed in a prospectively defined cohort of 150 children with HIV infection and 350
      uninfected control children born to HIV infected women who had been followed since the first
      month of life to provide understanding of cardiac dysautonomia in early HIV infection. In
      addition, 198 children with symptomatic HIV infection were analyzed to provide an assessment
      of cardiac dysautonomia in later stages of pediatric HIV infection. Heart rate spectral
      analyses were performed on 2196 Holter monitor recordings from these patients followed at the
      five P2C2 clinical centers to capture noninvasively the time varying contributions of the
      sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system to the control of heart rate throughout the
      course of a day. The spectral balance parameters and the changing response of heart rate to
      the electrocardiogram-derived respiratory signal characterized the responsiveness of the
      sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system at rest and during the events of a normal day.
      Autonomic function data were electronically transmitted to the P2C2 data coordinating center
      at the Cleveland Clinic and analyzed along with other P2C2 data (eg. infectious, immunologic,
      growth, renal, neuroendocrine, pulmonary and cardiac) to determine their risk factor
      potential for cardiac dysautonomia.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  