
    
      As herbal medicine use becomes more popular, health care providers may find that patients are
      asking questions about the risks and benefits of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM)
      more frequently. It is important that providers have some knowledge about these therapies and
      are familiar with resources to which they can refer patients. This study will compare the
      effectiveness of four strategies used to deliver educational modules that can increase health
      care providers' knowledge about herbal medicine and dietary supplements.

      This study will last about 10 weeks and will enroll a variety of health care providers,
      including physicians, physician assistants, pharmacists, dietitians, and nurses. At study
      entry, participants will be stratified by provider type. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to 1 of 4 educational delivery strategies: delivery of educational modules all at
      one time directly through email, delivery of modules over 10 weeks directly through email,
      delivery of modules through an email message with a link to an Internet site containing all
      modules, or delivery of multiple emails over 10 weeks with links to an Internet site
      containing all modules.

      Each module will begin with a brief clinical scenario followed by questions to assess
      knowledge, confidence about where to locate information, and the level of communication that
      providers have engaged in with their patients. Participants will complete questionnaires at
      study entry and at Week 10. The questionnaires will assess the use of and attitudes toward
      Internet technology, motivation for participating in the course, and knowledge, attitudes,
      and communication practices related to the clinical use of herbs and dietary supplements.
      Participants will have the opportunity to participate in a moderated mailing list where they
      can discuss CAM-related topics with other providers and read the discussions of others. In
      addition, after completing the curriculum, participants will complete questionnaires about
      their use of and attitudes toward the intervention they received in the study.
    
  