
    
      1. The selection of research subjects: All the subjects collect from Fujian Maternity and
           Child Health Hospital.

        2. The participants will be divided into five groups：obese with PCOS，nonobese with
           PCOS，PCOS with IGT，PCOS with T2DM，healthy volunteers.the syndrome type of PCOS will be
           divided into five types: phlegm, kidney yin deficiency, kidney yang deficiency, liver qi
           stagnation and blood stasis syndrome, dampness-heat of liver channel.

        3. Ethical requirements and subjects' informed consent Before clinical trials begin, the
           program needs to be approved by the ethics committee to approve and sign the
           approval.The subjects need fully aware of the clinical trial and are given sufficient
           time to consider whether they are willing to participate in the trial, and to sign the
           informed consent form.

        4. Indicator test (the cost of all health volunteers are paid by the research) (1)Physical
           examination: blood pressure, height, body weight,waist circumference,hip
           circumference，body mass index(BMI),waist-hip ratio（WHR）.

      (2)Endocrine hormones: collect serum from all the subjects，use the enzyme linked
      immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method to detect the level of serum follicle-stimulating
      hormone（FSH）,luteinizing hormone（LH）,prolactin（PRL）,estradiol（E2）,testosterone（T）. Blood
      lipid: glycerin three vinegar (TG), cholesterol (CHOL) detect by enzymatic method, low
      density lipoprotein (LDL-C), high density lipoprotein (HDL-C) detect by the turbidity method.
      Glucose tolerance and insulin release test after glucose loading: all subjects were fasting
      for 8 to 10 h, check the fasting blood glucose(FBG)and fasting insulin （FINS）.The oral
      glucose tolerance test（OGTT）and insulin release test were performed in the next morning.

      5.Study on the characteristics of metabolism

      （1）Through the sample pretreatment method, analyzes the optimization of the condition of mass
      spectrometry, according to the requirements of the metabolism to establish the blood sample
      LC-MS/MS metabolism analysis method.（2）Carry out the analysis of metabolism and data
      collection.（3）Model building and data analysis（4）Use RRLC and QTRAP type MS/MS with positive
      and negative ion detection mode with the combination of hyphenated techniques, combined with
      the method of data statistics,to establish multiple reaction monitoring（MRM） detection, to
      verify the precision and sensitivity of the method.

      6.Statistical methods: All data use statistical product and service
      solutions18.0（SPSS18.0）software package for statistical analysis. According to the character
      of clinical trial data (measurement, classification and grade data), select the appropriate
      statistical analysis method.receiver operating characteristic curve（ROC） analysis of the
      potential metabolites selected from the targeting metabolic biomarker.
    
  