
    
      1. research object (1)patients who suffered from gallstones ro cholecystic polypus.
           (2)Informed and consented to participate in this clinical trial (3)Number of enrolled
           cases：100.（About 700 cases were treated in our hospital）

        2. Inclusion criteria

      (1) consistent with the indications of cholecystectomy (2) no cholangitis or pancreatitis (3)
      no diabetes (4) the operation time is less than or equal to 1 hour 3.Exclusion criteria

        1. patients with acute cholecystitis

        2. cystic arterial variation causes related complications

        3. patients receiving analgesic drugs after surgery 4.research methods 4.1 Grouping method:
           random number table method was applied to randomly divide into 2 groups.

      4.2 surgical method：Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with the preservation of the main cystic
      artery

        1. General anesthesia, use laryngeal mask

        2. making CO2 pneumoperitoneum through the superior border of umbilical pneumoperitoneum
           pressure 12 -- 14 mmHg(1 mmHg=0.(133 kPa), the puncture sleeve was placed under
           laparoscopy according to the three-hole method.

        3. To expose the gallbladder triangle, cut the serous membrane of the triangular region
           along the gallbladder tube, expose the neck and the left half of the gallbladder tube,
           push the rest tissue of the triangular region (including the main cystic artery, etc.)
           to the right, and separate the right half of the gallbladder tube, exposing the whole
           gallbladder tube.

        4. Cutting off after clipping the gallbladder tube;

        5. Turn up the gallbladder neck, cut off the superficial and deep branches of the
           gallbladder artery by electric hook along the gallbladder wall.

        6. Remove the gallbladder. through the umbilical hole and close the puncture hole. 4.3 main
           outcome measures

      (1) General data of patients (gender, age, BMI, etc.); (2) Operation time, intraoperative
      blood loss, surgical complications (delayed hemorrhage, biliary tract injury, etc.)
      incidence.
    
  