
    
      The occurrence of postoperative pulmonary complications after hepatic reperfusion, such as in
      patients undergoing liver transplantation, is a major concern in the intensive care unit. Not
      only neutrophil infiltration, but also oxidative injuries, have been demonstrated after
      intra-operative hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) management. Previous studies have shown
      that reactive oxygen species (ROS) paly a major role in the ensuing damage, although
      I/R-induced remote organ injury is a complex and multifactorial process. Methods to reduce
      ROS generation, such as ischemic preconditioning, attenuate both liver and lung damage after
      hepatic I/R. Considering the intra-operative ROS production occurs after hepatic reperfusion
      , the choice of anesthetics may alter the magnitude of ROS production and the antioxidant
      capacity.

      Volatile and non-volatile anesthetics can exert their antioxidant capacity through different
      mechanisms. Propofol (2,6-diisopropylphenol) has been reported to provide antioxidant
      capacity by scavenging free radicals. However, volatile anesthetics such as isoflurane,
      desflurane or sevoflurane can reduce the oxidative damage through anesthetic preconditioning.
      Several animal studies demonstrate that volatile anesthetics offer more protection against
      ischemia-reperfusion injury than intravenous anesthetics. On the contrary, intravenous
      anesthetics may be more protective against sepsis-induced hepatic injury than volatile
      anesthetics. However, there are few investigations concerning the effects of different
      anesthetics on remote pulmonary injuries in clinical settings.

      In this study, propofol and desflurane will be used for the maintenance of anesthesia during
      liver transplantation. The heart function, respiratory function, liver function, kidney
      function, the oxidative injuries and inflammatory mediators will be compared between the two
      groups.
    
  