
    
      This study is a multi-center, randomized, controlled open-label study designed to evaluate
      the safety and effectiveness of epidermal grafting using the CelluTome® system plus
      multi-layer compression therapy versus multi-layer compression (SOC) in the treatment of
      venous leg ulcers.

      The study will have two phases: Screening and Treatment. The Screening Phase (1 -14 days) is
      designed to determine whether subjects are eligible to proceed to the Treatment Phase of the
      study and consists of a series of screening assessments designed to determine eligibility.

      At or up to 14 days before the first Screening Phase Visit (S1), written informed consent
      from the subject will be obtained by the Investigator or suitably qualified designee before
      the performance of any other protocol-specific procedure.

      At the first Screening Phase Visit (S1), the Investigator will select the study (target)
      ulcer. Each subject will have only one VLU selected as the study (target) ulcer. In the
      situation where a subject has more than one VLU at the S1 visit, the Investigator will select
      the largest VLU that meets the eligibility criteria of the protocol as the study (target)
      ulcer.

      Patients whose target ulcer has been treated with compression therapy for the previous two
      weeks are eligible to enter the treatment phase once all of the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria are met. If the ulcer has not received compression, the patient should be placed in
      compression and enrolled in the study after 14 days of compression therapy. Ulcers that have
      decreased in size by more than 40% during the screening period will be excluded as "rapid
      healer." Subjects that meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria at the end of screening will be
      randomized to either the Cellutome graft plus Standard of Care group or just the Standard of
      Care group. At Treatment Visit 7, subjects in the Standard of Care group that have healed
      <40% will be allowed to cross over to the Cellutome graft group.

      The study will consist of up to 30 centers in the United States each contributing about 10
      subjects per center in order to obtain 194 evaluable subjects. The investigators anticipate a
      10% drop out rate during the trial therefore a total of 213 subjects will be recruited. This
      trial employs an adaptive design therefore the enrollment numbers may be reduced or increased
      based on planned interim analysis.
    
  