
    
      Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) is the delivery of ventilatory support without the need for an
      invasive artificial airway. The use of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NPPV) in
      acute respiratory failure has been steadily increasing for intensive care unit (ICU)
      patients. Noninvasive ventilation can often eliminate the need for intubation or tracheostomy
      and preserve normal swallowing, speech, and cough mechanisms. Discomfort of the device is one
      of the reason for the failure of NIV (30-40% of the cases).

      The Novastar oro-nasal mask (Dräger Medical, Lubeck, Germany) is a flexible, transparent mask
      shell with a fine silicone gel cushion which adapts to the wearer's face. The pliable ring
      embedded inside the flexible clear shell allows the mask to be bent and adjusted to fit the
      patient's face (customized fit), while minimizing leakages. The mask has magnetic, self
      aligning clips for capture and secure fastening of the mask headgear. The magnetic clips are
      self-aligning.

      The transparent flexible helmet for NIV (Rüsch 4-Vent, Teleflex Medical Europe, Athlone,
      Ireland) is fixed with two straps passing through each armpit. The braces are protected by
      hydrocolloid strips to prevent axillary decubitus. It is important to chose the right size of
      the helmet to avoid air leakages in the neck region. Two filters in the in- and expiratory
      way are necessary to reduce noise.

      Different devices may lead to varying degrees of discomfort and, thus, improve compliance.
      Better tolerability of NIV may improve its efficacy. Therefore, we planned this randomized
      controlled trial to investigate whether different modalities of NIV delivery may affect
      therapeutical efficacy.

      No randomized trials have compared helmets to the NOVASTAR full-face masks. This randomized,
      controlled study aims to assess whether the new full face mask improves gas exchange in
      patients admitted to ICU because of acute postoperative respiratory failure.

      METHODS

      Patients meeting criteria for NIV cycles will be enrolled in this trial. Informed written
      consent requirements were waived by the Internal Review Board since enrollment criteria meet
      common clinical guidelines and the two devices are both widely available (and approved for
      this indication).

      Enrollment criteria are:

        -  Ongoing or recent history of respiratory failure (either primary or secondary)

        -  PaO2 <60 mmHg if breathing room air or PaO2/FiO2 <300 mmHg if receiving supplemental
           oxygen

        -  Acute dyspnea with respiratory rate >25 bpm and accessory muscle recruitment and/or
           paradoxical abdominal breathing

      Patients will be excluded if:

        -  Refusing NIV

        -  Comatose (Glasgow Coma Scale <8) or unable to maintain a patent airway

        -  Hemodynamically unstable (systolic blood pressure <80 mmHg on recruitment, or receiving
           vasopressors/inotropes; ongoing angina/myocardial infarction; newly-developed arrhythmia
           with hemodynamic impact)

        -  Having recently (≤2 weeks) undergone oesophageal or upper respiratory tract surgery

      Upon enrolment, patients will be randomized to receive NIV via one of the two available
      interfaces. In group H (for "helmet"), the continuous positive pressure is obtained by a high
      influx of fresh gases (air + oxygen) flowing through a high-compliance reservoir, with a
      positive end-expiratory pressure valve limiting outflow. In the M ("oral-nasal mask") group
      the same flow scheme is obtained using a T-tube attached to the mask. Patients' heads will be
      elevated to about 45° in both groups.

      In both groups continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) will be instituted at 5 cmH2O.
      Pressure will be increased by increments of 2-3 cmH2O until a maximum of 10 cmH2O in order to
      reach a peripheral blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) ≥ 90% with the lowest FiO2 possible.

      Noninvasive ventilation will be ideally maintained for up to 24 h. Patients will be asked to
      wear the helmet/mask as long as possible. During ventilation-free periods, which will be
      maintained as short as possible, patients will receive 50% oxygen supplementation. The
      criteria for success of therapy and discontinuation of NIV will be a reversal of all criteria
      listed above for enrollment.

      Criteria for NIV failure and subsequent intubation and mechanical ventilation will be:

        -  Coma (Glasgow Coma Scale <8) or inability to maintain a patent airway

        -  Hemodynamic instability (systolic blood pressure <80 mmHg on recruitment, or receiving
           vasopressors/inotropes; ongoing angina/myocardial infarction; newly-developed arrhythmia
           with hemodynamic impact)

        -  Intolerance to the interface

        -  Patient's inability to mobilize secretions

        -  PaO2/FiO2 ratio <140 mmHg after ≥1 h of ventilation

      MAIN ENDPOINT AND SAMPLE SIZE

      Arterial blood gas analyses will be performed upon enrollment, after 1 h, and after 24 h from
      enrollment. The null hypothesis of the study is that there will be no difference in the mean
      PaO2/FiO2 values between the two groups at 24 h. We will consider as clinically and
      statistically significant a difference of ≥50±60 mmHg between the groups.

      A total of 50 patients will be enrolled. Sample size calculations are based on the assumption
      of a 5% risk of type I error and a 20% risk of type II error, while accounting for a 10-15%
      attrition rate.
    
  