
    
      Novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 was first identified during the outbreak in Wuhan, China in
      December 2019 with the now resulting pandemic. Aggressive supportive care is the mainstay of
      treatment currently and rescue with lung protective mechanical ventilation is essential for
      survival in patients with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome. Despite supportive
      care, mortality is significant in hospitalized patients in the U.S., especially among
      patients > 65 years of age. Pharmacologic treatments to decrease disease severity are
      urgently needed. Candidate treatments with antiviral activity and/or immune-modulating
      effects include hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), lopinavir/ritonavir, remdesivir, and tocilizumab
      among others. There is limited high quality clinical data prompting a dilemma of how to use
      and review potential treatments and ensure patient safety now as the pandemic begins to peak.
      There are also significant limitations in drug supplies at many institutions.

      Hydroxychloroquine is currently widely used for treatment of autoimmune disease including
      systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, and it has been used to prevent and
      treat malaria. In vitro and in vivo antiviral activity towards SARS-CoV-2 has been reported.
      Since hydroxychloroquine has been used for decades its properties as a drug are well known.
      Pertinent adverse events to monitor in a hospitalized patient include QTc (corrected QT
      interval) prolongation, elevation of liver enzymes/acute liver injury, and hypokalemia.

      Acute lung injury and progressive respiratory failure is the major cause of mortality in
      SARS-CoV-2 infection. In acute lung injury and respiratory distress syndrome, the severity of
      hypoxia is categorized by the Pao2/FIO2 (fraction of inspired oxygen) ration as mild (200 mm
      Hg<Pao2/Fio2≤300 mm Hg), moderate (100 mm Hg<Pao2/Fio2≤200 mm Hg), and severe (Pao2/Fio2 ≤100
      mm Hg). A persistently low Pao2/Fio2 ratio is associated with worse outcomes and may be a
      marker of failure to respond to conventional therapy. PaO2/FIO2 is a clinically useful
      measure in patients regardless of if they are receiving noninvasive supplemental O2 or
      mechanical ventilation, and low ratios are associated with duration of ICU stay and hospital
      mortality.

      The care of hospitalized patients with covid-19 is evolving with hospital guidelines arising
      across the U.S. with several commonalities. Patients receive clinical assessment, chest
      x-ray, covid-19 testing, basic labs (WBC, CMP), and additional labs based on protocol or
      clinical judgment (ABG, CRP-C reactive protein, LDH), antibiotics for possible bacterial
      pneumonia, acetaminophen for fever, supplemental O2, close monitoring for worsening
      respiratory status and consideration for mechanical ventilation. Since covid-19 is a novel
      illness, there is no proven clinically efficacious drug treatment. Candidate drugs are being
      used, some in the context of trials and others by physician discretion. Early intubation over
      escalating noninvasive support (ie. High flow nasal canula and bipap) has been adopted due to
      the frequency of rapidly worsening oxygenation, hemodynamic instability, and to protect staff
      from virus aerosolization. Low tidal volume ventilation and prone positioning are lung
      protective strategies used in critically ill covid-19 patients that are based on management
      of acute respiratory distress syndrome generally. Arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, and shock are
      serious complications from covid-19 that warrant avoidance of acidosis, electrolyte
      monitoring and replacement, and pressor support. Conservative fluid replacement is used to
      avoid worsening oxygenation. In sum, multiple factors including timeliness and quality of
      care likely affect patient outcomes. Hospitalists and pulmonary critical care physicians
      direct the care of covid-19 patients with support from specialists as needed including
      infectious disease, cardiology, and nephrology.

      Pragmatic trials focus on studying the real-world effect of an intervention, such as a
      medication, in the context of other care a patient is likely to receive. The intervention is
      delivered by staff normally taking care of the patient with monitoring that is routinely
      available. Advantages can include generalizability, increased physician participation due to
      less burdensome study protocols, and feasibility. Disadvantages include allowance of
      unblinded design, bias from physicians and patients about the intervention, and more
      heterogeneity in treatment than in a mechanistic protocolized trial. Efforts to minimize bias
      include selecting objective outcomes (e.g. PaO2/FIO2 rather than cough or dyspnea).
    
  