
    
      Background

      The burden of cognitive impairment is severe, and often hinders affected people to act
      independently in daily life, and their families frequently carry a large burden. A great
      challenge is to support the maintenance of cognitive health in order to avoid cognitive
      disability. Individuals diagnosed with subjective cognitive decline (SCD [unimpaired
      performance on cognitive tests]), mild cognitive impairment (MCI [Impaired performance on
      cognitive tests]) are frequently affected by health issues (such as stress symptoms, anxiety,
      and depression), as well as social avoidance due to the unclear prognosis of their cognitive
      dysfunction. Thus, the need for efficient psycho-social support are utterly needed both from
      an individual- as well as a societal perspective.

      The investigators have developed a novel psychological treatment manual focused on supporting
      individuals with SCD and MCI. The treatment manual is centered on facilitating behavioral
      change in accordance with personal values and long-term goals even in the presence of
      negative experiences, as well as to promote meaningful life-style changes. The treatment
      manual has its basis in the cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) tradition, but the
      investigators have strived to adapt the manual to suit a cognitively affected population with
      for example with reminders, more sessions, validation techniques, repetition, and concrete
      examples etc. Recent developments within CBT, particularly acceptance commitment therapy
      (ACT), emphasize the utility of acceptance and mindfulness strategies, contrasting
      interventions focused on reduction or control of symptoms. In brief, the treatment objective
      in ACT and in our study is to improve functioning by increasing psychological flexibility.
      Psychological flexibility is defined as the ability to notice and accept interfering
      thoughts, emotions and bodily sensations without acting on them, to facilitate behaving in
      accordance with personal values and long-term goals also in the presence of those negative
      experiences.

      The specific research questions are:

        -  Can the psychological treatment rationale with its focus on psychoeducation, validation,
           exposure, and acceptance among other therapeutic techniques, preserve cognitive status,
           increase life satisfaction, improve psychological health, show positive biological
           changes in individuals with SCD/MCI?

        -  Are potential treatment effects maintained longitudinally?

        -  Can significant treatment predictors be identified on treatment outcome?

        -  How does the participants perceive the treatment?

      The investigators hypothesize that in comparison with the control conditions, the response to
      psychological treatment will be associated with improved psychological health flexibility
      (i.e., the ability to notice and accept interfering thoughts, emotions and bodily sensations
      without acting on them, to facilitate behaving in accordance with personal values and
      long-term goals also in the presence of those negative experiences), and improved cellular
      protection (indexed by increased telomerase activity).

      Methods

      Patients will be recruited from the Cognitive Centers at the Karolinska University Hospital,
      Solna, and Huddinge within Stockholm metropolitan area, where they partake in cognitive
      examination (i.e., neuropsychological assessments, anamnesis, biological markers etc.). These
      patients will be younger than 70 years and will have received a diagnosis of SCD or MCI.

      Randomization

      The identified patients receive verbal and written information about the project. In the next
      step, patients that express interest for the project signs an informed consent and will then
      be evaluated in a semi-structured interview, conducted by a psychologist at the Unit of
      Behavioral Medicine at Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. Patients that
      fulfill the inclusion criteria and considered suitable for treatment, are randomized. For the
      randomization process, the investigators will engage the Karolinska Trial Alliance,
      Stockholm, Sweden (https://karolinskatrialalliance.se/en/), that is a professional clinical
      research center at Karolinska University Hospital.

      RCT design and groups

      One group will receive psychological treatment (experimental group), one group will get
      cognitive training (active control group), and one group will get the gold standard
      treatment, which is health information (TAU). Participants need to be present for at least 75
      % of the intervention and completed at least 75 % of the homework to be considered adherent.
      All evaluation assessments will be conducted by blinded assessors. Participants cannot be
      blinded to their group assignment, which is typical of nonpharmacological intervention
      trials.

      Power calculation

      Sample size was calculated with the R package SIMR, which allows power calculations of Linear
      Mixed Models (LMM). The sample size estimate is based on changes in our primary outcome,
      AAQ2. The model included the interaction of time (pre- versus post-test 1; continuous) and
      group (experimental versus active control; factor). The model also had subject ID (factor) as
      a random effect to account for repeated measurements. The analysis showed that to get a
      significant difference between the experimental group and the active control group we need at
      least 40 participants (to have 93% power) in each group. We expect a 15% attrition rate, so
      an initial recruitment of 138 (46 in each group) participants should ensure that about 120
      participants remain in the final sample.

      Ethical considerations

      The project has an approved ethical application (Dnr. 2018/2057-31) by the Regional Ethical
      Committee in Stockholm and follows the Declaration of Helsinki. Cognitive impairments are
      often related to progressive decline in cognitive and intellectual abilities. Thus, there is
      a risk that patients may progress in their decline during the period in which they are
      included. The investigators therefore need to be watchful on potential progression, and
      referral to other health care units can be needed if the patient's conditions are changing to
      the worse. The treatment/rehabilitation might in some cases be perceived as psychologically
      tough when it comes to behavioral changes. This is not unique for the current study, but
      often a part of any psychological clinical treatment/rehabilitation. To provide qualified
      support to the patients, only professional clinicians will interact with the participants.
      Most of them will be licensed and sanctioned by the Social Board of Health and Welfare
      (Socialstyrelsen) who is governed by ethical guidelines and the need to protect the patients
      and their personal information.

      Statistical analysis

      The RCT will be analyzed with analysis of covariance (ANCOVAS) considering group-by-time
      interaction, main effect of group, and main effect of time analysis. The cognitive diagnosis,
      gender, age, and education will be included in the model as covariates of interest.
      Individual growth curves will also be analyzed. To predict the outcome of the treatments,
      artificial intelligence (AI) methods such as support vector machine learning (SVM) will be
      used. Briefly, SVM procedures consider each variable as one dimension in a multi-dimensional
      hyperplane structure within which the SVM algorithm searches for the best separation of
      multi-dimensional data points where each point corresponds to a participant which is labelled
      as belonging to different classes. The investigators will use Principal Component Analysis
      (PCA) to select the input variables for the SVM procedures, and mixed models to test within
      and between participant changes over time and explore causal effects. The investigators will
      also conduct sensitivity analyses to assess the effect of dropout. The qualitative approach
      will be conducted in line with Consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research
      (COREQ).
    
  