
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase II dose of
      cediranib maleate (cediranib) in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed disodium
      (pemetrexed). (Phase I) II. To assess the safety and toxicity of the regimen. (Phase I) III.
      To assess whether cisplatin/pemetrexed plus cediranib as compared to cisplatin/pemetrexed
      plus placebo improves progression-free survival in patients with malignant pleural
      mesothelioma. (Phase II) IV. To compare overall survival in patients treated with
      cisplatin/pemetrexed plus cediranib to those treated with cisplatin/pemetrexed plus placebo.
      (Phase II) V. To assess the safety and toxicity profile of the regimen. (Phase II) VI. To
      assess response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) and disease
      control rate (response or stable disease) in the subset of patients with measurable disease
      by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. (Phase II) VII. To assess
      response rate and disease control rate using modified RECIST criteria for pleural tumors in
      the subset of patients with measurable disease by modified RECIST criteria for pleural
      tumors. (Phase II) VIII. To assess the rate of agreement between local and central pathology
      review of mesothelioma and its histologic subtypes. (Phase II) IX. To collect specimens for
      banking for use in future research studies. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of cediranib maleate followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I (CLOSED): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes and
      cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive cediranib maleate alone PO QD in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin IV over 2 hours
      on day 1 and cediranib maleate PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive
      cediranib maleate alone PO QD in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin as in arm I and placebo PO QD on
      days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive placebo alone PO QD in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then at 3 years.
    
  