
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cancer and is the leading cause of cancer mortality in the
      world. Every year, more than one million people die from lung cancer in worldwide. NSCLC
      accounts for about 85% of all lung cancers diagnosis and continues to remain a major
      therapeutic challenge.

      Chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of advanced NSCLC have reached a plateau of
      effectiveness when administered in the classic modality. In the first-line treatment of
      advanced non-squamous NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor wild-type, cisplatin plus
      pemetrexed is considered the best chemotherapeutic regimen. Recently, the PARAMOUNT trial has
      demonstrated that continuation maintenance with pemetrexed improves progression-free survival
      and overall survival after induction therapy with cisplatin plus pemetrexed in advanced
      non-squamous NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor wild-type.

      Bevacizumab, a pure humanized anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody (mAb) has improved the outcomes
      of chemotherapy alone when combined with chemotherapy as first-line therapy for advanced
      non-squamous NSCLC. A randomized phase Ⅲ trial named Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group E4559
      has demonstrated that concurrent bevacizumab with chemotherapy followed by maintenance
      bevacizumab in previously untreated patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC is associated
      with an increase in overall survival.

      In China, the cost of continuation maintenance with pemetrexed or bevacizumab is high in the
      current economic environment.

      Thalidomide is much cheaper than pemetrexed and bevacizumab, and has been shown to have
      activity in numerous malignancies. Although the exact anti-tumor mechanism is unknown,
      thalidomide exhibits both immuno-modulating and anti-angiogenic effects. Based on potentially
      synergistic mechanisms of action, thalidomide has the potential to enhance the activity of
      conventional chemotherapy. Results from previously published small studies in which
      thalidomide was given concurrently with conventional chemotherapy and was continued as
      maintenance therapy suggest that thalidomide might be effective in the treatment of patients
      with small cell lung cancer and NSCLC. Study and evaluation the efficacy and toxicity of
      thalidomide in combination with chemotherapy and as maintenance treatment in patients with
      advanced non-squamous NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor wild-type is necessary.
    
  