
    
      Background. AVS is recommended by the current Endocrine Society Guideline as the gold
      standard for the identification of the surgically curable subtype of primary aldosteronism
      (PA).(Funder 2008) However, consensus on the way AVS should be performed and on the
      interpretation of its results still lacks, as recently pointed out. (Stewart 2010, Auchus
      2010) In particular, some centers use the bilateral simultaneous technique, while others
      perform the sequential catheterization. Moreover, some centers perform AVS during or after
      using ACTH stimulation, albeit with different doses, and others do not use any
      stimulation.(Seccia 2009) In addition, some are utilizing the absolute values of plasma
      cortisol and aldosterone to determinate the lateralization (Nishikawa 2007), whereas others
      are relying on calculation of the selectivity index to determine the collection of adrenal
      vein blood, followed by calculation of the and the lateralization index only if bilaterally
      selective samples were obtained.(Rossi 2008) Moreover, large differences in the cutoffs for
      establishing selectivity and lateralization exist, which have not been clarified by recent
      studies that rather added further complexity to this field.(Mulatero 2010) If a consistent
      degree of success rate can be achieved by having only one or two radiologists performing AVS
      at each centre, or if more radiologists can become proficient in performing the procedure and
      consistently achieving adequate results, also remains to be clarified. Finally, some centers
      perform AVS in all patients who are plausible candidates to adrenalectomy, while other submit
      to AVS only a small proportion of the patients (Young WJ personal communication).

      Thus, it remains unclear which is the proportion of patients with PA who are offered AVS at
      the different centers, and how many of those who are submitted to AVS ultimately undergo
      adrenalectomy.

      In an era of shrinking budget the issue of cost the issue of costs of the procedure also
      remains a relevant one when assessing the cost-effectiveness of the diagnostic work-up of PA.
      A preliminary survey suggests that there are huge variations across different countries in
      the charges for AVS to both the patients and/or the health care and insurance system.

      It is likely that one of the reasons for the lack of consensus on AVS could depend on the
      facts that: i) no single centre as gathered a number of AVS studies large enough to warrant
      solid conclusions; ii) there has been no systematic survey of the AVS data that have been
      generated around the world in this field

      Aims of the study. Based on this background, the aims of the AVIS study are those described
      above.

      Study design. To the first aim a questionnaire will be circulated among the centers that are
      internationally recognized and have published in the field of AVS and have agreed to
      participate in the study.

      The data will be collected and handled at the maximum level of confidentiality under the
      requirement of the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Study selection criteria. Eligible centers will be identified among those that have published
      in the English literature on AVS or PA (reported variously as observational cohort studies,
      or clinical trials): Studies will be identified through computer-assisted literature searches
      of databases, scanning of reference lists, hand-searching of relevant journals,
      correspondence with authors of relevant reports and consultation with experts in the field.

      The inclusion criteria will be the consent of the leading investigator to participate in the
      data collection.

      The only exclusion criteria will be the refusal to participate in the study. The number of
      adhering and non-adhering centers will be recorded and mentioned in the publications.

      Data collection. Data will be collected in an anonymous way on many characteristics at
      baseline and at subsequent surveys during follow-up. Information on categorical variables,
      will be systematically re-coded to ensure comparability among studies. For each individual
      patient, data were sought on the following outcomes: blood pressure and antihypertensive
      medications at follow-up post-adrenalectomy and on dates of occurrence of cardiovascular
      events, including non-fatal CHD; non fatal stroke; specific cause mortality (or at least
      fatal CDH and fatal stroke) and other cardiovascular outcomes. Being a retrospective study,
      precise details of the diagnostic criteria used for the definition of incident cases will be
      sought from each centre (as were data on the completeness of follow-up).

      Data obtained from each participating study will be checked for internal consistency and any
      queries that might arrive will clarified with the P.I. of each centre, before harmonization
      to a standard format.

      The content of the data will be unchanged by this process, and computer-generated detailed
      summary tabulations based will be reviewed and confirmed by collaborators.

      Data will be stored securely and anonymously at the coordinating centre.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by use of summary statistics after appropriate
      transformation of the variables that show a skewed distribution as PAC and PCC by means of
      the SPSS for Mac (vers 18.0), GaphPad and the MedCalc softwares.

      Scientific Committee. The leading investigator of each centre contributing at least 50 AVS
      studies will be invited to participate in the scientific committee of the AVIS study and will
      have full access to the locked database.

      Expected results. Upon completion of the first phase of the study the investigators expect to
      be able to gather information on the way AVS is being performed around the world and
      therefore to prepare a first manuscript reporting on the number of AVS per centre, the rate
      of adrenal vein ruptures during the procedure, the rate of use of simultaneous/sequential AVS
      catheterization, the number of radiologists that perform AVS and their success rate in the
      procedure, the rate of use of stimulation test during the perform of AVS, the percentage of
      PA patients to whom AVS is offered at each center, the rate of calculation of the selectivity
      index, the lateralization index and the contralateral suppression index and their cutoff
      limits, the use of AVS studies that are not bilaterally selective for diagnosis and the costs
      of AVS for the National Health System or Insurance and for the patients.

      Upon completion of the database with the individual data the investigators expect to be able
      to gather > 2000 AVS studies, in a single database. After harmonization of the data,
      identification of the outliers and of the underlying reasons (by interaction with the leading
      investigator at each center), the database will be locked. The investigators will then
      undertake the statistical analysis, which will entail the following variables:

        -  Demography (sex, age, race);

        -  Baseline blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) values;

        -  Serum K+ before AVS;

        -  Dynamic test during the AVS if any;

        -  Plasma aldosterone (PAC) and cortisol concentration (PCC) in the infraadrenal inferior
           vena cava (IVC) and in the right (RAV) and left (LAV) adrenal vein;

        -  Final diagnosis (bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia (BAH), unilateral adrenocortical
           hyperplasia (UAH), aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), bilateral APA;

        -  Treatment (adrenalectomy or pharmacological therapy);

        -  Post-treatment blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) values;

        -  Post-treatment sK+ ;

        -  Diagnosis concordance/discordance between imaging (CT or RM) and AVS. Data on the
           demography, biochemical and hemodynamic features of the patients selected for AVS in the
           different continents will be obtained and information on the rate of successful
           catheterization will be generated. The concordance rate of imaging and AVS results will
           also be determined and the clinical usefulness of the AVS for establishing the
           indication to adrenalectomy will be ascertained in the largest database available ever.
    
  