
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical efficacy of vorinostat (SAHA) and bortezomib, in terms of
      progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months, in patients with progressive, recurrent
      glioblastoma multiforme.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical efficacy of this regimen, in terms of overall survival, PFS at
      12 months, time to progression, and objective response rate, in these patients.

      II. To identify molecular predictors of response in baseline tumor specimens from these
      patients.

      III. To determine molecular changes in response to this regimen in tumor specimens from
      patients undergoing surgery.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to planned surgery
      (no [stratum 1] vs yes [stratum 2]).

      STRATUM 1 (NOT UNDERGOING SURGERY): Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once daily on
      days 1-14 and bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      STRATUM 2 (UNDERGOING SURGERY): Patients receive oral SAHA once daily for 2 days prior to
      surgery and then on the day of surgery. Patients also receive bortezomib IV on the day of
      surgery. After receiving the 3rd dose of SAHA, patients undergo surgery to remove the tumor.
      Beginning at least 7 days after surgery, patients receive SAHA and bortezomib as in stratum
      1.

      Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline and during surgery (stratum 2) for correlative
      laboratory studies. Tissue samples are analyzed for baseline total and phosphorylated AKT and
      p27^KIp1 expression by IHC. Tissue samples from patients in stratum 2 are also analyzed for
      histone acetylation status; markers of proteasome inhibition; total and phosphorylated Bax
      expression by IHC; and gene expression profiles.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then
      every 6 months thereafter.
    
  