
    
      When used for breast reconstruction on irradiated patients, breast implants can result in 50%
      or higher rate of complications included capsular contracture and implant rupture. For this
      reasons secondary breast reconstruction in irradiated patients is preferably done with
      autologous tissue.Reconstruction methods employing microvascular transfer of autologous
      tissue are time consuming having a long learning curve for surgeons. The present project aims
      to evaluate fat transplantation in combination with external tissue expansion (Brava method)
      as an alternative to microsurgical complexe methods.

      Hypothesis: Early complication/ drop out occur more frequently in fat transplantated
      patients.

      Methods: External tissue expanders (Brava, Brava, LLC 14221 SW 142nd St, Miami, FL 33186)
      will be used 3 weeks prior to reconstruction in order to enhance the volume and survival of
      fat cells. The investigators expect that each patient in the fat transplantation group will
      need 4-6 transplantation sessions of about 1.5 to 2 hours each to achieve satisfactory volume
      and shape of the breast. The investigators expect 1-2 operative sessions of respectively 5-7
      and 2-3 hours duration in the DIEP group. The risk of reoperation (second operation during
      the first postoperative week) in the DIEP group is 5-10 %.

      Patients in the fat transplantation group experiencing poor compliance or early complications
      as well as patients with unsatisfactory results will be offered alternative methods of
      reconstruction such as superior or inferior gluteal perforator flap (SGAP or IGAP),
      Latissimus dorsi pedicled flap alone or in combination with implant. In some cases even
      simple implant reconstruction could be offered assuming that the quality of previously
      irradiated skin has been improved by fat transplants .

      Study design: Prospective cohort study

      Hypothesis: Reconstruction with BRAVA and fat transplantation is a good alternative to
      reconstruction with DIEP flap.

      Study variables: MRI-based volume estimates, anthropometric measurements, VAS scale (Breast-Q
      - questionnaire measuring patient-related outcome) and Telemark breast score evaluation
      through independent investigators

      Statistics: Power analysis determine that 25 patients are required in each group in this
      study considering 80 % power with 95 % significance and 40 % difference with regard to
      patient satisfaction and early complications.

      Follow-up: 6 months after DIEP reconstruction and 3 months after the second session of fat
      transplantation.

      Primary endpoint: assessment of early complications in both study groups

      Secondary endpoint: patient satisfaction with shape and symmetry of the breast, Satisfaction
      with psychosocial, psychological and sexual well-being, satisfaction with process of care,
      shape of the body and postoperative scars (Breast-Q).
    
  