
    
      The Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS Disorders) are a group of rare genetic disorders caused by the
      deficiency of one of the lysosomal enzymes, resulting in an inability to metabolize complex
      carbohydrates (mucopolysaccharides) into simpler molecules. High concentrations of
      mucopolysaccharides in the cells of the central nervous system, including the brain, cause
      the neu-rological and developmental deficits that accompany these disorders.

      Lysosomal enzymes are found in the lysosome, a very small membrane-contained body (organelle)
      found in the cytoplasm of most cells. The lysosome is often called the "waste disposal plant"
      of the cell. The accumulation of these large, undegraded mucopolysaccharides in the cells of
      the body is the cause of a number of physical symptoms and abnormalities.

      MPS-III (Sanfilippo Syndrome) is one of seven MPS Disorders. It is an inborn error of
      metabolism that is transmitted as an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. MPS-lll has been
      categorized into four subtypes: MPS-III Type A, MPS-III Type B, MPS-III Type C, and MPS-III
      Type D depending on the gene defect (MPS3A - SGSH gene, MPS3B - NAGLU gene, MPS3C - HGSNAT,
      MPS3D - GNS gene). All types are associated with some degree of mental deterioration, but the
      severity depends on the particular type of MPS-lll. Several physical defects may be present,
      and the severity of these defects varies with the type of MPS-III. In the case of each type
      of MPS-III, abnormal amounts of a specific, chemically complex molecule is excreted in the
      urine. The excreted chemical is the same for each of the four types of MPS-III, since the
      defective gene involves a different step, and thus a different enzyme, in the deconstruction
      of the same mucopolysaccharide. By testing for one or another of these enzymes, the variant
      type may be readily identified.

      Symptoms Patients with Sanfilippo Syndrome (MPS Type III) usually appear normal at birth, but
      mental retardation and developmental delay is usually evident by age 3-5 years. Mental and
      motor development reaches a peak by 3-6 years of age after which behavioral disturbances and
      intellectual decline usually occur. However, hyperactivity and irritability may become
      obvious earlier.

      The following symptoms are usually apparent by approximately age 10: neurological deficits
      and signs, wobbly and erratic gait and difficulty walking (ataxia), hyperactivity
      (hyperkinetic syndrome), mental retardation, stiff joints, hernias, enlarged liver and/or
      spleen (hepatosplenomegaly).Growth is usually minimally affected; the head may be enlarged,
      and abnormal hairiness (hirsutism) may occur. Mild coarsening of facial features also
      characterizes this disorder. In some cases deafness may also occur.

      Causes All four varieties of MPS-III are autosomal recessive genetic disorders.

      The gene abnormalities associated with MSS-IIIA, MPS-IIIB, MPS-IIIC and MPS-IIID have been
      identified. The Gene Map Loci are as follows:

      MPS-IIIA --------- 17q25.3; SGSH gene

      MPS-IIIB --------- 17q21.2; NAGLU gene

      MPS-IIIC --------- 8p11.21; HGSNAT gene

      MPS-IIID --------- 12q14.3; GNS gene

      Genetic diseases are determined by the combination of genes for a particular trait that are
      on the chromosomes received from the father and the mother.

      Recessive genetic disorders occur when an individual inherits the same abnormal gene for the
      same trait from each parent. If an individual receives one normal gene and one gene for the
      disease, the person will be a carrier for the disease, but usually will not show symptoms.
      The risk for two carrier parents to both pass the defective gene and, therefore, have an
      affected child is 25% with each pregnancy. The risk to have a child who is a carrier like the
      parents is 50% with each pregnancy. The chance for a child to receive normal genes from both
      parents and be genetically normal for that particular trait is 25%. The risk is the same for
      males and females.

      All individuals carry 4-5 abnormal genes. Parents who are close relatives (consanguineous)
      have a higher chance than unrelated parents to both carry the same abnormal gene, which
      increases the risk to have children with a recessive genetic disorder.
    
  