
    
      Patients randomized to the HIIT protocol will train three days a week for 12 weeks. Before
      exercise start participants will rate self-reported pain and fatigue on a visual analogue
      scale and describe in own words information about possible changes in medication dose, any
      side effects from medication as well as possible negative and positive effects from previous
      exercise sessions, as well as physical activities performed since the previous exercise
      session. Each exercise session starts with a 5-minut warm-up on about 50% of maximal heart
      rate. Each HIIT set is between 30-60 seconds where loads are increased and the participant
      bikes as fast as possible with the goal of reaching >85% of maximal heart rate. During the
      2-minuts rest in-between HIIT sets the participant will rate self-reported exertion using the
      Borg CR-10, 0-10 scale and the Borg RPE scale, 6-20.

      When initiating the exercise period, participants start on three HIIT sets on a lower
      intensity, gradually increasing to goal intensity during the first two weeks. Then the number
      of sets are gradually increased to six sets.

      After completing six HIIT sets the participants perform one set of 10 voluntary repetitions
      maximum (VRM) resistance training of the deltoids using free weights and of the quadriceps
      using free weights or a quadriceps curl machine, depending on degree of muscle weakness.
      Every other week a new 10 VRM is tested and training loads are adapted. After completing each
      set, the participant rates perceived muscle exertion on the Borg CR-10 scale. The program is
      ended with stretching of trained muscle groups and rating of overall exertion during the
      exercise session on the Borg RPE-scale.

      Participants randomized to the control group will perform a standardized home exercise
      program on an easy-to moderate intensity adapted to initial muscle weakness, five days a week
      for 12 weeks. The program includes tasks for muscle groups targeted by myositis and takes
      about 15 minutes to perform. In combination with the home exercise program the participants
      walks 15 minutes on 60% of maximal heart rate. Participants fill out an exercise diary
      commenting on loads and number of repetitions for each task.

      Participants in both groups ware a Polar 330A heart rate monitor during each training
      session. By synchronizing to a computer program all exercise data are stored in a cloud data
      base and can be monitored regularly by the project investigator.
    
  