
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine factors related to glioma survival in patients from two population-based case
           series collected in the San Francisco Bay Area between August 1991 and April 1994
           (series 1) and May 1997 and August 1999 (series 2).

      Secondary

        -  Determine vital status for 879 patients in the two San Francisco Bay Area
           population-based series through July 2004.

        -  Determine survival as a function of established, potential, and yet unstudied prognostic
           indicators.

        -  Gather data to validate results from this study with information from adult glioma
           patients enrolled prospectively at the UCSF-Neuro-Oncology clinic and through series 3
           of the San Francisco Bay Area Adult Glioma Study; incorporate results from this study
           and other components of the SPORE into ongoing clinical investigations at the Brain
           Tumor Research Center and Neuro-Oncology Service at UCSF.

        -  Using funding from the organization Accelerate Brain Cancer Cure (ABC2), genotype
           several thousand single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from some study participants;
           assess these SNPs for potential relationship to glioma survival.

      OUTLINE: Medical records of patients registered to the California Cancer Registry or the
      Northern California Cancer Center SEER are reviewed for mortality and treatment information
      related to the brain tumor. Blood and buccal specimens are collected from patients with newly
      diagnosed disease who are being seen at the UCSF Neuro-Oncology Service. The specimens are
      used for polymorphism and tumor marker studies and other pertinent data. Tumor specimens and
      treatment information related to the brain tumor are also collected from the SPORE Tissue
      Core.

      Additional tumor makers are studied, including: chromosome 1p/19q, 7q studies; DNA repair and
      oxidative metabolism polymorphisms; and up to 2 tumor markers and 2 constitutive genotyping
      studies.
    
  