
    
      TRIAL SYNOPSIS

      Trial Design This is a 2 arm, phase II, multicentre, randomised clinical trial in adult
      patients with ALL in complete remission (CR) undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation
      (SCT) comparing the novel conditioning regimen of TBI and cyclophosphamide with the standard
      condition of Fludarabine/Melphalan/Alemtuzumab (FMA).

      Patient will be stratified at randomisation by the donor type (sibling; suitable matched), CR
      status (CR1; CR2) and by age (above; below 55 years of age). Patients eligible for entry into
      the trial will be randomised on a 1:1 basis to receive either the experimental treatment arm
      or the control arm.

      Objectives Primary Objectives To compare the disease free survival (DFS) at two years of
      patients with ALL after a TBI and cyclophosphamide allograft with that of patients
      transplanted using the FMA conditioning regimen.

      Secondary Objectives To compare overall survival (OS), cumulative incidence of disease
      relapse (CIR), non-relapse mortality (NRM), incidence of grade 2-4 acute
      graft-versus-host-disease (GvHD), incidence of chronic GvHD of any grade, occurrence and
      severity of veno-occlusive disease (VOD), duration of hospitalisation in the first year,
      quality of life (QoL), full donor chimerism at day 100 and TBI related symptomatic pulmonary
      toxicity between the control and experimental arm following allogenic SCT.

      Exploratory Objectives To measure multi-lineage chimerism and molecular minimal residual
      disease (MRD) at 3 monthly intervals and the ability of planned donor lymphocyte infusion
      (DLI) to 'correct' mixed chimerism and reverse molecular relapse/persistence and reduce the
      incidence of frank haematologic relapse.

      To ascertain if either of the conditioning arms is more effective in controlling disease in
      patients who are MRD positive before transplant.

      Patient Population This trial will recruit patients with ALL in CR as defined by the WHO
      classification (Appendix 1). Patients enrolled onto the UKALL XIV registration study and the
      planned national UKALL XV study who are eligible for transplant will also be able to enrol
      onto ALL-RIC provided they meet the entry criteria.

      Sample Size A minimum of 247 patients will be randomised 1:1 between the control and
      experimental treatment arms.

      Trial Duration Patients will be recruited over 48 months across IMPACT centres. Patients will
      be followed up for a minimum of 5 years.
    
  