
    
      The investigators study the role of trust in COVID-19 vaccine through a global survey.
      Specifically, the investigators vary (1) the degree of vaccine innovation and (2) the
      adoption rate of the vaccine to test if these factors influence the individuals' willingness
      to receive the vaccine.

      An online survey is conducted across 9 countries with 3,600 subjects per country. About 15
      questions will be asked for each subject and the survey is expected to take about 10-15
      minutes to complete.

      The 9 countries are USA, Brazil, Mexico, China, India, Indonesia, Russia, Germany and the UK.
      The three most populous countries from three major continents (Americas, Asia and Europe) are
      chosen. The target subjects are healthy adults over 18 years of age.

      The survey instrument will consist of two parts. In the first part, the survey will ask 10
      questions regarding their demographics and the general perception on the safety,
      effectiveness, and importance of vaccines. This part of the survey allows us to explore the
      relationship between the individual factors (such as age, gender or income status) and trust
      in COVID-19 vaccine, as well as to normalize the attitude towards COVID-19 vaccines over the
      overall vaccine-related confidence.

      The 3 key questions of interest are:

      "Suppose that a conventional vaccine for COVID-19 receives approval for human use and is
      available for the public.

      A3. How much do you think the government should subsidize the conventional COVID-19 vaccine?
      [10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 100%]

      A4. If the conventional COVID-19 vaccine were provided to you for free, how likely are you to
      accept the vaccination? [Very likely, somewhat likely, neither likely nor unlikely, somewhat
      unlikely, very unlikely]

      A5. Suppose the conventional COVID-19 vaccine is endorsed by your Government, free, but no
      one in your country has received the vaccine. How likely would you be willing to be
      vaccinated with this new vaccine? [Very likely, somewhat likely, neither likely nor unlikely,
      somewhat unlikely, very unlikely]"

      The investigators manipulate two dimensions of information between the subjects. The two
      dimensions are:

        -  2 vaccine types: 50% of subjects will be asked for "conventional vaccine"; 50% of
           subjects will be asked for "RNA vaccine"

        -  5 different levels of adoption rate in the country: 0% (i.e., no one in your country has
           received the vaccine), 20%, 40%, 60%, and 80%

      Within each country, there will be 2 (vaccine type) x 5 (different adoption rates) = 10
      between-subject treatments.

      In the second part of the survey, the investigators ask participants to complete a simple
      economic dice-rolling task, and predict outcomes of the same task in their own country. The
      investigators will study how individual performance in these tasks correlate with their trust
      in COVID-19 vaccines.
    
  