
    
      Design pilot study, single arm controlled study Hypothesis Deep neuromuscular blockade
      provided intraoperatively for patients undergoing laparoscopic colorectal surgery will have
      an increase in oxygen delivery as measured by haemodynamic data using oesophageal doppler.
      Secondary hypotheses Deep muscular blockade will provide the same surgical operating
      conditions at lower abdominal inflation pressures. The patients will experience less pain
      postoperatively due to less forced distension of the peritoneum demonstrated by less
      analgesic requirements. Patients will therefore spend less time in recovery and be able to
      mobilise earlier.Participants and Recruitment Patients will be assessed in preassessment
      clinic by a clinical nurse specialist for eligibility and provided with a patient information
      sheet. On the morning of planned surgery patients eligible who wish to be included in the
      study will be consented for the study in accordance with the International GCP guidelines by
      the anaesthetic researcher, and given a form to sign.

      Sample size We estimate that 30- 40 participants will be required to demonstrate and
      statistical significance. Our unit carries out approximately 4 laparoscopic colorectal
      resections per week. Assuming that 30% of patients may not consent to participation or will
      not meet inclusion criteria we predict it will take less than 6- 12 months to enrol the
      necessary number of participants.

      Preoperatively Participants will already be on the standardised Enhanced Recovery Programme.
      Intraoperatively An oesophageal Doppler probe will be inserted orally or nasally (standard
      practice in our unit for haemodynamic monitoring) to titrate fluids using stroke volume
      optimisation protocol (as per normal practice). Cardiovascular variables (heart rate, stroke
      volume, blood pressure and corrected flow time) will be collected prior to commencing surgery
      to provide baseline data set and throughout the procedure in accordance with routine
      observations under anaesthesia, which will together calculate oxygen delivery. Abdominal
      pressure will be measured continuously during insufflation and maintenance of the
      pneumoperitoneum (as per standard practice). Abdominal insufflation pressure will be
      gradually reduced as low as possible but ensuring the same standard of surgical access and
      operating conditions. Following completion of surgery the neuromuscular blockade will be
      reversed using a standardised dose of sugammadex 4mg/ kg according to the manufacturers
      guidelines according to neuromuscular monitoring returns a double burst stimulus to normal.

      Postoperatively Immediately in the recovery area analgesia will be provided in accordance
      with enhanced recovery guidelines. Morphine Sulphate will be titrated to effect and a patient
      controlled analgesia pump given to the patient, which records quantity and demands of
      morphine used. .The standard enhanced recovery pathway will then be continued until discharge
      home.

      Outcome measures Data collection for the primary endpoint will be collected from the
      haemodynamic data captured in theatre using the anaesthetic chart recording and oesophageal
      doppler. Data for the secondary endpoints will be pain scores in recovery and at 4 hours post
      operatively. Other secondary endpoints will be collected as standard by the Enhanced Recovery
      Nurse. These will include: length of operation, time spent in recovery area after surgery,
      time taken until mobilisation.
    
  