
    
      Shock is the failure of circulatory system to maintain adequate cellular perfusion. Septic
      shock is primarily a form of distributive shock and is characterized by ineffective tissue
      oxygen delivery and extraction associated with inappropriate peripheral vasodilation despite
      preserved or increased cardiac output. In sepsis, a complex interaction between pathologic
      vasodilation, relative and absolute hypovolemia, myocardial dysfunction, and altered blood
      flow distribution occurs due to the inflammatory response to infection. Even after the
      restoration of intravascular volume, microcirculatory abnormalities may persist and lead to
      maldistribution of cardiac output.

      Notwithstanding the complexity of its pathophysiology and treatment, to maintain adequate
      organ perfusion is a main goal in the management of severe sepsis and septic shock. For this
      purpose, optimization of intravascular volume and preload is the more important step. Fluid
      challenge is a term used to describe the initial volume expansion period in which the
      response of the patient to fluid administration is carefully evaluated. During this process,
      large amounts of fluids may be administered over a short period of time under close
      monitoring to evaluate the patient's response and avoid the development of pulmonary edema.
      Fluid challenge should be given in all patients suspected of hypovolemia. Fluid resuscitation
      may consist of natural or artificial colloids or crystalloids. There is no evidence-based
      support for one type of fluid over another. As the volume of distribution is much larger for
      crystalloids than for colloids, resuscitation with crystalloids requires more fluid to
      achieve the same end points and might result in more edema. In addition, post-hoc analysis
      and experimental studies suggest that colloids might be superior to crystalloids, in terms of
      physiologic end-points, recruitment of the microcirculation and mortality.
    
  