
    
      Sexual health is an important marker of individual quality of life and well-being of
      patients. Sexual dysfunction (SD) is common in patients with heart disease. Screening and
      management are recommended. Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) seems to be a privileged moment to
      address this problem, but the management is often insufficient. The main objective of the
      study was to evaluate the prevalence of SD in patients in CR in the Champagne-Ardenne region.
      Secondary objectives were to describe SD most frequently encountered, to identify risk
      factors of SD, to compare the feelings of patients about their sex life, before and after an
      acute cardiac event and to collect an estimate of the need for care by a dedicated sexology
      workshop.

      This prospective multicentre study was carried out in the cardiac rehabilitation centers of
      Champagne-Ardenne (Reims, Ardennes and Troyes ) between 1 June and 1 September 2017 by
      anonymous self-questionnaire.

      Eligible patients must have reached the age of majority, participate in a CR program at one
      of the centers cited, and agreed to respond to the study questionnaire voluntarily. Sexual
      inactivity and celibacy were not exclusionary criteria because prior sexual behavior did not
      predict future behavior and the need for counseling. Patients were informed about the
      objectives and conduct of the study by a health professional during their rehabilitation
      program or in follow-up consultations with the cardiologist. If the patient agreed to
      participate in the study, a questionnaire and an information sheet was provided. The
      questionnaire had to be completed anonymously and individually by the patient, to avoid any
      influence. It was then put back in an enclosed opaque envelope, in a closed urn left near the
      cloakroom of each center.

      Data are described as mean (± standard deviation) for quantitative variables and as a
      percentage for categorical variables. The Student or Wilcoxon-Mann Whitney test were used for
      the quantitative variables and chi-square or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables.
      The multivariate analysis of SD risk factors was performed by logistic regression. The Odds
      Ratio (OR) is reported with its 95% confidence interval (CI). The tests were bilateral with a
      threshold of significance at p <0.05.
    
  