
    
      -Chemo-radiation enhances survival but also increases the risk of PRD. The result will be an
      increasing

        -  Cost for society (repeated hospitalization for palliative care)

        -  An ethical problem to help these patients with irreversible degraded quality of life.

      Results from conventional therapies for PRD reveal a poor long-term efficacy:

      i. Coagulation by plasma argon is insufficient, 58% at 6 months; ii. The efficacy of formalin
      is questionable (48%), as is 5-amino-salicylate, sulfasalazine, vitamin E and pentoxifylline
      ; iii. The efficacy of short chain fatty acids and hyperbaric oxygen therapy is low (40%);
      iv. Steroids are of limited efficacy (37%). v. A surgical operation in an irradiated field is
      associated with difficult or impossible healing as well as with risks of infection (mortality
      of 5% within 40 months) Furthermore, conventional therapies are palliative and badly
      tolerated. More effective approaches are thus crucial.

        -  PRD unfortunately remains a major side effect of radiotherapy and there is no
           established effective treatment. Consequently, the recruitment of the aforementioned
           number of patients by participating radiotherapy centers is ensured.

        -  MSC therapy is a safe and suitable option in severe PRD.

             -  The investigators propose a proof of concept.

             -  MSC production and injection protocol has already been successfully employed in
                compassionate therapy on four patients, who suffered from chronic and fistulizing
                colitis, after radiotherapy for prostate cancer.

        -  PRISME is a network project which includes St Antoine Hospital, INSERM (National
           Institute of Health and Medical Research), EFS (French Blood Establishment ), CTSA (Army
           Centre of Blood Transfusion) ECellFrance, IRSN (Institute for Radiological Protection
           and Nuclear Safety), IGR (Gustave Roussy Institute), and Institute of cancerology of
           west France. Our consortium has robust experience of the treatment of radiation damages,
           preclinical models and the medical management of PRD using biotherapy. Clinical and
           scientific achievements, previous collaborations of the different groups and preliminary
           partner's data assure the fulfillment of the program.

             -  Patient selection will be performed by the six radiotherapy centers participating
                in this study. The expected recruitment per center had been concluded from the
                average number of potentially eligible patients treated and surveyed in each of the
                following centers (St Antoine Hospital, Gustave Roussy Institute, Institute of
                cancerology of west France).

             -  The ECellFrance platform will ensure MSC production. This platform includes two
                locations in Parisian region: EFS (in the city of Creteil) and CTSA.

             -  Support, trials and intervention protocols will be handled in the Department of
                Clinical Hematology at St Antoine Hospital, renowned for its expertise in the
                treatment of overdosed radiation therapy patients, i.e. Epinal cases) and which has
                managed a PHRC using MSCs.

             -  Participation of a research group with robust experience in stem cells,
                transplantation (Research centre Saint Antoine, INSERM) and radiobiology, cell
                therapy treatment of radiation accidents (IRSN, CTSA). These groups will carry out
                the characterization of the biological activity and immunological properties of the
                native MSC bone marrow tissue in vitro (INSERM) and in vivo (IRSN) and
                immunological monitoring of patients treated with the MSC (INSERM).

      It is expected to achieve the healing of chronic refractory diseases, leading to lower health
      expenses by reducing patient treatment and hospitalization, and to an increase in their
      quality of life by a:

        -  Decrease in rectorrhagia and hematuria, pain, drug-consumption;

        -  Inhibition of hemorrhagic syndromes and chronic inflammation accompanied by a sustained
           fistulization arrest due to the repairing capability of MSC.

      The expected results for the public will be the healing of chronic refractory diseases,
      leading to lower health expenses by reducing patient treatment and hospitalization, and to an
      increase in their quality of life.

      Hypothesis: MSC injections provide an efficient alternative approach in the treatment of PRD
      for patient refractories to conventional treatments.

      Patient study scheduled:

      D-60: Screening by 6 radiotherapy centers. D-1: Inclusion in Saint Antoine Hospital. D0, D7
      and D14: IV MSC injection (2x106 - 6x106/kg MSC). M2 and M4: follow-up visit. End of
      patient's participation to the study at M4. Total number of scheduled patients: 12 patients
      suffering from PRD. Simon minimax plan, P0=25%, P1=60%, Alpha=5% and Beta=20%.

      Stopping rules:

      Step 1: (n1=5) inclusion of 5 patients r1=1: if the number of success is <2, the study will
      end for MSC inefficacy. If the number of success is ≥2, proceed to step 2. Step 2: (n2=7)
      inclusion of up to 7 patients r2=5: as soon as the number of successes reaches 6 (>r2),
      inclusions will be discontinued and MSC will be considered as sufficiently promising for
      further studies.
    
  