
    
      This study is a multicenter open-labelled study conducted in subjects with relapsed or
      refractory AML in China. The study includes the following phases: screening phase, induction
      phase, consolidation phase baseline, consolidation phase and follow-up period.

      Screening phase:

      This study will enroll 12 subjects, who are 18 to 60 years (inclusive) at the time of signing
      the Informed Consent Form (ICF), and with the diagnosis as relapsed or refractory AML.
      Screening is conducted 21 days to 2 days before administration, and signed ICF by the subject
      must be obtained before screening.

      Baseline period:

      The baseline period is 1 day before study drug administration.

      Induction treatment:

      During the induction phase, subjects will receive 8 consecutive days of uproleselan treatment
      and 5 consecutive days of MEC (mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine combined regimen)
      chemotherapy.

      Consolidation baseline:

      The baseline of the consolidation phase is 1 day before the treatment administration of the
      consolidation phase.

      Consolidation treatment:

      Subjects who met the criteria for consolidation treatment started the consolidation period at
      the 29th day of the previous treatment cycle at the earliest and the 65th day at the latest.

      Follow-up period:

      Each subject should complete the following follow-up stage: (1) Response evaluation to
      determine remission to the induction treatment (induction period); (2) EOT assessment after
      completing the last consolidation treatment cycle; (3) Death. Survival and long-term
      follow-up, including initiation of new anti-leukemia treatment (within 6 months after the
      last uproleselan/placebo administration), recurrence, HSCT and survival events, monthly (±14
      days) for 2 years after the end of treatment, and afterwards quarterly (±14 days). The
      longest survival follow-up time is 3 years (calculated from the start of treatment).
    
  