
    
      The Australian and New Zealand Massive Transfusion Registry (ANZ-MTR) Clinical Dataset brings
      together data from multiple sources and analyses and reports contemporary information on
      transfusion practice and patient outcomes following critical bleeding (CB) and massive
      transfusion (MT) in all clinical settings, including surgery, trauma, obstetrics and
      gastrointestinal bleeding. Data on more than 6,000 patients from 25 participating sites have
      already been collected, analysed and results shared with participants.

      The ANZ-MTR is a unique resource. Recognising the valuable dataset available for transfusion
      policy and practice improvement, the ANZ-MTR is now transitioning from primarily a research
      tool to a sustainable operational model to align with Australia's national safety and quality
      framework, whilst still allowing research opportunities.

      ANZ-MTR data are already linked with the Australian and New Zealand National Death Indexes
      and the ANZ-MTR team is engaged with establishing linkages with other registries (e.g.
      intensive care, cardiothoracic surgery, trauma, maternity outcomes and others). This will
      provide expanded data for more sensitive outcome measurement.

      The ANZ-MTR uses electronic data extraction and data linkage methodologies. Clinical data
      from hospital data sources, including Laboratory Information Systems (for transfusion history
      and laboratory results) and Health Information Services databases (for patient demographics
      and admission data), are electronically extracted by the participating hospitals. The data
      are then sent to the ANZ-MTR, located at Monash University, where the data from the separate
      information systems are linked to enable detailed analyses that otherwise would not be easily
      possible. Monash University's Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, where the
      ANZ-MTR is located, has internationally recognised expertise in the management and
      statistical analyses of large, complex electronic datasets.
    
  