
    
      This is a phase I/II study of mebendazole in combination with standard of care agents for
      pediatric patients with gliomas. Patients with low-grade gliomas will receive a regimen of
      mebendazole in combination with vincristine, carboplatin, and temozolomide. Patients with
      high-grade gliomas and diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas will receive a regimen of
      mebendazole in combination with bevacizumab and irinotecan. Surgical resection of the tumor
      will be attempted initially with the goal of achieving a gross total resection without
      substantial neurologic deficit. Subtotal resection may be preferable depending on the
      location of the tumor. Optic pathway gliomas and diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas may remain
      unresected. Patients with high-grade gliomas or diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas will
      undergo local irradiation of their tumor before beginning protocol treatment. Low-grade
      glioma patients will not receive radiation therapy. Patients who have been previously treated
      with chemotherapy will be eligible for the study provided they have not previously failed
      therapy with any of the chemotherapeutic agents.

      Patients with eligible tumors will be consented for enrollment into the study. The study
      patients will be divided into two groups (low-grade glioma and high-grade/pontine glioma) for
      the purpose of determining the maximally tolerated dose of mebendazole. These two groups will
      be treated independently with regard to patient accrual, dose escalation, and evaluation of
      toxicity. In addition to their standard chemotherapy regimen, patients in both cohorts will
      receive mebendazole. Mebendazole doses will be escalated from the initial dose level of 50
      mg/kg/day divided twice daily, to a second dose level of 100 mg/kg/day divided twice daily,
      to the final dose level of 200 mg/kg/day divided twice daily, in cohorts of three patients
      per dose level. A standard "3+3" design will be used for determining dose escalation.

      Phase I safety monitoring for the low-grade group will take place during a trial period
      beginning with start of therapy and ending following the tenth week of induction therapy.
      Phase I safety monitoring for the high-grade/pontine glioma group will take place during a
      trial period beginning with the start of maintenance therapy through the twelfth week of
      maintenance therapy (3 cycles).

      After determination of maximally tolerated dose for each group, the study will continue to
      evaluate efficacy of this regimen. The study will be amended for the maximally tolerated dose
      for each group to be used in the remainder of the study. Patients currently on study will
      continue with maintenance therapy. To document the degree of residual tumor, standard whole
      brain MRI with and without contrast (gadolinium) will be performed following a specified
      intervals. Following completion of therapy, patients will continue to be monitored by MRI to
      assess progression-free and overall-survival.
    
  