
    
      The study will be completed in two parts: Dose escalation and dose expansion.

      Dose Escalation Starting doses of ibrutinib and lenalidomide will be assigned at the time of
      registration. A minimum of 2 or a maximum of 6 patients will be accrued to a given dose
      level. Doses will not be escalated in any individual patient.

      If none of the first 3 patients treated at a given dose level develops a dose limiting
      toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, enrollment to the dose level will be closed and
      enrollment will reopen at next higher dose level. If there are no other higher dose levels to
      be tested, three additional patients will be enrolled at the current dose level to confirm
      maximum tolerated dose. If one of the first 3 patients treated at a given dose level develops
      a dose limiting toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, three additional patients will
      be enrolled onto the current dose level. If, at any time in the enrollment of these 3
      additional patients, a patient develops a dose limiting toxicity, enrollment will be closed
      to this dose level. Enrollment will be re-opened to the next lower dose level if fewer than 6
      patients have been treated at that dose level. If none of these 3 additional patients
      develops a dose limiting toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, enrollment to this
      dose level will be closed and enrollment will reopen at next higher dose level. If there are
      no other higher dose levels to be tested, this will be considered the maximum tolerated dose.

      Patients will return to the clinic every 28 days for physical exams, laboratory assessments
      and review of side effects.

      Patients who do not have disease progression and have not experienced unacceptable toxicities
      will be eligible to continue protocol treatment at their current dose level until disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal. Those patients who have not experienced
      progression of disease but have unacceptable toxicity may be eligible for re-treatment at a
      lower dose.

      Part 2: Dose Expansion Once the maximum tolerated dose has been established or determined, 10
      additional patients will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide and
      ibrutinib at the same schedule as above. Dexamethasone will be given at the same dose as in
      the dose escalation portion of the study.

      Patients who discontinue treatment for protocol defined reasons will go to survival
      follow-up. Once a patient has entered the survival follow-up phase of the trial, his/her
      therapy is at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients' charts will be reviewed for
      progression and survival endpoints during visits with treating physicians.
    
  