
    
      Music therapy's effect on anxiety in Preoperative.(live vs. recorded):

      If the patient is randomly selected to the live music group, the music therapist will prepare
      a preferred song to be performed live in the preoperative room. If the patient is randomly
      selected for the recorded music group, she will be given an iPod and headphones and will
      listen to a recorded version of her preferred song. If the patient is randomly selected for
      the control group, she will receive standard care and no music. Pre/posttests will be given
      using a Global Anxiety Visual Analog Scale (GA-VAS).

      Music therapy's effect on propofol requirements intraoperatively:

      Subjects in the live music group and subjects in the recorded music group will listen to
      recorded music intraoperatively. All subjects will receive equal amounts of fentanyl and
      versed. Subjects will receive fentanyl in the amount of 1 microgram per kilogram and versed
      (midazolam) in the amount of 0.02 milligrams per kilogram from the nurse anesthetist. An ipod
      with headphones will be given to the subject when she is being prepared to move to the
      operating room. The board certified music therapist will initiate recorded music (harp
      selections). Recorded music will be relaxing harp selections. The board certified music
      therapist will accompany the subject to the operating room and assure volume levels and
      electronic equipment function properly.

      Anesthesia personnel will apply BIS monitor before propofol administration. Anesthesia
      personnel will titrate propofol to obtain BIS reading of 70 or lower and record the propofol
      in micrograms per kilogram per minute, infusing at that point. Signal Quality Index (SQI)
      will be recorded when the BIS reaches 70 to give credibility to the BIS monitor. SQI is a
      measure of the signal quality for the EEG channel source and is calculated based on impedance
      data, artifact, and other variables. The total amount of propofol for the case will be
      recorded as total milligrams received. Anesthesia personnel will record Observer's Assessment
      of the Alertness/Sedation (OAA/S) when BIS monitor reaches 70 or below as incidental data
      point. A score of 3 on OAA/S indicates that the patient responds only after mild prodding and
      shaking. OAA/S will be compared to BIS reading.

      Time in PACU and Patient Satisfaction:

      Recorded music will continue playing until the subject has met discharge criteria according
      to University Hospital's policy and procedure. The amount of time between when the patient
      leaves the operating room and meets discharge criteria (determined by nurse) will be
      recorded. Patient satisfaction will be recorded using a Likert scale: 7= highly satisfied;
      1=not at all satisfied after the subject has met her discharge criteria.

      Controls: The control group subjects will receive standard anesthesia, nursing and surgical
      care. All rating procedures will be the same. Controls will wear noise reducing headphones.
      The music therapist will not accompany control patients following surgery. When the trial is
      complete, the music therapist will offer the control subject a CD of the recorded music once
      she has met discharge criteria and all data is recorded. This will occur for the sake of
      ethics.
    
  