
    
      Background: Recent trials have shown that susceptibility testing guided therapy was more
      effective than empirical triple therapy given for 7-10 days in the first-line treatment of H.
      pylori infection. However, susceptibility testing is time consuming and inconvenient,
      limiting the widespread application of susceptibility testing guided therapy in clinical
      practice. Recently, point mutations at 23S rRNA and gyrase A have reported to be associated
      with clarithromycin and levofloxacin resistance. However, whether genotypic resistance guided
      therapy is more effective or non-inferior to susceptibility guided therapy has not been
      reported. Besides, the long term impact of H. pylori eradication on the gut microbiota and
      metabolic disorders remains unclear. Aim: Therefore, we aimed to (1) compare the efficacy of
      genotypic resistance guided sequential therapy vs. susceptibility testing guided therapy in
      the first-line therapy(2) assess the long term impact of eradication therapy on the
      antibiotic resistance and microbiota of the gut flora and the metabolic factorsMethods: This
      will be a multi-center, open labeled trialPatients: 560 patients with H. pylori infection
      naïve to eradication therapy will be enrolled Testing for H. pylori infectionBefore First
      Line TreatmentAny two positive of CLO test, histology, HpSA, and culture will be considered
      as H. pylori infectedAfter First-Line Treatment: C13-UBT will be used to assess the existence
      of H. pylori 6-8 weeks after first line therapy. Long term reinfection: C13-UBT will be used
      to assess the recurrence of H. pylori 1 year after eradication therapy Determination of
      antibiotic resistance of H. pylori: E-test will be used to determine the minimum inhibitory
      concentrations of clarithromycin and levofloxacin to guide the selection of antibiotics. Agar
      dilution test will also be done. Mutations in 23S rRNA and gyrase A will also be determined
      by PCR followed by direct sequencing Treatment regimens and assignment Eligible patients will
      be randomized to receive either one of the treatments (A) Genotypic resistance guided
      therapy: In the absence of 23S rRNA mutation, clarithromycin based sequential therapy will be
      given. In the presence of 23S rRAN mutation but the absence of gyrase A mutation,
      levofloxacin based sequential therapy will be given. In the presence of both 23S rRNA and
      gyrase A mutations or if genotyping fails, bismuth quadruple therapy will be given. (B)
      Susceptibility testing guided therapy: In the absence of clarithromycin resistance,
      clarithromycin based sequential therapy will be given. In the presence of clarithromycin
      resistance but the absence of levofloxacin resistance, levofloxacin based sequential therapy
      will be given. In the presence of both clarithromycin and levofloxacin resistance or if
      culture fails, bismuth quadruple therapy will be given. The stool samples will be collected
      before, and 2 and 8 weeks and 1 year after eradication therapy to analyze the changes in the
      antibiotic resistance and microbiota of gut floraThe body weight, waist and hip circumference
      and serum lipid profile, sugar, and HbA1C levels will be collected before and 8 weeks and 1
      year after eradication therapy.
    
  