
    
      Frailty is considered a biological geriatric syndrome, characterized by a decreased
      resistance to stresses and functional reserve due to the cumulative decline in multiple
      physiological systems, with consequent increased state of vulnerability [2]. Negative health
      related outcomes, such as disability, recurrent hospitalization, institutionalization, falls
      and mortality [2-4] are associated with frailty, considered an emerging public health problem
      [2, 5]. Physical exercise has been recommended as an intervention strategy for the prevention
      and rehabilitation of the mobility-related outcome in the frail elderly whit positive impact
      on functional capacity and performance [8].

      A functional downward spiral characterized by an impairment of several functional domains,
      such as strength, muscular endurance and motor-cognitive processes, ultimately leading to
      restricted mobility and decreased physical activity level is commonly observed in frail older
      people. Interventions that promote the integration of multisensory, cognitive and motor
      skills can be able to motivate the older people to remain more active for longer periods,
      despite their limitations. Exergames involve tasks in virtual environments that combine
      physical and cognitive demands in an attractive and challenging way. The player is encouraged
      to achieve goals and overcome limits during the game, providing immediate feedback in
      relation to their performance. The game experience can create a greater sense of
      self-efficacy and generate a more positive perception of personal skills, modulated by a
      positive environment reinforcement, consequently increasing motivation and engagement. This
      combination of greater sense of self-efficacy and greater motivation could provide a positive
      and necessary influence for most older people to overcome their limitations and create new
      lifestyle habits [25], decreasing disability. This study sought to investigate the
      effectiveness of adding exercises using interactive videogames (exergames) in improving
      physical functioning on frail and pre frail older people when compared to conventional
      physiotherapy.
    
  