
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To show that a whole food extract of white button mushrooms (WBM) can inhibit
           aromatase-induced estrogen biosynthesis in postmenopausal women who are breast cancer
           survivors (BCS).

        -  To determine the optimal daily dose of WBM needed to induce aromatase inhibition of
           estrogen biosynthesis in these patients.

        -  To determine the bioavailability of C-18 unsaturated fatty acids, which are thought to
           moderate the anticancer effects of WBM.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of WBM in humans via serial comprehensive
           symptom questionnaires, pre- and post-treatment markers of bone metabolism, and pre- and
           post-treatment comprehensive lipid panels.

        -  To explore potential alternate antitumor mechanisms, specifically the effect of WBM on
           cytokines as well as innate and adaptive cellular immunity.

        -  To describe barriers experienced in recruitment of ethnically diverse subjects from the
           community into a secondary prevention BCS trial utilizing a dietary supplement
           intervention in an effort to enhance feasibility of a subsequent phase II trial.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oral white button mushroom extract twice daily for 12 weeks in the absence
      of a second primary ductal carcinoma in situ, invasive breast cancer, or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection at baseline and periodically during
      treatment for pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and immunologic correlative studies. Blood
      and urine samples are analyzed for concentrations of C-18 unsaturated fatty acids (CUFA) by
      high-performance liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry. Blood samples are also
      analyzed for anti-aromatase activity by ex vivo plasma aromatase inhibition assays;
      circulating sex steroid hormones by radioimmunoassay; serum immune cytokine levels by
      multiplex cytokine analyses; immunophenotyping, NK-cell activation status, and NK-cell
      function by multiparameter flow cytometry; lipid levels by lipid assays; and biochemical
      markers of bone metabolism by bone metabolism marker assays. DNA, RNA, and plasma samples are
      stored for post-trial pharmacogenomic studies.
    
  