
    
      MATERIALS AND METHODS This longitudinal human clinical trial is designed as a prospective
      study, to measure implant stability with the resonance frequency analyzer (Osstell,
      Integration Diagnostics AB, Sweden) at time of implant placement and up to 16 weeks post
      placement. After 16 weeks, a definitive implant abutment will be placed and a final dental
      crown delivered. No further follow-up will be done with the resonance frequency approach.
      However, all subjects will be followed through 3 years post implant placement as described
      for each follow-up visit. The study population consists of subjects at the University of
      Iowa's College of Dentistry. Subjects presenting with one tooth missing in the anterior
      (incisor/canine) or pre-molar regions of the mandible or maxilla with existing teeth that
      were healthy or adequately restored shall be screened based on the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. The missing tooth is to be replaced with a fixed implant restoration on one
      implant.

      SEQUENCE OF VISITS A. Visit 1: Screening Examination

      Subjects shall be seen for evaluation and for collection of baseline data. Pre-treatment data
      shall be recorded on case report forms. The visit shall include:

        1. Explanation to the patient of the purposes of the study and the planned procedures
           related to the study.

        2. Explanation to the subject of the risks and possible complications of participation in
           the study. Patients shall be notified that inclusion in the study is for the purpose of
           providing implant treatment only and that no provision for other active treatments are
           guaranteed or implied except for care related to the implant aspect of their oral
           cavity. This treatment shall be agreed upon as outlined for their specific case.

      Implant Site Selection: Adequate bone volume is needed to accommodate the planned endosseous
      dental implant. This will mean sufficient height such that the implant would not encroach on
      vital structures (such as inferior alveolar nerve), and sufficient width that the implant
      could be placed within the confines of the existing bone without dehiscence or fenestration,
      requiring significant grafting at time of implant placement. Typically, this will mean space
      dimensions will be: 6 mm or greater ridge width facial-lingual and > 6 mm in the mesial to
      distal dimension . If the implant can be placed and only a few screw threads are exposed,
      grafting is allowed to cover these threads. In the planned occlusal-gingival dimension, there
      must be at least 7 mm of space from the planned head of the implant to the planned occlusal
      plane.

      The subject should be notified that inclusion in the study is conditional upon satisfying the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria as seen in Table 1. Only subjects satisfying the
      Inclusion/Exclusion criteria shall be enrolled.

      The dental implant system to be used is the Astra Tech OsseoSpeed Dental Implant System
      (Astra Tech AB, Mölndal Sweden). This is an FDA cleared product under FDA 510k clearance act
      (FDA clearance 4/30/2004). This protocol calls for use of only the 4.0 mm diameter by 11 mm
      long dental implant (OsseoSpeed Aqua platform; Ref Number 24622; Astra Tech AB) in the
      anterior (incisor/canine) or posterior pre-molar regions of the mandible or maxilla. All
      sites must have sound natural or restored teeth/implants Mesial and Distal to the planned
      site of interest (Bounded Edentulous Space or BES). The patient should otherwise have a
      restored stable occlusion that is mutually protected. No implants will be placed in molar
      sites. The implant lengths accepted in the study are 11 mm. Clinical and radiographic
      screening will be used to limit the study to patients with sufficient bone quantity to
      completely encase the implant.

      Upon review of the subject's health history, inclusion/exclusion criteria a screening
      clinical assessment will be made. Existing dental radiographs within the past 6 months shall
      be acceptable. No new radiographs will be made until subject enrollment and obtaining signed
      informed consent. The subject will be given an informed consent for the study and reviewed
      with the clinical study coordinator. Preliminary diagnostic impressions will made (Penta, 3M
      ESPE) and poured in dental stone (Whip Mix Corp., Louisville, KY). Implant subjects may have
      a pre-operative Cone Bean CT imaging study (Galileos; Sirona, Charlotte NC; www.sirona.com)
      made at the College of Dentistry's Department of Oral Maxillofacial Radiology at the
      discretion of the Principal Investigator following diagnostic work-up. Subjects shall be
      either patients of record of the College of Dentistry or shall be enrolled if new to the
      College. Patient records are electronic (WinDent) along with a paper version. Paper-based
      Case Report Forms (CRF) containing subject's medical information will be kept in one central
      file in a locked cabinet in the Dental Clinical Research Center. This data will be kept in a
      secured file accessible only by the PI and the Clinical Coordinator.
    
  