
    
      Preterm premature rupture of membranes is the rupture of membranes during pregnancy before 37
      weeks' gestation. It occurs in 3 percent of pregnancies and is the cause of approximately one
      third of preterm deliveries. It can lead to significant perinatal morbidity, including
      respiratory distress syndrome, neonatal sepsis, umbilical cord prolapse, placental abruption,
      and fetal death.(ref) It increases the risk of prematurity and leads to a number of other
      perinatal and neonatal complications, including a 1 to 2 percent risk of fetal death.(2) The
      latent period, which is the time from membrane rupture until delivery, generally is inversely
      proportional to the gestational age at which PROM occurs. For example, one large study (3) of
      patients at term revealed that 95 percent of patients delivered within approximately one day
      of PROM, whereas an analysis of studies(4) evaluating patients with preterm PROM between 16
      and 26 weeks' gestation determined that 57 percent of patients delivered within one week, and
      22 percent had a latent period of four weeks Numerous risk factors are associated with
      preterm premature rupture of membrane, lower socioeconomic status, are smokers, have a
      history of sexually transmitted infections, have had a previous preterm delivery, have
      vaginal bleeding, or have uterine distension (e.g., polyhydramnios, choriodecidual infection,
      in many cases the PPROM is associated inflammatory process and increased oxidative stress.
      Intrauterine inflammation may be associated with, fetal injury preterm birth, low birth
      weight, and cerebral palsy (5,6,7,8,9). While treatment for PPROM Includes antibiotics it
      does not aimed to cope with the increased oxidative stress and inflammation that are
      associated with PPROM and are thought to play important role in the fetal injury Pomegranate
      juice contains a high concentration of vitamins (C, B1, B2, B3, B5), potassium, Magnesium,
      Zinc and is a good source for polyphenols (10). Polyphenols molecules have been found to
      possess antioxidant properties as well as effects on gene expression (11). Recent studies
      indicate that among foods that contain polyphenols, juice extracted from the pomegranate has
      the highest concentration of measurable polyphenols (12,13). Pomegranates have shown activity
      against the cytokine NF-κB and the MAP kinases JNK and ERK, which are critical steps in the
      cascade of events leading to inflammatory response The NF- κB pathway is activated in
      response to bacterial infection, and this may explain the effects against bacterial infection
      (14). Juice consumption may also inhibit viral infection (15).

      In a rat animal model pomegranate juice that was given to the dams during pregnancy and
      lactation period was found as neuroprotective agent to the neonatal mouse brain.(16).
      Recently Tuuli et al published abstract at the annual meeting of the society of maternal
      fetal medicine 2011, demonstrating that pomefranate juice (8 oz a day) supplement for the
      last two weeks to pregnancy, reduced significantly the placental oxidative stress associated
      with delivery compared to control.

      Enhancing the activity or the availability of antioxidants may modulate the inflammatory
      response associated with PPROM, thereby reducing oxidative stress and the risk to the fetus.
      In this study we sought to determine the effects of Pomegranate 1. on the maternal and fetal
      oxidative stress and inflammation associated with PPROM 2. On the time interval from PPROM to
      delivery and on fetal Ph and apger score.

      Study protocol:

      All the women admitted with PPROM will receive the usual protocol of the department (Penibrin
      for two days and Erythromycin for five days)

      After signing approval to participate in the study, blood will be drawn for determining the
      oxidative stress markers (will be analyzed after delivery). The patient will continue the
      department routine PPROM protocol.

      After admission the women will be divided to two groups. One group will receive The POMx
      pomegranate 1,000 mg capsule a day. The other group will receive placebo. Both groups will
      receive regiments for a maximum of two weeks or until they deliver if occurs beforehand.

      The POMx pomegranate 1,000 mg capsule contains at least 800 mg natural polyphenol using a
      pomegranate polyphenol standard and is comparable to mg/8 oz juice.(attached is confirmation
      Similarity of Pomegranate Juice and POMx Polyphenols)

      The palecbo capsule contains gelatin and lactose. The capsuls are manufactured by the
      hospital pharmacy.All the components are medically approved fot use during pregnancy.

      During pregnancy:

      The patient will continue their usual PPROM protocol.

      After delivery After delivery of the baby 1.umbilical blood will be drawn from the umbilical
      cord and maternal serum for oxidative stress markers Ph and C-reactive protein 2.
      Histological evaluation of the placenta for inflammation
    
  