
    
      The primary objective of our study is to determine whether asymptomatic influenza virus
      carriage is associated with an increased risk of post-operative Acute Respiratory Distress
      Syndrome (ARDS) after cardiac surgery. Cardiac surgery patients are particularly at risk of
      developing ARDS, with an estimated incidence of 5-10% based on the most recent data. Acute
      Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is an acute pulmonary attack of inflammatory origin.
      ARDS is the main cause of hypoxemic postoperative respiratory distress. Hospital mortality
      associated with ARDS is estimated at 35-46% depending on the degree of severity, and
      survivors are at increased risk of cognitive decline, depression, post-traumatic stress, or
      musculoskeletal weakness.

      Recently, asymptomatic carriage of respiratory viruses, including the influenza virus, has
      been identified as a potential risk factor for respiratory complications, including ARDS,
      after cardiac surgery. In a monocentric observational cohort, Groeneveld et al. recently
      reported that performing scheduled cardiac surgery during the influenza season was associated
      with a significantly longer duration of postoperative mechanical ventilation and a higher
      incidence of postoperative ARDS compared to surgery performed outside the influenza season
      (OR 1.85 95%CI 1.06-3.23 p=0.03). While it is estimated that up to 77% of patients with
      positive influenza tests are asymptomatic in the general population, the authors hypothesized
      that asymptomatic viral lung carriage would act as pulmonary priming, which, in combination
      with other types of pulmonary attacks encountered during surgery, would predispose to the
      genesis of ARDS. However, Groeneveld et al. had not tested any respiratory viruses in their
      cohort. In addition, the relatively higher influenza vaccination rate in the Netherlands in
      this at-risk population (77%) suggests that other types of respiratory viruses may have
      contributed to the observed effect.

      These data are of major interest. Indeed, in France, during the 2017-2018 epidemic season,
      the vaccination rate of individuals at risk was only 46%, with an estimated vaccine efficacy
      of only 54% in elderly patients.

      The aim of this study is to determine if there is an association between asymptomatic
      carriage of respiratory virus, especially influenza virus, and the occurrence of
      post-operative complications, morbidity and mortality.

      If an association between asymptomatic carriage of influenza virus, or other respiratory
      viruses, and the occurrence of post-operative respiratory complications, including ARDS, is
      confirmed, a policy of routine immunization prior to cardiac surgery or postponement of
      scheduled surgery in the event of a positive viral test could be a simple and inexpensive
      strategy to reduce these complications after cardiac surgery. Pre-emptive antiviral therapy
      could be discussed when neither of these strategies is possible (e.g., emergency surgery).
    
  