
    
      Pneumonectomy is a high risk surgical procedure compared to lobectomy, segmentectomy and
      non-anatomical resection. Pneumonectomy causes impairment of respiratory functions and
      exercise intolerance. Assessment of exercise capacity in pneumonectomy is prognostically
      important. Exercise intolerance can also occur with daily activities using the upper
      extremity. There is no study investigated upper extremity exercise capacity in this patient
      population. Postoperative pulmonary functions are determinant for early postoperative results
      as well as long-term postoperative quality of life. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate
      respiratory functions in patients after surgery. Respiratory muscle functions are impaired
      due to changes in chest wall mechanics and incisions applied to respiratory muscles after
      surgery. There is no study investigated respiratory muscle endurance in this patient
      population.

      Pneumonectomy is associated with decreased physical activity and quality of life. The number
      of studies investigating physical activity level in lung cancer patients undergoing
      pneumonectomy is limited. In this study, physical activity level will be evaluated by
      metabolic holter. Pneumonectomy has been shown as a predictor of deterioration in quality of
      life after surgery. In this study, the quality of life will be evaluated using a
      questionnaire specific to the disease. Fatigue is a common symptom in patients after lung
      cancer surgery. It negatively affects the patients quality of life and long-term prognosis.

      Lung cancer patients undergoing pneumonectomy by the physicians of Gazi University Thoracic
      Surgery Department and healthy individuals will be included in this study. Patients and
      healthy individuals will be evaluated and the evaluation results will be compared. According
      to the sample size analysis 17 patients and 17 healthy individuals with similar demographic
      characteristics will be included the study. Patients and healthy individuals will be selected
      according to predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The assessments will be
      completed in two days.

      Functional exercise capacity (6 minutes walk test), upper extremity exercise capacity (6
      minutes Pegboard and Ring Test), respiratory functions (spirometer), respiratory muscle
      strength (mouth pressure measurement), peripheral muscle strength (dynamometer), respiratory
      muscle endurance (incremental threshold loading test), physical activity level (multi-sensor
      activity monitor), quality of life (European Cancer Research and Treatment Organization
      Quality of Life Scale (EORTC QOL C-30)), fatigue (Fatigue Severity Scale) and shortness of
      breath (Modified Medical Research Council (MMRC)) will be evaluated.
    
  