
    
      Primary goals The primary goal of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy of Doll
      Therapy Intervention (DTI) versus a Sham Intervention (SI), on behavioral and psychiatric
      symptoms of PWD living in a nursing home. Outomes will be measured with the Italian version
      of Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Nursing Home. It is expected an improvement in terms of a
      decrease in NPI-NH total score.

      We will also assess the efficacy of DTI versus SI, on professional caregivers distress
      ratings related to behavioral and psychiatric symptoms of PWD. It will be measured with the
      Italian version of NPI-NH. It is expected an improvement in terms of a decrease in NPI-NH
      distress total score.

      It will also assess the efficacy of DTI versus SI, on cognitive and physiological status of
      PWD. The first will be recorded as the presence or absence of exploratory and caregiving
      behaviors on an observational grid expressly conceived for this purpose (Grid 2, Appendix).
      It is expected an improvement in terms of an increase of the number and duration of
      exploratory and caregiving behaviors. The efficacy of DTI versus SI on physiological status
      of PWD will be measured by assessing blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), heart rate, and
      salivary cortisol that are biomarkers of acute stress. It is expected an improvement in terms
      of a decrease in these parameters.

      All evaluations will be performed at baseline (T0) and thirty days later (T1). Secondary goal
      The secondary goal is to evaluate the stability of attachment behaviors of the PWD through
      the adminstration of the Adult Attachment Interview to the patients' offspring after
      conclusion of interventions. It is expected to find an association between the attachment
      style of the PWD and caregiving behaviors during the doll presentation (i.e. caressing the
      object, talking to it and smiling). Such behaviors are recorded in an observational grid
      expressely conceived for this purpose.

      These observations will allow the investigators to test wether a relationship between present
      and past attachment style of PWD and between attachment styles and participant response to
      doll therapy exist. Investigators expect that PWD with a previous secure attachment style
      will accept the doll and will show caregiving behaviors, while the PWD with insecure
      attachment style will show, especially during the first contacts, rejection, avoidance of the
      doll or excessive caregiving reactions towords the doll. Investigators also expect that PWD
      with unresolved attachment style will show inconsistent responses to the presentation of the
      doll, with approaching and rejecting behaviors.
    
  