
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Approximately 400,000 individuals undergo heart operations each year and cognitive impairment
      occurs frequently following surgery. An increasing number of these individuals are elderly
      and are particularly susceptible to cognitive dysfunction following surgery. Cognitive
      impairment is most notable in the early stages following heart surgery, but it may persist in
      some individuals. While many people think cognitive impairment is subtle, transient, or
      subclinical, perioperative decline is associated with 5-year cognitive deterioration and
      reduced quality of life. Multiple strategies, both clinical and pharmacological, have been
      proposed to reduce the central nervous system dysfunction associated with heart surgery.
      However, most strategies have been unsuccessful, met with limited success, or are unrealistic
      from a cost or risk-benefit ratio for the majority of people. This study will examine the
      effectiveness of supplemental magnesium at preventing the cognitive decline associated with
      heart surgery.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will examine the effect of supplemental magnesium on the neurocognitive function
      of individuals undergoing CABG surgery. The two hypotheses to be tested include the
      following: 1) therapeutic levels of magnesium reduce post-operative neurocognitive
      dysfunction after heart surgery; and 2) therapeutic magnesium levels protect quality of life
      through reduced cognitive dysfunction after heart surgery. This double-blind study will
      enroll 400 individuals and randomly assign them to either the treatment group, which will
      receive 100 mg/kg of magnesium, or to the control group. Anesthesia management will be
      standardized to minimize any impact that anesthesia may have on neurologic or
      neuropsychologic outcome. Neurocognitive testing will be conducted prior to surgery, and 6
      weeks and 1 year following surgery.
    
  