
    
      Specific Objectives: 1.Develop an appropriate graded calf exercise test protocol for
      evaluating perfusion and metabolism during exercise in subjects with peripheral arterial
      disease (PAD), 2.compare perfusion in gastroc-soleus and tibialis anterior muscles during
      exercise and recovery from exercise, and to compare metabolism in those muscles during
      exercise, 3.compare the perfusion during exercise and recovery between groups with and
      without PAD, and to compare metabolism during exercise between groups with and without PAD,
      4.estimate sample sizes and effect sizes for a future clinical trial to determine the
      efficacy of walking and calf muscle exercise training for improving calf muscle perfusion and
      metabolism. 5.determine the sensitivity and specificity of the PET exercise test in
      classifying subjects into groups with or without PAD, and 6. determine the test-retest
      reliability coefficients of perfusion and metabolic measures.

      Two groups of subjects will participate in this study. Group I (n=25 subjects with PAD) will
      undergo two sets of assessments. Each assessment will consist of completing three
      questionnaires, two exercise tests, and one PET scan session. Additionally, they will receive
      one MRI of the legs. Then they will participate in a three-month exercise training
      intervention consisting of treadmill walking and calf muscle exercise. Finally, they will
      repeat one set of assessments (listed above with MRI). Group II (n=25 healthy control
      subjects) will undergo two sets of assessments. Each assessment will consist of three
      questionnaires, two submaximal exercise tests, one MRI, and one PET scan session (no exercise
      tests). Additionally they will receive only one MRI. They will not participate in an exercise
      training intervention.

      Experimental Design The project is a pilot study that is both cross-sectional and
      longitudinal in nature. The initial baseline measurement sessions will allow comparisons of
      acute perfusion and metabolic physiologic responses between two groups of subjects (with and
      without PAD). Duplicate testing for each subject will allow assessment of the test-retest
      reliability of the measurements. The PAD subjects' perfusion and metabolic responses will be
      assessed again after three months of exercise training (walking and calf muscle exercise).
      While not a definitive clinical trial of the exercise training intervention, the results
      should provide estimates of sample and effect sizes to design a more definitive future
      clinical trial.

      Subjects Recruitment and Sampling: Fifty different subjects (N=50) will participate in the
      project, reflecting the available veteran patient population. The sample will include
      primarily men, of any age and ethnicity. Twenty-five subjects will have PAD and will be
      identified and recruited via convenience sampling primarily from the Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation (PM&R) Outpatient Clinic, Diabetes Clinic, and Peripheral Vascular Clinic at
      the VA West Los Angeles Healthcare Center (VAWLAHC). Other participants may be recruited from
      other VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System locations, specifically the Los Angeles
      Ambulatory Care Center and the Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center. Twenty-five "normal" healthy
      control subjects will be recruited via convenience sampling from well veterans and the
      general community; the two groups will be matched on gender and age. We plan to enroll 25
      subjects with PAD for the three-month exercise training intervention.

      Screening and Consent: Research staff will recruit and interview prospective subjects.
      Prospective subjects who meet all initial inclusion and exclusion criteria will be requested
      to review and sign the IRB-approved informed consent form and will be enrolled in the
      project. A physician will physically examine prospective subjects and provide medical
      clearance prior to participation.

      Assessments and Measurements

      After screening and consent, the assessment process will progress in four phases:

        1. Questionnaires to evaluate walking impairment, physical activity, and general health.
           The information will be used to better characterize the study groups.

        2. Exercise tolerance testing to demonstrate claudication symptoms in PAD subjects during
           both treadmill walking and calf muscle exercise and to assess functional changes
           resulting from training. The control subjects will also perform the exercise tests, but
           these tests will be submaximal and without pain. The data will be used for comparison to
           the data from PAD subjects.

        3. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the legs to measure popliteal artery diameter and
           document locations of individual muscles and muscle groups.

        4. PET-exercise testing to measure muscle perfusion and glucose metabolism during calf
           muscle exercise and recovery.
    
  