
    
      By integrating sexuality and disability literatures, theories, and research, this study aims
      to: determine the effectiveness of sexual health and development education for children
      (12-18 years) with mild to moderate intellectual disability. The number of children in the
      groups will be analyzed based on another study in which one of the scales to be used in the
      study. According to the calculations made in the G-Power 3.1 Demo package program, when the
      effect size is accepted as 0.8, it was seen that at least 24 cases in each group (total 48
      children) would be sufficient for 80% power. These children will be selected from 48 children
      who got the least score from the "Sexual Development Characteristics of Adolescent Children
      with Intellectual Disability Scale". In this way, the criteria sampling method will be used.
      In this way, the criteria sampling method will be used. Anticipated duration is one year.

      The inclusion criteria of the children in the study are as follows:

        -  Being between the ages of 12-18

        -  Having mild to moderate mental disability

        -  Parent's agreement to participate in research

        -  Lack of speech and vision impairment

        -  Completing all trainings and follow-ups during the research period

      For intervention group:

      Once enrolled and consent is documented, eligible subject's will participate in the study for
      approximately three months. Participants will be expected to attend 8 training sessions over
      a two months period, each are up to half hours in length. Follow-up will be made at the
      beginning of the training, right after the last training and one month after the last
      training after the questionnaire. Data analysis will begin once all trainings have been
      completed. Investigators anticipate completing the study, including primary analyses, within
      one year from the date recruitment begins.

      For control group:

      Once enrolled and consent is documented, eligible subject's will participate in the study for
      approximately three months. Children in the control group will not be educated.Follow-up will
      be made at the beginning of the training, right after the last training and one month after
      the last training after the questionnaire. Data analysis will begin once all trainings have
      been completed. Investigators anticipate completing the study, including primary analyses,
      within one year from the date recruitment begins. After the study is completed, training will
      be provided to children in the control group in a way that will not affect the data of the
      study.
    
  