
    
      According to the Canadian ADHD Practice Guidelines, psychostimulants are the preferred
      treatment of ADHD, especially for individuals that require urgent care. Specifically,
      long-acting psychostimulants are considered the first-line pharmacological treatment for
      ADHD. Utilizing sustained-release mechanisms, long-acting psychostimulants provide an
      extended duration of daily symptom relief in addition to overall reductions in ADHD symptoms
      that are maintained over time. Long-acting psychostimulants minimize several of the
      limitations of immediate-release psychostimulants including: peak-trough effects, suboptimal
      duration of action, increased diversion potential, and non-adherence due to multiple dosages.

      In accordance with these guidelines, clinicians may combine psychostimulants with other
      medications when it is deemed necessary. For complex cases, psychostimulants alone are often
      inadequate for ameliorating the debilitating effects of ADHD and are therefore prescribed in
      conjunction with other psychotropic medications targeted at the residual symptoms associated
      with ADHD. Antipsychotics have been deemed appropriate as adjunctive medications, especially
      for the management of reactive-impulsive behaviours, neurological tics, and/or bipolar
      disorder. Studies show that most adult cases with ADHD that were undiagnosed or untreated in
      childhood result in the use of adjunctive medication in adulthood to augment the effects of
      the psychostimulant. As a result, we propose that adjunct treatment with cariprazine, an
      atypical antipsychotic, will augment the efficacy of standard ADHD treatment with a
      long-acting psychostimulant in a subset of the population that achieved little to no response
      on psychostimulants alone.

      Cariprazine is an atypical antipsychotic where the active ingredient is cariprazine
      hydrochloride (HCl). It is a dopamine D3/D2 receptor partial agonist, with a higher affinity
      for D3 receptors as demonstrated in both in vitro and in vivo studies. It was approved by the
      FDA in 2015 for the acute treatment of mania/mixed episodes associated with bipolar I
      disorder in adults and for the treatment of schizophrenia. Its use is also being explored in
      the treatment of major depressive disorder. Cariprazine capsules are intended for oral
      administration and should be stored between 20-25 °C. Each hard gelatin capsule contains a
      white to off-white powder of cariprazine HCl, which is equivalent to either 1.5, 3, 4.5, or 6
      mg of cariprazine base.

      Overall efficacy and tolerability of cariprazine appears to be good despite some adverse
      events including akathisia, insomnia, headache, and weight gain. However, most studies
      reported that the adverse events were mild to moderate. Prior to discussing the mechanism of
      action of cariprazine and its utility in the present study, we first present a concise review
      of dopamine transmission and its relevance to ADHD.

      Dopamine (DA) neurons are involved in acquisition and reinforcement learning thought to be
      maintained in part through the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, with projections from the
      ventral tegmental area (VTA) to regions such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The DAergic
      neurons in the midbrain are the main source of the neurotransmitter (NT) and mediate a wide
      range of brain functions and behavioural processes such as voluntary movement, mood, reward,
      addiction, and stress. In addition to the VTA, dopamine neurons expressing D1 and D2
      receptors are typically found in the NAc, substantia nigra (SN), striatum, and hippocampus.

      The DA neurons exhibit two activity states that mediate separate aspects of behavior. Phasic
      DA release mainly activates D1 receptors, whereas tonic DA release mainly activates the
      higher affinity D2 receptors. Phasic activity is thought to facilitate cue-reward acquisition
      and acquisition of incentive salience, whereas tonic activity is involved in response
      inhibition and behavioural flexibility. D2 receptor stimulation has been shown to act in
      opposition to D1 receptors in the regulation of substrates downstream of cyclic adenosine
      monophosphate (AMP). Furthermore, D2 receptor function appears to play a critical role in the
      maintenance of reward functions via the NAc as suggested by pharmacological studies. Recent
      findings also indicate that phasic DA release drives a rapid activation of D2 neurons,
      suggesting that some of the behavioural effects of phasic release may be partially mediated
      by D2 signaling.

      It has been hypothesized that the D1 pathway is involved in promoting reward responses while
      the D2 pathway may mediate the opposite response. Phasic DA events are also proposed to
      indicate the importance of learned reward-predictive cues that drive motivated behavior.
      Moreover, D3 receptors (D3R), a D2-like receptor, are present in high density in the ventral
      striatum, which is a cross-section of neural networks involved in processes of reward,
      motivation, and decision making, and are thought to be tonically occupied by endogenous DA.
      Due to the projections to/from the prefrontal cortex, abnormal activity at these receptors
      may be a potential marker for prefrontal deficits, which underlie the comorbidity between
      ADHD and depression and often contributes to treatment resistance in a subgroup of the
      population. Cariprazine is therefore assumed to act by exerting antagonist-like actions by
      inhibiting the binding of the full agonist DA.

      Cariprazine was found to be unique among antipsychotics in its ability to increase
      dopaminergic D3R levels in D3R-rich brain regions following chronic treatment. The exact
      mechanisms of action underlying cariprazine's effects have not been fully elucidated.
      Zimnisky et al. (2013) found that in D3R knockout mice, cariprazine demonstrated
      D3R-dependent protective effects on cognitive function. In addition, Duric et al. (2017)
      recently reported that cariprazine significantly attenuated chronic unpredictable
      stress-induced anhedonia-like behaviour in wild-type mice. This effect was not observed in
      D3R knockout mice, suggesting that the activity is dependent upon D3Rs.

      This is significant because alterations in reward circuitry, particularly involving the
      prefrontal cortex, have been observed in ADHD. Specifically, neurotransmitter studies have
      revealed abnormalities in DA and norepinephrine (NE) signaling in ADHD. DA and NE activity
      are associated with many prefrontal cortex functions, including those involved in the
      attentional control system, reward acquisition and maintenance and maintenance of hedonic
      tone. Of further interest is the relationship of serotonin (5-HT) to DA and NE because 5-HT
      is hypothesized to decrease DA and NE activity through 5-HT binding to the 5-HT2a and 5-HT2c
      receptors respectively. It appears that at lower doses, cariprazine is considered a DA
      receptor partial agonist, which may serve to increase striatal DA activity, thereby improving
      aberrant reward system functioning in individuals with ADHD. At higher doses, cariprazine,
      like most antipsychotics, functions as a DA receptor antagonist, thereby further reducing DA
      activity. In theory, higher doses of cariprazine should not improve ADHD symptoms.

      The DA theory of ADHD states that ADHD results from DA deficits, specifically lowered
      activity in the frontal cortex and striatum, and is supported by a variety of pharmacological
      and imaging studies. Given the role of this hypothesized deficit in reward maintenance and
      specifically in hedonic tone among ADHD patients, adjunctive treatment with low dose
      cariprazine, a D2/D3R agonist, may have the ability to elevate DA activity in the frontal
      cortex and ventral striatum and help attenuate dysfunction of the reward circuitry in complex
      and severe ADHD patients. For the present study, we are particularly interested in the
      potential action of adjunctive low dose cariprazine in the treatment of ADHD with or without
      comorbidities for individuals who have had inadequate response to psychostimulants alone. The
      trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      guidelines, and with applicable Health Canada regulatory requirements. Site-specific Standard
      Operating Procedures (SOPs) for conducting clinical trials will be followed for the
      recruitment of participants, adverse event reporting, and for the collection, management and
      analysis of data throughout the duration of the study.

      Study Population Participants (N = 15) with a primary diagnosis of ADHD using diagnostic and
      statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM)-5 criteria, with or without comorbid secondary
      illnesses, who meet all other inclusion/exclusion criteria are eligible for entry into the
      study. We have chosen to assign 10 potential patients as the number of desired completers (N
      = 10). Given that the dropout rate with dose adjustment is estimated to be approximately 33
      percent, we will enroll a total of 15 participants to complete the study.

      All participants will be assigned a participant identification number to maintain patient
      confidentiality. Binders will be created for each participant using their unique
      study-specific participant ID in order to store and maintain source documents according to
      the visit number throughout the duration of the study. Physical binders will be stored in a
      locked research office at the site. Source documents both related and unrelated to the
      current study will also be stored electronically in a PHIPA-compliant electronic medical
      record system. All source documents will be de-identified and will be identifiable only to
      members of the study personnel through a password-protected document that contains
      participant names and their corresponding participant IDs. Participant data will be entered
      into the statistical analysis software (SPSS) using the unique participant IDs in order to
      maintain patient confidentiality. The study investigator will permit trial-related
      monitoring, audits, IRB/IEC review, and regulatory inspection(s), providing direct access to
      source data and documents.

      Statistical Plan To evaluate the efficacy of adjunct cariprazine (1.5 - 3 mg, daily) in the
      treatment of ADHD with or without comorbidities, each participant will act as his/her own
      control (within-subjects design) and will be evaluated based on pre-treatment and
      post-treatment responses on the primary and secondary outcome measures. The research question
      is as follows: Does treatment with adjunct cariprazine improve ADHD symptoms in participants
      that are on a stable dose of their psychostimulant who have not yet achieved remission? H0
      Adjunct treatment with cariprazine does not improve ADHD symptoms. H1 Adjunct treatment with
      cariprazine improves symptoms of ADHD in outpatients who are on a stable dose of an existing
      psychostimulant and have not yet achieved remission.

      To answer the research question, a within-subjects t-test will be performed to compare
      baseline and post-treatment total scores on the primary ADHD measure.

      Secondary analyses will employ a series of within-subjects t-tests to evaluate the
      relationship between cognition, energy and motivation, and hedonic tone at baseline compared
      to post-treatment of 8 weeks with adjunct cariprazine. There are no plans for interim
      analysis at this time. No pharmacokinetic analyses will be undertaken.

      Response or remission on the primary ADHD outcome measure will be assessed, in addition to
      statistical analyses testing significance of absolute change in total scores. All parametric
      tests will be 2-tailed and performed at a 5 percent alpha level. Descriptive statistics will
      be provided by assessments for the total score and changes from baseline in the total score
      on all of the measures used. Data based on observed cases and last observation carried
      forward will be summarized. Overall, the safety and tolerability of cariprazine in
      participants with ADHD will be assessed by changes from baseline in physical examination,
      clinical laboratory test results, and vital signs. Safety analyses will be presented by means
      of descriptive statistics, frequency tables and graphical presentations as appropriate.
    
  