
    
      The current AHA guidelines on AF for patients undergoing PCI are non-specific as they
      recommend "low-dose aspirin (less than 100 mg per d) and/or clopidogrel (75 mg per d), which
      may be given concurrently with anticoagulation to prevent myocardial ischemic events, but
      these strategies have not been thoroughly evaluated and are associated with an increased risk
      of bleeding.

      Finding the right balance that minimizes bleeding risk and maintains anti-ischemic efficacy
      remains a complex and controversial clinical dilemma in these unique patients. The arrival of
      novel antiplatelet agents and antithrombotics on the scene has led to an exponential increase
      in the combinations that may be employed by clinicians in real-life situations. The sheer
      number of combinations means that the best APT and OAC combination based on RCT data will not
      be known for many years. It has therefore become imperative that the investigators strive to
      create better methods to gauge the comparative safety and efficacy for various antiplatelet
      and antithrombotic combination strategies in AF patients undergoing PCI. To the best of the
      investigators knowledge, no contemporary prospective registry of real-life patients with AF
      undergoing PCI exists or has been initiated to date. Additionally, the factors influencing
      physician choice of treatment strategy as well as factors predicting patient adherence in
      this population is largely unknown.

      This is a multi-center, multinational, observational prospective registry prospective
      analysis of 514 patients with non-valvular AF undergoing all-comer PCI at 11 Northern
      American and European centers. Patients were followed for 12 months. Data was collected
      prospectively. All-antiplatelet and anti-thrombotic treatment regimen were at the physicians'
      discretion. The investigators studied various combinations of antiplatelet and antithrombotic
      therapies, characterized the bleeding and ischemic risk in patients with atrial fibrillation
      undergoing PCI and determined physician and patient centered factors influencing prescription
      patterns and patient adherence.

      Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who have undergone successful PCI were
      enrolled as soon as possible post procedure and no later than before discharge of the index
      admission. The treating physician (interventional or non-interventional cardiologist) that
      prescribed the anti-platelet or/and anticoagulant therapy also completed the physician
      questionnaire. A different, patient centered questionnaire was completed by the patient. The
      Principal Investigator or designee provided instructions to enrolled subjects and physicians
      on how to use the hand held electronic device or how to complete the paper questionnaire and
      clarify any questions about the questionnaires. The enrolled subjects and physicians
      themselves entered the responses to the questionnaire on the electronic hand held device or
      the paper questionnaire. Only patients with completed questionnaires were considered
      enrolled.
    
  