
    
      Background:

      Several studies have demonstrated that music can improve various outcomes during labor and
      delivery. In particular, patient satisfaction is often measured on a simple VAS scale, where
      0 is no satisfaction and 10 is the highest satisfaction. However, patient satisfaction is a
      complex parameter to measure, and may be affected by a number of different factors. This
      study will be performed on the labor and delivery unit to assess patient satisfaction with a
      validated, reliable, 22-question survey in the setting of music or no music during the
      cesarean delivery.

      Although "music" is an all-encompassing term that describes sound with different pitches and
      rhythms that comes together as a harmonious whole, not all music is the same. Using "music"
      for therapeutic purposes would be the equivalent of using "antibiotics" to cure an infection;
      it is too general of a term, and unlikely that such a general use of music would show a valid
      therapeutic benefit. However, a study demonstrated that specific selections of Mozart piano
      sonatas, which have a specific rhythm and mode, improve patient anxiety through a biochemical
      mechanism (changing the plasma levels of IL-6 and epinephrine). Therefore, in this study, the
      term "music" will specifically means the same Mozart sonatas as described in the prior study.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to determine the effect of music on patient satisfaction and
      anxiety during cesarean delivery.

      The hypothesis is that parturients exposed to music during cesarean delivery will have
      greater overall satisfaction and less anxiety.

      Study Timelines:

        -  Participation begins at the time of consultation for cesarean delivery on the day of
           surgery, where the co-investigator Dr. Dahlawi will approach the participants and ask
           them to sign the ICF, and it ends after the post-anesthesia check on postoperative day
           1. After recruitment and consent, patients will be randomized using a computer-generated
           randomization scheme will be used to allocate patients to one of the arms of the study.

        -  The two arms of the study are as follows:

             -  Control group: baseline hemodynamics and anxiety screen; no music

             -  Intervention group - Mozart: A study investigator will turn on a playlist of
                pre-selected Mozart music.
    
  