
    
      Objectives: The main objective of this study is to improve the care of the old elderly. This
      will be done by implementing and evaluating a year long program which is intended to optimize
      quality of life, symptom management and utilization of both health care and community
      services for the old elderly.

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that older adults who receive the ElderCare intervention will,
      when compared with a control group of older adults: a) show a significant improvement in
      quality of life - as measured by the SF-36, b) show a significant decrease in symptomatology
      - as measured by the Comorbidity Symptom Scale, c) show significantly higher satisfaction -
      as measured by the Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire d) have increased utilization of
      community-based services, e) have fewer emergency room visits, f) have fewer
      hospitalizations, and g) fewer visits to the family doctor

      Research Plan: The ElderCare program is a nurse-based program of home-delivered care that
      will be linked directly with the primary care practitioner or primary care team of each older
      adult in the study. The nurse will be part of the primary health care team for a number of
      different family physicians practices. The nurse will serve as a link or interface between
      the family physicians practice (or other primary health care professional or team) and the
      community services. The nurse will i) evaluate the clinical and personal needs of the
      patient, ii) develop a management plan based on that review (the review includes chart
      review, patient assessment and contacting community agencies that have been involved with the
      patients care). , iii)review the plan with the family physician and the patient/family; iv)
      implement the plan v) provide patient education; and vi) monitor the patient regularly in
      his/her home over the course of a year. Evaluation will involve comparing a group of old
      elderly who receive the ElderCare program (intervention) with a control group. Groups will be
      evaluated using a variety of assessments which will be done at baseline, 6 months and 12
      months.

      The steps that will be taken in carrying out the research are outlined as follows:

        1. Physician Recruitment

        2. Patient Recruitment

        3. Baseline Data Collection

        4. Randomization - Physicians will be cluster randomized to decrease contamination

        5. ElderCare Program delivered to intervention group old elderly

        6. Usual care for control group old elderly

        7. Outcomes measured at 6 and twelve months - outcomes include quality of life, change in
           symptomatology, patient satisfaction, use of community services, visits to family
           doctor, hospitalizations, emergency room visits

        8. Data Analysis, Interpretation, Reporting and Analysis
    
  