
    
      Background: In primary care settings, PTSD frequently goes undetected and untreated. When
      PTSD is diagnosed in primary care, treatment is usually inadequate and outcomes are poor.
      This is highly problematic because many patients with PTSD prefer receiving care in primary
      care settings, and less than half are successfully referred to the specialty mental health
      setting. This is especially a concern for safety net primary settings such as Federally
      Qualified Health Centers and VA Medical Centers, where the prevalence of both past trauma
      exposure and PTSD are particularly high. However, there are effective pharmacotherapy and
      psychotherapy treatments for PTSD that are feasible to deliver in primary care.

      Objective: Because there are no head-to-head comparisons of pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy
      for PTSD among primary care patients, the investigators propose to 1) compare outcomes among
      patients randomized to initially receive pharmacotherapy or brief psychotherapy, 2) compare
      outcomes among patients randomized to treatment sequences (i.e., switching and augmenting)
      for patients not responding to the initial treatment and 3) examine variation in treatment
      outcomes among different subgroups of patients.

      Methods: This multi-site trial will enroll 1,400 patients meeting clinical criteria for PTSD
      from 6 Federally Qualified Health Centers and 6 VA Medical Centers. The pharmacotherapy
      treatments are sertraline, fluoxetine, paroxetine and venlafaxine. The psychotherapy
      treatment is Written Exposure Therapy. Telephone and web surveys will be used to assessed
      outcomes (patient treatment engagement, self-reported symptom burden, health related quality
      of life, and recovery outcomes) at baseline, 4 and 8 months. Patients will be the unit of the
      intent-to-treat analysis. Multiple imputation will be used for missing data. Mixed-models
      will be used to test hypotheses.

      Significance: Due to a lack of head-to-head comparisons between pharmacotherapy and
      psychotherapy protocols, clinical practice guidelines for PTSD provide contradictory
      recommendations about pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. In particular, PTSD clinical
      practice guidelines have little to offer primary care providers because so few trials have
      been conducted in this setting. The proposed large pragmatic trial will compare,
      head-to-head, FDA approved PTSD medications with a brief trauma-focused psychotherapy that is
      evidence-based and feasible to deliver in primary care. In addition, despite high treatment
      non-response rates, very few trials have examined treatment sequencing and none have done so
      in the primary care setting. For patients not responding to the initial treatment, the
      proposed research is powered to compare, head-to-head, alternative treatment sequences that
      are feasible to deliver in primary care.
    
  