
    
      Primary and Secondary Efficacy Measures Primary

      Change from baseline in:

      • Mean composite pain scores (on IVRS) Secondary

      Change from baseline in:

        -  Associated symptoms of IBS (diarrhea, constipation, incomplete emptying, etc.) scores

        -  IBS Quality of Life scores

        -  Clinical Global Impression scores of 1 or 2

        -  Beck Depression Inventory II

        -  Beck Anxiety Inventory

      Safety Measures

      Safety and tolerability will be assessed through:

        -  Recording of spontaneous adverse events throughout the screening, run-in, and treatment
           phases of the study

        -  Conducting the DOTES at defined points during the study

      All subjects withdrawn from the study will be followed until complete resolution of adverse
      events.

      Study Schedule This is a placebo-controlled, double-blinded prospective 12-week study
      examining the efficacy of paroxetine extended release form in patients with IBS. Patients
      meeting the Rome II criteria for IBS will be recruited from the Duke University Medical
      Center Division of Gastroenterology and from the community. Patients found to satisfy these
      criteria will be referred for enrollment into this study. The study will be explained and
      informed consent obtained. A detailed history about the gastrointestinal symptoms and a
      physical exam will be performed. Laboratory evaluations (CBC, chemistry, fecal occult blood,
      urinalysis and EKG) will be obtained.

      All patients will undergo a MINI at baseline to diagnose any comorbid Axis I psychiatric
      disorders, and a physical and sexual abuse history will be elicited. The patients will then
      have 1 week of symptom charting using the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) to measure
      baseline severity of IBS symptoms. Following that, patients will receive a single-blind
      placebo for a 1 week period. Those patients having a >25% improvement in composite pain
      scores at the end of the placebo week or a CGI of 1 or 2 will be terminated from the study.
      Following the 1 week single-blind placebo lead-in, non-responders will be randomized to
      active drug or placebo for an additional period of 12 weeks. The patients will continue to
      fill out a daily symptom diary using the IVRS and, in addition, will have weekly visits
      (biweekly after week 4) to assess symptoms, side-effects, and improvement over the entire
      12-week double-blind period. Those in the active treatment group will receive doses of Paxil
      CR in increments of 12.5 mg daily for the first week and increased at 12.5 mg increments at
      visit weeks to a maximum of 50 mg daily, as determined by the investigator. The investigator
      will adjust dosage based on clinical response. Following the completion of the double-blind
      phase, patients on placebo and non-responders to the study drug will be tapered off the study
      drug back to 0 over 2 weeks, and they will be referred to their Primary Care Physician,
      Internist or Gastroenterologist to be prescribed treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome.
      Patients on active drug (Paroxetine CR) who were successful responders during the
      double-blind phase will be eligible to continue on open label Paxil CR for an additional
      period of 6 months plus 2 weeks and will be followed on a monthly basis. They will complete
      the IVRS symptom diary for a week during each follow-up month for an additional 6 months.
      Those who completed the double-blind phase during the 1st half of the month (days 1-14) will
      complete the IVRS symptom diary for the first week beginning the 1st of the next month; those
      who completed the double-blind phase during the second half of the month (days 15-31) will
      complete the IVRS symptom diary for the first week beginning the 1st of the month following
      the next month. At the end of the 6-month period, study medication for these patients will be
      tapered back to 0 over 2 weeks, and they will be referred to their Primary Care Physician,
      Internist or Gastroenterologist to be prescribed treatment for the Irritable Bowel Syndrome.
      Placebo responders in the double-blind phase will not be eligible to enter the 6-month open
      label maintenance phase.

      Clinical response will be measured in several ways. Abdominal pain severity will be measured
      with an ordinal scale rated from 1-9 (1=mild pain/discomfort, 9=very severe pain/discomfort).
      Abdominal pain frequency will be measured on a four-point scale (1=pain or discomfort present
      only occasionally, 2=pain or discomfort present less than half the day, 3= pain or discomfort
      present more than half the day, 4=pain or discomfort almost all day). The same ordinal scale
      will be used to quantify the distress or discomfort caused by feeling of incomplete
      evacuation, bloating or abdominal discomfort, and general level of stress or tension.

      Sample Size Computation and Power Analysis Power considerations The calculations that follow
      are computed for the current design with an anticipated difference in pre-and post-treatment
      on the mean composite pain scores (on IVRS) of 25% (i.e. a reduction of score from 100 to
      75). The means and standard deviations for this computation rely on our previous open-label
      studies of paroxetine and citalopram in IBS.

      Assuming a strong effect size (0.5) of the primary variable (mean composite pain scores) and
      alpha set at 0.05, a projected sample size of 50 can detect the main effects with a power of
      greater than 0.95. If a lower effect size is assumed (0.4), a projected sample size of 55 can
      detect main effects with a power of approximately 0.94. Note that power may be reduced by
      attrition of the sample (i.e. dropouts) and also may be limited in testing secondary
      hypotheses where a further stratification of sample may be necessary (i.e. if the data is
      examined separately in men and women)

      It may be more appropriate to have a sample size of 60 which allows for a 20% attrition rate
      and can still detect an effect size of 0.4 for the primary variable in the
      treatment-completer group with a power greater than 90.

      Statistical analyses The study's main hypothesis is that paroxetine (Paxil CR) treatment will
      be more effective than placebo in reducing symptoms of IBS.

      All statistical tests will be two sided at the 0.05 level of significance. Descriptive
      statistics will be used to provide a profile of demographic and outcome measures. Pearson
      product moment correlational analyses will be conducted to examine the relationships among
      variables. Baseline assessments between the two groups will be compared using chi square for
      categorical variables and independent t tests (two tailed) for continuous variables. Between
      group (medication/placebo) comparisons for primary and secondary variables will employ
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures. Assessments will be taken at baseline
      and end of week 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12. Within group analyses (pre and
      end-of-treatment) will employ two tailed t tests.

      To control for the possibility that current psychopathology might affect subject responding
      on interview and self-report instruments and otherwise modulate the treatment effects, the
      distribution of BDI-II and BAI scores and life time Axis I diagnoses in the placebo and
      control groups will be examined. The potential influence of any unequally distributed
      variables will be controlled via analyses-of covariance (ANCOVA) using the unequally
      distributed variables as covariates.

      After the primary analysis other exploratory analyses will be conducted to test potential
      hypotheses for further studies.
    
  