
    
      Background: Clinical video telehealth (CVT) offers the opportunity for more efficient access
      to high quality primary and specialist care for Veterans. Enthusiasm for CVT is especially
      high in the VA given geographical separation between many Veterans and their providers at VA
      Medical Centers. However, because CVT encounters are by nature less personal than in-person
      visits, communication during CVT visits may be more challenging for both patients and
      providers resulting in less patient-centered communication. Less personal visits may have
      less exchange of information, lower satisfaction, less trust, and poorer outcomes. Indeed,
      research comparing CVT with in-person consultations found that patients in CVT visits were
      more passive and that CVT interactions were dominated by providers when compared with
      in-person visits.

      This project will leverage prior work from two HSR&D-funded pilot projects to improve
      provider - patient communication for Veterans with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In a short-term
      project, SHP-08-182, the investigators conducted focus groups to elicit and understand
      patients' barriers to communicating with their providers. This qualitative work was used in a
      subsequent pilot project, PPO-08-402 to develop an educational video to encourage Veterans to
      use active participatory communication in their visits to providers. This work was
      successfully completed and the product is a 10-minute video that, in testing, was found to be
      acceptable and feasible to show to VA patients immediately preceding their medical
      encounters.

      Objectives: The investigators goal in this project is develop and test a video intervention
      and to also develop pamphlets for patients and providers to encourage active and positive
      communication in CVT medical interactions. The investigators goal was developed with and is
      supported by the project's operational partner the Office of Telehealth Services and is
      integral to the goal to ensure patient-centered care in new models of care. Patient-centered
      communication in medical interactions is critical and plays an important, but often
      overlooked, role in the delivery of health services.

      There are two aims. First, the investigators will develop educational interventions to
      encourage patients and providers to use active communication behaviors during CVT visits.
      Second, the investigators will conduct a randomized trial of the video and pamphlet
      (intervention) vs. pamphlet alone (comparison) in a two-arm randomized effectiveness trial.
      The investigators will evaluate for improvement in visit outcomes including patient and
      provider measures of patient-centered care and communication, reduction in several common
      barriers to clinical improvement, and improved medication adherence measures and hemoglobin
      A1c. In addition, the investigators will assess the mediators and moderators of the
      relationship of the intervention condition to outcomes.

      Methods: The project will have two phases. In the initial phase of the proposed project the
      investigators will develop the video intervention. Video development will include qualitative
      interviews with stakeholders and patients regarding CVT barriers and perceived benefits. The
      investigators will use several existing resources and an expert panel of co-investigators and
      consultants to bring these elements together and produce the intervention. In phase 2 the
      investigators will conduct a randomized trial of the intervention, evaluating for improvement
      in a number of outcomes.

      Impacts: The educational tools will be deliverables that could be used prior to CVT visits to
      improve communication and could serve as a paradigm for developing communication aids for
      other medical conditions and other clinical settings. The investigators will evaluate whether
      the educational intervention will help improve communication and will be associated with
      better visit and intermediate outcomes. Educational tools that encourage more
      patient-centered communication during CVT encounters may allow more rapid acceptance of CVT,
      thereby improving access to healthcare and enhancing the operational mission of the project's
      partner.
    
  