
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Heart failure is a major disabling disease for American adults, affecting an estimated 4.9
      million individuals. Heart failure is associated with enormous health care expenditures. This
      is because it is a progressive chronic condition that is characterized by disabling symptoms
      that limit independence and result in multiple hospitalizations and referrals to long-term
      care. The emergence of heart failure as a major public health problem is related to the
      unintended result of both an aging population and the success in reducing mortality from
      cardiovascular disease. Non-adherence to medications is a key problem in the treatment of
      heart failure, with adherence rates ranging from 20% to 90%. There is a clear need,
      therefore, to develop interventions that improve adherence in patients with heart failure.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a single-site, partially blinded, randomized clinical trial of 900 patients with
      systolic or diastolic dysfunction, and New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II
      or III. Patients will be recruited over a period of 2 years from seven hospitals. Patients
      will be randomly assigned to either a SM intervention or attention control. The SM group will
      meet 18 times for 2 hours over 1 year. These group sessions will teach patients how to use
      five basic self-management skills (self-monitoring, environmental restructuring, social
      support, cognitive restructuring, and the relaxation response) to help build self-efficacy
      and maintain it after the treatment has been discontinued. The attention control arm will
      consist of an educational intervention which includes 18 mailings of the American Heart
      Association Tip Sheets over the course of the first year, plus a telephone follow-up with the
      patient after each mailing to check receipt and comprehension of the Tip Sheet, and to
      address any questions about the Tip Sheet. Treatment effects will be evaluated using the
      primary outcome of hospitalization for heart failure or death, and the secondary outcomes of
      progression of heart failure, quality of life, and health care costs. Potential mediators of
      effectiveness will include improved adherence and improved psychosocial function.
    
  