
    
      Objectives: At a recent (19/4/2013) Priority Setting Partnership workshop, facilitated by the
      James Lind Alliance, patients, carers and eye health professionals produced a list of the top
      ten priorities for glaucoma research (http://www.sightlosspsp.org.uk/). Number 4 on the list
      was: What can be done to improve early diagnosis of sight-threatening glaucoma? The
      overarching aim of this project is to develop and evaluate a new visual field screening
      self-test that can be used to improve the early detection of glaucoma and thereby meet one of
      the aims of the Priority Setting Partnership. We will conduct hospital- and community-based
      clinical trials on the new test to establish its performance.

      Methodology: This project will clinically evaluate the new test deriving measures of
      sensitivity and specificity. These trials will be conducted on patients attending the
      outpatient department of Manchester Royal Eye Hospital (MREH) and will use simulated defects
      to link performance measure with the extent of field damage. Patients without any established
      field loss will be tested. On completion of hospital-based clinical trials we will undertake
      locally based community trials to establish performance when self-administered or
      administered with the aid of friends/family, i.e. without researcher/clinician involvement.
      We will make the test available (emailed attachment that will install the test on the
      patients PC, laptop, tablet) to patients attending the glaucoma clinics of MREH with a
      request to test their friends and relatives. Guidance notes will emphasise the increased risk
      of developing glaucoma in blood relatives and the increased risk with age to help them target
      those at higher risk of developing glaucoma. Those failing the screening test, twice, will
      then undergo further testing by one of the Glaucoma Referral Refinement optometrists in
      Manchester to derive estimates of true and false referral rates.
    
  