
    
      In this study, the investigators build on a health promotion intervention originally
      developed by Buettner and Fitzimmons (2009), called "Health Promotion for the Mind, Body, and
      Spirit". The Health Promotion intervention consists of 12 weekly 2-hour sessions. Each group
      has up to 6 participants, and the groups are facilitated by two professional group leaders.
      The course has been designed to provide information on the disease process and on healthy
      behaviours to prevent problems that are common later in the disease. The 12-week course
      includes nutrition, cognitive fitness, stress reduction, communication, information about the
      course of the disease, and coping strategies. During the first class session, each
      participant received a nametag and a booklet. This booklet is a critical component of the
      educational method for the participants. The booklet contains 12 dividers for the 12 modules
      that the instructor taught during the course. The caregiver is not present at the course,
      however the participants are encouraged to share the booklet provided at the course with the
      caregiver between sessions.

      Design: a quasi-experimental study with multiple methods:

        1. assessment of cognitive function, psychosocial function and health behaviour is
           collected at baseline (prior to attending the 12-week course) and follow-up interviews
           are arranged shortly after the 12-week course. For each participant a caregiver also has
           to take part for proxy interviews.

        2. the users' experience of attending the 12-week health promotion course will be collected
           through qualitative individual interviews with the participants and their caregiver
           after attending the course.

        3. over the duration of the course a moderate participant observation will be carried out
           to explore changes over the 12-week course, in-session behaviour, social interaction and
           to capture motivational and empowering aspects of the course.
    
  