
    
      Study Description:

      ABCA4 retinopathy is an autosomal recessive progressive retinal dystrophy that leads to
      retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptor degeneration, with consequent central
      visual loss. A treatment that either reduces the rate of lipofuscin accumulation or improves
      the clearance of lipofuscin in the RPE could potentially slow the degeneration associated
      with this disease. etformin hydrochloride is a well-characterized, commonly-prescribed oral
      anti-diabetic medication that acts by suppressing liver gluconeogenesis and increasing
      peripheral insulin ensitivity. An additional effect of metformin is to increase
      macroautophagy via the mTORC1/AMPK pathway; stimulation of this pathway would be predicted to
      enable the RPE to more efficiently handle ipofuscin. This suggests an association between
      metformin use and slowing of retinal degeneration. The objective of this study is to
      investigate the safety and potential efficacy of oral metformin in slowing the rate of change
      in photoreceptor degeneration in ABCA4 retinopathy.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to investigate the safety and potential efficacy of oral
      metformin in slowing the rate of change in photoreceptor degeneration in ABCA4 retinopathy.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: The difference in growth rate of square-root transformed area of EZ band
      loss (square-root AreaEZloss) between the pre-treatment phase and 24-month metformin
      treatment phase. Secondary Endpoints: Proportion of participants with a 30% reduction in
      growth rate of square-root AreaEZloss during the treatment phase compared to the
      pre-treatment phase, changes from baseline to Month 24 in Best-Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA)
      total letters read, perimetry, and color fundus photography measurements and the change in
      rate of area of atrophy enlargement between the pre-treatment and 24-month metformin
      treatment phase.

      Study Population:

      The targeted enrollment is 40 metformin-treated participants evaluated for the primary
      endpoint. Up to 44 participants will be recruited in order to reach this target. Participants
      will primarily be recruited from the population of participants with Stargardt disease
      currently enrolled in the NEI ABCA4 Natural History study, 12-EI-0203, although participants
      from outside this study will be considered if they have sufficient supporting data that meet
      the inclusion criteria. Patients outside the original 12-EI-0203 cohort who have been
      followed for at least two years and have met the eligibility criteria will be considered at
      the discretion of the Principal Investigator (PI) or Lead Associate Investigator.

      Phase: Phase I/II

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      Participants will be seen at the NIH Clinical Center (CC). In the event that a second site is
      used in order to obtain sufficient power, we would enter into a collaboration only with sites
      if they 1) had a similarly-followed cohort of patients and 2) had identical testing
      equipment/conditions for our primary outcome variable and major secondary outcome variables.

      Description of Study Intervention:

      This is a single center, Phase I/II, prospective, open-label study to evaluate metformin as a
      potential treatment to decrease the rate of photoreceptor degeneration in ABCA4 retinopathy.
      After establishing a baseline, participants will receive a starting oral dose of 500 mg
      metformin daily, increasing to the maximum tolerated dose, up to 2000 mg/day, over four
      weeks. Participants will receive investigational product (IP) for a total of 24 months
      (treatment phase). Participants will be followed for safety for another 12 months after
      receiving the final dose of IP with visits every six months.

      Study Duration: 60 months

      Participant Duration: 36 months
    
  