
    
      Bronchiolitis is the most common viral respiratory infection in young children and infants.
      It is responsible for hundreds of thousands of outpatient visits and hospitalizations every
      year. Hypertonic saline may decrease swelling in the lung tissue, improve the patient's
      ability to clear secretions, and decrease nasal congestion. Hypertonic saline nebulizations
      have already been used effectively in patients with cystic fibrosis and in a few small trials
      on infants with bronchiolitis. Patients who come to the emergency department or inpatient
      ward of two urban free-standing pediatric hospitals in California between December and April
      and are diagnosed with bronchiolitis will be randomized into two groups- the control group
      will receive nebulized 0.9% normal saline, while the study group will receive nebulized 3%
      hypertonic saline. Nebulizations will be pretreated with albuterol, to prevent the
      theoretical risk of increased wheezing in patients with undiagnosed underlying asthma.
      Patients will be given up to 3 nebulizations in the emergency department, after which time
      the attending physician will decide whether admission to the hospital is required. Patients
      who are admitted will continue to receive the same nebulized treatment every 8 hours until
      discharged. Additional interventions such as epinephrine treatments and antibiotics can be
      ordered as indicated by the patient care team.

      Investigators will measure symptom severity before and after treatments using the respiratory
      distress assessment instrument (RDAI). The investigators will compare rates of being admitted
      to the hospital in each group. The investigators will also compare RDAI scores, average
      length of stay, number of additional respiratory treatments needed, number of hours requiring
      oxygen, amount of IV fluid needed, and frequency of adverse effects. The investigators
      hypothesize that nebulized hypertonic saline will be a safe, cost-effective, and efficacious
      therapy which can be utilized in the outpatient setting to prevent hospital admission, as
      well as decrease length of stay for patients who require admission. Given the significant
      disease burden of viral bronchiolitis, the potential impact is substantial.
    
  