
    
      Increasing evidence from human population studies and animal research has established
      correlative as well as causative links between chronic inflammation and insulin resistance.
      The anti-inflammatory characteristics of vitamin D have been demonstrated in previous
      studies. In addition to its role in bone and calcium metabolism, vitamin D is demonstrated to
      be influential in the regulation of different immune system functions and glucose homeostasis
      pathways. Although low levels of vitamin D have shown to be in close correlation with
      obesity, whether vitamin D deficiency is the cause or the consequence of obesity remains
      unclear. It is noteworthy that several studies have demonstrated that vitamin D deficiency is
      associated with an increased resistance to insulin.

      The biologic effects of vitamin D are primarily mediated via the nuclear transcription
      factor, vitamin D receptor (VDR), which triggers the expression of vitamin D responsive
      genes. VDR is expressed on different immune cells such as monocytes, T-lymphocytes, and
      granulocytes. It is documented that VDR and PGC-1α show an overlapping pattern of expression.
      Furthermore, as the expression of PGC-1α and PPARγ are regulated via environmental stimuli
      such as diet, it could be suggested that the function of VDR function can also be altered in
      response to external stimuli. PGC-1α was demonstrated to be of a particular importance in
      amelioration of increased insulin sensitivity.

      Accordingly, to evaluate whether alphacalcidol treatment in obese subjects who generally
      suffer from a low state chronic inflammation could affect the insulin resistance, we designed
      the current double blind clinical trial study to compare the effect of alfacalcidol with
      placebo on serum glucose, 25-OH vitamin D, PTH, and lipid profile levels as well as
      Homeostatic model assessment (HOMA) and quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI)
      indexes as a markers of insulin resistance. Furthermore, to assess the possible cross talk
      between VDR and PPARγ, the gene expressions of these VDR, PPARγ and PGC1α were evaluated
      following a course of treatment with either alphacalcidol or placebo.
    
  