
    
      This will be a single center, non-randomized observational study. The Moderato® System is
      approved for marketing in Europe (has a CE mark) for the treatment of high blood pressure in
      patients requiring standard cardiac pacing. The therapy delivered by the Moderato® System is
      referred to as CNT (Cardiac Neuromodulation Therapy). Heart failure patients is a population
      for which the Moderato® device is currently not indicated.

      Subjects requiring an implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) implantation or replacement and
      meeting study inclusion and exclusion criteria will be eligible to participate in the study.
      The study procedure will take place during the ICD implantation (or replacement).

      The whole procedure will be performed according to standard of care for ICD implantations (or
      replacements) including periprocedural prophylactic antibiotics prophylactic. To reduce the
      time of wound exposure, the setup of system for invasive measurements will be done before the
      ICD implant (or replacement) procedure begins.

      The groin area will be prepared and draped. After applying local anesthesia, a 7Fr sheath
      will be inserted into the femoral artery. A small dose of heparin (~5000 units) will be
      administered intravenously to prevent formation of blood clots. Under fluoroscopic guidance,
      a standard conductance catheter (CD Leycom CA-71103-PL, CE marked) will be advanced into the
      left ventricle.

      The arterial line will be used to measure arterial pressure. This completes the measuring
      system setup.

      Then, ICD right atrial lead and right ventricular lead will be implanted in standard
      positions according to standard institutional practices.

      The leads will be connected to a BackBeat Moderato® System IPG, externally to the patient
      using a single use, sterile Pacing System Analyzer (PSA) cable provided by the hospital. The
      Moderato® IPG, approved for chronic CNT delivery in hypertensive patients, will function in
      this trial as a temporary external CNT signal generator for acute application of the therapy.

      A range of CNT signal parameters will be used to assess the effect on sympathetic activity.
      Ventricular pressure and volume readings from the conductance catheter and arterial pressure
      readings will be recorded and analyzed to assess the effect of CNT signals on cardiac
      function, sympathetic activity and blood pressure. The effects of CNT signal over a range of
      parameter settings will be studied over a period of time no longer than one hour.

      In this study, none of the Moderato® system components will be in contact with the patient.
      The Moderato® IPG will be used solely as an external CNT signal generator and deliver signals
      to the patient through the PSA cable and the ICD leads.

      When CNT signal activation is complete, data recording will be stopped, the conductance
      catheter will be removed, the cable connecting the IPG to the leads disconnected, and ICD
      implantation will proceed normally.
    
  