
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a large and growing medical and economic problem, with over 26 million
      people suffering worldwide. The prognosis associated with HF is poor. Optimal management of
      patients with HF, crucial to improve outcomes and minimize costs, depends on adequate
      assessment of prognosis to decide on appropriate testing and intervention.

      There are predictive models, with satisfactory discrimination and calibration, that can
      accurately estimate mortality in HF patients. Despite their availability, physicians seldom
      use these models, instead relying on their informed intuition, which has proven to be
      limited. No studies have compared physician intuition (standard practice) and model predicted
      survival in patients with HF. The investigators therefore propose a Canadian multicentre
      study comparing physician intuition and model prediction to estimate one-year survival in
      ambulatory HF patients and secondly to assess the possible impact of intuition versus model
      prediction on the use of resources. Evaluating whether predictive models are more accurate
      than physician intuition will inform the best strategy to assess patient prognosis in HF.
      More accurate prognostic estimates will facilitate patient management by matching the need
      for further therapy or testing to patient risk thus offering greater clinical benefit and
      improving utilization of resources.

      This study will evaluate the accuracy and impact of physician intuition and predictive models
      in the assessment of prognosis in ambulatory HF patients by: i. comparing the accuracy of
      1-year physician predicted survival and 1-year model predicted survival to the true
      (observed) 1-year survival; ii. evaluating the accuracy of physician intuition according to
      physician's level of confidence in their intuition (very low, low, moderate, high or very
      high); iii. evaluating whether physician expertise impacts accuracy of physician intuition;
      iv. evaluating whether physician gender, patient gender and physician-patient gender
      concordance impact accuracy of physician intuition; and v. studying the association between
      physician estimated survival and resource use and related cost.

      The investigators hypothesize that predictive models will more accurately predict mortality
      than physicians, with more marked differences in less experienced physicians or when
      physician confidence in estimate is low. Physicians will use more resources when they
      consider patients to be high risk. If these hypotheses prove correct, incorporation of
      user-friendly systems to estimate prognosis into clinical practice can offer clinical
      benefit, facilitate patient management and improve utilization of resources.

      This is a Canadian multicentre prospective cohort study of consecutive consenting ambulatory
      adult heart failure (HF) patients followed in a HF clinic. Participating centers include
      tertiary care hospitals with dedicated HF clinics in British Columbia (St. Paul's Hospital,
      Providence Health Care Centre); Manitoba (St. Boniface General Hospital); Ontario (Toronto
      General Hospital, St. Michael's Hospital, Ottawa Heart Institute, Sunnybrook Hospital, Mount
      Sinai Hospital, Hamilton Health Science, Southlake Regional Health Centre); Quebec (McGill
      University Health Centre); and Nova Scotia (Nova Scotia Health Authority). These clinics
      attend to different HF populations permitting a wide representation of patient profiles.

      After obtaining written informed consent, research assistants will collect clinical and
      laboratory data from electronic records and paper charts necessary to describe the patient
      population and to calculate predictive model survival. These constitute part of the routine
      clinical assessment and will include demographic characteristics (age, sex, race),
      co-morbidities (diabetes, hypertension, smoking, peripheral vascular disease, chronic lung
      disease), HF characteristics and history (underlying cause, LVEF by echocardiogram, last HF
      hospital admission, medications and use of ICD and/or cardiac resynchronization therapy) and
      physical examination (body mass index (BMI), current NYHA class, heart rate, and blood
      pressure at rest). Laboratory values will include hemoglobin, leucocytes, lymphocytes,
      electrolytes, BUN (blood urea nitrogen), serum creatinine, total cholesterol and uric acid.
      Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro-BNP and peak oxygen consumption (peak VO2)
      will be collected when available. Cardiac rhythm and QRS duration will be collected by
      electrocardiography and peak oxygen consumption by cardiopulmonary exercise study.

      This study will include physicians with different level of expertise in HF (HF cardiologists
      and Family Physicians). Physicians will be asked to provide their intuitive estimates of the
      likelihood of survival at one year following the patient baseline clinic visit. Physicians
      will be blinded to the predicted model survival. In the survey, the physician will: (1)
      estimate patient 1-year survival in absolute terms (from 0% to 100%); (2) rate the confidence
      in their prediction (from 1 - no confident at all to 5- very confident); (3) collect their
      impression about the possibility of initiating assessment to evaluate candidacy for advanced
      heart failure therapies including heart transplant or mechanical circulatory support in the
      next year (1- not a candidate, 2- patient is already listed, 3- too early, and 4-patient is a
      candidate); and (4) record status of optimization of medical management (1- beginning
      optimization, 2- early in the process, 3- late in the process, and 4- completed). Patient
      candidacy to advanced HF therapies and status of optimization can influence the use of
      resources. If a patient is not a candidate for advanced HF therapies or is already under
      optimal medical therapy, the use of resources will be lower compared to candidate patients or
      patients under medical therapy optimization. This will be considered in the analysis of the
      impact of physician intuitive risk on resource utilization.

      There are many predictive models in HF. Of these, the investigators have chosen three models
      based on comparably acceptable performance: the Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHFM), the HF
      Meta-Score and the Meta-Analysis Global Group in Chronic Heart Failure (MAGGIC) score. These
      models include a set of different variables, they have been validated in contemporary cohorts
      of HF patients and have demonstrated excellent calibration and discrimination with a
      c-statistic >0.70.

      Patients will be followed until the last recruited patient is followed for a minimum of
      1-year and the following outcomes will be collected: i. Death, urgent VAD implant and urgent
      heart transplant. Urgent VAD implant or heart transplant will be defined by the use of
      intravenous inotropic support at the time of the surgery. The investigators will collect this
      information from electronic records and by linking with the administrative databases housed
      at the Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI) via OHIP number or name and date of
      birth (retrieved from the patients' medical records) using deterministic/probabilistic
      linkage. CIHI is an independent, not-for-profit organization that provides essential
      information on Canada's health systems. This entity houses 28 pan-Canadian databases across
      various health sectors. CIHI holds ISO/IEC 27001:2005 certification for information security
      management. ii. Utilization of health resources and related costs will be collected by
      linking the project database to the administrative databases, administered by the CIHI
      Discharge Abstract Database (CIHI DAD) and CIHI National Ambulatory Case Reporting System
      (CIHI NACRS). Cost information will be obtained and estimated from the HF clinic at Toronto
      General Hospital, which is representative of other HF clinics. The cost associated to
      resources in other provinces will be adjusted by a calculated coefficient using publicly
      provincial health cost information. The investigators will collect inpatient and outpatient
      costs and resources from clinic visits, imaging and laboratory tests, cardiac rehabilitation,
      hospitalization and visits to an emergency department.

      Continuous variables will be expressed as a mean and standard deviation (SD) or median and
      interquartile ranges for variables with non-Gaussian distributions. All discrete variables
      will be expressed as counts (n) and percentages (%) of the study population. The statistical
      analysis will be performed using SAS 9.4 (North Carolina, USA).

      The investigators will assess physician intuition in comparison to the performance of
      predictive models by comparing their discrimination, calibration and risk reclassification.
      Physician intuition and model prediction accuracy will be evaluated separately by physician
      expertise: HF cardiologists and family physicians. Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox proportional
      hazards model will be used to predict 1-year event-free survival with the score from each
      model and physician intuition to assess calibration and discrimination, respectively. HF
      clinics may see a set of different HF patients and HF cardiologists practicing in the same HF
      clinic will potentially have similar practice and intuition. In order to consider this
      potential confounding effect, the analysis will be adjusted for HF clinic region (Greater
      Toronto Area, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Nova Scotia and British Columbia). Follow up will be
      censored as alive at the time of non-urgent VAD or heart transplant or last clinic visit
      after a year follow up. Observed versus predicted survival will be used to assess calibration
      illustrating the relationship in a scatter plot and will assess and compare intuition and
      predictive models' discrimination using Harrell's c-statistic.

      The investigators will then use risk reclassification analysis (reclassification tables and
      reclassification calibration test) and absolute net reclassification improvement (NRI) to
      assess global model performance of physician intuition in comparison to the predictive
      models. Risk reclassification analysis will be used to show how patients classified by
      physician intuition are reclassified by the predictive models and will compare the observed
      and predicted survival in each cross-classified category. The absolute NRI represents the net
      proportion of patients correctly or incorrectly classified assessing if patients were
      reclassified in the correct direction, i.e. if survivors are reclassified as having better
      survival and deceased patients are reclassified as having lower survival. For this analysis,
      patients will be classified based on deciles of 1-year predicted survival (100-90%, 90-80%,
      80-70% and <70%).

      The association between physician intuition and utilization of health resources will be
      evaluated by categorizing patients in the pre-defined risk categories (low, medium, high or
      very high risk). Multivariate logistic regression will be used to evaluate the association
      between physician intuition and resources measured as binary variables (i.e. referral to
      specialists or palliative care) and multivariable Poisson regression to evaluate the
      association between physician intuition and resources measured as count variables (i.e.
      clinic visits) adjusted for region. Cost analysis will be used to evaluate the association
      between total annual cost and physician intuition. Cost will be described using median and
      interquartile range due to expected positively skewed distribution and evaluate its
      association with physician intuition using generalized linear models with a gamma
      distribution adding region as a fixed effect. The investigators will evaluate the impact of
      model predictive survival using the results from the risk reclassification analysis (e.g. if
      the predictive model better reclassified 10% of high-risk patients, 10% of the increased cost
      of treating high-risk patients may be saved by using the model).
    
  