
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Morphologic delineation of the arterial lesions will assist the use of experimental models to
      study molecular mechanisms underlying the lesions and the development of pharmacologic
      methods for controlling these mechanisms. Further examination of risk factors for the
      arterial lesions will indicate opportunities for prevention or modifying their evolution.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was based on data including risk factors and autopsy brain sections from deceased
      men from the Honolulu Heart Program. In this cohort, medial and intimal lesions of brain
      parenchymal arteries were significantly associated with brain infarction and three times more
      common in men dying of stroke than of non-cardiovascular causes. The specific aims of the
      study were 1) delineation of the morphologic characteristics of the brain parenchymal artery
      lesions, their regional anatomic distribution, and their relationship to changes in adjacent
      brain parenchyma and the degree of atherosclerosis in the major intracranial arteries; 2)
      characterization of the relationship in men between the arterial lesions and advancing age;
      3) characterization in men over 60-65 years of age of the relationship of the arterial
      lesions to stroke, brain infarction or hemorrhage, and dementia; 4) identification of
      additional risk factors associated with the arterial lesions. The arterial lesions and
      adjacent brain parenchyma were examined with conventional histologic stains and
      immunohistochemical markers for specific cellular and extracellular components of the
      arterial wall. The prevalence and extent of each type of arterial lesion were determined at
      three anatomic sites. Baseline risk factors thought to be related to stroke and brain
      infarction were examined for association with the arterial lesions. Statistical tests of
      association were based on univariate and multivariate linear and logistic regression models
      controlled, when necessary, for age.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  