
    
      Study Imaging:

      As part of routine care, ultrasound scanning is commonly used to find the cancerous areas of
      the prostate before the prostate is surgically removed. The ultrasound images are in black,
      white, and gray, and the dark areas may show prostate cancer.

      In this study, standard ultrasound scanning will still be done, but researchers want to test
      another form of diagnostic imaging called tissue elastography.

      Tissue elastography uses the same machine and probe as the ultrasound. The probe is gently
      pushed through the rectum and into the prostate gland (similar to a digital rectal exam). The
      ultrasound machine will use a special elastography software that is designed to scan the
      prostate for differences in how hard the tissue is. Prostate cancer tissue may be harder than
      surrounding tissue, and the images produced by tissue elastography are designed to show these
      differences in hardness of tissue.

      Screening:

      Before you can join this study, the study staff will review the results of your most recent
      prostate ultrasound and biopsy. This is a "screening" procedure to help the doctor decide if
      you are eligible to take part in this study.

      Study Procedures:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, tissue elastography imaging will
      be performed during your routine ultrasound before prostate surgery. The probe, once
      inserted, will be gently pressed against the prostate a few times in order to perform the
      tissue elastography. The routine ultrasound part of the procedure should take about 10
      minutes, and the elastography should take about 10-15 minutes.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your active participation in this study will be over after the tissue elastography imaging.
      The routine ultrasound will be the main decision-making exam. However, if the tissue
      elastography imaging shows something different and possibly related to your care, your doctor
      will be informed.

      After the prostate is removed and the tissue results are available, researchers will compare
      the tissue results with the tissue elastography images. You will not receive the results of
      the tissue elastography imaging, as the imaging is being used for research only.

      This is an investigational study. The ultrasound machine and probe that are used for the
      tissue elastography in this study are FDA approved for ultrasound scanning. Performing tissue
      elastography for prostate cancer detection is investigational. At this time and for this
      purpose, tissue elastography is only being performed in research.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  