
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. 2 year (yr) locoregional control in cetuximab responders.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess secondary clinical endpoints such as the percent of patients receiving neoadjuvant
      cetuximab who progress by computed tomography (CT) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria during the neoadjuvant cetuximab, the 2 yr locoregional control
      for non-responders to neoadjuvant cetuximab, and the complete response rate to positron
      emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan 3 months after the completion of
      radiation therapy for both responders and for non-responders to neoadjuvant cetuximab.

      II. Analyze the relationship of known deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations in tumor per the
      FoundationOne genomic profile, and correlate to clinical endpoints such as locoregional
      control.

      II. Analyze any changes in protein production at the tumor in response to 3 weeks of
      cetuximab.

      III. Analyze any changes in protein production at the skin in response to 3 weeks of
      cetuximab.

      IV. To investigate whether the tumor imaging characteristics including anatomical and
      molecular parameters evaluated by PET/CT, either alone or combined with other biomarkers can
      attribute to the better prediction for the clinical outcomes, as the response to neoadjuvant
      cetuximab; and the final clinical endpoint, the 2-year local regional controls.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes for 3 weeks. Patients then
      undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) over 6-7 weeks. Patients achieving response
      continue weekly doses of cetuximab until radiation therapy is completed. Patients unable to
      achieve response or progression receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 22, and 43 of
      radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  