
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) and atrial fibrillation (AF) are two important and growing
      problems in medicine and cardiology. Both conditions often co-exist and complicate each
      other's management. Two therapeutic strategies are available for patients with AF and CHF:
      the first aims at restoring and maintaining sinus rhythm, whereas, the second focuses
      exclusively on optimizing ventricular rate. The primary objective of the Atrial Fibrillation
      and Congestive Heart Failure (AF-CHF) trial is to compare these two widely-used treatment
      strategies with respect to cardiovascular mortality.

      Hypothesis: Restoring and maintaining sinus rhythm reduces cardiovascular mortality compared
      to a rate control treatment strategy in patients with AF and CHF.

      Rationale: Despite new therapeutic interventions, the prognosis of heart failure patients
      remains grim with 5-year survival rates usually less than 50%. In most recent, large CHF
      trials, AF has been reported to be independently associated with increased mortality.
      Non-randomized observations also suggest that patients with AF in the setting of CHF have a
      greater tendency to revert to sinus rhythm during amiodarone therapy or with newer class III
      antiarrhythmic agents and that those who maintain a normal rhythm have a better prognosis.
      There is a need to determine whether a treatment strategy that attempts to maintain sinus
      rhythm will have a beneficial impact on cardiovascular mortality in CHF patients. This
      hypothesis has never been tested in a prospective, controlled, adequately-powered randomized
      trial.

      Research Plan: AF-CHF is a prospective, multicentre clinical trial (100 centres in Canada,
      the USA, and Europe), that will randomize 1,450 NYHA class II-IV CHF patients with left
      ventricular ejection fraction >/=35% (NYHA class I patients with prior hospitalization for
      CHF or ejection fraction </=25% are also eligible) and a history of significant AF (ECG
      documentation of either one episode lasting >/=6 hours within the past 6 months, or an
      episode lasting >/=10 minutes within the past 6 months in a patient with prior electrical
      cardioversion for AF) to one of two treatment strategies: 1) rhythm control with the use of
      electrical cardioversion if needed combined with antiarrhythmic drug therapy (amiodarone or
      other class III agents), and additional non-pharmacologic therapy in resistant patients, 2)
      rate control with the use of drugs (mainly beta-blockers plus digoxin) and/or pacemaker and
      AV nodal catheter ablation if necessary. The enrollment period will be completed within 2
      years with a minimum follow-up of 2 years. Both groups will receive optimal CHF management
      with ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers. Cardiovascular mortality will be the primary endpoint
      of the trial. The intention-to-treat approach will be the primary method of analysis.
      Secondary outcomes are total mortality, hospitalization, stroke, cost of therapy and quality
      of life. From recent trial data, we anticipate a 18.75% 2-year cardiovascular mortality in
      the rate control arm and a 25% reduction in cardiovascular mortality in the rhythm control
      group. Assuming a 2% loss to follow-up, a two-sided alpha level of 0.05 and an annual accrual
      rate of 750 patients, we calculate that 722 patients per group (rounded total number of 1,450
      patients) will be necessary to achieve a power of 0.80 when performing a log-rank test. The
      Research Centre of the Montreal Heart Institute will be the Coordinating and Methods Centre.
    
  