
    
      A global CMR registry can be a crucial infrastructure of our CMR community that has many
      benefits. First, it is the largest collective body of evidence reflecting the current
      clinical applications in patient care, which healthcare payers and governing bodies alike can
      depend on when metrics such as testing appropriateness, common indications, and diagnostic
      effectiveness are needed. Second, it reflects any change in patient impact from CMR over time
      as technical developments evolve. Third, it allows an assessment for improvement of
      diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation, risk stratification, and cost-effectiveness analysis
      relevant to patient management.

      Some practical questions that a global CMR registry may be able ot address include:

        1. Variations in CMR protocols within specific clinical indications

        2. Variations in CMR post-processing, analysis, and reporting

        3. Practice adherence to appropriateness criteria and guidelines

        4. Clinical effectiveness of CMR over a long period of clinical application and/or
           technological advance

        5. Differences in CMR utility across centers, regions, or countries

      The data collection process will be a collective effort on part of specialized health
      professionals across various CMR sites worldwide. All of the data will be extracted from
      existing registries and databases. Health professionals in the U.S. and abroad will first
      upload patient data and images onto the registry/database that they currently use. Then if
      they choose to, they can transmit relevant patient de-identified data onto the global
      registry using a user-friendly web interface. CMR sites without a database will be invited to
      use CMR Cooperative or REDCAP. De-identified data (usually submitted in excel or CSV format)
      will be harmonized and uploaded to the registry website (www.gcmr-scmr.org), which is a
      firewall and password-protected database that resides at an IT vendor (Center for Systems
      Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital) in Boston, Massachusetts. The pooled data will be
      used for retrospective analysis/research approved by the GCMR steering committee and SCMR.
    
  