
    
      Vital pulp therapy has the benefit of providing patients with a conservative treatment option
      with relatively low cost when compared to conventional root canal treatment and spares them
      possible post-treatment consequences that might occur. Vital pulp treatment in trauma cases
      is associated with high success rate but controversy still exists regarding vital pulp
      treatment in carious-exposed pulp.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the success rate of direct pulp capping performed
      with MTA-Angelus® or calcium hydroxide in mechanical-exposed or carious-exposed mature
      permanent human teeth. Patients included in this study will be recruited from routine dental
      patients attending conservative clinics in JUST Dental Teaching Centre. Adult patients
      scheduled for routine conservative treatment involving caries removal and restoration with
      mechanical or carious pulp exposure will be invited to participate in this study.

      A total of 80 carious human teeth with carious pulp exposure will be included in this
      randomized clinical study. Patients are among those scheduled for conservative dental
      treatment and end with pulp exposure. The patients and/or their parents will be asked to sign
      a consent form after receiving a detailed explanation about the study rationale, clinical
      procedures, and possible risks. The exposed teeth will be divided randomly into two
      experimental groups (n=40) according to the dressing materials; MTA-Angelus® or calcium
      hydroxide, then teeth will be restored with permanent filling. Teeth will be reviewed
      recording any signs and symptoms. Patients will be reviewed in 1 week, 3 months and yearly
      after. MTA-Angelus and calcium hydroxide are anticipated to be biocompatible and induce hard
      tissue barrier. This project will reveal if tested materials are presented with promising
      profile upon using as direct pulp capping dressing in mechanical and carious-exposed pulp.
    
  