
    
      Purpose

      The human microbiome, also known as microflora, is comprised of the bacterial colonies of the
      body. Although bacteria are commonly associated with illness, there are good bacteria known
      as probiotic bacteria that grow naturally in the microbiome of the human gut. Probiotic
      bacteria are live microorganisms and consist of approximately 400 different bacterial strains
      that support life in their host organism. The gut microbiome, also known as intestinal flora,
      plays a role in normal human development, digestion, body weight, nutrition, and immune
      system regulation, in addition to influencing various neurological functions. It has been
      found that environmental factors including antibiotics, illness, stress, and diet can alter
      an individual's microbiome through their effects on probiotic bacteria situated in the gut
      microflora.

      Although probiotic bacteria grow naturally in the human gut, acquisition of the gut
      microbiome varies in each individual depending on various factors, including birth method and
      early diet. Research suggests that newborns' first exposure to bacteria and acquisition of
      the first components of their microbiome takes place during birth. Infants acquire their
      mothers' bacteria as they pass through the vaginal canal during childbirth. Research
      indicates that, for this reason, children born through cesarean section have a less diverse
      microbiome (Dominguez-Bello, Costello, Contreras, Magris, Hidalgo, Fierer, & Knight, 2010).
      Research also suggests that following birth, infants continue to acquire their gut microbiome
      in the first two years of life under the influence of dietary nutrition. For example, in a
      study of six breast-fed and six formula fed infants, those who consumed a specially enriched
      formula that contained both prebiotics (substances that feed probiotics) and a variety of
      probiotic bacteria had a much more diverse intestinal flora than those who received breast
      milk (Harmsen, Wildeboer-Veloo, Raangs, Wagendorp, Klijn, Bindels, & Welling, 2000). Please
      note that this study does not negate the benefits of breast milk and was intended to assess
      the effect of heightened prebiotic and probiotic concentrations in a baby formula that was
      chemically similar to breast milk.

      Because probiotic bacteria are acquired naturally from environmental sources in addition to
      growing normally in the human body, it is safe for humans to consume probiotics. Furthermore,
      Health Canada has labeled probiotics a natural health product (NHP) safe for human
      consumption. Common foods we eat each day contain probiotic bacteria that enrich our
      intestinal flora. For example, yogurt and cheese contain probiotic bacteria. There has been a
      recent upsurge in interest on probiotics amongst researchers as the positive effects of
      probiotics on the gut microbiome and recognition of their great therapeutic potential for a
      wide variety of conditions increases.

      The Microbiome and Physical Health

      Research has shown that probiotic bacterial strains, such as Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli,
      aid in the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome and other gastrointestinal and bowel
      diseases by inhibiting the colonization and growth of bacteria that cause disease. In
      addition, the gut microbiome is believed to play an integral role in regulating healthy
      immune system functioning. Immune system functioning is maintained by homeostatic
      relationships with the microbiome, which in turn plays a role in the development of lymphoid
      tissues and the immune system (Hooper, Littman, & Macpherson, 2012). Imbalances in gut
      microflora have been associated with impaired immune responses.

      The Microbiome and Mental Health

      The microbiome has been associated with a variety of mental health conditions. Researchers
      have dubbed this connection "the gut-brain axis" (Forsythe, Sudo, Dinan, Taylor, &
      Bienenstock, 2010). Bacteria in the gut have been found to produce GABA and serotonin,
      although the exact mechanism by which these gastrointestinally produced neurotransmitters
      influence brain functioning is unknown at this time. However, disruptions in the microbiome
      have been associated with autism, as well as with anxiety and depressive disorders.

      Imbalances in the intestinal flora as a result of early antibiotic use, for example, have
      also been implicated in the development of autism. Probiotics have been shown to aid in the
      treatment of autistic symptoms by promoting the growth of beneficial bacteria and inhibiting
      the growth of harmful bacteria. Researchers have identified an overgrowth of certain strains
      of Clostridia that produce propionic acid in the guts of autistic children. Propionic acid is
      a neurotoxin that crosses the blood-brain barrier and could disrupt normal brain development
      in early childhood (Parracho, Gibson, Knott, Bosscher, Kleerebezem, & McCartney, 2010).

      Disruptions in the development of normal microflora have also been associated with
      alterations in stress reactivity that continue into later life. For example, various
      metabolic pathways, such as those involving bile acids and steroid hormone synthesizers, that
      are necessary for bodily functions depend on a healthy microbiome (Antunes, Han, Ferreira,
      Lolic, Borchers, & Finlay, 2011). Research shows that antibiotic use early in life leads to a
      reduction in intestinal flora and diversity and may be involved in causing a physiological
      state of alert, akin to a trait known as "anxiety sensitivity". Anxiety sensitivity refers to
      a tendency in some individuals to monitor their physiological state continuously and
      misinterpret normal fluctuations in homeostasis as life threatening events. In animal
      studies, consumption of probiotics leads to reductions in anxiety-related behaviours as well
      as alterations in the GABA receptors that mediate stress-related hormones (Bravo, Forsythe,
      Chew, Escaravage, Savignac, Dinan, Bienenstock, & Cryan, 2011). The beneficial effects of gut
      microbiota on stress and anxiety have also been evidenced when comparing germ-free mice
      (i.e., mice with no microbiome) to mice with rich intestinal microflora. Mice with rich
      intestinal microflora show less stress reactivity than germ-free mice.

      Current Proposal

      The proposed project will investigate the effects of probiotics on anxiety and associated
      psychological and physiological factors in humans. The therapeutic potential of probiotics
      for reducing anxiety and other factors associated with a disrupted microbiome will be
      assessed in a double-blind placebo-crossover design. Based on the research findings to date,
      it is hypothesized that probiotics will reduce anxiety and depressive symptoms.

      Methodology

      Seventy-five male and female participants over the age of 18 years will be recruited through
      advertisements posted in various locations around the Wolfville area, as well as local
      newspapers and social media sites such as Facebook. Online advertisements including a link to
      a website containing information about study eligibility and requirements
      (http://www.probioticstudy.com) will be posted on the Facebook groups of various
      organizations in Wolfville, including Inner Sun Yoga Center, Wolfville Farmer's Market, and
      EOS Fine Foods community board, as well as in local newspapers such as the Grapevine and the
      Advertiser (see Appendix A). Information brochures will be distributed to the Valley Regional
      Hospital, Eastern Kings Memorial Health Centre, and Mud Creek Medical Co-op Ltd. for display
      in their waiting rooms (see Appendix B). Advertisement posters will also be posted in the
      Wolfville area (including the Acadia Athletic Complex community board, Wolfville Shopper's
      Drug Mart, and Wolfville Post Office community board) with pull-tabs containing the website
      URL for the study information page (see Appendix C). An all-staff email will also be sent to
      Acadia University staff targeted at non-academic occupations for recruitment (see Appendix
      D).

      Because there is limited research on participants under the age of 18, participants must be
      at least 18 years of age. Participants must also live within driving distance of Wolfville,
      Nova Scotia, be able to come to Wolfville for appointments with the researchers, and have a
      valid email address. Exclusionary criteria for participation include having an
      academic-related occupation, including University/College professor or student (to avoid
      cohort effects related to specific fluctuations in conditions associated with high stress
      during the academic term); having HIV/AIDS; currently undergoing chemotherapy; having a
      diagnosed serious metabolic, immune, or digestive problem, including cancer, Crone's disease
      or ulcerative colitis, multiple sclerosis, lupus, Addison's disease or other form of adrenal
      insufficiency; currently using medication for anxiety; taking probiotic capsules; taking
      antibiotics; or having any other serious medical illness.

      Once potential participants have reviewed the information on the study website and indicated
      that they wish to participate, they will be directed to an informed consent page. By checking
      the box and clicking "Submit" on the online informed consent page, they will indicate their
      consent to participate and will be directed to a demographic questionnaire (see Appendix E).
      The questionnaire will contain questions about the participants' health, medical history, and
      foods they consume. All data collected online during this study will be housed on a Canadian
      server to avoid Patriot Act issues associated with data housed on U.S. servers. The
      researcher will schedule appointments with participants who give online consent to
      participate.

      The study will be carried out over a 22-week period, during which the participants will
      consume an oral probiotic for 10 weeks and a placebo (an inert substance with no therapeutic
      effect) for 10 weeks, with a two-week washout period in between. Participants will receive
      either the probiotic or the placebo for the first ten weeks and the other for the second 10
      weeks. Neither the participant nor the researcher administering the probiotics and placebos
      will be aware which one the participant is taking. Because this a double-blind design, only
      the supervisor, Dr. Susan Potter, will be privy to the experimental condition of the
      participants. The supervisor will randomly assign participants to either a placebo or
      probiotic condition.

      The probiotic used in this study will be Organic Probiotics 7 Strains 20 Billion per gram
      purchased from Prescribed For Life. This is a natural organic probiotic powder including
      Acidophilus, Bifidum, Casei, and Rhamnosus strains of probiotic bacteria, 400mg per capsule.
      Placebo capsules will contain 400mg of rice flour. Each participant will receive two pill
      bottles - one with 70 probiotic capsules for ten weeks and another with 70 placebo capsules
      for ten weeks. These capsules are to be consumed orally, one capsule per day.

      The researcher and supervisor will schedule a meeting with each participant to provide
      detailed instructions for the study and to obtain informed consent for each participant's
      continuation in the study (see Appendix F and Appendix G). At the initial appointment, the
      ten-week appointment, and the final twenty-week appointment, participants will complete the
      Depression Anxiety and Stress scale (DASS) and the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI).
      Participants will complete these measures three times during the study period in order for
      the researchers to measure change in anxiety and depression symptoms across the three time
      points. At each of these meetings participants will also be given their bottle of either
      probiotics capsules or placebo capsules to be taken over the 10-week period. At their
      ten-week appointment, participants will also be given copies of the DASS and ASI to be
      completed at the end of the study (see Appendix H). At the third and final appointment,
      participants will bring in their completed questionnaires and be given the opportunity to ask
      any questions they may have about the study, as well as complete a ballot for the prize
      draws. If they wish to know during which phases they received the probiotic and placebo
      capsules, they will be told that the information will be emailed to them once the study is
      complete.

      Participants will be contacted by the researcher on the third and sixth day of each phase
      (probiotic and placebo) via email to check in and answer any questions they may have (see
      Appendix I). Participants will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire once every two
      weeks during the study period, which should take no longer than 5 minutes to complete (see
      Appendix J and Appendix K), to chart any changes in anxiety and/or physical health, as well
      as to keep the lines of communication open should any questions arise.

      Consent

      Participants will complete two consent forms, one online prior to the collection of
      demographic and identifying information and one prior to commencing the probiotic phase of
      the study (see Appendix E, and Appendix G, respectively).

      Deception and Debriefing

      Although not technically deception, participants will receive either a placebo or probiotic
      for ten-week intervals in the study period but will not be told which of the two they are
      receiving, although they will be informed that they will not be told. Upon completion of the
      study, participants who wish to know will be told which of the two (probiotics or placebo)
      they received during each ten-week period. Participants will also be given the opportunity to
      have all of their questions answered by the researcher and those who wish to receive a copy
      of the results will be sent them via email once the study is complete.

      Risks and Benefits

      Probiotics are good bacteria that grow naturally in the human gut. To date, there are no
      published risks associated with probiotic consumption. Nevertheless, participants will be
      contacted twice during the first week of each phase (probiotic and placebo) to ensure they
      are not experiencing any adverse side effects. In addition, participants will submit updates
      on their physical and mental health every two weeks throughout the study in addition to being
      encouraged to contact the researchers should they have any concerns during the study period.

      It is possible that participants may be made more aware of any anxious or depressive symptoms
      they are experiencing through participation in this research project and, as a result of
      increased attending, may experience increases in their emotional distress. To address these
      concerns, participants will be provided with specific contact information for mental health
      service providers in the Wolfville area.

      Although direct benefits to the participants are uncertain at this point, it is possible that
      they may experience a reduction in anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, and it is quite likely
      they will experience a reduction in any physiological bowel-related symptoms, as a result of
      taking the probiotics. However, it will be impossible to determine if any improvements in
      symptoms are attributable to the probiotic intervention until the study is complete.

      Confidentiality

      Confidentiality will be maintained at all times. Once they are enrolled in the study, each
      participant will be assigned a unique code number that will be used on all questionnaires and
      other data. Participants' names will not appear in conjunction with any data except for the
      initial online questionnaire. Once potential participants have been contacted about their
      participation in the intervention phase of the study, the online questionnaire data will be
      removed from the server and names will be replaced with code numbers. A master list of code
      numbers and names will be kept in a password-protected file in a separate folder on the
      researcher's password-protected computer.

      Data Security: All paper questionnaires will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in a locked
      office. All electronic data files will be stored on a password-protected computer. Because
      this area of research is relatively new, data will be kept indefinitely as it may help to
      guide future studies.
    
  