
    
      Patients will enter the study once the putatively painful joint or joints have been confirmed
      by single blind, double local-comparative anesthetic blockade. The joint(s) suspected by
      historical features and physical examination will be injected under fluoroscopic guidance
      with contrast-enhancement confirming intra-articular placement. The initial injectate will be
      1cc of 2% xylocaine. Single diagnostic lumbar facet joint injections carry a false positive
      rate of 38%. In order to maximize the specificity of the diagnostic injections a second 1cc
      injection of a longer-acting local anesthetic, 0.5% marcaine, will be performed on all
      patients reporting clinically significant pain reduction (> 75% VAS reduction from
      pre-injection baseline) within 10-15 minutes after the xylocaine injection. This second
      diagnostic injection will be completed upon return of the patient's pain back to baseline (no
      sooner than 3 days after the initial diagnostic injection). A true positive response will be
      defined as > 50% VAS reduction after the second injection. Patients will then undergo 2 IA
      Synvisc injections into the painful facet joint(s). An initial IA injection of 1.0cc (or a
      volume, not to exceed 1.0cc, accepted by the joint upon reaching a capsular endpoint) of
      Synvisc (1cc, 10mg/ml) will be injected into the painful joint(s) 7 days after the second
      diagnostic injection after the baseline pain has returned. A 2nd injection will then be
      performed 10 days after the initial injection. A 3rd injection may be offered to patients not
      satisfied with the results obtained with the first 2 Synvisc injections. A 2.0cc vial of
      Synvisc per patient will be shipped including other trial materials to the investigator for
      implementation. A fluid dispenser connector will allow direct dispensation of 1.0cc of
      Synvisc from the pre-packaged 2.0cc unmarked vial. Outcome measurement tools will include
      Visual Analogue Scale, Oswestry Disability Questionnaire, SF-36, lumbar spine range of motion
      (ROM), sitting and walking tolerance, analgesic usage, and patient satisfaction. Data will be
      collected at baseline, at 7-10 days after the second Synvisc injection, and at 1, 3, 6, and
      12 month follow up (after the final Synvisc injection) visits. For example, patient X will
      undergo an initial 2 Synvisc injections and then be evaluated in the office 7 days later. If
      the patient experiences significant benefit, no other injections will be pursued. However, if
      a therapeutic benefit is achieved but is not satisfactory to the patient, a 3rd Synvisc
      injection will be performed within 3 days. A side effect and complications questionnaire will
      be completed by each patient within 30 minutes, 24 hours, and 72 hours after each injection
      (including diagnostic injections).
    
  