
    
      Aim 1. We will recruit and study all patients of the PI who undergo MRI for shoulder
      complaints. The PI is a shoulder and elbow surgeon and treats a variety of shoulder and
      non-shoulder pathology. All patients agreeing to participate will undergo a history, physical
      examination of the shoulder, recording of demographics, family history, genealogy, and risk
      factors. All participants will provide a blood or saliva sample. Serum and DNA will be stored
      at the University of Utah for future analysis. Based upon the results of MRI, patients will
      be categorized based on the presence or absence or rotator cuff tearing. We hope to extend to
      hospital-wide ascertainment eventually. All patients will be asked if they have known cases
      of shoulder disorders in their family members. Patients will have the option of sharing their
      living family members name and contact information with the research team, so we can contact
      them and invite them to the study.

      Aim 2. From this DNA bio-repository, we will begin to describe the familial nature of rotator
      cuff disease and the characteristics related to increased risk. We will also begin
      ascertainment and sampling of high-risk individuals and pedigrees, perform association
      studies to identify risk-associated variants, and screen candidate genes as funding is
      available.

      Aim 3: Utilizing the Utah Population Database (UPDB), we will also define high risk pedigrees
      within the cohort of individuals with rotator cuff tears. We will also use the database to
      identify high risk pedigrees by examining the information on family members of patients of
      with tears to identify high risk pedigrees as well. The RGE has already approved the use of
      the UPDB for these purposes.

      Aim 4: Use UUHSC medical records linked to the UPDB to define the heritable nature of rotator
      cuff injury and other tendonopathies.

      Aim 5: Determine ABO frequencies for patients with rotator cuff tears and compare to
      population normals utilizing the UPDB.

      Aim 6: Use UUHSC medical records linked to the UPDB to define the heritable nature of rotator
      cuff injury and compression neuropathies.

      Aim 7: Query the UUHSC EDW for rotator cuff repair codes and obtain the ABO blood typing for
      these patients. We will also obtain operative room reports, names and MRN numbers for these
      patients to ensure there aren't duplications between already enrolled patients and UUHSC EDW
      findings.
    
  