
    
      This study will evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of a simultaneous treatment by high
      power magnet and radiofrequency energy for toning of abdomen and reduction of subcutaneous
      fat. The study is a prospective multi-center single-blinded sham-controlled study. The
      subjects will be enrolled and assigned into two study groups; active and sham group. Subjects
      of both groups will be required to complete three (3) treatment visits and two to three
      follow-up visits.

      At the baseline visit, ultrasound imaging will be performed; the subject's weight and waist
      circumference will be recorded. Photos of the treated area will be taken.

      The treatment administration phase in both study groups will consist of three (3) treatments,
      delivered once a week. The applicator of BTL-703 will be applied over the umbilicus. The
      active group will receive treatment with intensities of a magnetic field and radiofrequency
      energy just below the patient's tolerance threshold. The device will induce visible muscle
      contractions along with heating of the subcutaneous fat. The sham group will receive a
      treatment with the intensities of the magnetic field and radiofrequency energy set to 5% of
      the maximum device output.

      At the last therapy visit, the subject's weight and waist circumference will be recorded, and
      photos of the treated area will be taken. In addition, subjects will receive Subject
      Satisfaction Questionnaire to fill in.

      Safety measures will include documentation of adverse events (AE) including the subject's
      experience of pain or discomfort after each procedure. Following each treatment
      administration and at all of the follow-up visits, subjects will be checked for immediate
      post-procedure adverse event assessment.

      During the post-procedure visits (at 1-month and 3-month follow-up visits), the subjects will
      undergo ultrasound imaging. Also, the subject's satisfaction will be noted, and weight with
      waist circumference will be recorded. Photographs of the treated area will be taken. There
      will be an option of a 6-months follow-up visit, according to subject's availability.
    
  