
    
      Background: Tuberculosis (TB) incidence and mortality have increased dramatically as a result
      of the HIV epidemic. In parts of sub-Saharan Africa, TB is the leading cause of death among
      HIV-infected patients and approximately 50% of TB patients are HIV co-infected. Early
      treatment of TB is hindered by the lack of rapid, accurate diagnostic modalities that can be
      applied in resource-constrained settings. Mycobacterial culture is the laboratory standard
      for diagnosis of active TB, but it is costly, requires access to specialized laboratories,
      and takes weeks to provide results. Sputum smear microscopy detects less than half of
      HIV-infected TB cases in many settings. The Global Plan to Stop TB has prioritized the
      development of simple, accurate, inexpensive tests for TB case detection in HIV-positive
      individuals.

      LAM: As a strategy for rapid TB diagnosis, the detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis
      antigens has been explored over several decades. Lipoarabinomannan (LAM), a glycolipid
      component of the outer cell wall of mycobacteria, is an attractive diagnostic target for
      several reasons: it is heat-stable; cleared by the kidney; detectable in urine; and as a
      bacterial product, has the theoretical potential to discriminate active TB from latent TB
      infection independent of human immune responses. A urine test could facilitate TB diagnosis
      in patients in whom sputum is uninformative or not obtainable, and lacks the
      infection-control risks associated with sputum production or blood collection. Urine LAM
      detection may be amenable to simple, rapid, inexpensive point-of-care platforms.

      This is a prospective study to evaluate the accuracy, diagnostic yield, operational
      performance, and time to diagnosis of a novel lateral-flow urine LAM test in detecting
      tuberculosis in HIV-infected adults. HIV-positive adults suspected to have TB will be
      enrolled after providing informed consent. Urine will be obtained for testing using the novel
      lateral flow urine LAM assay and an existing ELISA-based urine LAM assay. Conventional
      microbiological tests for TB and chest x-rays will also be performed. These tests will be
      performed on all participants enrolled (target sample size = 500).

      A secondary study objective is to determine the accuracy, efficiency, costs, and
      cost-effectiveness of various combinations of TB diagnostic tests, including the novel Xpert
      MTB/Rif test. The Xpert MTB/Rif test will be performed on a subset of participants
      (approximately 200 participants out of the total of 500 participants we expect to enroll for
      the LAM component of the study.)
    
  