
    
      Context:

      Mechanical ventilation transformed the prognosis of neuromuscular diseases whether for acute
      or chronic diseases. The available tools to estimate the severity of respiratory
      insufficiency and indicate or follow the efficiency of mechanical ventilation are based on
      blood gazes explorations, tests respiratory function and sleep evaluation.

      These tools give either limited information, or are with difficulty applicable to patients
      heavily handicapped except during hospitalization.

      In patients under mechanical ventilation, it is sometimes difficult to know the daily optimal
      time of ventilation. The respiratory events are not generally recognized and are unspecific
      (headaches, drowsiness, dyspnoea, etc.) or are identified by blood gazes abnormalities
      (hypercapnia. In acute setting, treble is going to raise the problem of the weaning of the
      mechanical ventilation and the optimal moment of the extubation without risking a
      reintubation.

      These problems are identical and concern the evaluation of the degree of ventilatory autonomy
      for home care. The development of methods estimating this autonomy is thus fundamental.

      Objectives: the objective of this project is to validate a non-invasive system for measure
      and acquisition of respiratory parameters, incorporating a transmission system working by a
      "wireless" technology allowing the remote monitoring of these patients.

      The secondary objectives are to determine the parameters of success of weaning by using the
      device in neuromuscular patients intubated for respiratory failure in acute setting and to
      determine the optimal time of free breathing possibilities in patients ventilated in a
      chronic way at home.

      Methods:

      After validation of the device on 10 healthy subjects, continuous acquisition of the
      ventilatory data by means of the Teleresp system compared with measure of the transcutaneous
      PCO2, of SaO2 and arterial gazometry at the end of free breath trial in 40 acute and chronic
      neuromuscular patients.

      Selection criteria:

      Healthy volunteers Patients affected by acute neuromuscular pathology and starting weaning
      from invasive ventilation (Guillain Barré and myasthenia).

      Patients affected by neuromuscular pathology and home ventilated in a diurnal and night-way
      by invasive interface or not (respiratory autonomy of at least 1:00 am).

      Number of patients, center:

      10 healthy volunteers and 40 patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit or in the home
      of ventilation unit of the Raymond Poincaré hospital.

      Total duration of the study: 19 months
    
  