
    
      Study Design: This is a Phase I double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate safety,
      tolerability, and immunogenicity of a recombinant DNA vaccine against the influenza virus
      hemagglutinin H5. The hypothesis is that this vaccine will be safe for human administration
      and will elicit antibody and T cell responses against the H5 protein. The primary objectives
      are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the investigational vaccine at a 1-mg and 4-mg
      dose in healthy adults. Secondary and exploratory objectives are related to the
      immunogenicity of the study vaccine.

      Product Description: The vaccine is composed of a single closed-circular DNA plasmid that
      encodes the H5 protein with a CMV/R promoter. Vaccine vials will be supplied at 4 mg/mL. Each
      vaccination will be 1 mL administered intramuscularly (IM) in the deltoid muscle using the
      Biojector 2000 Needle-Free Injection Management System (Biojector). The placebo and diluent
      is phosphate buffered saline (PBS).

      Subjects: A total of 45 healthy adults, ages 18-60 years, will be enrolled.

      Study Plan: Subjects will be simultaneously randomized at a ratio of 1:1:1 into one of two
      dosage groups or a placebo group. Subjects and clinicians will be blinded to group
      assignment. All subjects will receive 3 injections on the schedule shown in the schema. The
      protocol requires nine clinic visits and three telephone follow-up contacts.

      Study Duration: Each participant will complete 42 weeks of clinical follow up.

      Study Endpoints: The primary endpoint is safety and tolerability of the regimen. The
      secondary immunogenicity endpoint is H5-specific antibody as measured by hemagglutination
      inhibition (HAI) assay at Study Week 12. H5-specific T cell responses measured by
      intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) assay, enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays and
      other immunogenicity assays at timepoints throughout the study may also be completed as
      exploratory evaluations.
    
  