
    
      The current standard therapy for Acute Pulmonary Embolism (APE) involves admitting patients
      to the hospital for administration of parenteral anticoagulation therapy(Unfractionated
      Heparin, Low Molecular Weight Heparin, or Fondaparinux) as a bridge to oral Vitamin K
      Antagonists (warfarin{Coumadin}). There is a group of patients who are low risk for adverse
      events and thus may be amenable to outpatient management. Newly identified cardio-specific
      biomarkers, such as cardiac troponins (TNT and cTnI) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP)
      offer added diagnostic information that has been shown to help risk stratify patients
      presenting with APE. Use of the biomarkers could help separate low- from high-risk subjects,
      particularly the subgroup of patients who, despite hemodynamic stability at presentation,
      carry the highest risk of adverse events. Once a low risk APE group is identified, a less
      complex and less resource-intensive but equally efficacious and safe treatment which allows
      earlier discharge would be desirable. The current reference therapy is intravenous
      unfractionated heparin (UFH) for initial anticoagulation for a minimum of 4-5 days of overlap
      and until therapeutic INR is achieved. Although low-molecular weight heparins (LMWH) have
      been widely used for DVT treatment, their use for patients with APE is limited to inpatient
      administration. Fondaparinux sodium (Arixtra) is a synthetic and specific inhibitor of
      activated Factor X(Xa). Several studies have shown that fondaparinux was more effective than
      enoxaparin when used as a venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis agent. Additionally, in
      the published literature to date, there are no reported cases of heparin-induced
      thrombocytopenia (HIT) syndrome proven to be caused by fondaparinux. Fondaparinux is approved
      by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of acute pulmonary embolism when
      administered in conjunction with warfarin sodium when initial therapy is administered in the
      hospital. By means of a non-randomized, open label pilot study, we seek to prospectively
      assess the safety and efficacy of outpatient treatment using fondaparinux and oral Vitamin K
      antagonists (warfarin) in patients with stable acute pulmonary embolus and validate risk
      stratification criteria for predicting patient suitability for outpatient therapy of acute
      pulmonary embolism.
    
  