
    
      VPA is a type of medication normally used to treat seizures and other nervous system
      problems. It has been found that VPA works against HIV by releasing the virus from resting
      CD4 cells, allowing other anti-HIV medications to attack it. The purpose of this study is to
      assess the efficacy of VPA when used in HIV infected participants using highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The expected duration of participation for individually
      enrolled participants will depend on which study group the participant is placed in but may
      range from approximately 24 to 144 weeks.

      An initial screening visit will occur about 30 to 120 days prior to study entry. A physical
      exam, medical and medication history assessment, and blood and urine collection will occur at
      screening. Leukapheresis and genital secretion collection will occur once 30 to 120 days
      prior to study entry, separate from the initial screening.

      In Step 1, all participants will receive VPA while continuing their current HAART. Doses of
      VPA will vary by participant. Study visits will occur on Days 0 and 3 and Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8,
      12, 16, and 24. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will occur at most visits.
      Leukapheresis and genital secretion collection will occur at study entry and Weeks 12 and 16.
      After 24 weeks, participants will enter Step 2. Those participants not responding to VPA in
      Step 1 will enroll in Step 2A. Participants responding to VPA in Step 1 will enroll in Step
      2B.

      In Step 2A, participants will discontinue VPA and will receive intensified therapy
      (enfuvirtide) administered for 24 weeks twice daily. Study visits will occur at Weeks 25, 28,
      32, 36, 40, and 48. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will occur at all visits.
      Leukapheresis will occur at Weeks 36 and 40. Participants who do not respond to intensified
      therapy in Step 2A will enroll in Step 3A. Participants who respond to intensified therapy in
      Step 2A will enroll in Step 3B.

      In Step 2B, participants will continue to receive VPA for up to 96 weeks. Study visits will
      occur every 8 weeks until Week 120. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will occur
      at each visit. Leukapheresis will occur once between Week 72 and Week 120.

      In Step 3A, VPA will be added to enfuvirtide for 16 weeks. The study will be discontinued for
      participants who do not respond. Study visits will occur at screening, entry, Day 0, and
      Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 22. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will occur
      at all visits. Leukapheresis will occur after screening, at entry, Day 0 and Weeks 12 and 16.

      In Step 3B, participants may continue receiving enfuvirtide for up to 96 weeks. Study visits
      will occur every 8 weeks until Week 144. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will
      occur at each visit. Leukapheresis will occur at Week 96 or 144.

      Participants may choose to enter an observational period at any time before they start Step 2
      or Step 3. During the observational period, participants continue to take HAART but not VPA
      or enfuvirtide. Upon entering an observational period, study staff will contact the
      participant every 8 weeks for a review of their medical records. Each participant will have a
      study visit within 8 weeks of beginning a new step. These interim study screenings include a
      physical exam, medical history, and blood and urine collection. Participants may be asked to
      have additional leukapheresis performed if they have discontinued study medications for 12
      weeks or more.

      Each leukapheresis procedure will take place at the University of North Carolina Apheresis
      Clinic in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. This study will not provide participants' current
      HAART regimen medications.

      NOTE: As of 05/20/08, the observational period and Steps 1, 2, 2A, 2B, and 3B were
      discontinued.
    
  