
    
      There are limited data from Thailand on the aetiology of LRTI but no data on mortality of
      hospitalised children. Thai children < 1 year accounted for circa one third of LRTIs in
      children who were treated as out or inpatients in whom influenza was isolated in 6 (2.7%) of
      271 children and RSV in 44 (20%). At the Queen Sirikit hospital, Bangkok, influenza A and B
      and RSV accounted for approximately 11% (9/80), 2.5% (2/80) and 6% (5/80) of children < 1
      year, respectively. This study included children with underlying diseases like congenital
      heart disease and chronic lung disease. A small laboratory series of 110 children at Siriraj
      hospital with LRTIs infections (Pilaipan Puthavathana, personal communication) identified RSV
      A/B (17%), metapneumovirus (14%), parainfluenza 1 (12%) and adenovirus (12%), influenza B
      (6%), influenza A (4%), coronaviruses (3%), Parainfluenza 3 (2%) and 2 (0%).

      The number of drugs registered for treating influenza is limited to oral Oseltamivir,
      amantadine and rimantadine and inhaled zanamivir. As a result of the 2009 influenza A/H1N1,
      clinical guidelines have been updated to include children less than one years old . However,
      regulatory studies of oseltamivir excluded children under 1 year based on preclinical data in
      rats in which there were deaths in young rats (7 days old) but none in 14 days old rats given
      large doses of Oseltamivir. Higher concentrations of Oseltamivir were found in the brains of
      the younger rats which was thought to be due immaturity of the blood brain barrier.

      There is, however, some clinical experience with Oseltamivir in the under ones from Japan,
      Thailand, Germany , the USA , and additional experience with 2009 pH1N1 . The doses used were
      2 mg/kg bid which is consistent with the dose recommended in the UK for children who weigh
      less than 15 kg (30 mg bid for 5 days). At the Queen Sirikit hospital, Oseltamivir has been
      given to a very small number of children < 1 year with severe influenza with good effect (T.
      Chotpitayasunondh, unpublished observations). This experience is similar to that of others
      i.e. good clinical outcomes and apparently good tolerability.

      An Oseltamivir pharmacokinetic study in children age 1-5 years showed that the dose of 2
      mg/kg resulted in plasma-concentration time curves (AUC) similar to the AUC accepted in
      adult. However, the younger the child, the lower the AUC level; never the less, there are
      still insufficient pharmacokinetics data in children under one year .

      The clinical significance of reduced in vitro sensitivity is unclear owing to the paucity of
      human data but these mutations are likely to result in reduced antiviral efficacy of
      Oseltamivir and the adamantanes against H1N1. Furthermore, amantadine treatment of influenza
      frequently results in the rapid development of amantadine resistance in both H1N1 and H2N3
      viruses, resulting in continued virus replication, thus, making this drug less than ideal for
      treating influenza. Currently, there is limited adamantane resistant H1N1 but widespread
      adamantane resistant in H3N2. H3N2 and influenza B remain sensitive to Oseltamivir. The
      adamantanes have no activity against influenza B.

      The emergence of resistance poses difficulties for the treatment of influenza in children
      less than one but oseltamivir represents at present the optimal choice for treating such
      children. Therefore, this protocol will assess the effect of oral Oseltamivir at doses
      recommended by the WHO to see if they are applicable to Thai children.
    
  