
    
      Prognosis depends primarily on the stage of the disease at diagnosis. There is a correlation
      between disease stage and median survival. However, about 50% of patients in early stage will
      develop more advanced disease. Also there is marked variation in disease progression amongst
      patients with similar Stages .

      Extreme clinical heterogeneity is one of the hallmark features of chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia despite the identification of genetic and phenotypic markers that correlate with
      prognosis, the biological basis of this clinical variability remains unclear .. In addition,
      the interactions of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells with the microenvironment in secondary
      lymphoid tissues and the bone marrow are known to promote chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell
      survival and proliferation.

      The median age at diagnosis is 72 years, in the last decades chronic lymphocytic leukemia is
      more often diagnosed also in younger individuals, with almost 15% Of patients Of 55 years old
      or younger. There is a gender predisposition, As men are more frequently affected by chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia than women (male: female ratio of 1.5-2:1).

      C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) is a chemokine and chemokine receptor pair playing
      critical roles in tumorigenesis. Overexpression of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 is a
      hallmark of many hematological malignancies including acute myeloid leukemia, chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and generally correlates with a poor
      prognosis. A highly potent competitive antagonist of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 recently
      has been identified with suppression of cancer cells aggressiveness in a variety of cancers.

      The protein-coupled receptor C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 is activated by stromal
      cell-derived factor 1 and is involved in the control of migration and homing of cells notably
      for engraftment of normal and neoplastic hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow (BM).

      Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a key player in B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling
      that regulates B-cell growth. In addition to B-cell antigen receptor signaling, Bruton's
      tyrosine kinase participates in signal transduction through growth-factor receptors,
      Toll-like receptors, integrins and G-protein-coupled receptors such as C-X-C chemokine
      receptor type 4 and C-X-C chemokine receptor type 5. Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibition
      results in impaired C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 chemokine receptor surface expression,
      signaling and function in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. inhibition of Bruton's tyrosine
      kinase function would lead to a loss of tumor volume by preventing replenishment after
      spontaneous or drug-induced death, and by subverting leukemia cell retention in and homing
      back to sustaining tissue niches. Decrease C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 delays disease
      progression and prolongs survival
    
  