
    
      The incidence of gastric cancer ranks high in many countries around the world. Although along
      with the development of economy and medical condition the incidence of gastric cancer appears
      a trend of decrease in developed countries, it is still one of most common cancers in Asia.
      There are more new gastric cancer cases in China compared with other countries every year.
      According to an epidemiological survey by World Health Organization, 5-year prevalence of
      gastric cancer was 53.7/10,000 in China - it is only lower than Japan. For the early gastric
      cancer, radical gastrectomy, is the most important treatment, which could significantly
      prolong disease-free survival and overall survival. However, the severe damage of surgery and
      following radiation and chemotherapy in intestinal tract usually leads patients to be a
      constitution of spleen qi deficiency, a concept of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) that
      mainly involves digestive symptoms, such as poor appetite, abnormal stool (loose, diarrhea)
      and abdominal distention. Therefore, how to resolve and protect the function of intestinal
      tract, and change the constitution of spleen qi deficiency postoperatively is important for
      improving quality of life and reducing the recurrence rate of cancer.

      Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, a classic Chinese medicinal formulae originally described in Tai Ping
      Hui Min He Ji Ju Fang in the Song Dynasty (1102 AD), is composed of ginseng, tuckahoe,
      atractylodes, baked licorice, coixenolide, Chinese yam, lotus seed, shrinkage fructus amomi,
      platycodon grandiflorum, white hyacinth bean, and dried orange peel. It has effects of
      replenishing qi and invigorating spleen (spleen is a TCM conception that differs from western
      medicine), as well as penetrating wet and antidiarrheal. It is mainly used for treating the
      syndrome of spleen qi deficiency, including dyspepsia, chest and stomach distress,
      borborygmus and diarrhea, limb weakness, thin body, sallow complexion, pale tongue with white
      and greasy coating, and weak and slow pulse, etc. In the theory of TCM, spleen is the source
      for producing qi and blood and thus is the root of life. Shen Ling Bai Zhu San could
      invigorate spleen by supplying spleen and remove wet, and finally nourish the stomach and
      intestine. Previous pharmacologic studies also revealed that Shen Ling Bai Zhu San could
      adjust function of anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in gastrointestinal tract; specifically, it
      could improve the proliferation of probiotics (such as bifidobacterium) and inhibit the main
      resistance strains (such as enterococcus) and thus has an effect to improve gastrointestinal
      symptoms.

      According to the experience of TCM, the constitution of patients who are undergoing radiation
      and chemotherapy is usually yin deficiency, but changes to spleen qi deficiency due to
      digestive disorders after those treatment. Therefore, Shen Ling Bai Zhu San is expected to
      improve symptoms in patients who underwent gastrectomy and following radiation and
      chemotherapy.

      Hou Gu Mi Xi is a dietary therapy form of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, which removes atractylodes
      and platycodon grandiflorum (two herbs that could not be used as food) from Shen Ling Bai Zhu
      San, and adds perilla leaf for adapting a dietary therapy for a long-term use. Hou Gu Mi Xi
      uses the main formula of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San, so that it could theoretically maintain the
      treatment effects. Although the reliable health effects of Shen Ling Bai Zhu San has been
      proved in previous studies, Hou Gu Mi Xi is optimized in formula and its preparations changed
      from electuary to rice paste, so that its functional mechanism and efficacy may be different.
      Therefore, the investigators plan to perform a hospital-based randomized controlled trial,
      enroll patients from three hospitals in Nanchang City of Jiangxi Province in China, for
      assessing efficacy and safety of Hou Gu Mi Xi on digestive symptoms in patients with spleen
      qi deficiency and radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer.
    
  