
    
      Centrally inserted central catheters (CICC) are commonly used in the intensive care unit
      (ICU) for delivery of fluids, medications, and nutrition. They are also used to measure
      central venous pressure (CVP) which provides critical information about blood volume status
      and cardiac function of a patient. Currently, CICCs are the gold standard for measuring CVP,
      but they have a number of associated risks including pneumothorax, major hemorrhage, neck
      hematoma, and carotid puncture. An alternative to a CICC is a peripherally inserted central
      catheter (PICC). A PICC can be placed with lower risks than a CICC, has a lower rate of
      bloodstream infections, and provides longer-term IV access at a lower cost. PICCs can be used
      to deliver fluids, medications, and nutrition. However, there is minimal evidence that a PICC
      can measure CVP as effectively as a CICC. Therefore, a CICC is preferred when a patient
      requires CVP monitoring in our ICU. Our aim is to compare CVP measurements from CICCs and
      PICCs. We will also evaluate whether or not the duration of CICC placement affects the
      differences in CVP measurements between the CICCs and PICCs. We hypothesize that the
      differences between the CVP measurements of the CICCs and PICCs will be clinically
      insignificant.

      The goal of this study is to determine if the central venous pressure (CVP) measurements
      obtained from a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) consistently correlate with the
      CVP measurements obtained from a centrally inserted central catheter (CICC). If the
      difference between the CVP measurements from the CICC and PICC are found to be clinically
      insignificant, then it may be practical to place PICCs in favor of CICCs thereby avoiding
      some of the potential complications associated with CICC placement. We also aim to evaluate
      whether or not the duration of CICC placement affects the differences in CVP measurements
      between the CICCs and PICCs. We hypothesize that the differences between the CVP measurements
      of the CICCs and PICCs will be clinically insignificant.
    
  