
    
      Each year the morbidity and mortality associated with acute respiratory tract infections
      fluctuates seasonally. This rise and fall is associated with the changing prevalence of
      respiratory viruses in the population. Myriad respiratory viruses are responsible for these
      infections. For example, Influenza Virus, Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), Parainfluenza
      Virus, Human Metapneumovirus, Rhinovirus, and Adenovirus have all been identified as causing
      such acute infections. Numerous pathogenic subtypes have been identified within most of these
      viral groups. The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 was eventually
      identified as a Coronavirus; the mortality of SARS among the elderly can be as high as 50%.
      More recently, Human Bocavirus (HBoV) has also been identified as causing acute respiratory
      tract infections. In 2005 the HBoV was identified by molecular testing and was found to be
      the only virus identified in a subpopulation of patients suffering from respiratory tract
      infections. Apart from supportive measure (e.g., bed rest, hydration, etc.), there are no
      effective treatments for many of these viral infections; however, antiviral agents (e.g., the
      neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir or zanamivir) can be used to alleviate the severity of
      flu-like symptoms. Identification of a respiratory virus as the causative agent is important
      because it eliminates the need for treatment with antibiotics; physicians typically wait 7-10
      days for symptoms to alleviate before prescribing antibiotics due to risks associated with
      exacerbating bacterial antibiotic resistance.

      Each year the virus population fluctuates, and with it the antigenic presentation of the
      dominant strains that circulate through the population. Epidemics arise when larger and
      larger portions of the population do not have innate or acquired immunological resistance to
      such strain(s) in a given season. The World Health Organization (WHO) maintains a separate
      website dedicated to tracking outbreaks of influenza, especially avian influenza
      (https://www.who.int/fluvirus_tracker). These zoonotic transmissions that further adapt to
      enable human-to-human transmission are of the greatest concern because it is predicted that
      virtually all humans will be immunologically naïve. Zoonotic transmissions in the human
      population are monitored in the hope that a pandemic similar to the Spanish Flu of 1918 can
      be avoided; it is estimated that well over 25 million people died from the Spanish Flu. The
      United States government also maintains a separate website with resources regarding the flu
      and pandemic related information (http://www.pandemicflu.gov/). On June 11, 2009 the WHO
      raised the pandemic threat level to 6 in response to the global appearance of a new strain of
      swine Influenza A (subtype H1N1). The rapidity with which the H1N1 virus has spread
      exemplifies the notion that quickly and accurately identifying a viral pathogen associated
      with an outbreak is critical to global public health.

      In addition to the threat of an influenza outbreak, the expansion in the number of viruses
      that cause acute respiratory tract infections compounds the difficulty in correctly and
      rapidly identifying the primary pathogen; each new virus or subtype increases the complexity
      of testing. Molecular diagnostic assays are ideally suited to address this complexity. Assays
      based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can incorporate multiple primers and probes
      (e.g., multiplexed) in a single reaction to deal with this complexity.4 Such assays are
      extremely sensitive, have a high degree of specificity, and can be performed very quickly.
      The artus Influenza A/B RT-PCR test is a real-time PCR assay for the detection and
      identification of Influenza A and B, while the QIAGEN ResPlex II Advanced Panel test is a
      nucleic acid amplification-based assay for the detection and identification of a broad range
      of some of the most common respiratory viruses associated with acute respiratory tract
      infections. In the present study respiratory specimens will be prospectively collected and
      tested using the artus Influenza A/B RT-PCR test and the QIAGEN ResPlex II Advanced Panel
      test.
    
  