
    
      Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is an ion channelopathy which occurs in approximately 1 in every 2500
      individuals. Symptoms include; syncope, seizures and sudden cardiac death (SCD). LQTS's
      genetic defects culminate in delayed cardiac repolarization identified on a 12 lead
      electrocardiogram (ECG) as a prolonged QT interval. Due to the dynamic nature of
      channelopathies, some abnormalities could be missed with a resting ECG alone. In young
      athletes cardiac arrhythmia's predisposing athletes to SCD do not usually occur at peak
      exercise but during warm-up, recovery or periods of reduced exercise intensity (e.g. rest
      phases in football games). Environments causing increase in body temperature, heat rate, and
      autonomic status should therefore be included in the assessment of risk of SCD. Whilst the
      use of cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is commonplace, the use of such an exercise
      test is often performed using a continuous ramp or step procedure (e.g Bruce protocol).
      However, during games play such as football, movements are not continuous but intermittent
      characterised by rest phases and lower intensity periods of exercise. The primary aim of this
      study is to assess the duration and dispersion of the QT interval during and immediately
      following the performance of a continuous (CONT), and an intermittent (INT) maximal graded
      exercise test in a group of young (< 16-18 yr) semi-professional soccer players. It is
      anticipated that the INT graded exercise test will induce greater inter-individual
      variability in the QT interval compared to the CONT trial.

      The investigators aim to recruit approximately 50 players from Sunderland Foundation of Light
      regional training centre (RTC) with a minimum sample size of 24. We will use a replicated
      randomised repeated measures crossover design in which the participants will be randomised to
      different sequences of four experimental conditions; two continuous graded exercise tests,
      and two intermittent graded exercise tests, randomised using a Latin square counterbalanced
      design. Participants will be required to perform all four exercise conditions at
      approximately the same time of day (± 1 h) to control for within-athlete variation. Each
      exercise condition will be separated by at least 72 h with all testing sessions complete
      within a 2-4 week period. The following constraints will be placed on the participants to
      improve the strength of the study design:

        -  Avoid strenuous physical activity for 48-72 h prior to testing.

        -  Avoid caffeine consumption for 4 h prior to testing and alcohol at least 12 h.

        -  Maintain normal hydration by drinking to thirst prior to testing.

        -  Consume a high carbohydrate meal 2 h prior to testing.

      Exercise testing

      Exercise will be performed in a temperature controlled physiology laboratory. Participants
      will perform two graded exercise tests, repeated twice. The continuous graded exercise test
      (CONT) will increase treadmill speed incrementally using three minute stage duration on a
      motorised treadmill. The initial speed will be individualised designed to evoke a heart rate
      around 40-50% of one's age predicted maximal heart rate using 206.9 - (0.67* age [yrs]). This
      will be gauged from a 3 minute low intensity warm-up at the start. The speed will increase by
      1 km.hr-1 every three minutes until volitional exhaustion. The gradient of the treadmill will
      be set at 1 % to reflect energy expenditure of over-ground running. Gradient will only be
      increased if the performer reaches the limits of their stride frequency and length and
      therefore it would be inappropriate to continue to increase speed of the belt. The
      intermittent graded exercise test (INT) will follow the same procedure. However, the speed
      within each three minute exercise bout will vary every 30 s between the target speed, and a
      complete pause for 30 s. The acceleration of the treadmill belt will be set to its maximum
      capability. Participants will be familiarised with this acceleration to ensure safety.

      Blood lactate

      A post- exercise capillary blood lactate sample will be taken from the participants' finger-
      tip of their non-dominant hand. The finger -tip will be punctured using a disposable lancet
      to obtain the capillary blood sample. The small sample of blood is then collected and
      analysed using a portable blood lactate analyser (Lactate Pro). The finger will be cleaned
      using an alcohol swab to reduce infection. The researcher taking the blood will be wearing
      appropriate personal protective equipment including latex-free gloves when obtaining the
      blood. The blood measure is used as an end-point (among others) to confirm if maximal effort
      has been performed.

      Gas analysis Respiratory data will be recorded continuously throughout each exercise test
      using an online breath by breath metabolic gas cart (Cortex, metamax). Certified standard
      calibration gases of 16.4% O2 and 4.5% CO2 will be used (Cryoservice Ltd, Worcester, UK). The
      turbine flow meter, used for the determination of V ̇E, will be calibrated with a 3 L syringe
      (Cosmed Srl). Room temperature (°C), relative humidity (%) and barometric pressure (mmHg)
      will recorded separately from a weather station. Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) (modified
      category-ratio scale) (Foster et al., 2001) expressed as an arbitrary unit (AU) will obtained
      in the final 15 s of each speed stage.

      All breath-by-breath data will be processed using 30 s retrograde averages (Midgley et al.,
      2007) obtained directly from the metamax software®, with the highest VO2 in the final stages
      deemed to be VO2max (Midgley et al., 2007). The use of middle 5 of 7 breath averaging will be
      used for assessment of submaximal data including the ventilatory threshold (Nichols et al
      2015). VO2max will be deemed to be achieved if ≥2 of the following criteria are met (Keren et
      al., 1980): a plateau in VO2 defined as a change of less than 0.2 L.min-1 despite an
      increasing workload (Howley et al., 1995), a respiratory exchange ratio (RER) of >1.15, a
      maximal heart rate (HRpeak) within ±10 beats.min-1 of the estimated HRpeak (206.9 - [0.67 x
      age]), an RPE greater than 8 (Howley et al., 1995) and a 5 min post blood lactate of > 8 mM.

      Echocardiography, Electrocardiography and QT interval analysis

      A standard transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) will be used to investigate the existence of
      any structural cardiac abnormalities. An initial assessment will be performed on the first
      visit to the laboratory lasting a minimum of 40-45 min. The screening will be carried out by
      a qualified cardiac physiologist. A 5 minute resting, recovery and exercise 12 lead ECG will
      be performed using the Mason- Likar set- up. The ECG will be recorded at a paper speed of 25
      mm/s. The QT interval will be determined as the interval between the beginning of the Q or R
      wave to the peak of the T wave, and the point where a tangent drawn along the maximum slope
      of the descending limb of the T wave crosses the isoelectric TP baseline. The corrected QT
      interval (QTc) will be calculated using an automated algorithm averaging across 3 beats for
      each three minute stage, and 60 second recovery phases. We will use a number of different
      formulas to assess the corrected QT (QTc);

      Bazett's (QTc =QT/!RR), Fridericia (QTc=QT/[RR/1000]1/3), Framingham (QTc=QT+[0.154 *
      {1000-RR}]) Hodges (QTc=QT+1.75 * [{60 000/RR}260])
    
  