
    
      Prospective, Randomized Cohort

      Subjects undergoing ablation for NVAF who meet all eligibility criteria and sign informed
      consent will be enrolled into the study. Subjects will be treated with apixaban for ≥21 days
      prior to the ablation procedure (for subjects already on apixaban for ≥21 days, it is not
      necessary to wait 21 days before the ablation procedure. Apixaban dose will be 5 mg b.i.d.
      per product label, or 2.5 mg b.i.d. in subjects with 2 or more of the following: age ≥80
      years, body weight ≤60 kg, or serum creatinine ≥1.5 mg/dL.

      Eligible subjects will then be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 2 peri-procedural treatment
      strategies:

        -  Uninterrupted treatment: administer the evening apixaban dose on the day prior to the
           procedure; administer the morning apixaban dose on the day of the procedure; administer
           heparin bolus before transseptal puncture to maintain a target activated clotting time
           [ACT] > 300 seconds; administer the evening apixaban dose after the procedure if there
           were no peri-procedural complications that necessitate withholding anticoagulation for
           longer duration.

        -  Interrupted treatment: administer the evening apixaban dose on the day prior to the
           procedure; do not administer the morning apixaban dose on the day of the procedure;
           administer heparin bolus before transseptal puncture to maintain a target ACT > 300
           seconds; administer the evening apixaban dose after the procedure if there were no
           peri-procedural complications that necessitate withholding anticoagulation for longer
           duration.

      Randomization will take place prior to the procedure (on the day of the procedure or up to 3
      days prior to the procedure) and will be stratified by site.

      It is anticipated that up to 360 subjects may be enrolled in order to evaluate a total of 300
      randomized subjects (150 subjects per treatment arm):

      Randomized subjects will continue treatment with apixaban for 1 month post procedure.

      Retrospective, Warfarin Cohort In addition, a chart review of 300 warfarin-treated patients
      who underwent catheter ablation for NVAF on or after September 1, 2013 in the enrolling
      centers and who have documented follow-up in the medical record for ≥ 30 days post-ablation
      procedure will be performed. Patient records for warfarin-treated individuals who meet the
      applicable inclusion/exclusion criteria and who are matched 1:1 to a subject in the
      prospective, randomized cohort for age (+/- 5 years), gender and atrial fibrillation (AF)
      type (paroxysmal vs. persistent), will be identified. Sites will document key demographic and
      outcome variables. This review will be performed in a blinded manner such that site personnel
      are blinded to the outcome of each retrospective subject during the subject selection
      process. Only pre-existing data will be collected for the analysis of this cohort.
    
  