
    
      INTRODUCTION: Speech recognition in noise is an important aspect of human communication.
      One's speech recognition ability in noise is inevitably affected by any hearing impairment,
      and may only be quantified with specific language at an appropriate difficulty.

      There is a niche among clinically available test materials between word recognition and 10-
      syllable sentence recognition in noise in Cantonese Chinese. Ten-syllable sentence items are
      commented to be too challenging to young children and elderly population. An assessment tool
      for pediatric patients, and the whole spectrum of patients with significant hearing
      impairment, compromised language or cognitive abilities, is deemed necessary. Both the
      research and clinical audiology communities need a valid and reliable outcome measurement
      tool for sentence recognition abilities in noise of the specific population.

      An open-set sentence speech recognition in noise test in Cantonese Chinese, which is
      applicable on children and adults with hearing impairment, is proposed to be developed in
      this project to bridge the gap.

      METHODS: Thirty three participants with typical hearing, from each of the 5 age groups from
      their 6 years of age to adulthood, will be recruited to contribute to the normative data of
      the proposed test. One hundred participants with various degree of hearing impairment will be
      recruited for the validation of the proposed new test as well.

      A sentence pool of at least 150 sentence items will be constructed based on the basic
      sentence syntax in Cantonese Chinese. Each sentence item will be 7 syllables in length on
      average. The words used in the sentences will be words frequently used in daily life by both
      persons with typical hearing and hearing impairment. A 4-talker babble in Cantonese Chinese
      will be generated as the competing noise in this proposed new test.

      OUTCOMES: By Rasch modelling, sentence items with high probability of consistently and
      accurately estimating sentence recognition ability in noise across different participants
      will be selected and distributed to a few parallel lists.

      Rater and test-retest reliability of the test items and lists will be established.

      Content-related and construct-related evidence of validity of lists will also be supported by
      psychometric analyses as well as expert consultation.

      APPLICATION: A valid and reliable assessment tool, of sentence recognition ability in noise
      in Cantonese, applicable to persons with hearing sensitivity ranging from profound impairment
      to typical, in both the research and clinical audiology fields, will be constructed.
    
  