
    
      In spite of the fatigue impact is well known in MS, medical care of this symptom is not
      usual. Moreover, treatments of fatigue are available, but evidence for effectiveness is
      limited. This study will build upon the existing evidence base for the effectiveness of
      cognitive behavioral approaches, and particularly the recent FACETS trial published by
      co-applicants.

      Scientific aim is to assess the effectiveness of the FACETS program plus 4 additional booster
      sessions on a population of French patients with RRMS over a 12 months period.

      This study will provide evidence on whether the FACETS program plus booster sessions is
      effective in helping MS patients with their fatigue. The program is designed to facilitate
      use within health services. Thus, if the results from this trial are positive, there is
      potential for directly adding to the treatment options available to MS patients who have
      troublesome fatigue, and improving the central nervous system affecting approximately 2.5
      million people (5). Fatigue is one of the most commonly reported and disabling symptoms of
      MS, often occurring daily (6) and with a variable course (7-8). Up to 86% of individuals with
      MS experience fatigue at any one time; 65% consider it to be one of their three most
      troubling symptoms. Fatigue has been defined as a "subjective lack of physical and/or mental
      energy that is perceived by the individual or caregiver to interfere with usual or desired
      activities" (9).

      Researchers have distinguished between primary and secondary fatigue (10). "Primary" fatigue
      relates to aspects of fatigue deemed to be directly related to the disease process such as
      lassitude or asthenia (an overwhelming sense of tiredness not directly related to
      participation in activity or exercise), "short-circuiting" fatigue (when muscular performance
      deteriorates during sustained activity but recovers after a short rest break) and heat
      sensitive fatigue (where fatigue is triggered or worsened by heat). "Secondary" fatigue
      refers to fatigue that is not unique to MS and is related to factors common to a range of
      chronic and disabling conditions (e.g. sleep disturbance, medication side effects, infection,
      physical exertion, depression, anxiety, stressful life events, characteristics of the local
      environment - such as lighting and temperature within a work setting). The relationship
      between these dimensions is complex; various symptoms of MS may act as predisposing factors
      for secondary fatigue.

      Fatigue may limit or prevent participation in everyday activities, work, leisure and social
      pursuits, restrict role fulfilment and reduce psychological well-being (1-2) and is one of
      the key precipitants of early retirement (11-12). Its 'invisible' nature may lead to
      difficulties in personal and work relationships (13-14).

      Although fatigue is one of the major symptoms of MS patients, the pathophysiology of fatigue
      is unclear (15) but likely to be multi- factorial (16-17). Findings on the relationships
      between fatigue and other clinical variables (such as age, gender, disease duration, and
      clinical activity) have been equivocal (18). The neural correlates are poorly components such
      as peripheral vs. central fatigue or physical vs. cognitive or mental, which are difficult to
      define or operationalize.

      Pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments are available for MS-related fatigue, but
      evidence on effectiveness is mostly inconclusive or non-existent (19-20). Non-pharmacological
      studies exploring the effectiveness of energy conservation programs for MS-fatigue have
      tended to be small and uncontrolled (21-22). Although the important relationships between
      physical and psychological aspects of MS-fatigue are recognized, high quality randomized and
      controlled trials (RCTs) of psychological interventions are rare (23).

      The integration of cognitive-behavioral approaches in fatigue management programs is
      interesting. Indeed, their effectiveness has been demonstrated in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
      To date, three RCTs using cognitive-behavioral group-based approaches in the context of MS
      have been conducted (3-4). Cognitive behavioral approaches are potentially more profitable
      than the dual interventions, more easily integrated into a framework of routine care, and
      they also offer the possibility of peer support. The results of these studies demonstrated a
      reduction in fatigue scores and better self-management of the disease in general, resulting
      in improvements in quality of life. In their meta-analysis (24) indicate that the results
      obtained with CBT or with physical exercises are similar, but when people are anxious or
      depressed, which is often the case with MS (25-26), CBT shows better improvement. Knoop & al.
      (27) highlighted the importance of cognitive representations on fatigue and the potential
      relevance of CBT: they showed that the strongest mediators of fatigue severity were fatigue
      avoidance, symptom focusing and the belief that fatigue symptoms are a sign of damage.

      Thomas et al., (4) found that modest effects on fatigue severity were largely maintained at
      one year (unpublished data). Given that MS typically is diagnosed during the most productive
      years of individuals' lives and lasts the life course it is important to give people flexible
      tools and strategies to manage fatigue that can be used in the long term. Booster session
      might therefore help to 'boost' or enhance the effectiveness of the program in the longer
      term Methodology A multicentre parallel arm randomized controlled trial comparing a group
      receiving 'enhanced' FACETS plus current usual practice versus a group receiving current
      local practice only.

      Inclusion criteria: clinically confirmed diagnosis of relapsing remitting MS; Significant
      fatigue levels (score at the Modified Fatigue Impact Scale - MFIS > 45); Expanded Disability
      Status Scale score < 6; age ≥ 18 years; written informed consent; speak and understand
      French; be able to follow the program.

      Exclusion criteria: Individuals with cognitive deficits such that they would not be able to
      engage and benefit from this group-based program. Indeed, if individuals have significant
      cognitive deficits, most of the content of the fatigue management program would not be
      appropriate; People who have had a relapse within the past three months: (a relapse might
      result in increased fatigue) People who have started treatment on a disease modifying drug or
      anti-depressant in the past 3 months (one of the possible initial side effects of these drugs
      is fatigue); People who have psychiatric disorders Sample size: if one uses the results of
      the study (30) (matched groups), these authors show that in 59 MS patients treated with
      Modafinil, the mean fatigue score on the MFIS is 52.3 (SD/SE = 18.5), whilst in 56 MS
      patients treated by placebo the mean fatigue score is 49.2 (SD/SE = 16.6). The investigators
      will seek to uncover an absolute difference of 10 points between mean scores. The FACETS
      trial found a standardized effect size of 0.35 on their fatigue severity primary outcome,
      which would translate to around 6 points on the MFIS. It is anticipated that by using booster
      sessions and by running the programme using psychologists, that the anticipated effect size
      will be larger (10 points). In order to detect a 10 points absolute difference between the
      mean scores (on the MFIS) of the efficaciousness of the cognitive-behavioral intervention,
      power to detect an effect size of 8.5 points Participants will be identified and recruited by
      the neurologists of the hospitals who take part in the program, when they come for a medical
      examination.

      Randomization: After giving their informed consent, the patients will be entered onto the
      trial database and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either the fatigue management program and or
      current local practice using a computer, generated randomization sequence stratified by site.

      Intervention FACETS (4). Focuses on the management of fatigue and is based on a conceptual
      framework that incorporates elements of cognitive-behavioral, self-efficacy, self-management
      and energy effectiveness theories. It consists of six once-weekly sessions of 90 minutes
      (with a break), with homework activities between the sessions. It is designed for groups of 8
      to 10 people and will be delivered by two psychologists. The program is standardized:
      PowerPoints presentations support each session and a detailed facilitator manual and
      companion patient workbook. accompany the program.

      The investigators propose to add 4 booster sessions to the FACETS program, at week 6, 12 et
      18 et 36 after the end of the program, in order to activate and reinforce the cognitive and
      behavioral processes and they hope to enhance the benefits of FACETS in the longer term.

      Measures For the FACETs group these will be administered pre, post and 12 months after the
      end of the FACETS program and at the same times for those in the control group
      Socio-demographic and medical data: age, sex, level of education, marital status, number of
      children and professional status; date of diagnosis, disease type, level of disability.

      Neuropsychological measures: Paced Auditory Serial Addition Task (PASAT,28) & the
      Computerized Speed Cognitive Test (CSCT,29).

      Statistical analysis: They will register the trial and endeavor to publish the full trial
      protocol prior to its commencement. The primary analysis of effectiveness will use an
      "intention-to-treat" approach and focus on comparing MFIS at 12 months post treatment (ie
      after the program and all booster sessions are complete) between the two trial arms using
      analysis of covariance to take into account MFIS at baseline, and study center. In addition
      to these analyses they will conduct further comparative analyses using a mixed model approach
      that permits analysis of repeated measures (baseline, post treatment and 12 months
      follow-up), takes into account missing data (i.e. model allows participants to contribute to
      the model even if they don't have complete data), and takes into account the group-based
      nature of the program (cluster effects). A similar approach will be used for other interval
      scaled outcome measures, and adapted if the outcome measure is nominal (eg the EDSS)
      Hypotheses There will be a significantly greater decrease in fatigue severity and impact in
      the FACETS group than the control group post intervention and this difference will be
      maintained at 1 year.

      There will be a significantly greater improvement in sleepiness and sleep quality, anxiety,
      depression, stress, attention and working memory in the FACETS group than the control group
      at the end of the program and at 12 months The FACETS group will show a significantly greater
      reduction in cortical atrophy, axonal loss and demyelination within white matter tracts of
      DMN than those in the control group Ethics The protocol was submitted to the French competent
      authorities and a declaration was made to the CNIL.

      Patients allocated to the control group (current local practice) will be offered the FACETS
      program after the 12 months follow-up.

      Finally, all information collected will be strictly confidential. Identification numbers of
      participants will be noted on the questionnaires which will not contain any names or details
      to identify the participants. Only members of the research team will be allowed to access the
      trial data.
    
  