
    
      Currently, up to one-third of all nuclear medicine studies are performed for cardiovascular
      disorders, and mostly are myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) using SPECT acquisition. MPI
      aims at detection of acute myocardial ischemia and the scarred myocardium and it is
      increasingly used to plan myocardial revascularization and to assess the effectiveness of
      medical and surgical interventions. However, nonuniform gamma-ray attenuation in the thoracic
      region may severely impair the accuracy of SPECT cardiac imaging and frequently result in
      image artifacts. Therefore, attenuation corrected must be applied. We have derived an
      algorithm (called EM-IntraSPECT) that is able to reconstruct tomographic cross-sections of a
      patient from SPECT studies alone. The reconstructed cross-sections in turn, may be used for
      attenuation correction of cardiac SPECT images thus improving quality analysis based of these
      images. In this research we intend to continue evaluation of the new attenuation compensation
      algorithm and to assess the clinical usefulness of this method. These goals can be reached by
      comparing the patient's cross sectional anatomical data reconstructed by EM-IntraSPECT and
      obtained from MRI. It is proposed that 10 patients already undergoing nuclear cardiac imaging
      for clinical purpose, with 99mTc sestamibi or 99mTc radiolabeled red cells will be selected.
      These patients would be utilized to reconstruct transmission images and determination of
      internal anatomical structures in the thoracic region from SPECT projections alone. Further,
      direct and quantitative comparison of the patient's anatomy obtained by the MRI and the SPECT
      methods will be performed. The same algorithm would be used for reconstruction of attenuation
      compensated emission SPECT cardiac images. Finally, the accuracy and the clinical usefulness
      of this new, attenuation corrected cardiac SPECT image reconstruction would be quantitatively
      evaluated. All these procedures apply only to the image data and NOT the patient.
    
  