
    
      Background: Diabetes is estimated to affect up to 1 in 5 VA patients overall and up to 1 in 4
      racial/ethnic minority patients. Patients with low health literacy and minority groups have
      more difficulty communicating with physicians, report lower adherence to physicians'
      recommendations, and have higher rates of poor diabetes outcomes. Activating patients to use
      more effective communication with physicians' can lead to better adherence to treatment and
      to better biomedical outcomes. In this project the investigators build upon their prior work
      from two Health Services Research & Development (HSRD) funded pilot projects to improve
      doctor patient communication in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In a
      previously funded short-term project, #SHP-08-182, the investigators conducted focus groups
      with patients with T2DM to elicit and understand from the patient perspective, barriers to
      communicating with their physician. This qualitative work was used in a subsequent pilot
      project, #PPO-08-402 to refine and pilot test an educational video to encourage patients to
      use active participatory communication in their visits to physicians. This work was
      successfully completed and the product is a 10 minute video that in testing was found to be
      acceptable to patients and feasible for patients to view immediately preceding their medical
      encounter.

      Objectives: In this project the investigators propose to test the effectiveness of the video
      as an intervention to improved patients' communication. The primary aim is to conduct a
      randomized controlled trial of an intervention testing whether the intervention increases
      patients' active participatory communication behaviors, patients' post-visit ratings of self
      efficacy to communicate, medication adherence, and diabetic control (HgbA1c). There are four
      secondary aims which include assessments of the (1) mediators, and (2) moderators of the
      relationship of the intervention condition to outcomes, (3) costs of the intervention, and
      (4) an evaluation of the feasibility of using the video for pre-visit preparation.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a two group, pre-post, randomized controlled,
      single-site trial of the intervention in patients with T2DM. The investigators will recruit
      156 patients and their physicians for a pre and post-intervention visit. Physicians will be
      trained with the agenda setting module from the Four Habits model. Patients will be
      randomized to view a 10 minute intervention or control video prior to their second visit.
      Visits will be audio recorded and analyzed for patients' and physicians' communication
      behaviors. Self-efficacy to communicate will be collected by self report. Adherence will be
      collected by self-report and by medication possession ratio. Diabetic control is collected by
      chart review. Analyses will evaluate the relationship of the intervention condition to
      outcomes, mediators and moderators of that relationship, and will estimate costs of the
      intervention and feasibility of using the video in a busy clinic.

      Impacts: VA transformation efforts including interprofessional Patient Aligned Care Teams
      (PACT) are focusing attention on patient-centered care. Improved communication is a central
      feature of patient centered care. Communication in medical interactions is critical and plays
      an important, but often overlooked role in health-care decision making and quality of care.
      Patients who have difficulty communicating are less involved in consultations with their
      physician, receive less information and support, and are less satisfied with their care. In
      turn, these patients may not understand their treatment options, may have less knowledge,
      less positive beliefs about treatment and less trust in physician, and may experience poorer
      health outcomes. Teaching patients to communicate more effectively is patient-centered
      because it inherently supports a patient-driven approach to delivering healthcare. The
      investigators' intervention is designed to encourage patients' active communication.
      Improving patients' communication is a unique focus that may supplement and add to the VA
      efforts in areas such as the Patient Aligned Care Team. In addition, the methodology is not
      disease specific and may be a paradigm for improvement in other conditions.
    
  