
    
      1. Medical Problem Sepsis, a syndrome of physiologic, pathologic, and biochemical
           abnormalities induced by infection. It is a major public health concern, accounting for
           more than $20 billion (5.2%) of total US hospital costs in 2011 (1). Sepsis has shown an
           increase in incidence most likely due to a combination of aging patient populations with
           more comorbidities and greater recognition (2,3). Sepsis is by conservative estimates a
           leading cause of mortality and morbidity in critical illness with long term sequelae for
           survivors (4,5).

           Underlying to sepsis is a multifaceted host response to an infecting pathogen that may
           be significantly amplified by endogenous factors and is defined by a nonhomeostatic,
           dysregulated host response to the infection with a potential lethality that is
           considerably in excess of that straightforward infection. In the early phases, an
           overshoot of pro-inflammatory mediators is often observed, caused by pathogen-associated
           molecular patterns (PAMPs) and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). High levels
           of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines are both associated with increased mortality
           (6). Blocking of overproduction of these cytokines using monoclonal anti- bodies
           targeting specific cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α (anti-TNF-α) have not
           demonstrated mortality benefits in larger trials (7).

           Therefore, an approach to decrease cytokine overproduction by using extracorporeal blood
           purification has previously been examined. Initial trials using Polymyxin B showed
           favorable results for markers of critical care treatment with a reduction of vasopressor
           dosage and higher ratios oxygen partial pressure to inspired oxygen (8). A larger
           randomized trial by Payenne however did not show any improvement of organ dysfunction or
           reduction in mortality by using Polymycin B hemoperfusion (9).

           A recent trial on the effect of the CytoSorb adsorption device using IL-6 levels as
           marker of efficacy did also not find an effect of mortality, improved organ dysfunction
           or in fact a reduction of circulating IL-6 levels. However, in this trial the baseline
           cytokine levels were only moderately increased to begin with suggesting use of a device
           within a suboptimal patient population (10).

           As no more approved specific therapies to treat sepsis, exist following the withdrawal
           of recombinant activated protein C (Xigris; Eli Lilly, USA) from the market in 2011
           following the results of the PROWESS-SHOCK trial and the pathophysiologic basis for
           mechanisms in sepsis due to an excess cytokine release are sound, the extracorporeal
           removal of cytokines remains a promising therapeutic target given the correct patient
           population (11).

        2. Principal research question and novel aspects Within the trials addressing removal of
           excess cytokines, the selection of patients and timing of the intervention has been
           difficult, and results have not been conclusive. Data on the patient population which
           might benefit most in regard to the aspects of cytokine levels removed and organ failure
           or progressive organ dysfunction averted are sparse or non-existent. Even the largest
           randomised trial so far was active for 3 years in recruiting 100 patients out of 580
           patients screened (10). This trial failed to show a positive effect on the primary
           endpoint of IL-6 removal as well as on secondary endpoints of morbidity or 30 day
           mortality. However, in this small trial there was a very low median cytokine level
           measured at baseline and randomisation which might be associated with the consecutive
           failure to detect a reduction in circulating cytokines. The question remains, whether
           this trial identified a patient population that was going to benefit from such a therapy
           to begin with. Post-hoc analyses of another trial, the Euphrates trial (12) showed that
           there might be positive signal for reduced mortality in patients with an endotoxin
           activity that was in a mid-range and not at the highest end of the spectrum.

           We therefore aim to undertake an observational trial to examine the effect of treating
           sepsis according to the surviving sepsis campaign guidelines and using extracorporeal
           cytokine removal looking at circulating cytokine levels and development of new or
           worsening organ dysfunction in patients with sepsis or septic shock who show highly
           increased IL-6 levels.

        3. HA 330 and HA 380 Hemoperfusion Cartridge The HA type resin cartridge (Jafron
           Industries, China) is an extracorporeal hemoperfusion device that uses neutral
           microporous resin, and it has been proven to specifically absorb different media- tors
           such as bilirubin and cytokines (13 ).

      The HA380 HA 330 and HA 380 resin cartridges haves the ability to absorb various medium-sized
      factors, including most inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and TNF-a) and haves
      therefore lately been used in the treatment of patients with sepsis in China with several
      case reports demonstrating promising results on the clinical course of treated patients
      (14,15). Furthermore, there pooled there is emerging data that this therapeutic concept is
      efficienct and helpful in adequately selected patient populations (16,17).

      The HA 380 cartridge is the CE-labeled updated version of the HA-330 cartridge which features
      a larger surface area of the resin beads increasing the overall capacity and thus potential
      efficacy of the device.

      The HA 380 Hemoperfusion Cartridge works using Van der Waals interaction between resin
      molecular groups and adsorbed substances. Unlike the CytoSorb device, these are incorporated
      into the resin molecule by a molecular sieve effect of the 3D network structure and the
      lipophilic hydrophobicity of the molecular group. Therefore, the pass-through effect in
      removing cytokines is expected to be larger and more sustained, as previously adsorbed
      cytokines will not again be released by continued blood flow or movement of the device. The
      range of adsorption is shown in figure 1. The device described has a CE label and is approved
      for treatment in a variety of clinically situations including but not limited to
      intra-operative use in cardiac surgery, intoxication, liver failure and sepsis. Compared to
      other available devices which could be used in the same settings this cartridge offers
      superior flow characteristics, less flow resistance and a higher capacity of cytokine
      removal. The effect of combining a standard treatment course of sepsis according to the
      Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines with extracorporeal cytokine removal however is not well
      examined overall.

      In our center we have therefore undertaken a retrospective pilot observational trial of 15
      patients in which the using the HA 380 330 device was used as a rescue therapy in therapy in
      15 patients with septic shock and multi-organ failure refractory to conventional treatment.
      In this trial of extremely ill patients we found a significant difference between hospital
      survivors and non-survivors in circulating IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-alpha levels after 8 hours of
      treatment with the HLA 3380 cartridge. However, the overall variation of cytokine levels at
      baseline and the variation of changes from baseline during therapy were rather large. The
      sample size was too small to infer any causality or undertake multi-variate analysis
    
  