
    
      Locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) is usually treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      followed by surgery. At present, monitoring of tumor responses to chemotherapy is primarily
      carried out using physical examination at the beginning of each chemotherapy cycle.
      Differentiating viable tumor tissue from inflammation or fibrotic scar tissue can be
      difficult. There is a growing body of evidence that newer imaging techniques such as positron
      emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be better at determining
      whether or not the tumor is actually shrinking, but their sensitivity and specificity were
      not ideal. Breast-specific gamma imaging (BSGI) using 99mTcsestamibi is a relatively new
      nuclear medicine imaging technique for breast tumor detection. BSGI shows higher sensitivity
      than conventional scintimammography in the detection of small breast cancer lesions owing to
      its high resolution. BSGI is a useful complementary tool to ultrasound, mammography and MRI
      in breast cancer diagnosis, especially in dense breasts and multifocal or multicentric
      disease; however, little is known about the ability of BSGI to predict of clinical and
      pathological response to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced breast
      cancer. The purpose of this study is to determine the sensitivity and specificity of BSGI in
      evaluating tumor responses to chemotherapy in patients with LABC and compare this with
      physical examination, ultrasound, mammography and MRI, which is the current conventional
      standard of care. A prospective cohort study design will be conducted. Patients with LABC who
      receive chemotherapy will undergo physical examination, ultrasound, MRI, and BSGI at
      baseline, midway, and at the completion of chemotherapy. Approximately 100 patients will be
      recruited over a 2-year period. This study will give clinicians further insight into the
      usefulness of ultrasound, MRI, and BSGI in monitoring treatment responses in patients with
      LABC. This could potentially lead to changes in clinical management of these patients.
    
  