
    
      This was a phase II, non-controlled (single arm) and open label clinical trial. The study was
      approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and all patients gave informed consent prior
      to participation.

      Refractory angina patients were defined as those with functional class IV (angina at rest)
      according to the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Angina Classification (CCSAC) despite
      maximum medical therapy, not suitable for conventional myocardial revascularization and
      viable myocardium confirmed by nuclear imaging.

      Patients were evaluated according to different parameters, for a total period of 12 months,
      and the primary objectives were:

        1. Improvement in functional class and angina symptoms (CCSAC) of the patients with
           refractory angina pectoris after the infusion of autologous bone marrow mononuclear
           cells after the intervention;

        2. Improvement in myocardial perfusion before and after cell delivery;

        3. Evaluate the safety of the delivery of autologous bone marrow mononuclear cells route in
           individuals with refractory angina.

      In the screening evaluation, individuals with the presumptive diagnosis of class IV
      refractory angina and who met all study criteria were approached about the possibility of
      participating in the study by the principal investigator. Then, the patients were submitted
      to a baseline evaluation with a serious of blood and image tests.

      The interventions were the Bone Marrow Aspiration - For each patient, a total of 100 cc of
      bone marrow was aspirated from the iliac crest at the time of anesthesia for their cardiac
      surgery - and the Infusion - After processing the cells, the surgeon delivered it by a series
      of epicardial injections into the left ventricular myocardium.

      The processing of bone marrow autologous cells aimed to enrich the content of the bone marrow
      aspirate, separating the mononuclear fraction from the cells which were already
      differentiated.

      The postoperative stage was conducted in an identical way to that of patients who undergo to
      a myocardial revascularization surgery. It is important to mention that both the ICU and the
      ward time varied according to the patient's individual evolution.

      Finally, the first follow up visit took place at 1 month after the surgery. The subsequent
      visits were held at 3, 6 and 12 months after the procedure.
    
  