
    
      Speech and language assessments and treatments are usually not initiated until deficits can
      be diagnosed, which occurs at age 2-3 years at the earliest. Preventive services are not
      available. Children with classic galactosemia (CG) hold the keys towards investigating
      whether proactive services are more effective than conventional management. CG is a
      recessively inherited inborn error of metabolism characterized by defective conversion of
      galactose. Despite early detection and strict adherence to lactose-restricted diets, children
      with CG are at very high risk not only for motor and learning disabilities but also for
      severe speech sound disorder and language impairment. Delays are evident from earliest
      signals of communication and persist into adulthood in many cases. As with most other
      children, speech and language assessments and treatment are usually not initiated until
      deficits manifest. However, because CG is diagnosed via newborn screening, the known
      genotype-phenotype association can be leveraged to investigate whether proactive
      interventions during the acquisition of prespeech (2 to 12 months) and early communication
      skills (13 to 24 months) can mitigate the speech and language deficits. If the investigators
      show that interventions during the first two years of life are more effecting in improving
      speech and language outcomes in children with CG, compared to traditional care, this will
      change their clinical management from deficit-based to proactive services. It will also
      motivate investigating this approach in infants with other types of known risk factors for
      communication disorders, e.g., various genetic causes and very low birth weight.

      The investigators created an intervention program designed to support communication abilities
      during the prespeech and early speech and language stages for ages 2 to 24 months. The Babble
      Boot Camp (BBC) is implemented via parent training by a speech-language pathologist (SLP)
      with expertise in early childhood using Zoom, a HIPAA-compliant telepractice software
      provided for free by the PI's institution, to connect with the families. Zoom runs on
      computers, tablets, and smartphones. Parents learn about the typical milestones of prespeech,
      speech, and language development, potential red flags for delays, and importantly, activities
      that support typical development for all stages of the program. Following an orientation to
      the program, the SLP meets with each family once per week for training and consultation the
      relevant activities given the child's current speech/language status. Examples of activities
      are stimulating and reinforcing coos and babble, enriching the child's linguistic environment
      with joint book reading and pointing out the names of objects, and expanding child utterances
      to provide slightly more complex model sentences. The key principle underlying all activities
      is the zone of proximal development, also referred to as scaffolding, where parents provide
      speech and language models that bridge what the child can already to and what is slightly
      beyond the child's skill set: the model is in the zone of skills that the child can do with
      help. One key skill that is targeted throughout the program is imitation. The program
      brochure includes the rationale, instructions, and examples for each activity, such as
      (direct quote from the brochure): "Expanding on your child's utterance will provide a model
      for more complex sentence structures as well as increase her/his vocabulary. An added benefit
      is to let your child hear words in their correctly produced forms when her/his own
      productions are showing some incorrect speech sounds. This will build your child's awareness
      of what the word should sound like and get her/him ready to try the correct form. Throughout
      your daily routine, listen to your child's utterances and expand upon them slightly. You can
      add descriptive words or fill in some missing words to make a more complete sentence without
      overwhelming your child's ability to comprehend your sentence.

      Examples: Child: "Goggie bye-bye." Parent: "Yeah, that doggie is going bye-bye!" - Child:

      "Mommy doing?" Parent: "What is Mommy doing? She is taking Sammie outside."
    
  