
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic and prevention strategise have strongly impacted family lives, social
      lives, professional lives, and income; resulting in increased reporting of stress and anxiety
      within patients. This risk of infection 'post-confinement' is an additional source of stress
      for people returning to their professional and social lives. There are evidence showing a
      relationship between stress, immunity and the prognosis of several infections and
      inflammatory diseases.

      The COVID-19 pandemic and prevention strategise have strongly impacted family lives and
      induced a high level of anxiety and other types of stress. This risk of infection
      'post-confinement' is an additional source of stress for people returning to their
      professional and social life.

      There are evidences showing a relationship between stress, immunity and the prognosis of
      several infections and inflammatory diseases.

      The aim of this project is to launch an online survey that measures population stress felt
      during the pandemic and post-confinement time and possible effects on eventual immune
      mediated disorders (allergies, auto-immunity..) through the report of new events or flares.
      The stress will first be measured on standardized anxiety GAD-7scale but also on more
      parameters (ISQ, PHQ-9, PTSD-8, and ECR-S). Socio-economic and environmental parameters will
      be recorded.

      Level of anxiety and other stress parameters as well as occurrence of inflammatory events
      will be measured according to the calendar and confinement /post confinement timing. Risk
      factors will be looked for, by multi parametric data analysis.

      The survey has been built in a user-friendly, accessible way so the investigators can expect
      a high number of participants (at least 400), especially as people are highly concerned by
      the situation and will be motivated to take part.
    
  