
    
      One in five Medicare patients discharged from the hospital experience readmission within 30
      days. Too often, hospital readmissions result from inadequate transition from hospital to
      home at discharge. Care transitions are complicated because of high patient acuity, multiple
      comorbidities, decreased length of stay, and multiple clinician involvement increasing the
      number of handoffs. With decreased length of stay, many patients do not comprehend or feel
      confident with instructions for discharge, thus management of their chronic illnesses are
      difficult. Most formal care transition programs are standardized and every patient receives
      similar strategies or interventions. However, it has been well documented that patients with
      cognitive problems and decreased activation are at high risk for re-hospitalization related
      to impaired self-management. We believe that assessment of cognition and patient activation
      during the patient's hospitalization will provide valuable information for discharge
      interventions. Data related to cognition and activation can be used to tailor discharge
      planning and help determine what type and how many resources are needed for individual
      patients after hospital discharge. The purpose of this feasibility study is to examine the
      effects of delivering a home based care transitions intervention (HBCTI) with four different
      groups tailored on cognition and level of patient activation compared to usual care (UC) on
      the outcomes of health care utilization (HCU) and health outcomes: patient-reported health
      status, assessment of care for chronic conditions, and quality of life in adult patients with
      multiple chronic diseases discharged to home from the hospital.

      We will test our intervention with the following aims: Aim 1.To evaluate the effects of HBCTI
      on health care utilization. We will measure HCU (number of emergency department(ED) visits,
      number of unplanned clinic visits, and number of readmissions) at 1, 2, and 6 months after
      discharge. Our working hypothesis is that patients in the HBCTI groups compared to the UC
      group will have lower HCU over time (at 1, 2 and 6 months); Aim 2. To evaluate the effects of
      HBCTI on the following health outcomes: patient-reported health status (PROMIS-29),
      assessment of care for chronic conditions (PACIC), and quality of life (EuroQol). Our working
      hypothesis is that patients in the HBCTI groups compared to the UC group will have improved
      patient-reported health status, assessment of care for chronic conditions, and quality of
      life (EuroQol) at 1, 2, and 6 months after discharge.

      The findings from this study have the potential to change this paradigm in three ways: 1) we
      will gain a better understanding of the role of cognition and patient activation in promoting
      self-management to enhance outcomes; 2). our innovative approach, which considers the unique
      needs of patients based on their level of cognition and patient activation will advance new
      concepts in care transition programs; 3) we will have a better understanding of varying
      intensities of visits, level of providers, and type and amount of strategies administered.
      This practical model for care transitions could serve as a model within the larger health
      care delivery system that could result in significant cost savings.
    
  