
    
      Objectives of this trial

        1. To validate the C-SF-MPQ-2 among chronic pain patients in Hong Kong.

        2. To evaluate the validity, reliability and psychometric properties of the C-SF-MPQ-2 as
           an assessment tool for measuring pain.

      Trial design Prospective non-randomized trial with self-administered questionnaire in chronic
      pain patients.

      Methods The study will be carried out in 2 phases (I and II). Phase I refers to the
      translation process and phase II refers to the validation process.

      Since this study will be carried out at 2 pain centres (Hong Kong West Cluster Pain
      Management Centre and Kowloon East Cluster Pain Management Centre), approvals from Ethics
      Committee of Hong Kong West Cluster and Kowloon East Cluster will be obtained.

      (I) Translation of the original English version of SF-MPQ-2 into Traditional
      Chinese-Cantonese version (C-SF-MPQ-2) Forward translation shall be done by one pain
      specialist and one lay person with linguistic background. Both shall be native
      Chinese-Cantonese speaker with proficiency in English. Each translator shall produce a
      translated version independently. Afterwards the principle investigator will co-ordinate with
      both translators to come up with one commonly agreed translated version (version 1).

      Backward translation shall be done by one pain specialist who is a native English speaker
      with proficiency in Chinese-Cantonese (version 2). This will be compared to the original
      questionnaire. The principle investigator will discuss with all the translators on any
      discrepancy between version 2 and the original version and make necessary adjustments to
      version 1 to produce a revised version (version 3).

      The translated version 3 will then be tested on 5 randomly selected chronic pain patients
      from both pain management centres. They shall be native Chinese-Cantonese speakers. Consent
      will be obtained beforehand. An interviewer will inquire whether patients have any difficulty
      on completing the questionnaire or have any suggestions with regard to the translated terms.
      Any adjustments shall be made after receiving feedback from the interviewer to produce the
      finalized version (C-SF-MPQ-2).

      (II) Validation of C-SF-MPQ-2 A total of 220 chronic pain patients will be recruited for the
      process of validation. After obtaining consent, basic demographic information including age,
      sex, pain diagnosis and duration, education level, co-existing medical problems and
      employment status will be recorded. The C-SF-MPQ-2 will then be administered to patients. For
      the construct validity, the Chinese versions of Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 (SF-36),
      ID-Pain and Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) will be administered at the same time. For the
      test-retest reliability, the C-SF-MPQ-2 will be administered again after 2 weeks at the pain
      management centres during which patients should not receive any alternation in their pain
      management or intervention. Patients' data privacy and confidentiality will be ensured during
      the entire process of study.
    
  