
    
      Background:

      Children with diffuse pontine gliomas have a dismal prognosis. Because surgery in this area
      is difficult, radiation therapy has been the mainstay of treatment. Although some children
      may improve clinically after radiation therapy, the effect is short-lived and almost all
      progress within several months. Chemotherapy has not had a significant impact on survival.
      Interferon-alpha is a cytokine that has been studied in patients with gliomas and has
      demonstrated some activity in prior clinical trials.

      Objectives:

        -  To compare the 2-year survival of pediatric patients with diffuse pontine gliomas
           receiving weekly subcutaneous low-dose pegylated interferon alfa-2b (PEG-Intron[TM])
           injections after standard radiation therapy versus historical controls who have received
           radiation therapy alone.

        -  To define the toxicities of weekly low-dose pegylated interferon alfa-2b
           (PEG-Intron(Trademark)) in pediatric patients.

      Eligibility:

      Age: Patients must be less than or equal to 21 years of age.

      Histological Diagnosis: Histologic confirmation is not required for this study. Patients must
      have a diffuse pontine glioma as diagnosed by MRI criteria below.

      Radiologic Appearance: Patients must have a diffuse intrinsic tumor with the epicenter
      presumed to be in the pons. The T-2 weighted sequence must reveal a diffuse signal
      abnormality involving at least 50 percent of the pons.

      Prior Therapy: The patient must have received adequate radiation therapy. Radiation must be
      completed between 2-10 weeks prior to the start of treatment with Peg-Intron[TM].

      Design:

      In this study, we plan to administer pegylated interferon alfa-2b (PEG-Intron[TM])
      subcutaneously once a week to pediatric patients with diffuse pontine gliomas who have
      completed radiation therapy. The endpoint of the trial will be 2-year survival compared to
      historical controls.
    
  