
    
      The purpose of the study is to create a web-based cognitive compensatory, and predominately
      memory skills, training course that is delivered on a mobile device and compatible with use
      on a stationary bicycle and test its efficacy on memory and functional ability.

      Participants will be recruited from the Pacific Brain Health Center in Santa Monica, which is
      a high-volume memory-care and dementia outpatient clinic within a large physician medical
      group affiliated with Providence Saint John's Health Center. Up to five participants will be
      course beta testers. They will receive a truncated version of the course and will provide
      detailed feedback. 30 participants will be randomized into one of two groups. Group 1
      (control arm) will have their physical activity levels continuously monitored (via Fitbit).
      Participants will receive the Experimental Research Subject's Bill of Rights prior to signing
      the informed consent form (ICF), authorization of use and disclosure of protected health
      information (PHI), and authorization of medical record release for the subject's treating
      physician, will be obtained from each participants prior to enrolling in the study. A copy of
      all signed ICF's will be given to the participants, and the investigator will retain the
      original.

      Group 2 (active arm) will receive the mSIM intervention plus activity monitoring (via
      Fitbit). Group 2 will first undergo 2 weeks of an exercise ramp-up (2x/week for 30 minutes)
      where they will increase their aerobic intensity from 50% by 5% each session until they reach
      65% HRR and can sustain that heart rate for 40 minutes, which will be the intensity for the
      training. After the ramp-up phase the mSIM participants will begin the 12-week intervention,
      comprised of 2 60-minute sessions/week. mSIM treatment response will be evaluated using
      neuropsychological and functional evaluation. Assessments will occur at baseline and 17
      weeks. Concentration levels of peripheral biomarkers BDNF and NE at baseline and after 17
      -weeks will also be assessed.
    
  