
    
      Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) accounts for approximately 115,000 hospital discharges per year
      in the United States. Appropriate management of this life-threatening clinical presentation
      requires timely and meticulous intervention, including avoidance of hypokalemia, hypoglycemia
      and DKA recurrence. However, clinical management continues to be less than ideal; for
      example, in a recent retrospective chart audit of patients admitted to a large teaching
      hospital with the primary diagnosis of DKA, 75% of them were placed on an inappropriate
      insulin regimen. This evidence to practice gap may be bridged with the use of computer
      simulation training.

      In a simulated training environment, the trainee has the opportunity to manage uncommon but
      important clinical presentations that they may otherwise not experience in their training,
      without the risk of patient harm. A recent systematic review by Cook et al. analyzed 405
      studies that compared a simulation-based intervention to no intervention for health care
      professionals from various disciplines. The authors found that simulation improved knowledge
      [pooled effect sizes of 1.20 (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.04-1.35)] and skills [pooled
      effect sizes of 1.09 (95% CI,1.03-1.16)]. Another systematic review analyzed 50 studies that
      compared virtual patient simulation with no intervention and found large positive effects of
      virtual patient simulation compared to no intervention (pooled effect sizes 0.94 (95% CI
      0.69-1.19) for knowledge outcomes, 0.80 (95% CI 0.52-1.08) for clinical reasoning and 0.90
      (95% CI 0.61-1.19) for other skills).

      Although there are many studies comparing simulation to no intervention, very few studies
      have directly compared different simulation-based interventions. Two systematic reviews of
      the effectiveness of simulation have demonstrated that repetitive practice is superior to a
      single-use instructional modality. Few studies included in these reviews reported how much
      practice is necessary to obtain long-term skill retention. These systematic reviews also
      demonstrated that training adapted to individualized performance is associated with better
      learning outcomes.

      What remains unclear, however, is who should have the locus of control when defining the
      parameters of individualized learning. One randomized controlled trial compared
      self-regulated learning and instructor-regulated learning interventions for resident training
      using lumbar puncture simulation and revealed that self-regulated learning can lead to
      superior long-term skill retention at 3 months. As focused repetitive practice is one of the
      key elements of deliberate practice, one would postulate that self-regulated learners have a
      higher chance of achieving superior results given that they can optimize their amount of
      practice; however, this has yet to be assessed for the simulator learning environment.

      The effectiveness of unsupervised versus supervised simulation curricula has yielded
      conflicting results. A systematic review comparing different simulation modalities revealed
      that group instruction was not associated with better outcomes (pooled effect size -0.22),
      whereas a previous systematic review of randomized trials comparing simulation to other
      educational modalities revealed that group instruction was associated with a positive
      learning effect (pooled effect size 0.72). One could assume that supervised learning is
      superior to unsupervised learning, as the former provides learners with the opportunity for
      continuous informative feedback, a key element of deliberate practice, in order to enhance
      their continued practice. However, this has not been formally tested for simulation-based
      education.

      Self-regulated learning and supervised versus unsupervised learning in simulation education
      require further exploration. The investigators conducted a 2-by-2 factorial cluster
      randomized controlled trial, comparing the impact of (1) coached versus non-coached
      administration, and (2) preselected number of practice cases versus self-selected number of
      practice cases, on medical student and resident scores on computer-based simulation of DKA
      management. By utilizing the theory of deliberate practice, the investigators hypothesized
      that participants who used the simulator in a supervised environment would score superiorly
      on the simulator. In addition, we hypothesized that participants who were randomized to self
      regulated learning would score superiorly on the simulator.
    
  