
    
      Hypertension (HT) is the most common side effect seen in trials of bevacizumab in combination
      with chemotherapy. Based on the hypothesis that the development of hypertension during
      treatment would be an indicative of the successful blockade of the Vascular Endothelial
      Growth Factor (VEGF) pathway, different studies have explored retrospectively the
      relationship between hypertension and the results of treatment with bevacizumab.

      This study aims to demonstrate the association between hypertension (diagnosed optimally)
      with efficacy to treatment with bevacizumab prospectively and secondly verify if blood
      pressure measures taken at home are a reflection of a diagnosis of hypertension.

      Also have been explored different molecular markers involved in the pathway of VEGF which
      might be used as predictors of response. Therefore, this study includes the collection of
      blood samples (serum or plasma) and tumor tissue of patients included in this study, with the
      aim of exploring biomarkers that correlate with treatment efficacy and toxicity.

      The diagnosis of hypertension (HT) will be performed using a Holter recording, and standard
      blood pressure footage will be collected during the first three cycles of treatment given the
      Common Toxicity Criteria of the National Cancer Institute-NCI CTCAE version 4.0 and the
      guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology and Hypertension, 2007.

      Will be collected a sample of primary tumor and blood for patients who previously have
      consented it. Samples will be sent to a central laboratory for analysis of biomarkers.

      An interim analysis will be conducted to assess the true incidence of hypertension. Based on
      this analysis, will be evaluated the need to recalculate the sample size.

      At the end of the study, will be performed an analysis of correlation of data measured by
      standard BP (Blood Pressure) and Holter recording footage with the PFS. Moreover will be
      determined in serum, plasma and tumor tissue and certain biomarkers to correlate with
      efficacy to treatment with bevacizumab.
    
  