
    
      TEDs (tracheal esophageal birth defects) are a life threatening congenital disorder with
      multiple long term complications. Occurring in 1 in 2,500 to 4,500 live births, TEDs include
      tracheal malformations such as tracheomalacia, laryngotracheoesophageal clefts, tracheal
      agenesis, tracheal stenosis, tracheal bronchus, esophageal bronchus and esophageal
      malformations such as esophageal atresia (EA), tracheal esophageal fistula (TEF), and
      esophageal duplication. TEDs likely have a genetic basis, but in most cases the specific
      mutations are unknown. The most commonly diagnosed TED, requiring neonatal hospitalization,
      is EA/TEF. The familial recurrence rate of EA/TEF is 1% suggesting many result from de novo
      mutations and while environmental factors may have a minor influence, the mechanisms are
      unclear. The investigators hypothesize that patients diagnosed with TED and similar disorders
      carry distinct mutations that lead to predisposition. Currently the diagnosis is confirmed
      only with a plain chest x-ray showing a coiled feeding tube within the upper esophageal
      pouch. This approach does not determine the anatomic subtype of EA/TEF, the number or
      location of TEFs, the size of the gap between proximal and distal esophagus, or the presence
      of tracheomalacia. Many have evaluated preoperative laryngotracheo-bronchoscopy (LTB) and
      others have evaluated preoperative computerized tomography (CT) scanning to decrease the
      unknown factors associated with x-ray, but despite their potential benefits, they have great
      drawbacks. Therefore, there is a compelling need to develop noninvasive non ionizing imaging
      methods to evaluate TED infants. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is an ideal candidate to
      fill this role in that it provides non-invasive high resolution anatomic and functional
      information. Here the investigators propose a preliminary study performing exome sequencing
      on samples from these patients and their biologically related family members. The
      investigators will also use advanced, non-invasive MR imaging techniques to assess TE, lung,
      and cardiac morphology and function in NICU patients.
    
  