
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 3 groups of 3 participants will be enrolled in
      the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 6 participants will be enrolled in Phase II.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of radium-223 dichloride based on when you join this study. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of radium-223 dichloride is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, you will receive radium-223 dichloride at the
      highest dose that was tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive radium-223 chloride by vein over several minutes on Day 1 of each 4-week
      cycle.

      You should drink plenty of fluids before each study drug dose.

      You and your caregivers will receive spoken and written instructions about safety precautions
      after receiving this drug.

      Study Visits:

      At all study visits, you will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have had
      any side effects from them.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2-6:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs

        -  You will complete a brief questionnaire about any pain that you may be experiencing.
           This questionnaire should take about 5-10 minutes to complete.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you can become pregnant, you will have a urine or blood pregnancy test. If the doctor
           thinks it is needed, you will also have an ultrasound to check for pregnancy. To take
           part in this study, you cannot be pregnant.

      Within 1-3 weeks after Cycle 3:

        -  You will have scans such as a bone scan and CT or MRI scan to check the status of the
           disease.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      You may have other routine tests done, including a pregnancy test, if the study doctor thinks
      it is needed.

      Length of Study Drug Dosing:

      You may continue taking the study drug for up to 6 cycles. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation in this study will be over once you have completed the end-of-dosing visit
      (and follow-up visits if applicable).

      End-of-Dosing Visit:

      About 30 days after your last study drug dose:

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have had any side effects
           from them.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will complete a brief questionnaire about any pain that you may be experiencing.
           This questionnaire should take about 5-10 minutes to complete.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have scans such as a bone scan and CT or MRI scan to check the status of the
           disease.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      If you are younger than 18 years old, your height and weight will be measured 1 time a year
      until you turn 21. These measurements may stop earlier if your height stays about the same
      for 2 years in a row.

      Information about your health status and any side effects (especially related to your bones)
      will be collected and reported to the study staff every year.

      This is an investigational study. Radium-223 dichloride is commercially available and FDA
      approved for the treatment of certain types of prostate cancer. It is currently being used
      for research purposes only.

      Up to 20 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  