
    
      BACKGROUND A minimally invasive midurethral sling procedure is a favorite primary surgical
      method for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI). It is considered one of the
      most effective and safe anti-incontinence surgeries. The observed objective cure rate for
      transobturator sling is about 90%. However, this number may be wily because in most studies
      it does not exclude patients who achieved continence, but had voiding dysfunction. It is one
      of the most common complications of the midurethral sling, associated with the excess tape
      tension. The estimated rate of postoperative voiding dysfunction is up to 25%. There are few
      methods that allow to decrease tape tension after the surgery, such as urethral dilatation,
      sling mobilization, sling incision, complete excision of the tape and urethrolysis. All these
      methods are invasive, poorly controlled by the surgeon and are associated with the risk of
      recurrence of stress urinary incontinence.

      PREOPERATIVE ASSESSMENT All patients who meet eligibility criteria will undergo a
      preoperative assessment: a detailed medical history, physical examination, vaginal
      examination, ICS-Uniform Cough Stress Test (ICS-UCST), uroflowmetry and ultrasound
      measurement of post-void residual volume (PVR). All patients will complete specific
      questionnaires, validated in Russia: Urogenital Distress Inventory 6 (UDI-6), International
      Conférence on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF), Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary
      Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire (PICQ-12). The patients who will answer "Yes" to the
      question: "Do you experience urine leakage related to the feeling of urgency?" in UDI-6
      questionnaire will undergo a urodynamic study to assess the presence and severity of detrusor
      overactivity.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS The hypothesis is that TTT is non-inferior to TOT for SUI treatment.
      The sample size was calculated assuming an objective cure rate of 85% with TOT using a limit
      of equivalence of d=0,1 with 80% power. Thus 149 patients in each group are needed. We assume
      a drop-out rate of 30%, so in total 388 participants will be included in the study.

      All enrolled patients will be randomly assigned to TTT or TOT treatment groups in equal ratio
      the day before the surgery, using computer randomization. The randomization will be performed
      by one resident urologist, who has no access to patients' data.

      All surgical interventions will be performed by 4 urologists, performing at least 100 TOT
      surgeries per year. The next day after the surgery uroflowmetry values and PVR will be
      determined in all patients. In case of bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) symptoms, patients
      from TOT group will be recommended an intermittent self-catheterization for 6 weeks, or a
      urethral dilatation for choice. Patients from TTT group with BOO will undergo a procedure of
      non-invasive loosening of the tape under local anesthesia. The algorithm of uroflowmetry, PVR
      and tuning of the tape will be repeated until normal outflow values will be achieved. Also in
      patients from the TTT group, ICS-UCST will be estimated. If a patient will be experienced
      leakage a non-invasive tensioning of the tape under local anesthesia will be performed
      followed by uroflowmetry, PVR and additional tuning if necessary, until optimal tension will
      be achieved. The examination will be repeated on the day of discharge.

      The postoperative assessment will be performed by 2 urologists, who will be blinded about the
      type of intervention.
    
  