
    
      The resin composites used with bonding agents are popularly used for the restoration of
      cervical lesions. These materials exhibit high strength and physical properties as well as
      good esthetic property but they don't offer the chemical bonding and fluoride release
      potentials necessary for managing high caries risk patients (Khoroushi et al., 2012).

      Fluorides containing restorative materials have been advocated as the material of choice for
      restoring cervical lesions in high caries risk patients since this kind of material offers
      chemical bonding, fluoride release, and caries inhibiting potentials. Conventional Glass
      Ionomer and Resin modified glass ionomer restorative materials have high fluoride release and
      could be specified clinically to repair cervical lesions in high caries risk patients.
      However, clinical acceptance of these materials has been limited because of their low tensile
      strength, brittleness, and low resistance to wear (Somani et al., 2016).

      Bioactive restorative materials are relatively new in dentistry. Activa BioACTIVE (Pulpdent
      Corporation, Watertown, MA) dual cured material is the first dental restoratives with a
      bioactive resin matrix, shock-absorbing resin component and reactive glass ionomer fillers
      designed to mimic the physical and chemical properties of natural teeth. It is a highly
      esthetic bioactive hydrophilic composite that bonds chemically to teeth, seals against 4
      microleakage and releases more calcium, phosphate, and fluoride. It is delivered via a
      dualbarrel, automix syringe using a special dispensing gun. The company states that Activa is
      more bioactive than glass ionomers while more durable and fracture resistant than composites
      (ACTIVA BioACTIVE RESTORATIVE - Pulpdent). Activa Presto light-cured material from Pulpdent
      is the company's newest product that features biomimicry as Activa Bioactive dual-cured
      material. It is available in a 1.2 mL syringe for easy application, and no longer need for a
      special dispensing gun to apply the material. Consequently, placement of the resin is precise
      and highly adaptive to the cavity margins. It is highly radiopaque (250%), so it can be
      easily followed on radiographs.

      There are eight esthetic shades: A1, A2, A3, A3.5, B1, BW and two new darker cervical shades
      A4 and A6 which can be useful in geriatric patients. The material diffuses fluoride, calcium
      and phosphate ions that fortify the saliva and help replace essential minerals that are lost
      in the decay process. This highly esthetic light-cured resin contains these ions in a
      stackable resin matrix that holds its shape and does not slump. This durable product is
      resistant to fracturing and wear, especially so on the thin areas of enamel bevels, and is
      indicated for all restorative procedures replacing dentin and/or enamel, anterior or
      posterior (ACTIVA Presto - Pulpdent).
    
  