
    
      Study Design: A prospective, convenience sample of participants presenting with suspected
      pneumonia when trained ultrasound investigator is present in the Patan Hospital Emergency
      Department will be performed in Patan, Nepal. This study will be done in partnership with
      Patan Hospital Emergency Department and with the approval of Nepal Health Research Council
      and Patan Hospital's ethical review committee.

      Study Setting: Located in the Kathmandu valley, Patan Hospital is a large urban hospital with
      35-bed Emergency Department that sees approximately 32,000 patients per year.

      Study Protocol:

      Prior to the enrolling patients, investigators in the Emergency Department will save lung
      ultrasound exams and interpret the exams. These exams will then be independently reviewed by
      an ultrasonographer to ensure adequate skill in lung ultrasonography. A kappa analysis of
      these scans will be performed. If kappa <0.6, we will review lung ultrasound with these
      investigators and repeat above evaluation until kappa of 0.6 is achieved.

      For participants meeting inclusion criteria, consent will be obtained from the participant.
      Consent will include explanation of use of bedside ultrasound and chest CT scan for diagnosis
      of their condition. This consent will also include explanation of risks and benefits in
      Nepali. These examinations will be provided free of charge to the participant.

      The investigator will record patient demographics, symptoms, lung exam findings, and pre-test
      probability of pneumonia (low, intermediate, high) on the data form.

      After initial clinical evaluation, a bedside lung ultrasound will be performed. A Sonosite M
      Turbo (Fujifilm Sonosite, Inc.) ultrasound machine will be used. The ultrasound examination
      will include ten views, two anterior views, two lateral views (one including the costophrenic
      angle), and one posterior view on both chest walls. The investigator will then record
      findings and diagnosis on the data entry form along with their post-test probability of
      pneumonia (low, intermediate, high).

      Participants will get a chest x-ray as a part of the standard evaluation. These readings will
      be recorded on the data sheet. Participants will then undergo a chest computed tomography
      (CT), as the diagnostic standard to evaluate for pneumonia. The chest x-ray and chest CT will
      be read by a radiologist. The radiologist will be blinded to the results of the previous
      studies. The reading and diagnosis according to CT will be recorded on the data form.

      Statistical Analysis

      The performance of ultrasound for diagnosis of pneumonia will be expressed as sensitivity,
      specificity, and likelihood ratios. Since the sensitivity of ultrasound is estimated around
      90%, in order to detect a 20% difference based on a CXR sensitivity of 70%, 62 patients will
      be needed. McNemar's test will be used to evaluate any statistical difference in sensitivity
      between CXR and US.
    
  