
    
      Taiwan is quickly becoming a nation of the aging population with myelopathy reporting to be
      one of the most common spinal cord disorders associated with spinal degeneration. Given the
      high prevalence rate of the condition, current project aims to investigate the impact of
      myelopathy on motor control from a biomechanical perspective with the overall aim to develop
      an interactive balance perturbation rehabilitation program targeting individual patients and
      identified the deficiency. The efficacy of the individual rehabilitation program will be
      assessed and determined to utilize a prospective longitudinal study design. A break down of
      the proposed three-year project are as follows:

      Year 1: Myelopathy patients prepared to receive cervical decompression surgery as well as
      age-matched asymptomatic controls will be recruited and subjected to the following clinical
      evaluations: 3-dimensional biomechanical motion analysis, diagnostic Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging, pain and disability questionnaires, motor performance assessment, spinal curvature,
      muscle strength assessment as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation examination. Motor
      control and coordination of functional movements will also be evaluated.

      Year 2: Continue to recruit potential participants and further develop the use of the
      interactive split-belt balance perturbation treadmill as modalities for gait and balance
      therapy.

      Year 3: Physical Therapy rehabilitation programs at 3-month post surgery, one group will
      participate in a specific and personalized interactive balance perturbation training program
      targeting balance and gait retraining, while the other group receives the routine Physical
      Therapy program. Both treatment groups will be assessed pre-operatively, at 3, 6 and 12
      months postoperatively. Patients will be classified based on their severity and grade of the
      spinal cord compression before being compared for any difference in treatment responses.

      Year 4: Follow-up monitoring and documenting the number of falls experienced by patients at
      one year postoperatively as an outcome of effectiveness.

      Expected outcome and significance The findings from the current project will provide
      important empirical evidence to guide the postoperative rehabilitation of myelopathy
      patients. Through detailed biomechanical motion analysis, it is anticipated that this project
      will provide an in-depth understanding of the influence of decompression surgery on motor
      control and spinal stability. The tailored and innovative rehabilitation program will also
      improve patients' long-term quality of life.
    
  