
    
      Rationale: Currently, only 22% of all patients referred to the rheumatologist by primary care
      are diagnosed with an inflammatory rheumatic disease (IRD). Previous research has shown that
      structured referral sheets and community-based specialist service improve appropriateness of
      referrals.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to improve the number of effectively referred patients
      with IRD to the rheumatology outpatient clinic with either use of validated referral pro
      formas or triage of IRD by specialists in a primary care setting compared to usual care. In
      addition, the investigators want to provide tools for the general practitioner to recognise
      IRD and improve early referral of patients with IRD, and a cost-effectiveness analysis will
      be performed to evaluate the decreasing effect on health-care cost.

      Study design: Cluster randomized trial with randomization of general practitioner clinics.

      Study population: Primary care patients of 18 years or older who are suspected of an IRD and
      considered by a GP for referral to a rheumatologist.

      Intervention: One group of GPs will use a standardized referral strategy for IRD, another
      group will consist of triage by a rheumatologist in the local primary care clinic, the third
      group is usual care.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Percentage of patients diagnosed with an IRD by a
      rheumatologists after 12 months. In addition, cost effectiveness, quality of life, work
      participation and health care costs at baseline and after 12 months.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: There is no additional risk to participating patients. Patients might benefit
      from early referral since the referral pro formas point out important aspects of IRD that are
      frequently overlooked. Patients will be requested to fill in three online questionnaires
      related to quality of life, work participation and socio-economic costs. There are no
      additional visits, physical examinations or other tests.
    
  