
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disorder, with up to 10.3% of the
      population experiencing the disorder in a given 12-month period. Symptoms of MDD include
      feelings of anxiety, guilt, or hopelessness; irregular sleep and appetite patterns; lethargy;
      excessive irritability and restlessness; inability to concentrate; and lack of enjoyment in
      previously enjoyed activities. Fortunately, MDD is treatable with forms of psychotherapy
      and/or antidepressant medications. Several studies have found that when given a choice, about
      two-thirds of depressed patients prefer psychotherapy treatment over antidepressant
      medication. Although psychotherapy treatments are both effective and desirable, a variety of
      barriers exist to initiating and sustaining psychotherapy. Only about 20% of all patients
      referred for psychotherapy treatments ever follow up. Of those who do initiate psychotherapy,
      nearly half drop out before completing treatment.

      Delivering an intervention through telecommunication technologies, such as the telephone and
      Internet, has the potential to overcome many of the barriers to existing treatments for
      depression. For example, telephone- and Web-based interventions can reduce cost, extend
      specialized treatment over broad geographic areas, and permit considerable flexibility in
      scheduling of treatment components. Technology-assisted Behavioral Intervention(TABI) is a
      specific form of a telecommunication behavioral intervention that incorporates Web-based
      Internet, e-mail, and telephone intervention. Further study is needed to determine the
      effectiveness of TABI in reducing depressive symptoms and attrition rates in people with MDD.
      This pilot study will first develop TABI, which will consist of Internet-based cognitive
      behavioral therapy (I-CBT) accompanied by telephone and e-mail support. The study will then
      compare the effectiveness of TABI with the effectiveness of I-CBT alone and treatment as
      usual (TAU) in reducing depressive symptoms and improving treatment adherence in primary care
      patients with MDD.

      Participation in the treatment phase of this study will last 12 weeks. All participants will
      first undergo initial assessments that will include a telephone interview and a series of
      questionnaires about mood. Eligible participants will then be assigned randomly to receive
      TABI, I-CBT alone, or TAU. Participants assigned to TABI and I-CBT will both undergo 12 weeks
      of a Web-based Internet intervention consisting of modules to help them learn skills to
      manage their moods. Participants assigned to TAU will receive standard treatment from their
      primary care physicians and will be able to choose between TABI and I-CBT treatment options
      after a 6-week wait-list period.
    
  