
    
      The study sample will be formed by 68 women with PFP who show ankle dorsiflexion restriction,
      divided into two groups: Experimental Group (EG, n = 34), that will receive two manual
      therapy techniques (calf muscle stretching and ankle mobilization) followed by five muscle
      strengthening exercises focusing on quadriceps and posterolateral hip complex (PHC), and;
      Control Group (CG, n = 34), that will receive only the five muscle strengthening exercises
      focusing on quadriceps and PHC. The treatment sessions will be individual and supervised by a
      physiotherapist, will last 40-50 minutes and will perform twice a week for six weeks. Before
      starting each treatment session, both groups will perform warm up with a walk or exercise
      bike for 5 minutes.

      The calf muscle stretching will be performed passively in two repetitions with 30 seconds of
      held in the stretching position and 30 seconds of rest between repetitions. The ankle
      mobilization will be performed using the Weight-bearing Mobilization with Movement (WB-MWM)
      technique, being applied in two sets of 10 repetitions with two minutes of rest between sets.

      The five muscle strengthening exercises will be as follows: (a) clam exercise; (b) hip
      abduction exercise in side lying; (c) knee extension exercise in a sitting position; (d)
      squat exercise, and; (e) forward lunge exercise. All exercises will be performed in three
      sets of 12 repetitions with on minutes of rest between sets and two minutes of rest between
      exercises.

      Regarding the intensity of the exercises, this will be monitored by the physiotherapist
      according to the perception of the level of effort and difficulty reported by the participant
      when completing the series of each exercise, according to the specifications of the modified
      Borg scale (CR-10). The exercises will be carried out with a load between 60-80% of the
      capacity and level of effort reported by the participant. The load will be increased by 2-10%
      when the patient is able to perform 12 full repetitions in the last series of the exercise
      with perceived effort <60%.
    
  