
    
      In patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) but without gross evidence of
      esophageal injury, confirmation of acid reflux is typically performed through testing that
      measures reflux at or proximal to 5 cm above the gastroesophageal junction. These tests such
      as pH/impedance monitoring and Bravo probe placement in the esophagus have been the gold
      standard for diagnosing and quantitating the degree of gastroesophageal reflux. This stands
      in contrast to the concept that the esophagus distal to 5 cm is first and foremost exposed to
      gastroesophageal reflux and that most injury in the form of erosive esophagitis is seen in
      the 4cm segment below where this instruments measure reflux. As a result, this type of
      testing may not allow for full understanding of the pathophysiology of GERD. Furthermore,
      with refluxed acid exposure limited to the distal esophagus in some patients, use of
      conventional pH testing could lead to inaccurate diagnosing of GERD.

      Esophageal impedance testing measures epithelial integrity as reflected through the ability
      of the mucosa to conduct electric current. As dilation of intercellular spaces in biopsies
      from patients with GERD is considered the earliest indication of esophageal injury in
      response to reflux in the absence of gross endoscopic injury, the measure of increased
      current conduction through these dilated spaces has been shown to be an accurate means of
      diagnosing patients with non-erosive reflux disease. To this point, most esophageal impedance
      has been measured using impedance ports placed at locations similar to the pH probes in a
      combined intra-esophageal ambulatory catheter. As a result, the most distal point of
      impedance measurement is also 5 cm above the gastroesophageal junction. Recently, a site
      specific endoscopically placed impedance probe has been developed that can measure esophageal
      mucosal impedance at any point of the esophagus.

      In this study the Principal Investigator would like to look at patients with and without
      reflux symptoms measuring impedance at 1,2,3,4 and 5 cm at the 6 o'clock position above the
      Gastroesophageal Junction.
    
  