
    
      BACKGROUND:

      KSHV inflammatory cytokine syndrome (KICS) is a newly recognized syndrome caused by Kaposi
      sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). It is characterized by severe inflammatory symptoms
      including fevers, wasting, cytopenias, hypoalbuminemia, and hyponatremia, associated in some
      cases with lymphadenopathy or effusions, without pathological evidence of MCD. Patients with
      KICS exhibit elevated KSHV viral loads and cytokine dysregulation, with elevations of IL-6,
      IL-10, and a KSHV-encoded IL-6 homolog, viral IL-6.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The primary study objective is to enable intensive study and description of the natural
      history of KICS.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Adults of any HIV status with:

        -  At least two symptoms, laboratory or radiographic abnormalities which are at least
           possibly attributable to KICS (including fever, fatigue, cachexia, edema, respiratory or
           gastrointestinal symptoms, hematologic cytopenias, hypoalbuminemia, hyponatremia,
           lymphadenopathy,organomegaly, effusions)

        -  C-reactive protein >3mg/L.

        -  Evidence of KSHV infection or a risk exposure for KSHV infection

        -  No evidence of KSHV-associated multicentric Castleman disease

      Patients with these characteristics will be further evaluated to identify those whose
      clinical and laboratory features are consistent with the working KICS working case definition
      to be followed in the natural history phase of the study.

      DESIGN:

      This is a single center natural history cohort with an observation arm and two nested open
      label pilot treatment arms, and an accrual ceiling of 40 patients to the overall natural
      history arm. Natural history patients will undergo clinical, laboratory and correlative
      assessment every 3 months until sustained resolution. Patients with clinical and laboratory
      manifestations of KICS, elevated inflammatory markers and KSHV viral load will be eligible
      for therapy with high dose zidovudine/valganciclovir or, if they have intercurrent KS
      requiring cytotoxic therapy, rituximab/liposomal doxorubicin. Each treatment arm uses a two
      stage design, with interim analysis at 8 patients in each arm and potential accrual of 14 per
      arm. Patients on the treatment arm who have not responded to the pilot treatments or for whom
      such treatment would not be suitable may also be treated with best available therapy.
    
  