
    
      For all studies, participants will be recruited via paper and electronic flyers on campus and
      in the surrounding communities. Interested participants will be screened via phone, email
      and/or web form to assess eligibility according to criteria listed elsewhere. Should
      participants qualify, they will be invited to complete a single laboratory session at the
      Intermountain Neuroimaging Facility at CU Boulder. Participants will be sent a copy of the
      consent form to read in advance of their visit, and to keep for their records.

      Once arriving at the laboratory, participants will complete the consent process, in which a
      research assistant trained in ethical principles regarding human subjects research will
      answer any questions about the consent form and verbally reinforce the key rights of the
      participants outlined there. Once both parties are satisfied, consent forms will be signed.

      Participants will then complete a mandatory day-of MRI eligibility form to ensure scanner
      compatibility has not changed since the initial screening (done by phone, email or webform).
      Females who are unable to indicate "no" to the question, "is it possible that you are
      pregnant?" will be asked to take a pregnancy test provided at the MR facility. Participants
      will change into MRI- compatible clothes or scrubs. Participants will sit with a trained
      research assistant/experimenter who will give an overview of the entire session, and then
      begin training for the cognitive reappraisal task. This training takes 10-15 minutes. During
      the training, the experimenter will offer several possible reappraisals of negative images
      and allow the participants to offer their own as well, providing encouragement and feedback.
      During this training, the experimenter will also go over the method of encouragement and
      feedback. During this training, the experimenter will also go over the method of responding
      (using an external button box). Participants will be reminded during training that they may
      stop the experiment at any point if the pictures are too upsetting.

      Immediately following task training, participants will make a general mood rating using the
      PANAS. Then, participants will be screened one final time for metal in or near their bodies
      at the door to the shielded MRI room, then be placed in the MRI scanner by a certified,
      full-time MRI technician. Participants will be reminded they can stop the experiment at any
      point if they are physically uncomfortable or become claustrophobic, and will be outfitted
      with a panic button to indicate that they wish to stop the experiment immediately once it has
      begun. After the initial structural and calibration scans, participants will complete the
      reappraisal task. The task will take 40-50 minutes (broken up into 4-5 separate functional
      runs in the scanner, with each run taking around 10 minutes).
    
  