
    
      Obesity is a modifiable risk factor for knee osteoarthritis (OA), and weight loss is an
      effective non-pharmacologic treatment to reduce pain. Recently, the investigators determined
      that under ideal, highly controlled circumstances, a diet-induced weight loss of 10% combined
      with exercise was significantly better at reducing pain than either intervention alone.
      Compared to the investigators previous longterm weight loss and exercise trials of knee OA,
      the diet-induced weight loss and exercise group was twice as effective at relieving pain.
      Whether the investigators results can be generalized to less rigorously monitored patient
      cohorts is unknown. Thus the challenge the investigators now face is to provide the practical
      means to implement this proven treatment in the community setting. This study aims to develop
      and demonstrate the effectiveness of a systematic, practical, cost-effective diet-induced
      weight loss and exercise intervention in both urban and rural communities that can reduce
      pain and improve other clinical outcomes in knee OA patients. This pragmatic community-based
      trial will determine if the investigators previous findings translate to real-world settings
      and will address common concerns about barriers to effectiveness/ implementation.

      Participants will be 820 ambulatory, community-dwelling, overweight and obese men and women
      who meet the American College of Rheumatology clinical criteria for knee OA. The primary aim
      is to determine whether a pragmatic, community-based 18-month diet-induced weight loss and
      exercise intervention implemented in three North Carolina counties with diverse residential
      (from urban to rural) and socioeconomic composition significantly decreases knee pain in
      overweight and obese adults with knee OA relative to an attention control group. Secondary
      aims will determine whether this intervention improves self-reported function, health-related
      quality of life, and mobility. The investigators will also establish the cost-effectiveness
      of this pragmatic, community-based, multimodal diet-induced weight-loss and exercise program
      by conducting cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact analyses using data from the current
      trial in a validated computer-simulated model of knee OA.

      Many physicians who treat people with knee OA have no practical means to implement weight
      loss and exercise treatments. This study is significant in that it will test the
      effectiveness of a long-awaited and much needed community-based program that will serve as a
      blueprint for clinicians and public health officials in both urban and rural communities to
      implement a weight loss and exercise program designed to reduce knee pain and improve other
      clinical outcomes in overweight and obese people with knee OA that can be sustained long-term
      and at a reasonable cost.
    
  