
    
      High blood pressure affects nearly one third of all people in the United States. It can be
      caused by many factors, including obesity, sodium intake, genetics, and stress. Ethnicity
      appears to also play a role, because African Americans are more susceptible to developing
      high blood pressure than other ethnic groups, with more than 40% of African Americans
      diagnosed with this condition. This study will examine the underlying reasons of why stress
      and African-American ethnicity contribute to high blood pressure risk and how ethnicity and
      stress interact with each other to increase this risk. Specifically, study researchers will
      examine how stress increases blood pressure, how people from different ethnic groups respond
      to stress differently, and how sleep plays a role in regulating blood pressure levels.

      This study will enroll African Americans and Caucasians who have high blood pressure, as well
      as African Americans and Caucasians who have normal blood pressure. Potential participants
      will go through a screening process that involves a medical history review, questionnaires,
      and blood pressure monitoring. Eligible participants will then be admitted to the research
      clinic for a 2-night stay. Participants' nutrition history and body measurements will be
      obtained, and a catheter will be inserted into the arm so that blood can be easily collected
      during the clinic stay. During the night, participants' breathing habits and movements will
      be monitored while they sleep. During the day, blood pressure and heart activity will be
      monitored frequently, including when participants are asked to perform mildly stressful
      tasks, such as giving a short speech. Various medications that affect heart rate and blood
      pressure will be given at different times during the study, and researchers will monitor
      participants' reactions to each medication. Lastly, participants will also complete
      psychological questionnaires.
    
  