
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by emphysematous destruction of
      pulmonary parenchyma, airway obstruction that participate in chronic temporary obstruction of
      airways. COPD has multiple clinical presentations that define phenotypes but doesn't take
      into account those anatomo-pathologic modifications. Moreover, the prognostic interest of
      those structural alteration is unknown. Until now, only PFT allowed to define the severity of
      the disease, whereas multiple others tools may be useful, such as, symptoms scores,
      exacerbation frequencies, denutrition. Those structural alterations are available using
      computed tomography (CT), that may also have an interest in prognostic or in treatment
      follow- up.

      CT is widely used in clinical practice for COPD patients at basal state and in exacerbations.
      Quantitative CT is able to combine acquisition of objective and reproductible informations on
      parenchymal destruction (emphysema), bronchial wall remodeling, and pulmonary vessels
      alteration. The investigators' team developed software tools to determine quantitative
      structural modifications of airways, emphysema and small pulmonary vessels1,2.

      The team has been able to build a score "Paw score" combining PaO2 with CT parameters of
      bronchial wall thickness and small pulmonary vessels percentage2. This score allowed to
      predict the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension in patients with COPD. Pulmonary
      hypertension is a complication of COPD that increase morbi-mortality.

      The hypothesis is that morphological quantitative analysis combined with structural
      alterations of airways has a prognostic interest.

      The main goal is to determine morphological phenotypes of COPD using a cluster analysis
      combining emphysema, bronchial wall thickness and pulmonary vessels.

      The other main goal is to predict evolution of COPD patients based on clinical outcomes
      (exacerbations frequency, mortality, mMRC, SGQLQ) and lung function testing (decline in FEV-1
      TLCO, PaO2).

      The team also wants to analyze clinical data of survival, exacerbation and symptoms in
      following years of the CT of each cluster in historic-prospective way.

      The secondary goals are to describe clinical, functional and biological clusters. Analyse of
      correlations will be studied. Moreover, we will investigate the interest of the "Paw score"
      as a prognostic marker and as a correlated parameter.

      This is a retrospective study. We want to take information from the year before CT, to the
      year after CT. At the date of the consultation concomitant with CT we want to know all the
      clinical, functional and biological data of each patient.
    
  