
    
      Will be held during the period from August to November 2015, quantitative descriptive
      transversal study with patients in the late postoperative period and who underwent cardiac
      surgery in a hospital of medium complexity in state of sao paulo , Brazil in the period to
      one year of the procedure. Patients will be recruited via contact by phone to attend in place
      with certain pre scheduled time for carrying out assessments relevant to the study.

      Evaluations shall be performed in hospital in predetermined track, under the sun and
      accompanied by the examiners. All individuals will be properly oriented and participate in
      the activities after signing the informed consent (Informed Consent and Informed).

      Will be held primarily refers to report cards and progress retroactive filled by students
      physiotherapy course that evaluated the functional condition and respiratory muscle strength
      of these individuals included in the study at the time of hospital discharge in cardiac
      surgical post (last year). The purpose of the consultation of these records is to determine
      the functional clinical characteristics of these individuals soon after surgery to
      corroborate the results of these same tests in these patients one year after participants'
      surgery as well being able to quantify the influence of a number of situations that occurred
      in the lives of these individuals who may modify in any way the current situation both
      clinical and social thereof. These evaluation sheets are filed at the physiotherapy clinic.

      After consulting retroactive chips, a full interview will be held with the participant,
      assessing quality of life through specific scores (SF-36), evaluation of daily living habits,
      social life, work life, independence, recurrent admissions this the participation period of
      rehabilitation programs and cease habits like smoking, drinking and physical inactivity.

      The clinical trials will be conducted: quantification of inspiratory and expiratory muscle
      strength through the determination of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP.) And maximal
      expiratory pressure (MEP.) Using the device which measures and submaximal functional testing
      through the application of Walk Test 6 minutes (TC6').

      The patient will be taken to the track to be traveled for the test and hemodynamic data were
      to be collected at rest, during and after the test are: blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen
      saturation.

      The patient should be instructed to walk as fast as you can without running, as recommended
      by the American ThoracicSociety, on a track of 30 meters, marked every 3 meters, with the
      turning point. By completing the six minutes, the patient should stop immediately. In this
      way it will be measured the total distance covered by the patient and again all variables at
      the time of arrest.

      The parameters checked during the whole test should be noted , as the distance traveled in
      meters.

      At the end of quantification of clinical and epidemiological data, previous history and
      current data comparison will be made in order to determine the physical and functional
      characteristics of these patients in monitoring the late postoperative period .
    
  