
    
      Over 40% women age 65 and older or an estimated million women in the US suffer from urgency
      urinary incontinence (UUI), a condition characterized by urgency to urinate. UUI is a
      well-known marker for frailty and older women with UUI are at two fold higher risk for falls.
      According to the biopsycho- ecological paradigm, UUI and its associated falls are the result
      of interaction of the patients physical abilities (bladder urgency and reduced balance and
      strength to reach the toilet), mental attitudes (anxiety related to urgency, shame and stigma
      of leakage), social expectations (life demand and roles that limit access to bathroom), and
      physical environment (physical barriers to reach the toilet).

      Anti-muscarinic medications, the most common treatment for UUI, address only bladder urgency
      and their side-effects may exacerbate falls. The investigators plan an innovative treatment
      approach that will integrate each of the bio-psycho-ecological levels implicated in UUI and
      falls. Strength and balance exercises improve functional mobility and have been shown to
      reduce both fall risk as well as UUI in high risk frail older adults. Behavioral urge
      suppression reduces anxiety related to urgency and improves mental abilities to handle life
      demands and roles. Simple home improvements can reduce environmental barriers. Adherence is
      an important barrier in the implementation of exercise and behavior modification. Prior
      studies, including those by the investigators, have shown that preferred treatments are
      associated with improved adherence, satisfaction and outcomes in women with UUI. The
      investigators hypothesize that an integrated exercise and urge suppression program targeted
      to improving physical performance relevant to continence behavior will reduce the risk of
      falls in appropriately selected community dwelling women with urinary incontinence. In this
      pilot study, the investigators plan to develop, validate and test a home based integrated
      exercise and urge suppression intervention that targets functional mobility, reduces anxiety
      urgency and physical barriers and is implemented in partnership with all stakeholders. The
      proposed pilot study for a planned submission in June 2014 fulfills PCORIs national
      priorities and research agenda through improving patient centered outcome measures, informed
      decision making based on risks and benefits, innovative Page 9 of 17 community based delivery
      of the intervention, addressing barriers to care, and engaging all stakeholders involved in
      the care of older women with UUI including patients, providers, and community advocates.

      The overall objective of this project is to reduce the risk of falls in elderly frail
      community dwelling women with urgency urinary incontinence (UUI). The specific aim is: To
      determine the feasibility of enrollment and randomization of a comparative effectiveness
      trial of integrated exercise and urge suppression program versus usual care in older
      community dwelling women with urge urinary incontinence. Hypothesis: Older women with UUI who
      receive their preferred treatment option, exercises and urge suppression, will have better
      objective (fewer functional limitations, falls risk and urinary incontinence) and subjective
      (HRQOL, satisfaction with care, and psychological wellbeing) outcomes than women who receive
      usual care.
    
  