
    
      Objective To understand the knowledge, attitude and treatment practices of gout among doctors
      who regularly interacted with gout patients.

      Methodology Study population: Physicians (including practicing medical graduates,
      post-graduates in internal medicine, family medicine) and orthopedic surgeons were selected
      randomly from the list of data from the Nepal Medical Council registry. All internists with
      valid email ID on the registry of the "society of internal medicine of Nepal" (SIMON) were
      included. Also, a list of MBBS graduates, family medicine and orthopedic practitioners
      working in the peripheral set-up of Nepal was obtained and a random selection with
      computer-generated random number table based on council registration number was made for
      enrollment into the survey. Estimating a response rate of 30%, a total of 1200 clinicians
      were selected based on their council registration number for the invitation to participate in
      the survey.

      Survey instrument: A standardized questionnaire was designed by a 3-member committee of NRA
      focusing on the areas of knowledge, attitude and practice of gout with 9 questions pertaining
      to demographic parameters, 8 to knowledge about the disease, 11 to attitude and 10 to
      practice behaviors [tables 1-4]. The questions were designed as multiple-choice questions
      (MCQ) to be marked by the respondent. Few questions had the provision of selecting more than
      1 options. Open- ended questions were avoided to save the time of the respondents and thus
      reduce the attrition rates[10].

      Procedure: An email containing a letter of invitation for participation was sent to each of
      the selected participant. It mentioned why they were receiving the email, the objectives of
      the survey, the assurance of anonymity and confidentiality and a total answering time of less
      than 5 minutes for encouraging participation. A link to the Google-form was attached in the
      mail itself and a mention was made on the implied consent for participation in clicking the
      link. A reminder email was sent after 1 week to all irrespective of whether they had
      responded earlier.

      Platform: A web-based platform was chosen with the use of Google-forms which was compatible
      and user friendly to both browser and mobile users and to both iOS and Android users.
      Multiple entries from the same email link were blocked. Web-based platform was chosen over
      email survey because it provides the ability to transfer survey responses directly into a
      database, eliminating transcription errors and preventing survey alteration by the survey
      respondent and most importantly maintaining confidentiality and anonymity of respondents[11].
      The answers were collected anonymously in an excel sheet at the main server for analysis.

      Statistical analysis: Simple descriptive statistics were used to describe the frequency or
      correct responses. Chi-square test was performed to assess the difference in knowledge,
      attitude, and practices between clinicians with different medical qualifications. Analysis
      was done using SPSS version 21 (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  