
    
      Longitudinal studies have shown that childhood Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
      (ADHD) and child disruptive behavior disorders play an important role in the development of
      later Substance Use Disorders (SUD). Although available evidence suggests that abnormal
      reward processing is likely to mediate vulnerability for addiction, the functioning of the
      brain reward systems in at-risk individuals preceding the exposure to drugs remains largely
      unknown. Better understanding the baseline characteristics of reward processing in drug-naïve
      individuals at risk for later SUD is an important initial step in refining our knowledge of
      the neurobiological basis of addiction. Reward processing in at-risk individuals may be
      further influenced by exposure to first-line treatments (e.g. methylphenidate (MPH)) for ADHD
      that also happen to be controlled substances.

      Findings from animal research have raised the possibility that stimulants such as
      methylphenidate (MPH) may have "sensitization" effects - which prime the brain reward system
      for enhanced responding to the rewarding effects of abusable substances, whereas
      non-stimulants such as atomoxetine (ATX) may diminish drug self-administration. However, no
      studies have examined the purported different effects of stimulants vs. non-stimulants on the
      brain reward system utilizing a targeted biomarker approach linked to an a priori model,
      which focuses on intermediate phenotypes. Such research could provide important knowledge
      regarding the biological basis of addiction vulnerability and aid in the development of
      preventive interventions.

      This proposal will provide pilot data for the hypotheses that stimulant and non-stimulant
      medications have differential effects on activation in the brain reward system in High Risk
      (HR) youth, and that differences activation will be related to changes in measures of reward
      sensitivity on psychometric tests. The study team believes that this protocol is uniquely
      innovative in its approach to study drug-naïve children at the highest levels of risk for
      SUD, thus providing an opportunity to delineate differential effects of medication treatment
      in relation to SUD risk. This research is also significant since it will be the first
      neuroimaging study to assess the biological correlates of the effects of stimulants on reward
      sensitivity in HR children, and especially in relation to purported changes in reward
      processing.
    
  