
    
      Non-suicidal self-injury behaviour describes behaviour in patients, who have no intention to
      commit suicide. This can be performed in many different ways, e.g., automutilation through
      burning, scratching, or hitting. Often this behaviour results in deep scars and
      disfigurements. The prevalence of patients with NSSI scars is estimated to be 13.4% in
      adolescents and 5.5% in adults. Non-suicidal behaviour is often associated with other
      psychological diseases like personality disorders, character disorders of the Borderline
      type, anxiety, and substance abuse disorders. In these cases, usually, interdisciplinary
      therapy concepts are needed. A major problem is that the scars due to its constant
      confrontation can induce repetitive non-suicidal self-injury behaviour. Furthermore, the
      image of the NSSI scars leads to stigmatization by society and in addition to that to a
      withdrawal from society by the patients. Hence, the need for adequate treatment of the NSSI
      scars to relief the burden of stigmatization for the patients is immense. At the moment,
      non-invasive therapies like pulsed-dye laser therapy (PDL) and non-ablative fractional laser
      therapy, as well as minimal-invasive therapies like dermabrasion or elliptical excision offer
      one possible option, but the undoubted cause of the scar remains visible. At the moment only
      case studies exist which describe the beneficial effect of surgical resection followed by
      consecutive reconstruction with a dermal regenerative matrix and split skin grafts. These
      studies have evaluated the aesthetic outcome and briefly assessed the well-being of the
      patients. However, currently, no study exists investigating the effect of the two-step
      surgical procedure on body perception and the psychological outcome in general. The overall
      goal of the described study is to establish a therapy concept for patients who suffer from
      constant confrontation with their NSSI scars. Stigmatization by the society and by the
      patients themselves, body perception, quality of life, and scar perception will be evaluated
      over the study period of 36 months. Furthermore, the scar itself will be assessed using a
      cutometer and the scar image will be evaluated using the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment
      Scale.

      The data analyses will be performed with SPSS, version 20.0, SPSS Inc. Chicago, USA. For the
      normally distributed values, the paired T-test will be used. Not normally distributed values
      will be analysed by the Wilcoxon signed-rank Test. The significance level will be set at
      p<0.05.
    
  