
    
      COVID-19 has an early phase and a late, with rapid progression to ARDS (due to cytokine
      storm), multi-organ failure and death. Suppressing these cytokine elevations maybe a key to
      improved outcomes. Acute and Chronic (repeated) RIC has been shown to benefit in reducing the
      levels cytokines following LPS-induced sepsis in animal models (1). Furthermore, mortality
      was significantly reduced, following chronic RIC administration as opposed to acute RIC
      administration.

      RIC in COVID-19 patients is a pilot, multi-centre, randomised study, designed to ascertain
      whether RIC decreases the severity of inflammatory markers associated with a "storm" score.

      20 adult patients admitted to either The Royal Free or The Lister Hospital (Stevenage) with
      diagnosed COVID-19 will be enrolled into the study, of confirmed but not critical status.
      After enrolment, patients will be randomised (n = 10 per group) 1:1 to receive RIC or no
      adjunctive intervention.

      RIC will consist of 3-4 cycles of cuff inflations to 200 mmHg for 5 min with deflation to 0
      mmHg for another 5 min, which is automatically administered by the pre-programmed cuff. Those
      randomised to the control group will have the blood pressure cuff placed on the arm, but it
      will not be inflated. RIC will be performed daily for 15 days.

      Venous blood will be collected following RIC administration (where possible) and saved for
      the subsequent measurement of inflammatory markers such as TNF, IL-1β, IL-6, and HMGB1 in
      addition to cardiac biomarkers Troponin T and NT pro terminal BNP. All biomarker analysis
      will occur at The Hatter Cardiovascular Institute, UCL.

      The endpoint is area under the curve of inflammatory markers and cardiac biomarkers.
      Secondary endpoint will be the need for intensive care admission or death.

      It would be our intention to use autoRIC devices (CellAegis, Canada) to ascertain whether RIC
      can lower the cytokine response. These devices are specifically designed, blood-pressure
      cuffs pre-programmed for the number of uses required by each patient; the intent being "a
      single patient-multiple use" cuff.
    
  