
    
      This is a prospective, analytical, approximately 6 months long study.

      Population:

      Approximately a 100 patients, scheduled for an elective arthroplasty will be recruited for
      the study:

        -  Males and females above 18 years of age, speaking Hebrew, English or Russian, scheduled
           for an elective unilateral (one joint) primary total joint arthroplasty of hip or knee.

        -  Available for follow up 1.5-2 months after the surgery.

        -  Willing to participate in the study.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Patient above the age of 18 and eligible to provide informed consent.

        2. Scheduled for elective unilateral (one joint), primary total joint arthroplasty of hip
           or knee.

        3. Stepping with the operated leg is allowed after the surgery.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients unwilling to participate.

        2. Patients with complications preventing regular rehabilitation, e.g. Myocardial
           Infarction, Pulmonary Embolism, Pneumonia, and infection or fracture of the joint.

        3. Patients with any complication that prevents stepping with the operated leg.

      Design:

        1. Prior to the scheduled operation, the following data regarding the patient will be
           collected:

             -  Gender, age, height, weight.

             -  Comorbidities (using Katz Score).

             -  Type of scheduled operation.

             -  Involvement by the primary pathology of joints other than the one being operated
                (by patient questioning).

             -  Hemoglobin level at admission.

             -  Self assessed health status (by patient questioning).

             -  Pain perception in the operated leg (using VAS Score).

           In addition, the following tests will be performed:

             -  Evaluation of muscle strength using handgrip machine.

             -  Evaluation of motor functioning level using the TUG test and the Oxford knee and
                hip score.

        2. During the postoperative hospitalization period, hemoglobin and CRP levels will be
           checked, and the patients will be evaluated for complications.

        3. In the follow up visit, the following data will be collected:

             -  Complications after discharge from hospital.

             -  Blood transfusions in this period.

             -  Duration of time in rehabilitation program, and intensity of physiotherapy given.

      During the visit, the following tests will be performed:

        -  Evaluation of muscle strength using handgrip machine.

        -  Evaluation of motor functioning level, similar to the one performed preoperatively,
           using the TUG test and the Oxford knee and hip score.
    
  