
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD), the leading cause of death in the United States (US),
      disproportionately burdens rural communities. CVD prevalence rates for residents of rural
      areas (13.1%) is higher compared to those in urban areas (11.2%) of the US. The proposed
      settings for this research report similar trends in CVD prevalence, where CVD and stroke are
      among the top three leading causes of death. In community health assessments conducted in the
      last three years CVD risk factors such as obesity and hypertension were among the top 10
      health priorities in our target counties. Compared to residents of metropolitan areas, rural
      residents have higher rates of cigarette smoking, obesity, mortality from ischemic heart
      disease, and are physically inactive. These disparities are likely to widen; at the current
      rate, its estimated 50% of individuals in the US will have CVD by 2030.

      Using a community-based participatory research (CBPR) approach, our specific aims for the
      study are to:

        1. Expand and sustain a coalition of community and academic stakeholders to develop
           successful CVD risk prevention strategies in rural communities;

        2. Conduct a mixed-method community needs and assets assessment based on: a) assemble,
           review and assess existing sources of CVD data; b) identification of community strengths
           and resources using a web-based survey of community, faith based, social service and
           healthcare organizations; c) determine the acceptability of components of CVD risk
           reduction EBIs and community members' perceptions of possible targets for intervention
           using focus group interviews; d) determine specific family influences (barriers and
           facilitators) on acceptability of EBI acceptability;

        3. Adapt PREMIER, a multi-component EBI using intervention mapping;

        4. Conduct a small-scale randomized control trial to assess a) efficacy; and, b)
           feasibility and adaption of implementing adapted PREMIER in rural settings.
    
  