
    
      The aim of this proposal is to investigate disturbances of understanding of "emotional
      language" in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. By "emotional langague", the investigators
      mean emotions wich can be drawn from utterances, thanks to affective valence of words or
      phrases, expression of emotional state or prosody. Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder share
      several symptoms, particularly those related to emotional sphere, in such a way that it is
      frequently asked whether these disorders could be formalized on a continuum. Comparing the
      cognitive-emotional functioning of these two kinds of patients should allow identifying
      cognitive markers of the psychotic symptom dimension common in both diseases.

      On the basis of the abundant literature regarding cognitive-emotional functioning in
      schizophrenia and on the more infrequent literature concerning bipolar functioning, the
      investigators hypothesized that the difficulties in processing emotions, in attributing
      intentionality and in integrating information for meaning are markers for the psychotic
      symptom dimension common in both pathologies. To test this hypothesis, the investigators
      chose to investigate language understanding because it can imply a semantic-emotional
      processing and because it necessitates integration processes. The integration processes
      obligatory operate on semantic information, from which it can be added, in ecological
      situations, prosodic and intentional information. The proposed methodology involves different
      levels of language, requiring more or less complex integration processes - literal language
      and figurative language - and different emotional features - affective valence of words and
      expressions and emotional prosody -.

      The investigators plan to conduct behavioral and electrophysiological (event-related
      potentials) studies. For the later, The investigators will focus on electrophysiological
      components well known to be implied in language and emotional processing: the N400, the LPC
      (Late Positive Component) and the LPP (Late Positive Potential). The combination of
      behavioral and electrophysiological indicators will allow the identification of the
      neurocognitive mechanisms shared by both schizophrenic and bipolar patients, particularly
      those who experienced a psychotic episode, in comparison with those of healthy participants.
      These studies will be conducted on 60 stable schizophrenic patients, 60 euthymic bipolar
      patients with or without psychotic symptoms, and 120 healthy participants, matched on age and
      educational achievement level to each pathological group. Different instruments will be used
      to investigate, in both pathological groups and their controls, different emotional
      dimensions (anhedonia, alexithymia, positive or negative affectivity, depression, anxiety).
      Investigating the cognitive-emotional functioning of patients from a dimensional approach
      (psychotic symptom dimension) rather than from a categorical approach could impulse a new way
      of thinking diagnosis or identifying factors of vulnerability and protection for these
      diseases.
    
  