
    
      Down syndrome (DS) is the most common cause of mental retardation due to chromosome anomaly.
      Besides defects in cognition, DS patients after 30 yeas old will have early dementia.
      Etiology of early dementia is known to be related with APP gene dosage triplication that is
      similar to the neuropathological change in Alzheimer disease (AD). It has been known that the
      cognitive degeneration in AD is related with decrement of cholinergic neurons in the brain.
      And the clinical improvement or delay in degeneration of cognitive function after utilization
      of cholinesterase inhibitor had been observed in mild to moderate AD patients. In DS brain,
      it has been also noted to be lower acetylcholine, supporting the relationship of pathology
      between DS and AD. Since 1999, Kishnani et al started to treat adult DS patients with
      cholinesterase inhibitor (Donepezil). Data showed the improvement of cognition and life
      quality in DS patients with dementia. Recently, data showed the low cholinergic neuron in DS
      brain might be a cause of cognitive dysfunction in DS. Therefore, early treatment of
      cholinesterase inhibitor in DS patients had been proposed to alleviate cognitive dysfunction.
      Since 2004, Kishnani et al started to treat DS children with Donepezil and Rivastigmine. Some
      patients showed improvement of language ability, memory, and attention. We are going to
      conduct a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design, 12-month trial.
      Subjects who are enrolled in this study will be randomized into two groups. Each group will
      receive Rivastigmine and placebo in different order for 6 months. Neuropsychological
      assessment including Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales and NEPSY will be evaluated before and
      after medication. Through this, we wish to understand the efficacy of this drug in the role
      of improving cognitive functioning in our patients.
    
  