
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the use of pulsatile lavage to enhance the
      healing of pressure ulcers in individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). It will investigate
      the hypothesis that the treatment of non-necrotic pressure ulcers with pulsatile lavage will
      enhance the rate of healing.

      These goals will be achieved using a repeated-measures double-blinded randomized controlled
      study of individuals with SCI who have pelvic region pressure ulcers. A total of 60 subjects
      will be recruited to this study. Participants will be randomly assigned to a treatment or
      control group. Pulsatile lavage treatment will be administered to the treatment group daily
      for a 3 week period. The control group subjects will receive daily sham pulsatile lavage
      treatment for 3 weeks. All subjects will be monitored for a 3 week period and will continue
      to receive routine pressure ulcer care, i.e. dressings and bedrest with a regular turning
      regime during their participation in the study.

      All study participants will be monitored following the study period until complete closure of
      the pressure ulcer is achieved in order to determine total interval to final closure,
      including any surgical procedures required. In addition, the economic effects of pulsatile
      lavage treatment will be evaluated through monitoring of data collected in CPRS, including
      duration of admission, duration of total bedrest order and duration of treatment for pressure
      ulcer. This data will give an initial measure of the cost benefits that may be achieved with
      the use of pulsatile lavage for the treatment of pressure ulcers.

      Methodology Eligible individuals with SCI who are admitted to CVAMC with pelvic region
      pressure ulcers will be assigned to a pulsatile lavage treatment group or to a second
      non-intervention control group. A comprehensive assessment methodology will be employed to
      characterize pressure ulcer healing. All study participants will be assessed at routine
      intervals using objective measurement techniques. Statistical analysis of inter-group
      differences will allow the efficacy of pulsatile lavage for pressure ulcer healing to be
      established. Forty subjects will be enrolled in the study.

      Patient Selection Criteria: Subjects will be recruited from the Louis Stokes Cleveland
      Veterans Affairs Medical Center (CVAMC). All individuals with spinal cord injury who are
      admitted to the SCI Unit with pelvic region pressure ulcers will be considered eligible for
      this study. Further selection criteria will be employed to screen potential participants as
      described below. On recruitment subjects will be randomly assigned to 2 groups of 20
      subjects. The assessment methods employed will be the same for each volunteer. One group will
      participate in the pulsatile lavage intervention, the second group will act as controls.
    
  