
    
      Trial design:

      The multicentre, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled trial will be conducted in five
      centres: Rzeszów, Kraków, Katowice, Warsaw (2 centres) in a group of 1000 volunteers, health
      care workers (physicians, nurses, midwives, paramedics, laboratory diagnosticians,
      electroradiology technicians, physiotherapists, nutritionists, and orderlies), both women and
      men aged ≥25 years and employed in health care facilities in the above-mentioned cities and
      provinces.

      Planned duration of the trial:

      2-4 weeks -recruitment, inclusion in the trial, RT 23 testing, BCG-10 vaccination 3 months -
      observation after vaccination 18 months, calculated from the date of trial initiation (visit
      no. "0"); during this period the subjects are to provide the Research Team with telephone
      information about possible hospitalisations and other unexpected, sudden or significant
      changes in health.

      Recruitment period:

      Sending invitations to participate in the trial to the healthcare professionals involved as
      well as providing the subjects with " Information for trial participants" leaflets and
      electronic "Informed Consent" forms

      Inclusion in the trial (visit No.0 - V0):):

      • obtaining informed consent to participate in the trial by exchanging electronic information
      and declarations of intent between the centre (investigator) and the individual declaring
      readiness to participate in research with double verification of the subject identity
      /e-mail+SMS/, which is intended to limit direct contacts during the period of COVID-19
      epidemic risk

      Inclusion in the trial (visit No.1 - V1):

        -  Investigator-subject telephone contact (in the days following V0 or directly during the
           same day)

        -  remote verification of the subject according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria,
           history taking regarding demographic characteristics, health status, and previous BCG
           vaccinations)

        -  setting the date of the RT23 test (place, day, time) to minimise the number of direct
           contacts between the research team and the subjects, in accordance with the current
           epidemic recommendations

        -  after the visit, the investigator enters the information obtained into the e-CRF system.
           The details concerning the visit and the scope of information collected are to be
           contained in V1 and V0/1 cards.

        -  after the visit, the investigator enters its results into the medical documentation and
           e-CRF system.

      Running the RT 23 test (visit No.2 - V2):

        -  direct contact following the telephone contact to confirm the subject's health condition

        -  temperature measurement (non-contact thermometer), blood sampling (5 ml) for
           determinations of IgG SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and cytokine levels

        -  photographing the scars after BCG vaccination on the left forearm of the subject
           (without the details of appearance); the photographs are stored in the electronic
           documentation with the number assigned to a particular subject

        -  RT 23 trial initiation

        -  providing the subject with the written informed consent form, participant card, as well
           as the card of contacts, thermometer, and pregnancy test (females) in a sealed plastic
           envelope

        -  the visit will be carried out in accordance with the procedures in force in departments
           of infectious diseases

        -  setting the date (date and time) of the third visit- after 72 hours

        -  after the visit, the investigator will enter its results into the medical documentation
           and e-CRF system.

      RT23 test reading and BCG -10 vaccination (visit No.3-V3)

        -  the direct visit, preceded by the telephone contact to confirm the subject's health
           status

        -  before the visit, the female subjects perform a pregnancy test in the morning hours;
           those with positive results are excluded from the trial

        -  temperature measurement (non-contact thermometer)

        -  the visit will be carried out in accordance with the procedures in force in departments
           of infectious diseases.

        -  reading of the tuberculin test run during visit 2 (according to the criteria) and
           photographing the post-test induration on the left arm of the subject (for documentation
           purposes), no appearance details; the photos are stored in the electronic documentation
           marked with the number given to a particular study subject.

      Positive subjects:

        -  are assigned to Group I, are not randomised and are not vaccinated against tuberculosis

        -  are subjected to a weekly remote medical follow-ups in agreement with the "telephone
           contact card" until the trial completion (3 months from the date of visit 3 of the last
           subject); the follow ups are conducted by the investigator, a member of the research
           team, not participating in visit 3;

        -  when the RT23 test indicates a strongly positive result /induration diameter > 15 mm/,
           the subject is informed to contact his/her family doctor to obtain a referral to a
           pulmonary outpatient clinic.

      Negative subjects:

        -  undergo a physical examination before vaccination performed by the doctor (investigator)

        -  are remotely randomised by the e-CRF IT system to Group II receiving BCG-10 or to
           placebo Group III (control). The subject must not be informed about the group he/she
           belongs to

        -  receive BCG-10 or a placebo in intradermal injections performed by a trained nurse with
           appropriate professional experience

        -  undergo weekly remote medical observations carried out by the investigator not involved
           in visit 3, according to the "telephone contact card", until the trial completion (3
           months from the date of visit 3 of the last subject) Due to trial blindness, the team (a
           doctor and nurse) participating in visits 2 (V2) and 3 (V3) (as unblinded staff) is
           excluded from further contacts with trial subjects and from participating in the trial.

      After the visit, the investigator enters its results into the medical documentation and the
      e-CRF system.

      In the medical records of visit 3 (written and electronic), the result of randomization is
      not disclosed.

      After visit 3, the division of subjects into Groups II and III (randomisation) is recorded
      only in separate written records; the physician participating in visit 2 and 3 sends the
      documentation to the leading centre after the end of visit 3, where it is stored and fully
      protected against access of blinded personnel.

      Blood collection - visit No. 4 (V4):

        -  within 6-8 weeks after visit 3, all subjects are invited by telephone to the place
           designated by the Principal Investigator to take 5 ml blood samples to determine the
           levels of cytokines

        -  blood collection is carried out by a member of the research team appointed by the
           Principal Investigator

        -  after the visit, the investigator enters its results into the e-CRF system.

      Blood collection - visit No. 5 (V5):

        -  three months after visit 3, all subjects are invited by telephone to the place
           designated by the Principal Investigator to take 5 ml blood samples to determine
           SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies and cytokine levels

        -  blood collection is carried out by a member of the research team appointed by the
           Principal Investigator

        -  after the visit, the investigator enters its results into the medical documentation and
           the e-CRF system.

      Remote phone visit

      • carried out for a period of three months between visit 3 (V3) and visit 5 (V5), once a
      week; during this visit the physician (member of the research team) asks questions according
      to the attached phone contact card.

      Interventional visit

        -  will be carried out between visit 3 and visit 5, when the symptoms determined in the
           telephone Contact card appear to indicate a possible SARS-CovV-2 infection.

        -  the trial subject contacts by telephone the investigator conducting a weekly remote
           medical observation, and if the score 3 is obtained during the telephone evaluation of
           health, the mobile team is deployed to the subject

        -  the ambulance takes a swab from the subject's nasopharynx and collects 5 ml of blood for
           cytokine determinations to confirm the infection with this virus or otherwise. The visit
           will be carried out at the subject's place of residence and the material collected will
           be delivered to a respective analytical laboratory

        -  after the visit, the investigator will enter its results into the medical documentation
           and the e-CRF system

      Moreover,

        -  each subject may contact the research centre by phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week

        -  each subject may withdraw from the trial at any time.

        -  when the telephone contact with the subject is infeasible, the research team may use the
           reserve contact indicated by the subject or contact the hospital attending the subject

        -  if the subject develops the symptoms of COVID-19 during the trial, he/she has to adhere
           to the generally applicable rules

        -  at the end of the study, all subjects in groups II and III will be notified
           (individually and confidentially) whether they have received BCG-10 or placebo

        -  when a preliminary result indicates the significant benefits of additional BCG
           vaccination, an additional dose of BCG-10 will be offered to all non-vaccinated
           subjects.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be conducted using MedCalc v17.7 software. The
      quantitative variables will be presented as an arithmetic mean and standard deviation
      (variables with a normal distribution) or median and interquartile range (variables with a
      non-normal distribution/ a skewed distribution). The distribution will be assessed using the
      Shapiro-Wilk test. The qualitative variables will be presented as an absolute value and
      percentage. The inter-group differences for quantitative variables will be evaluated by the
      Student's t-test or analysis of variance (independent samples, variables with a normal
      distribution), and the Mann-Whitney U or Kruskal-Wallis test (independent samples, skewed
      variables).

      In cases where significant inter-group differences have been demonstrated based on the ANOVA
      or Kruskal-Wallis test, a post-hoc analysis will be performed. The significance of
      differences for quantitative dependent variables will be assessed applying the Student t-test
      for dependent samples or the non-parametric equivalent of variance analysis, or the Wilcoxon
      signed-rank or Friedman's rank test (depending on the number of groups and the distribution).
      For unrelated qualitative variables, the chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be
      used, while for related variables the McNemar's test will be applied. The correlation between
      inter-qualitative variables will be analysed using the Pearson correlation analysis or
      Spearman's rank correlation. For selected qualitative dependencies for quality dichotomous
      variables, the odds ratios (or relative risk factors) and their 95% confidence intervals will
      be calculated. The results of simple analyses will be the basis for advanced statistical
      analysis methods, i.e. logistic regression models or multiple regression analyses. Models
      will include variables with p<0.1 in simple analysis will be included in the models mentioned
      above. Moreover, the odds ratios together with 95% confidence intervals (logistic regression)
      or regression coefficients with their standard error (multiple regression) will be estimated.
      Finally, p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Minimum number of trial subjects:

      A/ Assuming that 50% of individuals have negative tuberculin test results when alpha=0.05 and
      measurement precision=5%, a group of at least 384 subjects (~400) should be recruited.
      Assuming a 10 % loss of subjects between the initiation and reading of the tuberculin test,
      the group subjected to the tuberculin test should contain at least 450 people.

      B/ Assuming a 10% difference in endpoint occurrence (disease) when alpha=0.05 is expected, at
      least 193 individuals in each group (~200) should be examined. Given the loss to follow -up
      of 10 %, each group (study and control) should include at least 220 individuals.

      C/ In conclusion, considering all the above calculations, at least 880 individuals (~900)
      should be included in the trial. Given that 10% of subjects will not give their informed
      consent to participate in the trial, at least 990 individuals (~1000) should be invited to
      the project.

      Note: Six weeks after the inclusion of the last subject, the number of serious adverse events
      (SAEs) in each group is to be analysed in order to decide whether to continue the follow-up
      or to administer the BCG vaccine to all non-vaccinated subjects.

      Data analysed:

        1. Incidence and deaths rates in the study group

        2. Additionally:

             -  documented SARS-CoV-2 infection

             -  duration of symptoms

             -  types of symptoms and their frequency

             -  average duration of domestic isolation

             -  maintenance of body temperature ≥37.5oC, in the ranges of:

                  1. 37.5C-38.0C

                  2. 38.1C-39.0C

                  3. more than 39C

             -  in the case of hospitalisation: length of treatment, including possible ICU stay,
                ventilator therapy, complications, death.

        3. group characteristics:

             -  date of inclusion (date of signing informed consent to participate in the trial)

             -  age (month, year of birth)

             -  gender

             -  body weight, height, BMI

             -  province of residence (Podkarpackie, Małopolska, Silesian, Mazovian)

             -  workplace (department, ER, outpatient clinic, analytical laboratory)

             -  profession (physician, nurse, midwife, paramedic, laboratory diagnostician,
                nutritionist, electroradiology technician, physiotherapist, orderly)

             -  working hours per month, number of jobs during the pandemic

             -  shift work (YES/NO)

             -  percentage of hours of direct contact with the patient (four intervals <25%,
                25-50%, 50-75%, >75%)

             -  cardiovascular diseases: hypertension, ischaemic heart disease, post-myocardial
                infarct condition, atrial fibrillation, chronic heart failure, others - which ones?

             -  respiratory diseases: asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
                interstitial lung disease, others- which ones?

             -  diseases of the nervous system: epilepsy, post-stroke condition, polyneuropathy,
                others- which ones?

             -  diseases of the osteoarticular system: osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis,
                others- which ones?

             -  diseases of the gastrointestinal system: liver diseases - list them, bowel
                diseases- list them, pancreatic diseases- list them, others: which ones?

             -  kidney disease: chronic kidney disease, kidney stones, others- which ones?

             -  diabetes: type 1; type 2: diet/insulin?

             -  autoimmune diseases: which ones?

             -  other chronic diseases: which ones?

             -  neoplastic diseases: which ones? how treated? when?

             -  smoking: pack-year? E-cigarettes: years?

             -  allergies: which ones?

             -  BCG vaccinations to this day.

      Laboratory tests during the trial:

        1. standard planned blood test during visit 2 (running the RT23 test,) -collection of 5 ml
           of blood (determination of the presence of SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies, determination of
           the level of cytokines regulating cellular immunity - hereinafter referred to as the
           cytokine level)

        2. within 6-8 weeks after BCG vaccination, collection of 5 ml of blood for cytokine level
           determinations

        3. after the completion of follow-ups (3 months after the last study participant was
           included), collection of 5 ml of blood (for determination of IgG antibody levels,
           SARS-CoV-2 virus, and cytokine levels).

        4. if COVID-19 symptoms occur in the subject:

             1. the subject eligible for hospitalisation will be urgently (emergently) hospitalised
                due to COVID-19 and tested according to the procedures in force in the hospital;
                moreover, each subject will receive an identifier (similar to ID) with information
                about participation in the trial and a request to the personnel assuming care of
                the subject to inform the research team and secure samples (5 ml of blood for
                cytokine determination and a swab from the nasopharynx for the SARS-CovV-2 genetic
                material testing)

             2. in the case of the subject not eligible for hospitalisations with symptoms
                suggestive of the infection but not requiring hospitalisation, symptoms and their
                duration will be noted and during the intervention visit 5 ml of blood will be
                sampled for cytokine determinations and a nasopharyngeal swab will be taken for
                testing whether SARS-CoV-2 genetic material is present or otherwise. The material
                will be collected at the subject's home in accordance with the safety procedure.

                Methodology of laboratory tests Laboratory blood tests for determinations of
                SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies and cytokine levels will be carried out..

                Procedure - collection and transport of material to the laboratory preparing it for
                banking

                • Collection of nasopharyngeal swabs for SARS CoV-2 genetic material testing using
                the RT-qPCR test and blood sampling to assess cytokine and/or IgG levels

                Criteria for completion of the trial

                According to its program, the trial will last for a period of 3 months from the
                date of visit No. 3 (administration of the vaccine) to the date of visit 5 (blood
                collection for determinations of IgG SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and cytokine levels).

                Over the next 15 months, the subjects will be asked to provide the Research Team
                with telephone information about possible hospitalizations and other unexpected,
                sudden or significant changes in their health.

                The trial will be completed after the last visit of the last subject and after the
                results serological and genetic tests (PCR-SARS) are available, approximately 8
                months after its initiation.

                The observation of possible SAEs reported by the subjects will be completed 18
                months after the commencement of the trial.
    
  