
    
      Background:

      Antibiotics are used routinely in postoperative tissue expander based breast reconstruction
      (TE) and autologous flap (AF) breast reconstruction procedures. Closed suction drains are
      also used routinely in immediate breast reconstruction to prevent fluid accumulation and
      seroma formation at the surgical sites. Antibiotics are most often prescribed as a precaution
      because drains may serve as an open channel to outside contaminants. Plastic surgery patients
      without closed suction drainage devices are usually not placed on prolonged postoperative
      antibiotics. Current preoperative surgical antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended for up to 24
      hours only. These recommendations do not take into account the increased risk of indwelling
      closed suction drains.

      Current plastic surgery literature does not provide recommendations or consensus for
      antibiotic discontinuation following immediate breast reconstruction. A recent survey
      conducted of 650 plastic surgeons showed that 98% of respondents give preoperative
      antibiotics, while 91% provide antibiotics for up to 24 hours. Additionally, 71% of
      respondents prescribe postoperative outpatient antibiotics. There was a divide of when to
      discontinue antibiotics among plastic surgeons who gave them postoperatively. 46% preferred
      to continue antibiotics until drain removal, while 52% preferred a specific postoperative
      day, most commonly day 5 or 7.

      In the same survey, the majority (97%) of surgeons use IV Cefazolin as the choice for
      preoperative prophylaxis and oral Cephalexin (75.4%) and Cefadroxil (14.3%) for outpatient
      antibiotics. Currently at Stony Brook University Medical Center, patients normally receive 24
      hours of IV Cefazolin, followed by postoperative antibiotic prescription for Cefadroxil.
      Antibiotics are discontinued when the final drain is removed.

      The study plans to prospectively enroll patients who will undergo immediate breast
      reconstruction with TE or AF based breast reconstruction. Using the above data and the
      current protocol, the investigators will investigate the optimal antibiotic discontinuation
      period for these patients. The investigators will randomize these patients into two groups.
      One group will receive the current antibiotic regimen of 24 hours of IV Cefazolin, followed
      by outpatient Cefadroxil. Antibiotics will be discontinued for this group once the final
      drain is removed. The other group will only receive 24 hours of IV Cefazolin without any
      additional outpatient antibiotics, as is recommended for elective clean surgeries. In
      patients with penicillin allergies or sensitivity, clindamycin, IV and oral is used. The same
      randomization will apply in these patients.

      Rationale for early discontinuation of postoperative antibiotics:

      Studies have associated prolonged antimicrobial prophylaxis with development of resistant
      bacterial strains following surgical procedures. No evidence has been reported supporting
      practices of continuing antibiotics until drains are removed. A single dose of preoperative
      IV antibiotics has been suggested to be sufficient prophylaxis for most breast surgery
      patients discharged home with drains.
    
  