
    
      Denosumab discontinuation is associated with a rebound effect in bone turnover and loss in
      bone mass density. These changes resulted in an increase of fracture incidence in patients
      with postmenopausal osteoporosis back to background levels. However, no excess in fracture
      incidence was observed. Amongst patients who presented with vertebral fractures after
      treatment discontinuation, there was a slightly higher incidence of multiple vertebral
      fractures in patients discontinuing Prolia versus those who discontinued the placebo
      treatment.

      A 2 year, randomized, crossover study demonstrated that alendronate intake after
      discontinuing denosumab treatment, lead to remaining stable bone mass densitometry (BMD)
      values in postmenopausal women.

      In a study within a non-osteoporotic study population, ongoing at our department, increases
      in bone turnover are to be expected as soon as patients end study participation (i.e. open
      label treatment with denosumab, Prolia, anti-RANK ligand inhibition).

      It is currently recommended that alternative anti-resorptive therapy may be warranted after
      Prolia discontinuation. One study describes the use of oral alendronate after denosumab
      therapy to maintain bone mineral density. However, gastro-intestinal upset and tolerability,
      as well as difficulty in swallowing pills may limit oral alendronate compliance. To attenuate
      this concern, buffered soluble (effervescent) alendronate 70 mg, developed with the aim to
      improve the gastrointestinal tolerability through full dissolution of alendronate in buffered
      palatable solution before ingestion, will be used.

      This study wants to provide a follow up and study wether the use of effervescent alendronate
      after previous denosumab treatment can prevent a rebound effect in bone turnover that is to
      be expected when denosumab is discontinued. Subjects that completed our erosive hand OA study
      and therefore discontinued denosumab 60 mg/every 3 months, will receive alendronate.
      Moreover, the study wants to asses if there is difference between using alendronate for six
      or twelve months, starting at the earliest three months but no later than four months after
      the last injection of denosumab.
    
  