
    
      Infants with congenital gastrointestinal anomalies (CGIA) including gastroschisis,
      omphalocele, esophageal and bowel atresias, tracheoesophageal fistulas, Hirschsprung's
      disease, and congenital diaphragmatic hernias, account for ~7 in 10,000 live births. Early in
      life, these infants undergo major surgery under general anesthesia followed by a prolonged
      period of inadequate nutrition, exposure to post-operative pain medications and antibiotics,
      and parental separation. Despite exposure to these risk factors for future growth failure and
      neurodevelopmental delay, growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes have not been well described
      in this group of at-risk infants. Preliminary findings in preschool-age children with CGIA
      suggest that these children have slower speed of processing compared to healthy children and
      that increased fat-free mass (FFM) at preschool age is associated with higher cognitive test
      scores. However, no studies to date have described the longitudinal relationship between
      growth, body composition, nutrition, inflammation, and neurodevelopmental outcomes in infants
      with CGIA. To address this research gap, the investigators propose to conduct a prospective
      cohort study enrolling infants with CGIA to measure their growth and development over time.
      Infant growth and body composition will be measured at or near term and at 4 months corrected
      age.

      The investigators hypothesize that infants with CGIA will undergo a period of rapid catch-up
      growth early in life, and infants who demonstrate better catch-up growth will have better
      neurodevelopmental outcomes compared to infants that do not experience catch-up growth. At 4
      months corrected age, early neurologic outcomes will be measured using event related
      potentials (ERP). Clinical information including nutrient intake, inflammatory markers, and
      medications received will be gathered throughout the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU)
      hospitalization to assess the impact physiologic stressors have on changes in body
      composition and cognitive outcomes.

      The objective of this study is to determine the impact of early nutrition, inflammation,
      physiologic stress, growth, and body composition on later neurodevelopmental outcomes in
      infants requiring neonatal surgery for CGIA.

      Specific aims include:

      Aim 1. To determine if infants with CGIA requiring neonatal surgery have altered body
      composition growth patterns compared to healthy infants.

      Aim 1a. To determine if early physiologic stress and/or malnutrition are associated with
      altered body composition in infants with CGIA compared to healthy infants.

      Hypothesis: CGIA infants with increased early nutritional intake and decreased inflammation
      will have greater FFM gains and more appropriately mimic the growth of healthy comparison
      infants.

      Aim 2. To determine if FFM gains in infancy are associated with improved neurodevelopmental
      outcomes among infants with CGIA.

      Hypothesis: Greater FFM gains from birth to 4 months corrected age will be associated with
      faster speed of processing and better recognition memory among infants with CGIA.

      The investigators hypothesize that early exposure to physiologic stressors impact the
      framework of the developing brain leading to long-lasting changes in development and that FFM
      accretion is an important biomarker of long-term outcomes for this population. The
      investigators hope to discover methods to better identify those infants at risk for poor
      neurodevelopmental outcomes and provide improved recommendations regarding nutritional and
      educational interventions that will ensure these infants achieve their full potential. These
      findings could also be used to encourage local and national NICU follow-up programs to expand
      beyond the follow-up of preterm infants to include high-risk populations such as infants born
      with CGIA. In addition, this proposed study could greatly impact community population health
      by optimizing growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes in children previously hospitalized in
      NICUs.
    
  