
    
      The participants, from both groups will spend a whole day at St. Justine's hospital. Upon
      arrival after an overnight fast, vital signs and anthropometric measures are taken. Then
      blood and urine are obtained as well and a pregnancy test is performed for women. After
      inserting a intravenous catheter, around 55 mL of blood is taken and sent to the biochemistry
      department and to our laboratory. A oral glucose tolerance test is also performed with blood
      sampling over 2hours.

      Then a renal and carotid ultrasounds, as well as a osteodensitometry test (bone mineral
      density and body muscle/fat composition) are done. Ophtalmology exam is realized by
      ophtalmologist, including visual acuity, contrast and fundus photograph, then the
      participants are provided with a standardized light lunch.

      A thorough cardiac ultrasound, as well as assessment of major arteries (aorta, carotid,
      brachial) structure and function are performed. Pulmonary function tests are done before a
      fitness test for VO2 max, and repeated with bronchodilatator after the fitness test.

      Prior to leaving, participants are given a ambulatory blood pressure monitor for them to
      carry for 24 consecutive hours over the following 2 days.

      Prior to the study day, participants are sent questionnaires to be filled in advance by
      themselves and by each of their parent. During the study day, other questionnaires regarding
      their lifestyles and medical condition are also filled. Overall, information is obtained
      about:

      (1) Socio-economic status: Occupation, education level and income of participant and parents.
      (2) Family history: Parental health (including maternal pregnancies) and familial (1st and
      2nd degree) premature history of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), type-2 diabetes, chronic
      pulmonary or renal diseases. (3) Personal medical history: Current medication use (including
      anti-inflammatory medications), medical history, current symptoms, and growth parameters from
      birth to present (according to medical records and child health care booklet), age at
      menarche.

      (4) Health-related behaviors: (a) regular physical activities (Minnesota and Huet validated
      questionnaires) (b) Smoking and alcohol consumption. (c) Diet assessed through the validated
      and self-administered 73-item Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ). (d) SF-36 Health Survey.

      In addition to the study protocol, the subjects are invited to contribute extra biosamples to
      our blood (3 ml) and urine (1 ml) biobank.
    
  