
    
      Central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia (CCCA) is a scarring, inflammatory alopecia seen
      more commonly in women of African descent. The distinct pathophysiology of CCCA is poorly
      understood, but it is known to involve inflammation directed at the upper part of the hair
      follicle where the stem cells and sebaceous gland are located. If the stem cells and
      sebaceous gland are destroyed, there is no possibility for regeneration of the hair follicle,
      and permanent hair loss results. This form of scarring alopecia occurs mainly on the vertex
      of the scalp, and spreads peripherally, and can lead to baldness. In our dermatology clinics,
      our investigators see 5-10 patients per week for evaluation and treatment of CCCA.

      Currently, treatment is focused on decreasing inflammation and halting the progression of
      disease. This typically consists of topical and intralesional corticosteroid therapy and
      anti-inflammatory antibiotics. Hair transplantation is the only treatment option for patients
      with end-stage CCCA, and has been performed in a small number of patients but the results
      have been disappointing with low graft survival rates and slow regrowth of the transplanted
      hair. In addition, hair transplantation of the curved hair follicles found in patients of
      African descent is difficult and requires specific expertise.

      A study by Ito et al showed de novo hair follicle formation after wounding in genetically
      normal adult mice. The regenerated hair follicles were fully functional, in that they
      established a stem cell population, expressed known molecular markers of follicle
      differentiation, and produced a hair shaft that progressed normally through all stages of the
      hair follicle cycle. It is hypothesized that the regenerated hair follicles likely arise when
      epithelial cells in the wound assume a hair follicle stem cell phenotype, possibly under the
      influence of Wnt signaling.

      The CO2 laser has been used extensively in dermatological surgery over the past 30 years and
      is now recognized as the gold standard for soft tissue vaporization. CO2 laser beam heats and
      vaporizes the skin tissue, instantly removing the superficial layers of the skin. Each
      fractional micro-spot creates a thermal zone. Intact cells around the treated area help
      during the healing process which in turn, induces cell regeneration. This likely occurs
      through dsRNA released during wounding. The investigators have recently found that retinoids,
      such as the tretinoin (retin-A) used in acne, can synergize with dsRNA and promote extra Wnt
      signaling.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that wounding of the area of scarring alopecia in
      CCCA, using a fractionated CO2 laser in combination with retinoid acid, will induce hair
      follicle regeneration.
    
  