
    
      Obstetric haemorrhage remains one of the major causes of maternal death in both developed and
      developing countries. Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) is defined as a blood loss >500 ml more of
      blood from the genital tract within 24 hours of the birth of a baby. PPH can be minor
      (500-1000 ml) or major (more than 1000 ml). The most frequent cause of PPH is uterine atony,
      contributing up to 80 % of the PPH cases.

      Risk factors of atonic PPH include multiple pregnancy, placenta previa, previous PPH, body
      mass index (BMI) >30, prolonged labour, fetal macrosomia>4kg and primipara> 40 years.

      Oxytocin is currently the uterotonic of first choice. It has proven to decrease the incidence
      of PPH by 40 % and has a rapid onset of action and a good safety profile. A disadvantage of
      oxytocin is its short half-life of 4-10 min, regularly requiring a continuous intravenous
      infusion or repeated intramuscular injections. Despite decades of empirical use in clinical
      practice, there are no trials comparing ergometrine and oxytocin as first-line agents for the
      treatment (rather than prevention) of PPH.

      The study will be conducted in Cairo university hospitals and BeniSuef university hospitals.
      All patients attending the labour ward will be invited to participate in the study, the
      invitation will include a clear full explanation of the study. Only patients signing informed
      written consents will participate in the study.

      200 women with PPH will be randomly divided into 2 equal groups using computer generated
      random numbers. Group 1 will receive Ergometrine 400µgm (Methergin® Novartis, Switzerland)
      and group 2 will receive oxytocin 10 IU (Syntocinon®, Novartis, Switzerland). The
      investigators will not include a control group for ethical reasons.

      Once atonic PPH is diagnosed, 2 14-gauge cannulas will be inserted and a crystalloid
      intravenous (iv) infusion will be started. The allocated drug will be diluted in 10ml saline
      and will be given slowly iv, the fundus will be rubbed, A Foley's catheter will be inserted
      and a fluid balance chart will be commenced, pulse and blood pressure will be recorded every
      15 minutes, venepuncture will be done for cross matching 4 units of blood, full blood count
      and coagulation screen.

      The uterine tone and amount of bleeding will be noted and the need for further uterotonic
      agents will be determined 2 minutes after giving the drug. Blood loss will be estimated
      through weighing the swabs and using pictorial charts. Blood haemoglobin will be assessed 24
      hours after delivery.
    
  