
    
      A randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial will be conducted to evaluate the impact of
      Cinnamonforce™ on different serum markers related to diabetes and lipid management.
      Cinnamonforce™ is a proprietary blend of Cinnamomum aromaticum and Cinnamomum verum bark
      containing 47 mg of hydroethanolic extract (min. 8% total phenolics) and 23 mg supercritical
      extract (min. 35% cinnamaldehyde) per capsule. Based on inclusion and exclusion criteria
      outlined in 13A, seventy (70) participants will be randomized using a computer-derived random
      number generator to the treatment group where they will receive Cinnamonforce™ or to the
      control group where they will receive a placebo. The manufacturer of Cinnamonforce™, New
      Chapter, will generate the treatment allocations and retain these in sealed opaque envelopes
      until the end of the trial. Patients, investigators, and statisticians will be blinded until
      the end of the trial. Participants will be administered 140 mg of Cinnamonforce™ twice daily
      or placebo of identical size, shape, colour and odour. Patients will be instructed to take
      two capsules (140 mg) at the end of each of the two largest meals of the day for 3 months.
      Compliance will be assessed by pill count.Participants will be asked to come in for
      assessment at predefined time points including: baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and end
      point (13 weeks). At each time point, objective and subjective measurements will be obtained.

      The primary objective measures will consist of fasting blood glucose, insulin and HA1C.
      Secondary biochemical measures will include a lipid panel (total cholesterol,triglycerides,
      HDL and LDL). Other secondary objective measures will consist of blood pressure, weight, body
      mass index (BMI), waist/hip measurements, patient self-monitoring of blood glucose and
      homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) calculations. Liver and kidney
      toxicity of the intervention will be assessed through serum measurements of a liver panel
      (AST, ALT, total protein, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin and direct
      bilirubin), creatinine and blood-urea-nitrogen (BUN). Coagulability effects will be measured
      (PT, PTT, fibrinogen). Subjective tolerability of the treatment and reported adverse effects
      will also be included as secondary outcomes. Another secondary outcome will consist of
      subjective scores from self-reported questionnaires,i.e. Diabetes-39, SF-36.
    
  