
    
      This was a randomised, evaluator-blinded, comparative, parallel group, multicentre study,
      conducted in four countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden). For each subject, the
      primary efficacy assessments using MAS were performed by the same blinded evaluator, and
      every effort was made at each site to ensure that the MAS evaluator was the same person
      throughout the study. Dysport doses were to follow clinical practice for subjects suffering
      from upper limb spasticity position pattern type 1, 3 or 4 post stroke or traumatic brain
      injury.

      The hypothesis for this study was that one low-concentration botulinum neurotoxin type A
      (BoNT-A) injection per muscle, centrally located in the area/band of the NMJ zones, would
      spread to and block the surrounding NMJ zones and be as effective as the technique used today
      in clinical practice. The possibility to reduce the number of injection points would decrease
      the risk of injection discomfort, pain and injection site bleeding for the patient. A
      simplified injection technique with one injection per muscle and in a defined location would
      also benefit physicians.

      At Baseline (Visit 1), subjects were randomised to one of two treatment groups:

        -  Group 1: Current clinical practice technique and high-concentration dilution: Dysport
           300 U/mL.

        -  Group 2: NMJ targeted technique and low-concentration dilution: Dysport 100 U/mL.

      Each subject visited the clinic on at least three occasions:

        -  Baseline (Visit 1): Screening, randomisation and Dysport treatment.

        -  Week 4 (Visit 2): Treatment follow-up, 4 weeks after Dysport treatment.

        -  Week 12 (Visit 3): Treatment and study follow-up, 12 weeks after Dysport treatment.

      For subjects not receiving any post study BoNT-A injection at Week 12 due to remaining
      treatment effect, an extra visit (Visit 4) for study follow-up was to take place at the next
      routine visit planned for a new BoNT-A injection, at the latest 24 weeks post study
      injection.

      The duration of each subject's study period was at a minimum 12 weeks and maximum 24 weeks.
      The overall duration of the study was planned to be approximately 36 months.
    
  