
    
      Sample size:

      To our knowledge, no studies were performed to evaluate the impact of production pressure on
      anesthesiologists nor on how to emulate production pressure in a simulated environment.
      Although it is known that production pressure affects negatively healthcare workers'
      performance, it remains difficult to predict its impact on a scoring system such as the RAPS
      assessment tool. Therefore, we used a convenience sample based on the number of residents and
      staffs anesthesiologists who agreed to participate. Using the t value and the
      degrees-of-freedom of the unpaired t-test, the investigators calculated the effect size (r)
      to characterize the magnitude of the effect and evaluate if the sample size is enough to
      answer the research hypothesis. An r value of around 0.2 was considered a "weak" effect, 0.5
      "medium", and 0.8 "strong". We intend to recruit between 10 to 20 participants in each group.

      Scenario:

      Participants were asked to obtain consent and perform a single shot infraclavicular
      ultrasound guided block on a 50 year old woman with mild COPD. The simulation took place in
      situ in a regional anesthesia block room. Upon entering the room, the anesthesiology
      evaluation was already completed. A CAE infraclavicular block simulator was installed on a
      simulated patient. A simulated anesthesiology nurse was also present to assist only. All
      preparation steps and safety measures had to be initiated by the participant. Participants in
      the intervention group were exposed to 4 standardized pre-recorded audio interventions,
      encouraging them to proceed faster. The choice of these interventions was based on articles
      and surveys detailing the common sources of production pressure for the anesthesiologist.

      Data collection:

      Performances were filmed in order to be reviewed by three regional anesthesia experts.
      Participants were then asked to fulfill a questionnaire in another room. This form included a
      validated task load index grid (NASA) to quantify the amount of stress experienced,
      demographic data and a realism score.
    
  