
    
      Background/Rationale: In a 2005 report 'From Cancer Patient to Cancer Survivor: Lost in
      Transition', the Institute of Medicine recommended that cancer patients completing treatment
      receive a summary of the care received and a plan outlining follow-up care needs. Taken
      together these materials are referred to as a 'Survivorship Care Plan', or SCPs. Based on
      this recommendation from the IOM, a number of organizations developed survivorship care plan
      templates. Two of these templates, 'Survivorship Care Plan Builder' and 'My Care Plan,' were
      developed by Journey Forward, a collaboration among the National Coalition for Cancer
      Survivorship, UCLA Cancer Survivorship Center, Oncology Nursing Society, WellPoint, Inc., and
      Genentech (http://journeyforward.org/). These tools are available free of charge to those
      wishing to use them. As the time and effort required to complete SCP documents have been
      found to be barriers to implementation, this study aims to explore the use of these two
      tools.

      Research Questions:

        1. What processes are undertaken to implement survivorship care planning?

             -  How do these processes differ between the patient-initiated My Care Plan and
                provider-initiated Survivorship Care Plan Builder?

        2. What is the feasibility of implementing survivorship care planning?

             -  Does the feasibility differ between the patient-initiated My Care Plan and
                provider-initiated Survivorship Care Plan Builder?

        3. What is the value of survivorship care planning to both patients and providers?

             -  Does the value differ between the patient-initiated My Care Plan and
                provider-initiated Survivorship Care Plan Builder?

      Study Design: This is a pilot randomized study. Cancer patients completing acute treatment
      with a participating provider will be randomized to either the patient-initiated My Care Plan
      tool or provider-initiated Survivorship Care Plan Builder. The investigators will describe
      and compare how each tool is implemented in practice, the feasibility of completing each
      tool, and the value of the tools to patients and providers. The study will use quantitative
      and qualitative measures of implementation, feasibility, and value.
    
  