
    
      Introduction. At the beginning of the 21st century, cancer is increasing in the aging
      population and patients often have a greater life expectancy than they did 40 years ago
      (Payne et al 2004). As people age, and the incidence of cancer increases, it is essential to
      push the frontiers of oncology care to meet the symptom management needs of these patients.
      For many, cancer has become a slowly progressive, chronic disease - a change that brings with
      it particular challenges for oncology nurses (Hoskin and Makin 1998). A systematic review of
      the effectiveness of that the silver-releasing dressing in the management of infected chronic
      wounds can help enhance control of wound bed infection and inflammation, tissue management,
      moisture balance, and protect wound edge. This study is designed to assess the effects of
      ionic silver dressing (AQUACEL Ag) in head and neck patients with malignant fungating wound
      (MFW) on the quality of life, symptom distress and wound bed changed of patients with MFW

      Definition of MFW. Malignant Fungating wounds arise as a result of infiltration of the
      structures of the skin by malignant cells. These cells may arise from primary skin cancer, an
      underlying malignant tumor or through metastasis spread from a distant malignant
      tumor(Punder, 1998).A fungating cancer is a primary or secondary malignant growth in the skin
      which has ulcerated and results in pain, exudates, bleeding, infection and malodour(Twycross,
      1995) .A malignant tumor will invade and destroy adjacent tissues and can spread to other
      tissues with in cells that break off and travel in the blood or lymph system. It can develop
      its own blood supply, sometime outgrowing it and causing the tumor to become necrotic in the
      middle(Mera, 1997).Dealey(1994) states that, as the tumor extends, capillaries rupture,
      leading to epithelium results in ulceration through the skin, and lesions presents as a
      fungating, foul-smelling mass(Daeley, 1994).Fungating malignant wounds are caused by the
      infiltration of the skin and its supporting blood and lymph vessels by a local tumor or as a
      result of metastasis growth from the primary tumor. Unless the malignant cells are checked by
      single or combination cancer treatments the fungation extends with the potential for causing
      massive damage at the wound site through a combination of proliferate growth, loss of
      vascularity and ulceration(Mortimer, 1998) .A fungating wound is defined as a cancerous
      lesion involving the skin, which is open and may be draining. The lesion may be result of a
      primary cancer or metastasis to the skin from a local tumor or from a tumor in a distant
      site. It may take the form of a cavity, an open area on the surface of the skin, skin
      nodules, or a nodular growth extending from the surface of the skin(British Columbia Cancer
      Agency, 2001) .As the malignant cells multiply in the skin they form a tumour that enlarges
      causing disruption of skin capillaries and lymph vessels, eventually leading to tissues
      Hypoxia and subsequent skin necrosis.

      Infection control of MFW. All chronic wounds contain bacteria. Kingsley(2003) state that the
      change in numbers of bacteria and the body's response as a continuum, rating from
      contamination to infection(Kingsley, 2003). Contamination is mean that the bacteria present
      on the wound surface but are not proliferating and have no clinic effect; colonised imply
      bacteria have proliferated, but there is no host reaction; critical colonisation occurs where
      the body's local host response starts to be initiated, but there are no systemic sign of
      infection; Infection is point in time when the bacteria have multiplying and invaded deeper
      tissues, healing is impaired and produced a systemic host reaction(Jacqui. Fletcher, 2005;
      Verdu Soriano , Rueda Lopez, Martinez Cuervo, & Soldevilla Agreda 2004) .

      Clinical recognition of these rating stages is not easy because there are no clear
      descriptors. However, Soriano et al (2004) defined classification according to the number of
      bacteria present in the wound bed: Contamination-≦103 colony-forming unit (CFUs) per gram of
      tissues; colonised -≦104 CFUs ; Infection -≧105 CFUs. Cutting and White noted several aspects
      of wound infection such as: serous drainage with concurrent inflammation, discoloured
      granulation tissue, pocketing at the wound base, unexpected pain , foul odour, increase in
      exudates, exudates that becomes purulent instead of serous, and wound breakdown(White &
      Cutting, 2006).

      In the MFW, the presence of hypoxic necrotic tissues within the wound provides an excellent
      medium for growth of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria(J. Clark, 2002). Anaerobic and aerobic
      bacteria thrive in these conditions, giving rise to excessive malodour wound
      exudates(Haisfield-Wolfe & Rund 1997). Lo et al (2006) survey of seventy cancer patients with
      MFW in Taiwan, the study found that the 60.3% wound bed presented necrotic tissue ; malodour
      was present in 50% of patients ; 81.4% shows moderate to large exudates and 71.4% reported
      purulent(Lo, 2006). According above the data, infection has emerged as a major health problem
      during the patient suffers MFW.

      Ionic silver dressing. Silver, in its common ionic (active) form (Ag+), is particularly
      attractive as an antibacterial agent because it can be readily incorporated into dressing
      materials. When the materials contact an aqueous environment, the silver complex contained in
      them is dissociated (Ovington 2004, White & Cutting 2006). The mechanism of action for Ag+ is
      that it binds to bacterial cell DNA, and enzymes, and proteins in the cell wall. Once the
      silver cation attaches to these sites, it alters their structure, resulting in structural and
      functional changes in the bacterial cell (Ovington 2004).It is suggested by numerous authors
      that silver dressings should be utilized when critical colonization within a wound occurs
      (Ovington 2004, White & Cutting 2006, Lo et al 2008). Therefore, this study research
      questions is (1)What are the effects of ionic silver dressing (AQUACEL Ag)in head and neck
      patients with malignant fungating wound, as compared to hydrofiber dressing(AQUACEL), on the
      individual perception subjective quality of life?(2) What are the effects of ionic silver
      dressing (AQUACEL Ag) in head and neck patients with malignant fungating wound, as compared
      to hydrofiber dressing (AQUACEL) alone, on the symptom distress and wound bed changed of
      patients receiving ionic silver dressing (AQUACEL Ag) for cancer patients?
    
  