
    
      This clinical investigation will be conducted as a prospective, non-randomized, multicenter
      study. The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate that the TSolution One System is
      safe and effective for use as an alternative to manual planning and sawing/cutting
      techniques. The primary effectiveness objective of this study is to demonstrate that the
      TSolution One® System is effective for use as an alternative to manual planning and
      sawing/cutting techniques by comparing the rate of malalignment for mechanical axis greater
      than 3° at 3 months to the rate reported in the literature (i.e. 32%) and to demonstrate
      significant clinical benefit by reducing the number of malaligned patients by at least 50%
      (i.e. from 32% to ≤ 16%). The safety objective of this study is based on the rate of
      intraoperative and postoperative TKA complications, with a follow-up period of no less than 6
      months and no more than 12 months, and to compare this rate to the rate reported in the
      literature. The secondary objective of this study is to summarize the distribution of
      improvements in patients' self-reported assessment of postoperative function and
      quality-of-life from baseline to a maximum of 12 months. Additionally, other preoperative
      planning alignment goals (e.g. Knee V-V Alignment; Femoral Joint Line Alignment Angle; Tibial
      Joint Line Alignment Angle; Tibial Slope Angle) will be compared to the post-operative
      alignment at 3 months.

      Investigators will recruit subjects from patients in their practice who require unilateral
      total knee arthroplasty. Patients will be screened to identify eligible candidates based on
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria. A total of one hundred fifteen (115) patients will be
      enrolled in the study across the participating sites. All patients will sign an informed
      consent form prior to participating in the study.

      Prior to undergoing the investigational procedure, the patients will complete baseline
      surveys of function and quality of life (Knee Society Score survey and the SF-12 Health
      Survey) and have baseline radiographs and a CT scan of the knee.

      Each patient will then undergo robotic-assisted total knee arthroplasty with the TSolution
      One® System. The investigators will evaluate intra- and postoperative complications.
      Postoperative radiographs and a CT scan will be used to measure limb alignment using a
      standardized radiographic evaluation protocol. Each patient will complete a postoperative
      Knee Society Score survey and the SF-12 Health Survey to assess functional outcomes and
      quality-of-life following the investigational procedure.
    
  