
    
      The goals of the current study will be to demonstrate time-linked headache pain after
      super-selectively administration of vasodilatory medications to external carotid artery
      branches, and then observe vessel changes and presumed headache relief with transient
      occlusion of the same vessel. This work will be the first study to attempt to correlate the
      onset of headache pain with selective vessel dilation as seen on angiography, which has
      spatial and temporal resolution far superior to MRA imaging. It will also test the effect of
      transient vessel occlusion in this setting for possible relief of symptoms. This novel
      approach to migraine evaluation could advance the understanding of the disorder and steer
      future research towards more effective management of migraine pain. Only patients who have
      failed all medical and non-invasive therapies will be considered for this study.

      Subjects will be evaluated by history and physical during a clinic visit for their migraines
      and the 'pre-angiography' screening will be performed at that time. A thorough history of
      their migraine symptomatology, if they agree to participate, will be obtained via
      questionnaire, including: severity, location, quality, alleviating and exacerbating symptoms,
      medications used, associated symptoms, frequency, and degree of debilitation. This
      information will be collected regarding their migraines uniquely for this study. The patients
      will also be given a headache log with each one of these measures as a column with space in
      each row to describe individual migraine episodes between their first clinic visit and their
      angiogram date. After this clinic visit, they will be scheduled for angiography between 2 and
      4 weeks for the evaluation of their migraines. Their headache logs will be collected prior to
      their procedures.

      The main portion of this study will occur during a single angiography session and the
      following 5 hours post-procedure period during which the patient will be monitored closely as
      part of standard post-angiogram care. An anesthesiologist will be present throughout the
      procedure and available for medication review and administration as needed. The patients will
      sign a consent form at the start of the day and will be reminded that they have the option of
      not participating in the study and continuing their normal migraine treatment. If they do
      choose to participate, the patients will be brought to the angiography suite and transferred
      to the angiogram table. The patient will be prepped and draped in standard fashion for an
      angiogram and given instructions regarding the procedure for the day. The patient will
      receive local lidocaine at their groin site to minimize discomfort during standard arterial
      access for the purposes of the angiogram. Catheterization will commence into the external
      carotid artery. At this time, the patient's headache history will guide the decision for
      first vessel cannulation. If the patient has frontal migraines, the internal maxillary artery
      will be cannulated, for parietal headaches the focus will be on the superficial temporal
      artery, and the occipital artery for posterior, occipitally located symptoms, all on the side
      of the patient's migraines. A microcatheter will be placed at the origin of each respective
      artery and a control contrast injection will be performed to determine baseline vessel
      caliber and blood flow. Patients will be asked at this time if they are experiencing any pain
      or discomfort. If none, nitroglycerin will be drawn up and injected at a volume of 200µg
      diluted in 10ml saline into these vessels only. This is a standard injection dose for
      vasodilation for this medication and it is routinely available and used to treat vasospasm,
      or vasoconstriction that occurs after subarachnoid hemorrhage in the angiography suite. This
      dose has also been used in several cranial and cardiac studies and has not been association
      with adverse reactions related to systemic spread. The expectation is that this small dose
      will not reach systemic circulation. After 5 minutes, another contrast run will be performed
      to determine any change in vessel size and the patient will be questioned about any headache
      symptoms. After another 5 minutes, another contrast run will be performed to see if the
      nitroglycerin is still effective. If the patient describes no symptoms, the focus will be
      shifted to one of the other 2 external carotid artery branches to test them for the induction
      of headaches using the same nitroglycerin protocol. Each vessel will be evaluated for a full
      10 minutes and if no vessel causes headache pain, the study will be terminated after a final
      control injection and femoral sheath removal. Pressure on the groin will be held for 20
      minutes and the patient will be taken to the recovery room and monitored lying flat, as in
      standard fashion for 5 hours before being discharged home in order to prevent groin hematoma.
      They will again be evaluated for headaches or pain hourly until discharge, and be given
      another headache log to complete prior to their 2 week follow-up visit. The headache log will
      be collected at that time and this will complete the study for the patient.

      If any vessel immediately, or with time produces headache pain, the patient will be queried
      regarding the type and quality of the headache, and asked if it is similar to their
      migraines. A 10 minute angiogram will be repeated at the vessel evaluated. With persistent
      headaches, a microballoon will be brought to the vessel origin, and it will be inflated to
      block flow in this vessel for 5 minutes before being deflated. As stated previously, there is
      no risk to occlusion of these vessels permanently, and certainly not temporarily as will be
      performed as part of this protocol. These non-critical vessels have dense anastomotic
      networks and are safe to occlude. Symptoms will be evaluated to see if any subside as a
      result of their occlusion. Five minutes after the balloon is deflated, another contrast run
      will be performed to evaluate the caliber of the studied vessel. After this run, the groin
      sheath will be removed and the above protocol will be followed until outpatient follow-up. If
      headache symptoms do not subside, the patient will be administered standard pain medication,
      fentanyl, which is given routinely during angiography at a dose of 25mcg to abate their pain.
      This is a low, tolerable, and safe dose that will be given with the assistance of our
      anesthesia colleagues, if necessary. Their headache pain will be closely monitored during the
      5 hour recovery period, and given 1 more 25mcg dose during this period in order to fully
      subside any pain the patient still may have.

      This angiogram will take approximately 30 minutes to complete, and it is a low risk
      procedure.. The vessels studied diagnostically will be solely extracranial and completely
      separate from intracranial vessels. Any anomalous communication identified between
      extracranial and intracranial vessels will automatically disqualify a patient from
      participation in this study.

      Despite some minor discomfort from the groin puncture for the patient, with the assistance of
      an anesthesiologist the pain intra- and post-procedurally experienced by patients will be
      well controlled. The patient may also opt to receive the rescue pain medication at any time
      during the angiogram and discontinue the study.

      As stated previously, the extracranial vascular circulation has a large anastomotic network
      such that a single vessel sacrifice can be performed without great risk. These vessels are
      sacrificed without sequelae intraoperatively routinely when performing craniotomies. In cases
      where a provocative artery can be found, occlusion of that vessel can lead to improved
      symptoms, as tested by temporary balloon occlusion without great risk. It is the hope that
      this pilot work to guide future interventions to control blood flow in these offending
      vessels, to see if migraines abate permanently with vessel removal from circulation. If these
      hypotheses are correct, interventions may be created to minimize patient's need for
      medication, improve their quality of life, and free them from the debilitation of their
      migraines.
    
  