
    
      Background People live longer than ever before. This desirable progress puts healthy ageing
      on the agenda, people would like to live longer while still staying healthy, active and able
      to enjoy life. Unfortunately, many elderlies get symptoms that prevent them from this.

      A disease with such symptoms is Lumbar Spinal Stenosis (LSS), which mainly afflicts people
      over 60 years old. It comes with pain in back and legs that worsens by standing and walking,
      with pain relief upon sitting and bending forward. This puts a considerable strain on
      patients' walking ability, with patients experiencing problems with exercising and leisure
      activities. Physical activity is significantly reduced, a recent study shows that those
      persons spend 82% of their time in sedentary mode, compared to 35% in healthy adults over 60
      years.

      Walking ability in clinical research regarding LSS patients is assessed mainly by Patient
      Reported Outcomes (PROs) and walking tests. The PRO most used is the Oswestry Disability
      Index (ODI), other PROs include the Swiss Spinal Stenosis Questionnaire (SSSQ) and the Roland
      Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ). PROs have the disadvantage of being subjective, with
      factors influencing the answers such as response shift and psyche. There is also research
      that suggests that the patients' perspective is not fully described by these questionnaires.

      Several objective walking tests are used to assess walking ability. The Self-Paced Walking
      test has been suggested as the gold standard. They provide continuous data and are objective
      but may be time consuming. They report patients' walking capacity- defined as patients'
      walking ability in a standardized setting on a single testing occasion.

      The question is, how do the PROs and the walking tests relate to walking activity in daily
      living, also called walking performance? It seems the ODI associates to walking tests, the
      ODI might thereby be reflecting walking capacity. It is not known if the PROs or the walking
      tests reflect walking performance. There are multiple factors which influences walking
      performance. For example, personal factors, contextual factors, and diseases like lumbar
      spinal stenosis. Treatment for spinal stenosis could improve the results of a walking test,
      but not necessarily increase walking ability in daily living.

      Knowledge is scarce on walking performance in patients with LSS. Accelerometers have been
      used for measuring physical activity and steps in a wide range of research areas, including
      LSS. They are small wearable sensors that register accelerations. The raw data on
      accelerations can then be transformed by mathematical algorithms into variables, such as
      number of steps taken. Studies on accelerometer-based step counts in older people have shown
      it to be an accurate measure. But the accuracy of the step count depends much on where the
      accelerometer is placed, how the raw accelerometer data is transformed and traits of the
      person wearing it, such as gait speed, gait impairments and age. Some studies have used
      accelerometers to measure step count in LSS patients. But the method for accelerometer
      monitoring in patients with LSS is not yet fully developed, validated and standardized. There
      is no research investigating the optimal anatomical placement for accurate step detection
      using the selected population.

      To identify what interventions helps patients with lumbar spinal stenosis to increase walking
      ability in their daily living, a valid and ready-to-use measure of walking performance is
      needed. Only then can research on LSS effectively help patients to a healthy and active
      ageing.

      Study Aim and Objectives The aim of the study is to develop a valid and feasible
      accelerometer-based outcome measure of walking performance in patients with lumbar spinal
      stenosis.

      The study has four main objectives:

        -  The first objective is to develop an accelerometer measurement method that provides an
           accurate and feasible outcome measure of walking in a standardized environment.

        -  The second objective is to test the validity of the outcome measure by examine whether
           it can discriminate between walking performance in healthy subjects and patients with
           lumbar spinal stenosis.

        -  The third objective is to further test the validity by evaluate the accelerometer
           outcome measure in the context of patients' walking capacity, commonly used PRO's and
           self-reported walking.

        -  The fourth objective is to test the outcome measures' ability to evaluate change before
           and after surgery.

      Methods Study Design The study will be performed in three phases. Phase A: In this phase the
      accelerometer measurement method will be developed and tested in a standardized environment.

      30 patients will be instructed to wear four accelerometers and fill out questionnaires. The
      accelerometers will be placed on the thigh, the ankle, the hip and lower back, while going
      through a standardized movement protocol which will consist of the following: Walking in a
      hospital corridor until stopped by symptoms (e.g. performing an SPWT), sitting down and
      standing up and cycling on an exercising bike. The standardized movement protocol will be
      recorded by filming the patients' legs, in the hospital corridor distances will be recorded
      by simultaneously filming distances marked on the floor. Data from the film (number of steps,
      time-stamps) will be extracted and double checked by a research assistant.

      The accelerometer data from the first 15 patients will be used to optimize a model for
      analyzing accelerometer data and determine the most favorable placement of the accelerometer.
      This model will then be tested for accuracy in the last 15 patients and further developed if
      needed.

      The model will be optimized to assess accurate step count and recording of starts and stops
      in walking (length of continuous walking). Step count will be considered accurate when under
      10% error and cycling not being falsely recorded as walking. Recording of continuous walking
      will be considered accurate when a minimum of ten steps can be detected. Pauses between walks
      will be considered adequately detected if a pause of minimum 10 seconds can be detected. The
      method will be considered feasible if administration and analysis of the accelerometer can be
      executed in less than 15-20 minutes per patient.

      Phase B: 95 patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and 25 healthy participants will be
      instructed to wear an accelerometer for seven days during their normal everyday life.
      Patients will be asked to fill-out a short questionnaire on wearer experience upon returning
      the accelerometer.

      The accelerometer data from patients will be analyzed exploratively, where the
      characteristics of the patients' walking is formed into outcome measures, including number of
      steps and length of continuous walking. This outcome measures will in turn be drawn from the
      accelerometer data from healthy participants and compared to the patients results. In
      addition, questionnaires and clinical data will be collected and a walking test (SPWT)
      performed while the patient wears an accelerometer.

      From the data collected, construct validity will be examined through testing a set of a
      priori hypotheses, which describes how the accelerometer should be correlating to a number of
      measures, if it measures walking correctly. The most important hypotheses to prove will
      mainly be between the SPWT results and the accelerometer data recorded during the SPWT, and
      the accelerometer measures.

      Phase C: The patients from phase B which have had decompressive surgery performed to relieve
      symptoms of LSS will be invited to come to the clinic for a follow-up three months after
      surgery. The follow-up will repeat the accelerometer measures, walking test and
      questionnaires performed in phase B. This will enable to test if the outcome measure can
      evaluate change in walking, before and after treatment, and there by examine if it is
      suitable for monitoring treatment effect.

      Inclusion Eligible patients will be asked to participate as part of the consultation.
      Interested patients will receive a new appointment another day for inclusion with oral and
      written consent and testing. Patients will be included consecutively in Phase B, for optimal
      external validity.

      Sample Size and Statistical Analysis The first phase with a standardized walking protocol
      will include 30 participants. 30 patients are sufficient to show a statistically significant
      correlation of 0,9 or higher, between steps filmed and steps detected by the accelerometer.

      Based on data from previous studies measuring step counts in healthy older adults and
      patients with LSS, 9 healthy participants will be able show a statistically significant
      difference between the mean of healthy participants and patients (p<0.05 and power 80%) at a
      sampling ratio of 0,3 (n. healthy participants/ n. patients). 12 healthy participants will be
      included to account for missing data and drop outs.

      Correlation between the ODI and accelerometer measured step count and continuous walking has
      been shown to range from around 0.3 to 0.5. Walking tests have been shown to correlate above
      0.5. A sample size of 85 patients is needed, to show a correlation of 0.3 or higher as
      significantly different from 0, with p<0.05 and power of 80%. Sample size when examining
      associations between measurements in phase B and C will therefore be 95 to account for drop
      outs and missing data.

      Duration of Project

      The study will be completed in the course of three years. Facilities and Organization The
      study will take place at the Spine Center of Southern Denmark, Lillebælt Hospital,
      Middelfart, where more than 1000 patients are diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis each
      year. Approximately 300 of those patients receive decompressive surgery.

      Main supervisor is Berit Schiøttz-Christensen, M.D, professor, PhD. Berit
      Schiøttz-Christensen is head of research at the Spine Center of Southern Denmark and have
      several years of experience in supervising PhD-students and performing clinical research in
      the area of spine diseases. She provide the project with a thorough insight of the clinical
      manifestation of spinal stenosis and ensures a clinically relevant approach for the
      measurement method.

      Co-supervisors are Niels Wedderkopp, M.D, clinical professor, PhD and Jan Christian Brønd,
      Msc, post-doc, PhD. Niels Wedderkopp contribute with extensive knowledge on applying and
      interpreting accelerometer monitoring in clinical research as well as many years of
      experience in planning and executing methodologically sound clinical research and work with
      patients with musculoskeletal degenerative disorders.

      Jan Christian Brønd are working as a post-doc focusing on developing accelerometer
      measurements of physical activity. He has an engineering background and more than 20 years of
      experience of software development and a PhD in health sciences. Jan Christian Brønd will be
      developing and optimizing the model in phase A.

      Ethics and Approvals The study will be conducted in accordance with the Helsinki-II
      declaration. Participants will be thoroughly informed verbally and in writing and asked for a
      written consent. The participant can choose to leave the study at any point, without any
      consequence.

      Information on all processing of personal data in this project will be added to the records
      of the Region of Southern Denmark according to the GDPR article 30. Data collected by
      accelerometers are uploaded directly, i.e., the project does not engage any cloud-based
      surveillance systems involving third parties.

      Dissemination and Publication Policy The results will be part of a PhD thesis. Articles will
      be written in compliance with the STROBE statement and STARD checklist and sought published
      in international scientific journals, such as the European Spine Journal, regardless of the
      nature or the results. The method will be evaluated during phase A. Presentation of research
      findings will be sought to be done at international congresses. The accelerometer method
      developed will be freely available to other researchers.
    
  