
    
      Background: As part of the nurse-administered Tobacco Tactics intervention, we developed a
      novel program to train veterans from Voluntary Services to provide peer telephone cessation
      counseling calls.

      Objectives: The objective of this study is to conduct an in-depth evaluation of the volunteer
      peer telephone cessation counseling that has been implemented and continues to be implemented
      at the Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs (VA) hospital as part of the inpatient Tobacco Tactics
      intervention.

      Methods: Using the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM)
      framework, this quasi-experimental study will collect both quantitative and qualitative data
      to evaluate the peer telephone cessation counseling component of the Tobacco Tactics
      intervention. The Reach of the program will be evaluated by determining differences in the
      demographics, health characteristics, and smoking characteristics of those who do and do not
      participate in the peer telephone cessation counseling. The Effectiveness of the program will
      be evaluated by determining if there were differences in quit rates between those that do and
      do not participate in the peer telephone cessation counseling. The Adoption and
      Implementation of the program will be evaluated by determining the satisfaction with the
      counseling, reasons for nonparticipation, the type and quality of counseling actually
      provided, and barriers and facilitators to implementing the counseling as perceived by staff.
      The Maintenance of the program will be evaluated by determining the estimated costs of
      implementing the peer telephone cessation counseling.

      Impact: The Tobacco Use/Smoking Cessation goal of the VA Substance Use Disorders (SUD)
      Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI) is to develop, implement and evaluate
      cost-effective interventions for increasing access to and use of evidence-based smoking
      cessation treatment. Telephone counseling has been shown to be efficacious and teaching
      volunteer veterans to provide this service is an option that is likely to be cost effective.
      Hence, evaluating the peer cessation telephone counseling program at the Ann Arbor VA will
      provide valuable information as to whether or not the program is a viable option for wider
      scale dissemination.
    
  