
    
      Aim: Compare the effects of a kinesiotape (KT) with a sham treatment (KT put with no effects)
      and a control condition (absence of tape) in basketball players from the Swiss national
      league through balance tests on an unstable surface.

      Hypotheses: A KT positioned on the lateral side of the leg improves ankle stability in
      basketball players while balancing on an unstable surface.

      Method: 30 subjects will be recruited from different basketball teams affiliated to the Swiss
      national league. They will have to perform some postural stability tests on both unstable
      ("Delos") and stable surfaces ("Single Les Stance", "Star Excursion Balance Test", "Cross
      Over Hop Test for Distance") under three different conditions. The three condition will be as
      followed : with a KT positioned on the lateral side of the leg, with a sham tape or without
      tape. The three sessions will be spaced in time (7 days of wash out). The order of the three
      interventions (KT, Sham tape, no tape) will be randomized (cross over) to avoid the bias of
      learning processes. Neither the subjects nor the examiner will be aware of the "tape
      condition" (double blind); a physiotherapist will be in charge of positioning the tape
      according to the tested condition.

      The sequence of the tests will be the same for all subjects and breaks are scheduled to avoid
      the effect of the fatigue. An anamnesis of all subjects will be done in order to evaluate
      history of injuries. At the end of each session, a visual analogical scale will be completed
      by the athlete to obtain a personal feeling of stability . The subject will be also asked to
      determine which condition was tested.

      Expected results: the application of a KT on the lateral side of the leg improves postural
      stability on instable surfaces in elite basketball players.

      Field's importance: the application of KT may reduce the risk of ankle sprains and the
      recurrence of sprains in a population of athletes at risk.
    
  