
    
      Flour is a complex organic dust consisting of one or a mixture of several cereal grains
      (wheat, rye, millet, barley, oats or corn cereal) that have been processed or ground by
      milling. In addition, flour may contain a diverse number of contaminants, such as silica,
      fungi and their metabolites (mycotoxins), bacterial endotoxins, insects, mites, mammalian
      debris and chemical additives such as pesticides and herbicides. Occupational exposure to
      flour dust occurs in different settings, as: bakeries, grain mills and flour mills.

      Many industries, including flour mills, generate dust, which is released into air, then
      inhaled during industrial processes as: cleaning, packaging and shipping. Occupational
      respiratory diseases are usually caused by extended exposure to irritating or toxic
      substances that may cause acute or chronic respiratory diseases.

      It has long been known that occupational exposure to flour dust may cause respiratory
      illness, ranging from simple irritation to rhinitis and asthma, due to components of the
      grains themselves as well as contaminants of the flour dust and additives.

      Flour mills workers have been in an environment exposed to flour dust, suffering from
      sensitization, occupational asthma, allergic rhinitis, obstructive lung diseases and eye
      infection.

      Mill workers' suffer from conjunctivitis, allergic and baker's asthma, wheezing, febrile
      reactions, grain fever, lung fibrosis, rhinitis, allergic alveolitis, impairment of lung
      function and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. These respiratory symptoms with
      continuing occupational exposure can lead to worker disability that force them to leave their
      jobs.

      Respiratory system symptoms and diseases induced by occupational dust are influenced by the
      type of dust, dose, duration of exposure and genetic factors.

      A study carried out in Sohag found that respiratory symptoms were significantly higher among
      exposed workers as compared to unexposed. Furthermore a highly significant decline in
      pulmonary function tests.

      The albumin portion of flour is the main cause of allergies that known as "Baker's asthma"
      (BA) and inhaling it leads to the stimulation of the specific antibodies, increased
      allergies, respiratory disorders and ultimately asthma.

      Baker's asthma is one of the first occupational diseases described in the literature. Baker's
      asthma and baker's rhinitis are mainly due to type I sensitization to wheat. Studies
      demonstrate dose-response relationships between the exposure to wheat and the prevalence of
      immediate-type I sensitization or lung function impairments.

      It was found that host and environmental factors play a role in asthma development.
      Environmental factors include: allergens either indoor or outdoor, infections, tobacco smoke,
      air pollution and occupational sensitizers.

      Asthma caused by flour dust is described with a latent period between first exposure and
      development of symptoms, which varies from a few weeks to 35 years.

      A relationship is present between asthma symptoms and the workplace in the form of:
      appearance of asthma symptoms at work or early night after returning home. It worsens at
      early night before sleep and improve or disappear at late night or early morning.
      Occupational asthma (OA) shows diurnal improvement of symptoms in contradictory to ordinary
      bronchial asthma. Also there is improvement of asthma away from work in the weekend and
      holidays and worsening of symptoms on returning to work showing weekly variability.

      A study carried out in Helwan, showed that 25% of mills workers had asthma related to work.
      The asthma symptoms appear during work which showed improvement after leaving workplace. It
      showed also reversibility in FEV and diurnal PEFR variability. Also asthmatic workers had
      lower level of spirometric parameters.

      Smoking, as an occupational hazard, has been studied extensively since the 1970s. For many,
      smoking is perceived as a coping strategy to mitigate work-related stress.

      The tobacco epidemic is one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced.
      Smoking is the single largest cause of preventable death and disease killing more than 7
      million people a year. More than 6 million of those deaths are the result of direct tobacco
      use while around 890 000 are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke. It
      is expected to increase to more than 8 million a year by 2030. Around 100 million people died
      because of tobacco use in the 20th century, and it will kill 1 billion people in the 21st
      century if current trends continue.

      Smoking increases the risk for all-cause mortality and has been found to increase risk for
      various types of cancer, respiratory, cardiovascular, eye diseases, diabetes, impaired immune
      function and erectile dysfunction in men. Smoking may be a risk factor for high frequency
      hearing loss, and its combined effect on hearing with exposure to occupational noise is
      additive.

      There are more than 4000 chemicals in tobacco smoke, of which at least 250 are known to be
      harmful and more than 50 are known to cause cancer.

      Egypt is one of 15 countries worldwide with heavy burden of tobacco-related ill health. Egypt
      is also considered the leading Arab country in terms of tobacco-related deaths. About 40.5%
      of men are daily tobacco smokers. And, 49.9% of men according to Tobacco Atlas.

      There is disparity in tobacco use between people of lower and higher socioeconomic status.
      Around 80% of the smokers live in low- and middle-income countries. People with less
      education and living in poor neighborhoods are associated with high risk of smoking.

      A major concern is the Second-hand smoke (SHS) exposure, also known as ''involuntary
      smoking'' or ''passive smoking'', refers to non-smokers' inhalation of smoke from the
      exhalation of smokers or burning cigarettes. SHS contains hundreds of toxic and carcinogenic
      substances and related to many diseases as those of smokers. In Egypt, among those who worked
      indoors or in enclosed areas, 60.7% were exposed to second-hand smoke at work, including
      58.5% non-smokers.

      Smoking is Costing the workplace as a result of employee smoking. It costs employers more to
      employ smokers. These costs are primarily attributed to:

        -  Decreased productivity

        -  Increased absenteeism

        -  Workdays lost due to illnesses provoked or aggravated by smoking

        -  Unproductive time, such as smoke breaks

        -  Higher insurance premiums. Smoking cessation greatly diminishes the high risk of death.
           Stopping smoking improve life expectancy, reduce morbidity and costs associated with
           treating smoking related conditions. Smokers have shorter life than non-smokers.
           However, cessation will gradually reverse health risks associated with smoking,
           especially in younger individuals.

      An assessment should reveal the level of motivation or 'stage of change' the employees at for
      smoking cessation. Employees may be in one of five stages of the stop smoking process.
      Pre-Contemplation, Contemplation, Preparation, Action and Maintenance. Smoking cessation
      could be conceptualized into two stage; first making a quit attempt, then succeeding in
      maintaining it.

      Most adults spend approximately one-third of their day in a workplace, it can be a useful
      setting through which large groups of employees can be reached. Workplace smoking cessation
      interventions have positive effects and should be encouraged and promoted by health and work
      authorities. They help to increase the number of ex-smokers, those who continue smoking smoke
      fewer cigarettes and for nonsmoking workers, the workplace might be the only contact with
      tobacco smoke.

      Quit rates in intervention groups are higher than in control groups in number of studies.
      Quit rates in intervention between 6.1-30.8% vs. 1.0-19.1% in control groups.

      The workplace as a setting for smoking cessation research and intervention has several
      advantages:

        1. It provides access to a large number of people which constitute a relatively stable
           population.

        2. It has the potential for reaching a larger proportion of the smoking population than
           non-workplace environments.

        3. Worksites have potential to provide sustained peer group support and positive peer
           influence for quitting and staying tobacco free.

        4. It provides a particular opportunity to target young men, who traditionally have low
           general practitioner consultation rates and are thus less likely to benefit from health
           promotion activity.

        5. Occupational health staff may be on hand to give professional support.

        6. The convenience of cessation programs onsite has an advantage to the employee.

        7. Employers benefit from supporting employees for smoking cessation including increased
           productivity.

      Having smoking friends and associates tends to make quitting more difficult, while smokers
      whose friends, coworkers, and family are former smokers are more likely to succeed in their
      attempts to quit smoking. Long term success was significantly better if more work-mates from
      the same department participated in the smoking cessation program.

      Quitting behaviors were influenced by occupational class. Workers in blue-collar occupations
      such as in construction and maintenance are significantly more likely to be smokers than
      workers in white-collar occupations; those who work in office administration or in financial
      operations. White-collar workers are more likely to be influenced positively by anti-smoking
      programs than blue collars.

      The task of the occupational physician is to inform workers about the high risks linked to
      smoking, passive smoking and obligations enforced by law, collect information about workers'
      smoking habits and promote smoking cessation.
    
  