
    
      Infantile globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD, or Krabbe disease) is a rare, inherited
      degenerative disorder of the central and peripheral nervous systems. It is characterized by
      the presence of globoid cells (multinucleated cells), the breakdown of the nerve's protective
      myelin coating, and destruction of brain cells. Globoid cell leukodystrophy is one of a group
      of genetic disorders called the leukodystrophies. These disorders impair the growth or
      development of the myelin sheath, and causes severe degeneration of mental and motor skills.
      Myelin, which lends its color to the "white matter" of the brain, is a complex substance made
      up of a number of different glucoproteins and glucolipids, the most important of which is
      galactocerebroside. Each of the leukodystrophies affects one of these substances. Globoid
      cell leukodystrophy is caused by a deficiency of galactocerebroside ß-galactosidase (GALC),
      an essential enzyme for myelin metabolism. The disease most often affects infants, with onset
      before the age of 6 months, but can occur in adolescence or adulthood. Symptoms include
      irritability, unexplained fever, limb stiffness (hypertonia), seizures, feeding difficulties,
      vomiting, and slowing of mental and motor development. Other symptoms include muscle
      weakness, spasticity, deafness, and blindness.

      There is no cure for globoid cell leukodystrophy. Generally, treatment for the disorder is
      symptomatic and supportive.

      Infantile globoid cell leukodystrophy is generally fatal before age 2 years. Patients with
      juvenile- or adult-onset disease generally have a milder course of the disease and live
      significantly longer.

      Globoid cell leukodystrophy is a autosomal recessive disorder with a wide geographic
      distribution. The incidence in the United States is estimated as 1 in 100.000 births.
      However, the incidence appears to be higher in the Scandinavian countries. 32 Swedish cases
      were reported during the period from 1953 through 1967 with calculated incidence at 1.9 per
      100.000 births.

      To be able to compare the benefits experienced by infants with globoid cell leukodystrophy,
      who receive a possible future treatment, to those untreated, a better understanding of the
      natural course of infantile GLD is necessary. The current literature contains only case
      studies of individual or small groups of GLD patients. A longitudinal study of a larger
      population of patients with infantile GLD has yet to be performed. This protocol is a 1.5
      years longitudinal observational study to capture natural history data in patients with
      infantile GLD. This data will provide information on the range and diversity of clinical
      disease parameters that can in the future be used to evaluate treatment effects.
    
  