
    
      Oxaliplatin remains the reference treatment of advanced colorectal cancer and more broadly of
      digestive cancers, incorporated in the FOLFOX protocol (folinic acid, 5-Fu, Oxaliplatin). But
      oxaliplatin chemotherapy is certainly the most neurotoxic, as on average 90% of patients
      develop acute neuropathic disorders (within hours or days of the infusion) and 30% to 50% of
      patients develop a chronic neuropathy with repeated cycles of chemotherapy. The neuropathic
      grade and duration of symptoms remain variable across studies. Although symptoms improve with
      time, long-term studies suggest a persistent neuropathy beyond 24 months. Moreover,
      Vatandoust and colleagues suggest that chemotherapy-induced neuropathy is more frequent and
      severe over the long term (≥ 12 months) than in previous works published.

      In cancer survivors, neuropathy induced by oxaliplatin has a deleterious impact on their
      quality of life. But, few studies are available on the consequences of oxaliplatin-induced
      neuropathy in these patients, while these patients remain, in 2003, the third largest group
      of cancer survivors.

      Only 7 studies have specifically evaluated neuropathic disorders induced by oxaliplatin after
      chemotherapy. Moreover, as pointed Vatandoust and colleagues, there is a real need to
      understand the long term effects of this chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. More specifically,
      only two studies have evaluated the effects of neuropathy on quality of life and
      comorbidities of patients.

      Objective of this study will be to assess, on a large number of patients (n> 500) who
      completed adjuvant chemotherapy (FOLFOX), the intensity of neuropathic disorders out of 5
      years after the end of chemotherapy. Furthermore, this study should enable an assessment of
      the relationship between the intensity of neuropathy and comorbidities, such as anxiety and
      depression and health related quality of life of patients.
    
  