
    
      The increasing awareness of sleep-disordered breathing (i.e obstructive sleep apnea) has
      created a growing demand for polysomnography (sleep study), resulting in excessive waiting
      times in many laboratories. Sleep centers have therefore needed to develop methods to improve
      their efficiency. Unfortunately many patients find it difficult to fall asleep in the
      unfamiliar environment of a laboratory setting (the "first-night effect"), circumstances that
      may prolong falling alseep and staying sleep. Likewise, intolerance of continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) may also reduce the quality of the sleep study. Poor quality studies
      may lead to an inability to make a diagnosis or adequately titrate CPAP therapy.
      Unsatisfactory studies may need to be repeated.

      Sleep aids (hypnotics) are commonly used to treat both acute and chronic insomnia. These
      agents have minimal side-effects and do not disrupt normal sleep architecture or alter
      respiratory events. These attributes make such agents ideal for use to improve the quality of
      sleep studies and enhance the efficiency of sleep centers.

      In a recent retrospective review, we found that the use of a hypnotic prior to the sleep
      study resulted improved patient satisfaction and improved quality of the sleep study with
      significantly less studies needing to be repeated. Although promising, these results must be
      validated with a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

      Eszopiclone (Lunesta) is a new non-narcotic, non-benzodiazepine hypnotic agent which received
      FDA approval on December 15, 2004 for the treatment of acute and chronic insomnia. Multiple
      clinical trials have found that eszopiclone decreases sleep latency, improves sleep
      efficiency/maintenance and reduces wake time after sleep onset (WASO). Given its efficacy in
      promoting sleep onset and sleep maintenance and its excellent safety profile, this agent
      should be ideal as a pre-study sedative. The purpose of this study is to validate the use of
      Lunesta in improving the quality of overnight sleep studies.
    
  