
    
      Introduction:

      Ametropia is an eye refractive disorder typically leading to myopia, hyperopia,
      astigmatism... 4.5 billion people are currently affected worldwide, of whom only 2 billion
      are corrected. Of these people, about 30% (or +/- 600,000) do not benefit from an adequate
      correction. From an economic point of view, the cost on productivity of the absence or poor
      vision correction is estimated at more than 270 billion euros / year worldwide.

      Any correction of an ametropic disorder necessarily requires a precise and relevant eye
      examination in order to identify the disorder and determine the best possible visual
      correction. The procedure for this examination is identical in all countries. It must follow
      specific steps[Benjamin 2006; Grosvenor 2007].

      At present the refraction measurement is done manually by an expert. The optical correction
      may vary from one examination to another, for multiple physiological and/or
      examination-related reasons. Several factors can cause fluctuations in subjective refraction.
      These include examiner and subject characteristics [Grein et al. 2014].

      In addition, there is also variability due to the measurement itself, depending on each
      examiner. The repeatability (on the same subject) and, in addition, the reproducibility
      (inter-examiners) of the subjective refraction measurement related to the examiner's
      interpretation, examination process and experience, among other things, are therefore
      important data to be defined in order to know the tolerance of the measurement determined
      between two examinations.

      In studies involving a large number of subjects, the repeatability/reproducibility limit is
      greater than or equal to 0.71D [Zadnik 1994, Bullimore 1998, MacKenzie 2008], and more
      particularly during inter-examiner measurements.

      The objective of the SiVIEW solution is therefore to make the measurement of subjective
      refraction both repeatable and reproducible regardless of the practitioner and his expertise,
      by completely automating the search for the best visual prescription using an expert system
      that aims to make this examination simple, intuitive and reliable.

      It is therefore essential to compare the SiVIEW measurement with that of an optometrist
      expert.

      The interest of the investigator's study will be to demonstrate that the results between a
      refraction expert and the measurement obtained by SiVIEW are clinically similar.

      Main objective:

      Show that the equivalent sphere refraction measurements obtained by the SiVIEW software have
      no significant clinical difference with those obtained by an optometrist expert.

      Secondary objectives

      Show that the sphere refraction measurements obtained by the SiVIEW software have no
      significant clinical difference with those obtained by an optometrist expert.

      Show that the cylinder refraction measurements obtained by the SiVIEW software have no
      significant clinical difference with those obtained by an optometrist expert.

      Show that the visual acuity measurements obtained by the SiVIEW software do not have a
      significant clinical difference with those obtained by an optometrist expert.

      Demonstrate that the report delivered for each eye exam by SiVIEW software is consistent and
      relevant to a vision health practitioner.

      Show that the differences obtained between two eye examination experts are consistent with
      those found in the literature.

      Plan of the study:

      It is a comparative prospective open monocentric cross-sectionnal study.
    
  