
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is the most common fatal genetic disease in North America. The most
      disturbing aspect of CF is the associated premature death, most often due to respiratory
      complications. Clinical manifestations of CF include not only lung dysfunction, but many
      other systemic consequences as well. Systemic oxidative stress and exercise intolerance are
      established phenotypes in patients with CF. Additionally, for the first time the
      investigators have recently published the presence of systemic endothelial dysfunction in a
      cohort of young patients with CF who exhibited normal oxygen saturation and spirometric
      function.

      Exercise intolerance, the limitation of the ability to perform exercise at the expected
      level, has been shown to predict mortality in patients with CF independent of lung function.
      Exercise capacity (VO2 peak), an objective measurement of exercise tolerance, drops
      approximately 5-8% per year in patients with CF. This excessive decay in exercise capacity
      not only leads to more pulmonary infections and deterioration of lung function, it represents
      a 5-8 fold decline compared to healthy sedentary adults. Preventing the excessive annual
      reduction in exercise capacity is essential to increasing the quality of life and longevity
      of patients with CF. However, a critical barrier to improving exercise capacity in CF is the
      investigators lack of knowledge regarding the different physiological mechanisms that
      contribute to exercise intolerance. It is important to emphasize that decreases in lung
      function (FEV1) do not always contribute to reductions in VO2 peak. Furthermore, less than 2%
      of patients who have an FEV1 greater than 50% predicted will have a significant drop in
      hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SpO2) during maximal exercise. These data suggest that
      mechanisms other than lung function induced hypoxemia may be contributing to exercise
      intolerance in patients with CF.
    
  