
    
      This is open label continued access trial for HIV-1 infected children/adolescents who have
      completed treatment in clinical (parent) trial with etravirine (ETR) sponsored by/in
      collaboration with Janssen Research & Development and who continue to benefit from use of
      ETR. At baseline visit, eligibility criteria will be checked. If eligibility criteria are
      met, participants will either continue on ETR dose they received in previous ETR (parent)
      trial or on adjusted dose if required by investigator.ETR dose adjustment will be based on
      weight using dosing guidelines. Assessment visits are recommended every 3 months (pediatric)
      and 6 months (adults). For most of participant, their next visit will be final visit with
      data collection. New participants entering study, will have baseline visit without data
      collection. Thereafter visits and assessments will be performed per local standard of care
      and documented in the participant's medical records only. Investigators will continue to
      report SAEs possibly related to ETR and pregnancies to sponsor using regular reporting.
      Treatment will be continued until: investigator determines that participant no longer
      benefits from ETR treatment (e.g based on viral load); treatment limiting toxicity; loss to
      follow-up; consent withdrawal; pregnancy; program termination by Sponsor; ETR-based treatment
      regimen becomes commercially available for participant's use, and is reimbursed, or accessed
      by another source (e.g access/government program) in region participant is living, or
      participants switched to local standard of care, as appropriate. Adult participants will
      receive ETR 200mg BID.Pediatric participants will receive ETR, doses as received in previous
      ETR(parent) trial, with weight based dose adjustment if necessary.

      10 to <20kg:100mg BID (4*25mg or 1 tablet 100mg) 20 to <25kg:125mg BID (5*25mg or 1 tablet
      100mg+1 tablet 25mg) 25 to <30kg:150mg BID (6*25mg or 1 tablet 100mg+2 tablets 25mg) >=
      30kg:200mg BID (8*25mg or 2*100mg)
    
  