
    
      Introduction The goal of assisted reproductive technology (ART) is the delivery of a healthy
      singleton, with the treatment strategy in IVF having the best chance being the transfer of
      the single most viable embryo from a patient's embryo cohort. Embryo selection, therefore, is
      paramount to the success of this goal. The microscopic assessment and scoring of embryo
      morphology was developed as an embryo selection technique in the early years of IVF (Veeck,
      1991) and has ever since remained the most widely practised embryo selection technique.
      However, the technique's limited ability to maximise embryo implantation rates has for long
      been lamented and, therefore, more enhanced embryo selection techniques have for long been
      sought. Time-lapse monitoring and scoring (Paulson et al., 2018) and euploid embryo transfer
      using PGT-A (preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy; Gleicher et al., 2017) are
      recent innovations that have become contenders to replace conventional microscopic assessment
      and scoring of embryo morphology. An advantage of PGT-A is its independence of embryo
      development and morphological feature assessments, as euploid blastocysts implant at the same
      rate irrespective of blastocyst morphology score (Capalbo et al., 2014). Moreover, besides
      PGT-A's technical and biological limitations, the costs of implementation PGT-A as an embryo
      selection technique may be regarded prohibitive by many.

      In the evolution of PGT in human IVF, PGT has progressed from PGT-v1 to PGT-v2 based on the
      adverse outcomes of biopsying 1-2 blastomeres from cleavage-stage embryos (PGT-v1) and the
      improvement in blastocyst development conditions. The evidence suggested that PGT-v.1 posed a
      significant risk to embryo viability, with no benefit resulting from the transfer of euploid
      embryos (Gleicher et al., 2017). The majority of studies have reported that PGT-v2, which
      requires the biopsying of 5-10 trophectoderm (TE) cells, poses no significant risk to the
      developmental potential (implantation viability) of biopsied blastocysts. However, recently
      there have been reports, suggesting that TE biopsy may not be completely free of risk
      (Gleicher et al., 2017, Ozgur et al., 2019). Currently, PGT-A faces four challenges
      preventing its routine use as a blastocyst selection technique; (1) the need for high
      technical expertise, (2) the invasiveness of TE biopsy, (3) the cost of the full technique,
      and (4) that TE biopsy is subject to sampling bias - a single TE biopsy of 5-10 cells may not
      accurately represent the ploidy of the whole blastocyst.

      A spin-off of conventional PGT is the analysis of DNA in blastocoel fluid (BF). This
      phenomenon was first reported by Palini et al. (2013). The origin of the DNA in BF has been
      suggested to be the result of embryo euploidisation, i.e., the elimination of aneuploidy DNA
      or aneuploidic cells through regulatory processes such as apoptosis and or necrosis (Leaver
      and Wells, 2019). The practice of blastocyst collapse before vitrification (Mukaida et al.,
      2006, Iwayama et al., 2011) provides the opportunity to perform minimally invasive PGT-A
      (miPGT-A), i.e., the biopsying BF. In a study to investigate ploidy concordance between PGT-A
      with TE biopsy and PGT-A with BF biopsy, the authors found that the clinical pregnancy rate
      was 77% for blastocysts with no DNA amplification were transferred and 37% for blastocysts
      with DNA amplification (Magli et al., 2018). The mere accumulation of DNA in the BF,
      therefore, could be used as a supplementary measure to prioritise blastocysts for transfer.
      Implementing BF-biopsy and whole-genomic amplification (WGA) as a supplementary selection
      measure limits/reduces three of PGT-A's main challenges; (1) technical expertise, (2)
      invasiveness, and (3) costs.

      In the present randomized controlled trial (RCT), the investigators will investigate DNA
      amplification in blastocyst fluid biopsies (BF-biopsy) as a supplementary selection technique
      to select blastocysts for transfer in conjunction with blastocyst morphology scores. The
      clinical implantation outcomes of FETs in which score-selected single blastocyst with no DNA
      amplification and score-selected single blastocysts were transferred will be compared.
    
  