
    
      Substance use disorders (SUD) have been prominently described on a neuronal level as a
      chronic and relapsing brain disorder, which is associated with changes in emotion, motivation
      and cognition. Furthermore on a behavioral level, SUD have been found to be linked to an
      increased amount of attachment and personality pathology. More in general, SUD treatment has
      been demonstrated to be a complex phenomenon, with high relapse rates of 30-50% after
      (successful) treatment.

      As emotion regulation is associated with a vast amount of parameters of mental health and
      psychological well-being such as more satisfied employment, healthier relationships, better
      academic performance, and physical health, the long-term abuse of drugs on the other hand
      plays a detrimental role in patients' emotions and mind-sets. Research suggests that
      individuals who cannot regulate their emotions in an adequate way in everyday life,
      experience more mental turbulences or confusions. In turn this deficit might lead to
      substance abuse as one kind of dysfunctional method to regulate inner tensions.

      Specifically, an increased amount of impulsivity has been named as being predictive for
      addictive diseases. Accordingly, impulsivity was observed as being linked to a poorer SUD
      treatment outcome, especially by promoting relapse, as the emotion regulation is hindered and
      damaged in SUD patients. Thus the increase of capacities to moderate emotional strain becomes
      an important factor for the treatment of SUD. Accordingly, many SUD treatment approaches have
      developed specific techniques in order to address the deficient emotion regulation system.
      Furthermore a history of traumatic experiences may be essential for the therapeutic work,
      because individuals with SUD often present a history of trauma with comorbid rates of up to
      75%. Consequentely, various findings suggest that traumatic experiences represent a high risk
      factor for the development of SUD.

      The method of Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is an integrative and well
      structured psychotherapeutic treatment which has received approval as an efficacious
      evidence-based approach for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). EMDR, as a
      psychotherapeutic technique, accelerates the accessing and reprocessing of traumatic
      materials and supports the brain to release the nervous system from these traumatic
      experiences by means of normal handling of emotional information. Due to the fact that up to
      40% of individuals with PTSD turn to substance abuse in their lifetime, EMDR is effective in
      the treatment of SUD especially in case of unsolved traumata, which are keeping up the
      vicious circle of SUD. Furthermore several studies suggest that EMDR is effective in
      addiction treatment by significantly reducing substance craving and thus also the rate of
      relapse, extending consecutive sobriety, as well as more than twice as many graduates in EMDR
      integrated programs. However, the evidence of the efficacy and effectiveness of EMDR on
      addiction treatment is still limited, because many findings are preliminary as being
      narratively or just case-study based or paying less attention to the role of emotions.
      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to further explore and determine the effectiveness of
      EMDR for the regulation of emotional processes in long-term addiction treatment.

      This study is conceptualized as a randomized controlled trial with two groups: EMDR + TAU vs.
      TAU + sham intervention (TAU: Treatment As Usual; the sham intervention is a cognitive
      training). The groups are compared pre-treatment, post-treatment, and there are two follow-up
      points of assessment: one month after post-treatment and three months after post-treatment.
      There will be a total sample of 60 clinical SUD male participants, which will be investigated
      during their in-patient stay at a therapeutic community center (after an initial phase of
      acclimatization of six weeks). One half of the sample: 30 participants will receive EMDR +
      TAU (experimental group; EG), the other half receives TAU + sham intervention (control group;
      CG).
    
  