
    
      CAD occurs when the arteries that supply blood to the heart become blocked as a result of
      plaque buildup. In severe cases, CAD can cause chest pain, shortness of breath, and heart
      attack. After a heart attack, some people may develop a leak in the mitral valve of the
      heart. This condition is known as ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR), and it can cause blood
      to flow backward into the heart. If left untreated, severe IMR can lead to heart failure or
      serious heart rhythm irregularities, known as arrhythmias. People with severe mitral valve
      leakage routinely undergo one of two surgical procedures to fix the mitral valve: a mitral
      valve repair procedure, in which a surgical ring is used to repair the valve; or a mitral
      valve replacement procedure, in which the damaged valve is replaced with a new one.
      Currently, there is no consensus in the medical community as to which procedure is more
      beneficial. The purpose of this study is to determine whether people with severe mitral valve
      regurgitation should undergo a mitral valve repair procedure or a mitral valve replacement
      procedure.

      This study will enroll people with CAD who have severe mitral regurgitation. At a baseline
      study visit, participants will undergo a physical examination; blood collection;
      neurocognitive tests; and questionnaires regarding medical history, medication history, and
      quality of life. In the operating room, participants will be randomly assigned to undergo
      either the mitral valve repair procedure or the mitral valve replacement procedure. Blood,
      urine, and tissue samples may be collected from participants after the surgery; this is
      optional and will only be done with prior approval from participants. All participants will
      attend study visits at Day 30 and Months 6, 12, and 24. At each visit, participants will take
      part in a medication history review, a physical examination, an echocardiogram, a
      cardiopulmonary exercise test, neurocognitive tests, and quality of life surveys.
    
  