
    
      The neonatal period covers the postnatal first 28 days. During this period, newborns try to
      adapt to the extrauterine life after the intrauterine life and stabilize their respiratory
      and circulatory functions. Therefore, the acquisition of information on newborns' vital signs
      is crucial in the evaluation of and caregiving for newborns. The increase in evidence-based
      studies in nursing has led to changes and developments in the caregiving instructions that
      have hitherto been used in newborn intensive care units. However, the required and effective
      nursing practices that are considered indispensable in newborn intensive care units may cause
      various physiological (increase or decrease in heart and respiration rate, temporary decrease
      in oxygen saturation, hypothermia) and behavioral reactions (crying, uneasiness) Nurses,
      therefore, should closely monitor newborns' vital signs and make various interventions to
      keep these signs within normal values, as a primary practice.

      The literature includes many studies conducted by nurses that focus on keeping newborns'
      physiological measurements within normal values. Massage means the stimulation of the soft
      tissues in the body. Previous studies have indicated that massage has positive effects such
      as relaxing the muscles, relieving pain, reducing bilirubin values by enabling blood and
      lymphatic circulation, increasing sleep duration, and strengthening the relationship between
      mothers and newborns. However, only a limited number of studies exist on the effects of
      massage on newborns' physiological measurements reported that the tactile stimulus through
      massages supported premature infants' parasympathetic functions and positively affected the
      infants' heart rate by reducing neurochemical and stress stimuli. Furthermore, Dieogo et al.
      (2008) reported that premature infants' body temperature increased due to the increased blood
      circulation during massage.

      The bathing of newborns plays a highly important role in routine newborn clinical care
      practices, as well as in the individual, aesthetic, cultural, and hygienic benefits it
      confers. In neonatal intensive care units (NICU), tub baths, wipe baths, swaddle baths and
      shower-type bathing are commonly used. In Turkey, however, wipe baths and tub baths are often
      the most commonly used bathing methods in neonatal intensive care units . Although the
      literature shows differences among the institutions and countries, in newborn care units,
      wipe bathing is generally carried out by nurses, and tub bathing is not recommended until the
      infants' naval cord falls of. Numerous studies have shown that bathing can be performed
      without harming the newborn. Bryanton et al. (2004) indicated in their study that
      thermoregulation was ensured for the infants by drying them under a radiant warmer and
      placing them in an incubator. Mörelus et al. (2006) reported that infants might show
      physiological reactions, such as increased respiration and heart rate, to any stress. They
      also found that bathing positively affected infants' physiological measurements by relaxing
      them and reducing their stress levels. Studies that compare the effects of traditional wipe
      and tub bathing on newborns' physiological measurements have shown that tub bathing had more
      positive effects than wipe bathing. However, no studies have analyzed in the related
      literature that investigate the effects of massage, wipe bathing and tub bathing on
      physiological measurements, in the studies also have several inconsistencies, such as a small
      sample size, the failure to use control groups and a lack of blinding and follow-up. This
      randomized experimental study aimed to analyze the effect of massage, wipe bathing and tub
      bathing of late premature newborns on their physiological measurements.

      Study design, setting, and population This study was conducted as a randomised controlled
      study between January and December 2018 in the NICU of a university hospital in Turkey. The
      NICU employs 30 nurses who provide newborns with bathing care performed routinely between 2
      and 3 pm each afternoon.

      In this study, permission to conduct the research was obtained from the hospital and the
      Inonu University Health Sciences Scientific Research and Publication Ethics Committee. All
      parents who agreed to participate in the research were informed of its methods and purpose,
      and each completed an informed consent form.

      The study sample included the newborns who a) were born at 34 weeks' gestation and over b)
      were receiving routine care and who were stable (temperature >36.5 °C, SpO2> 95%, HR =
      120-160 / min) c) had an apgar score of 7 or higher at the first minute after birth; d) were
      at least 24 hours old and who had no health problems that prevent bathing (e.g., congenital
      anomaly, surgical intervention, etc.) were included in the research.

      The G*Power software package was used to calculate the sample size. The sample consisted of
      192 newborns who comprised (d=0.5)effect size and(α=0.050) alpha level and95%confidence
      level(1-β) according to the power analysis. Each group consisted of 48 patients.

      Randomizasyon Newborns meeting the inclusion criteria were randomly allocated to one of the 4
      groups. Numbers were given to newborns sequentially on entry into the study and the random
      number stable used to allocate to one of 4 groups.

      Physiological measurements Oxygen saturation Heart rate and oxygen saturations of newborns
      were examined using a pulse oximeter. A separate pulse oximetry probe was used for each baby.

      Body temperature Newborns' body temperatures were measured using a non-contact thermometer.
      Bath water temperature The temperature of the water used for bathing was controlled using a
      bath thermometer.

      Data Collection Tools The data were collected using the "Newborn Follow-up Form."

      Newborn Follow-up Form:

      This form was prepared by the researcher upon a literature review and included questions on
      the newborns' height, weight, diagnosis, gender, gestational age, physiological measurements
      (pulse, respiration, oxygen saturation, blood pressure, body temperature), and the delivery
      method.

      PROCEDURE Preparation for applications The newborns' mothers were allowed to observe during
      the applications (massage, wipe bath and tub bath use). Suitable environmental conditions
      were provided for all newborns. The massages and wipe bathing were performed first by setting
      an appropriate temperature and humidity in the tub bathing . The door of the room used for
      bathing was kept closed, preventing heat loss and convection caused by air circulation. The
      room temperature and humidity were set to 26-28 °C and 40-60%, respectively. The duration of
      the applications was a maximum of 5 minutes. Clinical care of newborns (at least half an hour
      after feeding) and treatment processes were taken into consideration. In addition, the
      newborns were not touched until the evaluation was completed after the massage and bath.

      For the massage application, alcohol-free and paraben-free baby oil with moisturising
      properties, suitable for newborns' skin type, was used. The temperature of the water used for
      the sponge bath was set at 37-38 °C, and separate cotton wipes were used for each body
      region. A folded cloth towel was placed in the tub bath before the bathing began. The water
      level inside the tub was set to 9-12 cm, deep enough to cover the newborn's shoulders. The
      temperature of the bath water was controlled using a special water thermometer.

      The materials used during the applications were placed in easily accessible places, and
      nurses wore gloves after washing their hands prior to beginning the activities. All materials
      were disinfected after each application. The researchers were not involved in clinical
      follow-up of the infants, and nurses took all physiological measurements, recording them on
      the Newborn Follow-up Form.

      Interventions Control Group The newborns in the control group did not undergo any
      intervention other than standard clinical practices. All physiological measurements (pulse,
      respiration, oxygen saturation and body temperature) were performed by nurses and recorded on
      the Newborn Follow-up Form.

      Massage Group Massages were performed starting from the face, focused on the newborns
      forehead, and then around the eyes and cheeks with gentle touches. Then, newborns' chest area
      and the upper and lower extremities were massaged. Finally, newborns'were placed prone
      position and the back was massaged. Nurses recorded newborns' physiological measurements
      (pulse, respiration, oxygen saturation and body temperature) on the Newborn Follow-up Form.

      Wipe Bathing Group In the sponge bathing group, the newborns' eyes, faces (outward from the
      midline), around the ear and the back of the ear were wiped from the inside out with cotton
      wipes and dried. Then, the chest area and arms, abdomen and back, legs and feet,
      respectively, were wiped and dried. Finally, the genital area was cleaned, before diapering
      the newborn. Nurses recorded newborns' physiological measurements (pulse, respiration, oxygen
      saturation and body temperature) on the Newborn Follow-up Form.

      Tub Bathing Group In the tub bathing group, before being immersed in the tub, the newborns'
      faces and heads were cleaned outwards from the midline and dried. Then, the neck, chest,
      arms, back, legs and genital area were soaped, before the full body was rinsed and dried.
      Finally, umbilical cord care was performed, and the baby was diapered. Nurses recorded the
      newborns' physiological measurements (pulse, respiration, oxygen saturation and body
      temperature) on the Newborn Follow-up Form.
    
  