
    
      This study investigates the brain plasticity after neuromodulation with fMRI neurofeedback on
      verbal auditory hallucinations (AVH). The new technique of real-time fMRI enables subjects to
      influence their brain activity in certain areas based on neurofeedback. Current brain
      activity as measured by fMRI will be reported to the participants in real time via brain
      computer interface (BCI). Due to the identification of contingency between feedback and
      mental strategies subjects are able to control their own brain activity consciously. This
      provides the opportunity to control symptoms such as AVH. Neurofeedback has been tested on
      subjects with schizophrenia, leading to conscious control of circumscribed brain areas.
      Recent studies show that, in addition to the modulation of single areas, neurofeedback can
      also modulate connectivity between different areas. Thus, it is possible to regulate not only
      single brain regions but also whole networks.

      AVH are a key symptom of schizophrenia. They limit social functions significantly and are
      resistant to the therapy with antipsychotics in 25 % of cases. AVH also occur in 6-15 % of
      the healthy population, without meeting any diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia or other
      psychiatric disorders. This study will perform a direct, not-invasive and selective
      modulation of networks underlying AVH and assess their neural, cognitive and emotional
      effects. The focus of this study is on the connectivity between auditory cortex and inferior
      frontal cortex. Various studies demonstrated that the auditory cortex exhibits an abnormal
      function in schizophrenia patients. It was shown that during AVH, auditory cortex (superior
      temporal lobe) and inferior frontal cortex synchronize spontaneously. These regions play an
      essential role in speech perception and processing. An increased synchronisation of these
      areas could lead to the development of AVH. This study will try to reduce frontotemporal
      connectivity to uncouple the regions. Increasing connectivity of both areas will serve as
      control condition and furthermore intensify the perceived control of the own brain activity
      and of the associated AVH. Thus, patients will learn which factors influence the appearance
      of their hallucinations.
    
  