
    
      Clinical outcome during warfarin anticoagulation to prevent thromboembolism monitored with
      "Fiix-INR" compared to standard monitoring with INR.

      A prospective randomized double-blinded trial. Study protocol Abbreviated Version Jan 25 2012
      Corresponding author: Pall T. Onundarson, M.D., Department of Laboratory Hematology and
      Hemostasis Center, K-building, Landspitali Hringbraut, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland, Phone: +354
      543 1000/5010, Fax +354 543 5539, email: pallt@landspitali.is.

        1. STUDY SYNOPSIS Experiments suggest that during treatment with vitamin K antagonists
           (VKA) the activity of coagulation factors (F) II and X better reflect anticoagulation
           than does FVII. Based on this a new monitoring prothrombin time base test (Fiix-PT) has
           been invented which is only sensitive to FII and FX. The Fiix-PT can be converted to INR
           ("Fiix-INR").We hypothesize that the Fiix-PT may reflect anticoagulation and the
           antithrombotic effect of VKA as accurately or better than the current PT based tests do
           (INR based on PT or P&P). The protocol describes a prospective randomized double-blind
           trial that will be conducted at the Landspitali Anticoagulation Management Center (AMC).
           The objective of the protocol is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Fiix-INR as a
           monitoring test compared to the current PT based assays (INR) used to monitor patients
           treated with VKA in order to prevent thromboembolism. We will randomize 1200 clients of
           the AMC into two identically sized monitoring groups, Fiix-INR (test group) and INR
           (control group). Each individual will be assessed monthly for up to 24 months (an
           expected average of 18 months) until a total of 600 patients years of observation has
           been reached in each group. The clinical endpoints to be studied include efficacy
           (arterial and venous thromboembolic event rate) and safety (bleeding events). Also,
           surrogate convenience endpoints will be studied such as test frequency and time within
           target range.

        2. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE 2.1 Background Vitamin K antagonists (VKA, coumarins) are
           orally active anticoagulants that prevent normal gamma carboxylation of the vitamin K
           dependent coagulation factors (FII, FVII, FIX, FX). The consequence is a reduction in
           the clotability of the blood, ie an anticoagulant effect that can be used
           therapeutically for the purpose of preventing thromboembolism. In order to assure
           efficacy and safety, the dose of VKA needs to be adjusted to maintain the normalized
           prothrombin time ratio (international normalized ratio, INR) within a safe therapeutic
           range (most often with INR target 2.5, range 2.0-3.0). The clotting times obtained with
           PT based tests have in practice for over 50 years been presumed to directly reflect the
           antithrombotic effect of VKA in patients (Loeliger 1984). The PT (or P&P-test) are used
           all over the world for the purpose of monitoring anticoagulation and to make
           dose-adjustments in patients taking VKA. Their results have been standardized by
           calculating the International Normalized Ratio (INR) which takes into account the
           sensitivity (strength) of the thromboplastin used by different reagents.

           However, inherent problems exist with the PT. Due to the VKD factors´ significantly
           different half-lifes (above), the PT clotting time obtained early after initiation or
           dose change may mainly reflect the concentration of factor VII since FVII has the
           notably shortest half-life (about 4-8 hours). If the concentration of factor VII has
           little influence on the antithrombotic effect of VKA (see below), it is possible that
           unnecessary and too frequent dose adjustments are made based on the use of the PT. This,
           could potentially be harmful to the patient.

           Prior studies by others have indicated that the thrombin generation(Xi, Beguin et al.
           1989; Brummel, Paradis et al. 2001) and antithrombotic influence of factor VII in
           rabbits (Zivelin, Rao et al. 1993) may be less important than that of prothrombin or
           factor X. Based on those observations, it is possible that monitoring VKA and their
           safety could be improved by measuring either coagulation factor II or coagulation factor
           X. Measuring and monitoring coagulation factor II alone (native prothrombin antigen) has
           been shown to be very successful and more accurate than PT in clinical studies (Furie,
           Liebman et al. 1984; Xi, Beguin et al. 1989; Furie, Diuguid et al. 1990; Kornberg,
           Francis et al. 1993). The native prothrombin antigen assay, however, is not as
           convenient for laboratories as the PT or P&P. Monitoring coagulation factor X alone has
           not been tested in patients to our knowledge.

           We have investigated (Thrombosis Research 2012, in press.) the influence of each of the
           VKD factors on coagulation induced by dilute (trace amount) thromboplastin using
           rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM). The dilute thromboplastin is by some scientists
           considered to reflect physiological clotting better than the 17,000 fold stronger
           thromboplastin used in the current PT assays. ROTEM measures coagulation in more detail
           than the traditional clotting times, i.e. initiation phase (clotting time), propagation
           phase (bulk clot formation) and stabilization phase. Taken together, these experiments
           using ROTEM show that the ROTEM clotting time (CT, initiation phase), ROTEM maximum
           velocity of clot formation (Max Vel, propagation phase) and the ROTEM MCF (stabilization
           phase) were affected much more by mildly and moderately low concentrations of factors II
           or X (at activity levels that are present during ideal anticoagulation) than by
           identical FVII or factor IX activity levels. Factors VII and IX mainly influenced the
           ROTEM parameters at very low concentrations (< 5%) which only occur during marked over
           anticoagulation. We conclude from these experiments that when coagulation is initiated
           with trace amount thromboplastin (physiological coagulation), reduction in concentration
           of coagulation factors II or X has much more effect on the development of a clot than do
           the concentrations of factors VII or IX except at extremely low activity levels of the
           latter two factors. Our experimental results may indicate that in patients
           anticoagulated with warfarin, the factor VII activity is a confounding source of
           variation in INR (PT) results. Hence, measuring the influence of factor II or X or both
           II and X simultaneously on fibrin formation might reduce INR fluctuation. Possibly, this
           could better predict the antithrombotic effect than the current tests do. Thus,
           measuring II or X or both simultaneously could possibly improve monitoring and dosing
           during VKA therapy. This has led to our invention of a new test, "Fiix-PT" (or
           Stuart-Prothrombin time) , which measures the combined action of factor II and factor X
           activity on clotting induced by tissue thromboplastin in PPP. We are not aware of any
           other scientists investigating this method and a local patent has been granted with
           international patent applications in process (March 2012). The Fiix-PT is not affected
           by reduced activity of any other coagulation factors. In comparison, the traditional
           test method (Quick PT or Owren´s PT) measures the combined effect of factors II, VII and
           X on fibrin formation in patients taking VKA.

           2.2 Hypothesis: Based on our experimental results as well as the results of others(Xi,
           Beguin et al. 1989; Zivelin, Rao et al. 1993; Brummel, Paradis et al. 2001), we
           hypothesize that the Fiix-PT may reflect anticoagulation and the antithrombotic effect
           of VKA at least as accurately as than the current PT based tests do (PT, P&P).

        3. STUDY OBJECTIVE The objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
           Fiix-INR as a monitoring test compared to the current PT based assays used to monitor
           patients treated with VKA to prevent thromboembolism.

        4. STUDY OVERVIEW This is a prospective, single-center, randomized, double-blinded,
           non-inferiority study(D'Agostino, Massaro et al. 2003; Scott 2009) for the efficacy and
           safety of Fiix-PT as a monitoring method in VKA treated patients involving 1200 patient
           years of observation.

           4.1 Participants: All ambulatory patients 18 years or older currently on or starting on
           warfarin to treat and prevent thromboembolism during the study period at the
           anticoagulation management center (AMC) at the Landspitali University Hospital in
           Reykjavik, Iceland with a treatment goal of INR 2-3 will be eligible for participation
           and randomization irrespective of indication for anticoagulation, age or concurrent
           medication use. Thus, the study population will have various (or mixed) indications for
           OA but the majority likely will have atrial fibrillation. Both current patients and new
           patients will be randomized over a 3-6 month period until adequate number of patients
           have entered the study. After patients sign informed consent they will be randomized
           (see METHOD of randomization in chapter 7) to either Fiix-PT (test method, Fiix INR) or
           PT (PT-INR based on Quick PT method as a control method). We will measure the PT- INR as
           well as the Fiix - INR in the test group for the sake of safety.

           4.2 Randomization standard (PT-INR) vs. new test (Fiix-INR). The aim is to randomize
           1200 clients of the AMC into two identically sized monitoring groups, Fiix-INR (test
           group) and INR (control group). Each individual will be assessed monthly for up to 24
           months (an expected average of 18 months) until a total of 600 patients years of
           observation has been reached in each group.

           4.3 Time frame: The clinical observation period for each participant will be 18 months
           on average.

           4.4 Endpoints to be recorded: see Chapter 7 for details A.Clinical endpoints. Rate of
           all TE or major bleeding. The major efficacy endpoint is symptomatic diagnosed TE events
           or death from TE and the major safety endpoint, is major bleeding, including death from
           major bleeding (Palareti 1996; Abdelhafiz and Wheeldon 2004). TE and major bleeding as a
           combined endpoint. Death and causes of death from natural causes. All bleeding (major
           and any other reported bleeding) B. Convenience/surrogate endpoints, eg. time within
           target range, number of tests within target range, number of tests during study period,
           number of tests needed to achieve stable anticoagulation.

           4.5 Study management: The study will be managed from day to day by an Executive
           Committee (EXC) . All clinical diagnoses will be reviewed by a blinded Independent
           Adjudication Committee (IAC) and Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). The IAC and DSMB
           will be blinded to which test group the patient with event for review belongs. All
           suspected recurrent TEs, deaths, as well as all episodes of bleeding and other possible
           vascular events will be evaluated by the IAC. The patent holders (PTÖ, BRG) will not be
           on the IAC due to potential bias. Only adjudicated results will be the basis for the
           final analyses. The DSMB will also monitor the study progress and patients' safety
           during the study and give recommendations to the EXC.

           Every time a patient has a contact (eg INR measurement or dosing instructions), the
           dosing staff or study nurse will ask questions by exactly following the case review form
           (CRF, 14.2). If the questions are answered with a "yes", the study nurse will without
           delay contact that particular patient for more detailed information (i.e. HCRU form see:
           Event report form / Health Care resource utilization (HCRU)), and, as appropriate, will
           also collect necessary case record documents for the IAC.

        5. STUDY POPULATION, RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDING

      5.1 Planned number of patients. See 11.3.1 5.2 Inclusion criteria

        1. Current or new patients 18 years or older currently on or starting VKA with INR
           treatment target of 2-3

        2. Willingness to participate as volunteers and to signing an informed consent 5.3
           Exclusion criteria

      1. Age under 18 years 2. Patients unable to sign informed consent

      5.4 Randomization and blinding 5.4.1 Random allocation to experimental testing (Fiix-PT,
      Fiix-INR) group and standard testing (PT, PT-INR) group will be done by the study nurse or
      coagulation laboratory staff member in the outpatient phlebotomy ward when patients come for
      scheduled visits or in hospital inpatient wards;

        1. In current stable patients: at time of signing informed consent. Stable patients have
           had at least two INR´s within the target range.

        2. In new patients: no later than on the 4th day of warfarin administration, i.e. prior to
           the first dose adjustment as above.

      Note that the first dose change/first dose adjustment decision of warfarin must be based on
      post-randomization Fiix-PT or PT result.

      5.4.2 Randomization After patients sign informed consent they will be randomized to either
      Fiix-PT (test method, Fiix INR) or PT (PT-INR based on Quick PT method as a control method).
      Randomization will be done manually at time of signing the informed consent, ie the
      participants will draw a labeled color card with an assigned study number (CRF number) which
      will randomize them to either the test group or the control group. The coagulation laboratory
      (supervised by BRG) will maintain a list of study participants during the study. They will be
      responsible for randomization (color assignment) following the signing of informed consent.
      Following randomization, each patient will be assigned a study participant number. The
      laboratory will based on this participant number and color code as appropriate direct each
      patient´s sample to test A (Fiix-INR) or test B (PT-INR) which will be measured in the
      Landspitali coagulation laboratory using the STA-R instrument (Stago).

      5.4.3 Blinding. The study will be double-blinded, i.e. all assessors of clinical effect and
      dosing staff as well as patients will be blinded to the monitoring test-method. Blinded test
      results (INR) will be administered by the coagulation laboratory staff which cannot be
      blinded since they do the laboratory testing. The coagulation laboratory will measure INR
      (PT) on one STA-R instrument and Fiix-INR (Fiix-PT) on another STA-R instrument. All results,
      however will be reported out as "INR". The patients will not be informed on which test is
      used to monitor their anticoagulation and only a value ("INR") will be reported to patients.
      The test results will also be reported electronically as "INR" to the dosing staff (nurses,
      biomedical scientists, physicians) and study nurse who will not have knowledge on which test
      is used to monitor each patient. The data will be managed by the study nurse who will not
      have access to monitoring test allocation. All formal assessors of clinical events and
      secondary endpoints will also be blinded to test allocation. The dosing staff will dose
      patients based on INR, i.e. using the DAWN anticoagulation management software (Onundarson,
      Einarsdottir et al. 2008).

      5.5 Prior and concomitant anticoagulant medication 5.5.1 Anticoagulant medication prior to
      randomization Therapeutic dosages of (LMW)heparin/fondaparinux are allowed concomitantly with
      warfarin in new patients or during bridging therapy in association with procedures.

      6 STUDY TESTS 6.1 INR and Fiix-INR Current patients on stable warfarin therapy (see 5.4.1)
      can be included. In new patients, no later than after the first dose of warfarin should the
      dosing be managed by the AMC staff at Landspitali. The VKA dosage will be adjusted to
      maintain the Fiix-INR or the INR (PT-INR) with the therapeutic target of 2.5 (range 2.0-3.0).

      6.1.1 PT-INR The INR is calculated by the following formula: INR= (Patient PT/mean normal
      PT)ISI .

      6.1.2 Fiix-INR Fiix-PT will be measured using Neoplastin CI plus® and Fiix depleted plasma as
      described in patent application P8151IS00, March, 8th 2011. Fiix-INR will be calculated in
      the same manner as the PT-INR is calculated. ISI is calculated from DEKS calibrators as in
      6.1.1.

      6.2 Packaging, labeling, and storage The test reagents will be stored according to their
      package inserts and the Fiix deficient plasma will be stored in aliquots at -70°C.

      6.3 Accountability and study compliance All testing, dosing and follow-up must be done in
      accordance with the protocol and group assignment. During emergency testing both tests should
      be measured on all patients. When the laboratory is not sure both tests should be measured.
      All samples drawn during weekend and holidays should be kept until coagulation laboratory
      staff has decided that they can be discarded.

      6.3.1 VKA treatment monitoring The INR and Fiix-INR should initially be measured every 2 to 4
      days and when stable (at least two consecutive tests within target range) no less that every
      8 weeks.

      7 STUDY PROCEDURES 7.1 Study period This is the period between randomization (first testing
      with assigned test = Day 1) and final assessment of each individual. Data will be retrieved
      continuously as described above. After 3, 6, 9 and 12 months "interim" (safety, efficacy)
      analyzes will be performed (see Chapter 11). We will randomize 1200 clients of the AMC into
      two identically sized monitoring groups, Fiix-INR (test group) and INR (control group). Each
      individual will be assessed monthly for up to 24 months (an expected average of 18 months)
      until a total of 600 patients years of observation has been reached in each group. The study
      may also be stopped by the recommendation of the DSMB if a clinically significant difference
      in outcome becomes evident at an earlier time-point indicating inferiority of the new method.

      7.1.1 Patient written information Prior to enrollment potential study participants will
      receive an introductory information letter as well as informed consent form detailing the
      study and symptoms suggestive of new or recurrent thromboembolism or major bleeding.

      7.1.2 Patient contacts Data will be retrieved continuously and each patient will be contacted
      on a monthly basis. As described in detail in the protocol, in the case of suspected bleeding
      or thrombotic events or death data will be retrieved from case records, hospital summaries,
      autopsy reports or other records from physicians. When suspected serious events occur, the
      patients will be immediately referred to appropriate level care in the hospital.

      7.1.2.1 Initial CRF form (see: Initial Case Report Form (Initial CRF) form) When the patient
      has signed an informed consent, an initial CRF form (ICRF) will be filled in.

      7.1.2.2 Follow-up CRF form (see: Follow-up Contact Case report (review) form (Follow-up CRF))
      Every time a patient has a contact with the AMC (e.g. INR measurement or dosing
      instructions), the dosing staff or study nurse will ask questions by exactly following the
      case review form (CRF, 14.2). If the questions are answered with a "yes", the study nurse
      will without delay contact that particular patient for more detailed information (ie HCRU
      form, see: Event report form / Health Care resource utilization (HCRU)). The study nurse will
      then, as appropriate, collect necessary documents for the independent adjudication committee
      (IAC), see chapter 9.3.3. During each patient event, the following will be systematically
      checked by interviewing patients and reviewing the hospital chart for thromboembolism,
      bleeding events, concomitant medication, in particular antiplatelet agents such as aspirin or
      clopidogrel and NSAID use and compliance with monitoring 7.1.2.3 Observational period All
      patients will have a 5 day observational period after discontinuing from study.

      7.2 Efficacy and safety outcome criteria for the IAC 7.2.1 Assessment of clinical outcomes
      All suspected clinical outcomes i.e. recurrent TE, bleeding, death and vascular events, will
      be notified expedited to the IAC in a manner blinded to which test was applied. Blinded
      review of the event by the IAC should be completed within 2-4 weeks after occurrence of the
      event. The primary efficacy outcome is symptomatic or fatal recurrent arterial or venous TE
      event during the study period. The primary safety outcome is bleeding. Prespecified criteria
      for these events are excluded from this abbreviated protocol version.

      7.3 Surrogate endpoints/Convenience endpoints

        1. During initiation of VKA therapy: i. Number of tests needed to reach stable INR, i.e.
           until the first of two consecutive INR values are obtained within the target range. ii.
           Time until stable INR within target range

        2. During stable phase: i. Total number of tests per treatment year ii. Dose adjustment
           frequency (interval or number of dose adjustments during observation period) iii.
           Percent tests within treatment range over observation period iv. Percent time within
           target range (TTR) over observation period

      7.4 Measures to minimize bias A series of measures will be implemented to minimize the
      potential for bias in this study as detailed in the full protocol.

      7.5 Approach to the bleeding patient If a patient has a serious bleed during study, the
      following routine measures should be considered.

      Refer the patient immediately to the emergency department Delay or discontinue the next
      anticoagulant dose and consider vitamin K administration and usual treatment for bleeding,
      including blood transfusion, prothrombin complex concentrate administration, recombinant
      factor VIIa (NovoSeven and fresh frozen plasma

      8 PREMATURE DISCONTINUATION OR TEMPORARY DISRUPTION

      Subjects may be withdrawn from the study for the following reasons:

      At their own request or at the request of their legally acceptable guardian. If, in the
      investigator's opinion, continuation on anticoagulation would be detrimental to the subject's
      well-being.

      This is further detailed in the full protocol 9 DATA QUALITY ASSURANCE 9.1 Data quality The
      monitoring and auditing procedures defined below will be followed.

      9.2 Documentation Entries made in the CRF must be either verifiable against source documents,
      or have been directly entered into the CRF, in which case the entry in the CRF will be
      considered as the source data. The source data parameter to be verified and the
      identification of the source document must be documented. The study file and all source data
      will be retained for 5 years following final publication of study results when source data
      can be destroyed. No published result will be traceable to particular persons.

      9.3 Study administration/committees 9.3.1 Executive committee (EXC) The EXC has the overall
      scientific responsibility of the study. Its tasks and responsibilities are to create and
      approve the final protocol, co-author protocol amendments whenever necessary, ensure a
      scientifically sound and safe conduct of the study, including by abiding to DSMB
      recommendations, decide on the DSMB recommendations, review and approve the statistical
      analysis plan, guarantee the integrity of data collection and analyses and to decide on the
      publication- and presentation policy of the final results and ancillary studies 9.3.2 Study
      management and coordination committee (SMCC) The SMCC has the overall clinical responsibility
      of the study. Its tasks and responsibilities are to review the protocol, review the CRF,
      support the EXC by advice, monitor progress of study enrollment, address/resolve study
      management problems and participate in the analysis and presentation of the results.

      Member (author group):

      The Independent adjudication committee (IAC) has the following roles: A. Blinded review of
      clinical events (IAC- function), i.e. all suspected recurrent thromboembolic events, bleeding
      of any kind, any vascular events and all deaths during the study period and the observational
      period will be evaluated by IAC .The study nurse will provide the IAC with all relevant
      documentation related to the events but the IAC will be blinded as to the monitoring method
      of each patient while evaluating events. Adjudication results will be the basis for the final
      analyses. and B. Data safety and monitoring (DSMB-function), i.e. this committee also has the
      responsibility to provide the EXC with recommendations related to the protection of the
      patients' safety, including stopping recruitment and stopping the study. For this purpose,
      the DSMB will review all incidences of recurrent thromboembolism and bleeding every 3 months,
      see Chapter 11.

      9.3.4 External monitoring of study Adherence to study protocol will be monitored by an
      external agency. 10 ETHICAL AND LEGAL ASPECTS 10.1 Ethical committees (EC) The study will we
      conducted in accordance with the Helsinki declaration. Documented approval from appropriate
      ethical committees (EC) (applications will be sent to National Bioethics Committee (NBC)
      ("Vísindasiðanefnd"), The Data Protection Authority ("Persónuvernd") and from the Landspitali
      Medical Director will be obtained prior to the start of the study, according to good clinical
      practice (GCP), local laws, regulations and organizations. Regulatory authority
      approvals/authorizations notifications will be in place and fully documented prior to study
      start.

      10.2 Ethical conduct of the study The procedures set out in this protocol, pertaining to the
      conduct, evaluation, and documentation of this study, are designed to ensure that the
      investigators abide by GCP Guidelines and under the guiding principles detailed in the
      declaration of Helsinki. The study will also be carried out in keeping with applicable local
      law(s) and regulation(s). This may include an inspection by regulatory authority
      representatives at any time, including allowing direct access of source documents to the
      regulatory authority.

      10.3 Subject information and consent A core information and informed consent form will be
      provided. Written informed consent must be obtained before any study specific procedure takes
      place. Participation in the study and date of informed consent given by the subject should be
      documented appropriately in the subject's files.

      10.4 Insurance All subjects participating in the study will be covered by the Landspitali
      Hospital patient insurance in line with applicable laws and/or regulations.

      10.5 Confidentiality All records identifying the subject will be kept confidential and, to
      the extent permitted by the applicable laws and/or regulations, will not be made publicly
      available. Only the subject number will be recorded in the CRF. A list with names and
      subjects numbers will be kept separately by the EXC and its employees. If the results of the
      study are published, the subject's identity will remain totally confidential. The
      investigator will, however, maintain a list to enable subjects' records to be identified.

      10.6 Archiving of data The investigator will arrange for the retention of the study
      documentation file for 5 years. All data and documents should be made available if requested
      11 STATISTICAL AND ANALYTICAL METHODS 11.1 Statistical analysis plan (SAP) The plan is
      described in the following sections. However, the SAPs will allow protocol amendments or
      unexpected issues in study execution or data that affect planned analyses.

      11.2 Analysis populations The intention-to-monitor ("ITM") population will consist of all
      patients who have been randomized, i.e., when the patient number and allocated monitoring
      method are recorded in study-data base.

      Patients will be analyzed by the monitoring method assigned. Patients will contribute to
      patient years during the time they are in the study For patient year analysis the following
      patients will be censored at the last day the patient had a complete assessment for study
      outcomes within the intended treatment duration. Patients who did not have a thromboembolic
      or bleeding event during the time of the predefined randomized test duration, patients lost
      to follow-up patients who died because of other reasons than thromboembolic events patients
      who withdrew informed consent before the end of the predefined treatment duration and who did
      not have an efficacy or safety outcome. The per-protocol-population (PPP) will consist of all
      randomized patients without any major deviation from the protocol. The following deviations
      will lead to exclusion from the PP population: Patients not tested according to allocation or
      no VKA treatment received at all 11.3 Study population/sample size and power/ demographics
      and patient characteristics Baseline characteristics: Demographic characteristics (including
      age, sex, indications for anticoagulation, concomitant drug use) will be summarized by
      treatment group using descriptive statistics and the groups will be compared with regard to
      baseline characteristics using traditional statistical methods. As, all major clinical events
      are likely to be admitted to Landspitali, the only acute care hospital in the Reykjavik area,
      loss to follow-up is expected to be negligible. Therefore, no adjustment of sample size is
      considered necessary. Patients excluded from the analysis population in the per protocol
      analysis will be listed by test method and reason for exclusion. The number and percentage of
      randomized patients who discontinued from the study prematurely will be tabulated by main
      reason for discontinuation and treatment group.

      11.3.1 Non-inferiority margin estimation This study is powered for analysis of successful
      anticoagulation treatment and monitoring. For this calculation we have used data from studies
      on the clinical outcome of patients with mixed indications for anticoagulation, monitored and
      dosed by anticoagulation management centers (Palareti, Leali et al. 1996; Wilson, Wells et
      al. 2003; Abdelhafiz and Wheeldon 2004; Menendez-Jandula, Souto et al. 2005). In these
      studies the combined endpoints of major bleeding and thromboembolic events ranged from 2.7 to
      7.3 per 100 patients years and event rate for thromboembolic events was 0.9 to 5.4 per 100
      patient years (0.9-5.4%) with the lower margin of the 95% CI ranging form 2.9 to 8.2%. The
      largest observational study (Palareti, Leali et al. 1996; Wilson, Wells et al. 2003;
      Abdelhafiz and Wheeldon 2004; Menendez-Jandula, Souto et al. 2005) and the only randomized
      study (Palareti, Leali et al. 1996; Wilson, Wells et al. 2003; Abdelhafiz and Wheeldon 2004;
      Menendez-Jandula, Souto et al. 2005) had an TE event rate of 3.5 and 5.4% respectively. We
      therefore chose to use 3% TE-event rate as our expected TE-event rate (97% success rate) and
      the non-inferiority of 5.5% (94.5% success rate for efficacy). We consider this 2.5%
      difference one that is clinically significant, yet within the 95% CI for event rate in some
      prior studies. Based on these considerations, the appropriate number of participants needed
      to demonstrate statistical non-inferiority of clinically important events for the test method
      with an 80% certainty after one year of observation are about 600 (576) patients in each
      group, i.e. 600 (576) patient years in each group.

      11.4 Major event analysis (Efficacy and safety analysis) Major events analyses, primarily the
      TE event rate (efficacy) but also the secondary end points of the rate of bleeding and major
      bleeding (safety) as well as the combined endpoint of TE events and major bleeding events
      will be based on the ITT population. For the primary and secondary endpoints, event free
      survival will be compared in the two groups using Kaplan-Meier curves. Optionally, the time
      to the first events will be analyzed using Cox's proportional hazard models.

      11.5 Interim analysis 11.5.1 Study monitoring The study progress will be monitored
      continuously. Interim analysis for safety purposes is planned at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. Based
      on this, risk-benefit will be evaluated by the DSMB.

      11.6 Surrogate endpoint analysis Median time within target range, time until stable INR as
      well as other surrogate parameters will be evaluated using the Mann-Whitney test for numeric
      rows or other appropriate statistical tests.
    
  