
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To evaluate the effect of the Mediterranean diet intervention on the apnea-hypopnea index in
      the elderly with moderate-severe sleep apnea.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the effect of intervention with Mediterranean diet on the effect of low-fat
           diet (control) on anthropometric variables (BMI, neck and waist circumferences) and
           bioimpedance (body water, lean mass, fat mass).

        -  To compare the effect of the intervention with a diet of the Mediterranean type to the
           effect of the intervention with a low-fat diet (control) on glycolipid profile,
           C-reactive protein, Sodium, and Potassium.

        -  To compare the effect of the Mediterranean diet intervention on the effect of the
           low-fat diet (control) on blood pressure: systolic, diastolic and heart rate measured in
           24-hour ABPM.

      PROCEDURES:

      All variables will be measured equally in the two groups: Mediterranean diet and control
      diet. The provision of extra virgin olive oil and oilseeds will be provided free to
      participants randomized to the Mediterranean diet at visits 1 and 2 and participants
      randomized to the control diet will receive nutritional guidelines. There will be no caloric
      restriction for both groups, nor will there be any increase in physical activity.

      All participants will be interviewed by a nutritionist and a nutritionist at the baseline and
      at all subsequent visits, and the dietary guidelines will be given by the same nutritionist.
      Evaluations with participants from both groups will be organized separately for each of the
      groups. All participants will be instructed not to use multivitamins or antioxidant
      supplements during the study period.

      ASSESSMENT OF ADHERENCE TO THE MEDITERRANEAN DIET:

      A questionnaire with 14 items (Annex 3) assessing adherence to the Mediterranean diet will be
      used. A value of 0 (not compatible) or 1 (compatible) will be assigned to each item answered
      on the diet. Higher scores will reflect better adherence to the diet. High adherence will be
      set when matching at least 11 of the 14 items.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      The randomization to the diet group of the Mediterranean type or Diet Control will be
      performed by withdrawing the envelope in groups of 4 following random numbers generated by
      computer.

      SAMPLE SIZE The sample size calculation is based on the study "Effect of Mediterranean diet
      versus prudent diet combined with physical activity on OSAS: a randomized trial" 45. For a 5%
      alpha error and 80% power, the calculated sample size was 24 patients in each group to detect
      an effect size of 0.25 standard deviation. However, considering withdrawals, withdrawal of
      consent, absenteeism, and case losses during the study period, up to 25 patients will be
      evaluated in the Mediterranean diet group and 25 in the control diet group.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The demographic characteristics and other variables of interest of the
      participants of the Mediterranean diet and Diet control groups will be compared using the
      Student's t-test or the chi-square test. Paired t-test or non-parametric test will be
      performed to compare measures at baseline and after two months of intervention within each
      group. Differences of measures of interest will be determined between the groups using
      covariance analysis (ANCOVA) controlled by the corresponding baseline levels, sex, and age or
      by non-parametric test. The transformation to log for data that is not normally distributed
      will be used. The significance of P <0.05 will be considered significant. The analyzes will
      be performed with the IBM SPSS Statistics version 20 program.
    
  