
    
      Rationale: Rupture of a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque is the most important cause of
      stroke and myocardial infarction. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) with its high soft tissue
      contrast is well suited for atherosclerotic plaque imaging to identify high-risk plaques.
      High soft tissue contrast enables the visualisation of different plaque components based on
      which the plaque can be classified as stable or vulnerable. To identify the various plaque
      components, in a conventional MRI examination multiple MRI sequences are acquired, which can
      take approximately 30-40 minutes. This can be uncomfortable for the patient and it is
      impractical in daily clinical practice. As an alternative, multi-contrast sequences have
      recently been developed which acquire multiple contrast weightings simultaneously,
      significantly reducing the scan time (< 6 minutes). Apart from a reduction in scan time,
      because these contrast weightings are acquired simultaneously, they are inherently
      co-registered which is not the case with conventional sequences.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to validate 2 multi-contrast sequences, namely the
      Multi-contrast ATherosclerosis Characterization (MATCH) and Bright-blood and black-blOOd
      phase SensiTive (BOOST) inversion recovery sequence for the quantification of atherosclerotic
      plaque components with conventional multi-sequence MRI and histology.

      Study design: cross-sectional validation study Study population: 40 patients with a carotid
      artery plaque ≥2 mm based on ultrasound or Computed Tomography Angiography.

      Intervention (if applicable): not applicable Main study parameters/endpoints: the presence
      and volumetric measures of plaque components (fibrous tissue, lipid-rich necrotic core,
      intraplaque hemorrhage and calcifications) and volumetric measures of the vessel wall and
      lumen as assessed with multi-contrast MRI will be compared to those as assessed by
      conventional multisequence MRI and, if available, histology of the surgically removed
      specimen in patients that are scheduled for carotid endarterectomy.
    
  