
    
      This is a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, active-controlled
      study of rolapitant in subjects receiving HEC (≥60 mg/m2 of cisplatin-based chemotherapy).
      Study drug will be administered 1 - 2 hours prior to initiation of chemotherapy on Day 1.
      Granisetron and dexamethasone will be administered approximately 30 minutes before initiation
      of chemotherapy on Day 1,except in patients receiving taxanes as part of cisplatin-based
      chemotherapy. Subjects will record all events of emesis and use of rescue medication for
      established nausea and/or vomiting and will indicate the severity of nausea they experienced
      in each of the previous 24 hours in the NV Subject Diary prior to HEC administration through
      Day 6 in Cycle 1. Dexamethasone 8 mg twice daily (part of study regimen) on Days 2 through 4
      is NOT considered rescue therapy. Health-related quality of life will be measured by the FLIE
      Questionnaire on Day 6 of Cycle 1. Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical
      review of AEs, physical examinations including complete neurological assessment, vital
      signs,electrocardiograms (ECGs), and safety laboratory values including BUN andcreatinine.
      All subjects are expected to complete Cycle 1 and will have the option of participating in up
      to five additional cycles. The study will investigate the efficacy of rolapitant for the
      treatment of CINV during an initial chemotherapy cycle (Cycle 1).

      Safety analyses will include data from Cycle 1 and from subsequent cycles. At the Screening
      Visit, blood samples may be collected and stored in this study and maybe analyzed for future
      biomarker research related to safety and efficacy. Analysis of these samples may include DNA,
      RNA, or protein markers. The biomarker blood samples will be stored for up to 2 years post
      study completion. In addition, PK samples will be collected from subjects enrolled in
      selected sites.
    
  