
    
      Patients admitted from the Emergency Department (ED) to a progressive floor, or patients
      admitted from ED to any floor type with express approval from the Principal Investigator are
      eligible participants. Research staff will approach patients admitted to the progressive
      floors (or other floors when identified by PI) based on screening of the electronic medical
      record. These patients are approached by research staff when physically in the emergency
      department waiting for a room assignment. If the patient agrees to participate in the trial,
      the study subject will approached for consent by the research staff. Research staff will
      confirm functionality of the existing peripheral IV previously placed by ED staff. The
      assessment will include observing for blood return into the tubing upon aspiration and/or
      unobstructed flush with a minimum of 1-2 ml of normal saline. Staff will also observe the
      site for any signs of redness or tenderness. A tourniquet may be applied as needed. If the
      patient is actively receiving an infusion, the drip will briefly be halted to evaluate for
      functionality. Functionality will be assessed with the existing dressing in place. If the
      catheter is functional and free of any signs of complications, study subjects will be
      randomized by a computer generated 1:1 envelope system to either the control group:
      polyurethane dressing + clear tape or the experimental group: polyurethane dressing + clear
      tape + tissue adhesive. The tissue adhesive is not standard of care at Beaumont. For the
      control group, the polyurethane dressing will be gently removed. Dressing will be removed
      carefully to minimize any potential dislodgments or skin injury. The site will be evaluated
      for oozing or blood and as needed cleaned with sterile gauze. Once the site is completely
      dry, a new polyurethane dressing will be applied and reinforced with tape in a standard
      fashion. Once securement is complete, functionality will be reassessed per protocol above.
      For the experimental group, the existing securement will be gently removed. There are not
      special steps required for removing the dressing with the tissue adhesive. The IV catheter is
      secured and the dressing is removed gently. The site will be evaluated for oozing or blood
      and as needed cleaned with sterile gauze. Once the site is completely dry, the tissue
      adhesive will be applied. A new standard polyurethane dressing will be applied and tape will
      be applied per the standard approach. Once securement is complete, functionality will be
      reassessed. The time of the new dressing application will be noted as time zero. Catheter
      dwell time will begin at this point. Additional data variables collected at the initial
      assessment include: demographics such as age, sex, international normalized ratio (INR) >1.5,
      platelets < 50, insertion site details, hours from insertion to recruitment, inserter
      credentials.

      Follow-up Assessment:

      After initial assessment, the catheter will be assessed by the research team every 24 hours
      as long as the patient is hospitalized up to 7 days or 168 hours. At each follow up interval
      the researcher notes the date /time of evaluation and assesses for any signs and symptoms of
      complications and functionality of the device. A catheter is functional if the IV flushes
      without resistance. Complications include infiltration, phlebitis, dislodgement, oozing
      fluid/blood, purulent drainage, or occlusion. Catheters will be assessed daily for signs and
      symptoms of complications. Any signs or symptoms of complications or lack of functionality
      will be reported to the patient's primary care team so that management of the IV catheter can
      be addressed. If the catheter was identified to have any signs or symptoms of complications
      during follow-up assessment the date and time of observation of the complication will be
      documented in the data collection tool and the primary team will be notified of the
      complication. If the catheter was removed prior to the follow-up assessment then the IV
      removal time and the reason for removal will be obtained through chart review. For all
      catheters removed due to a complication, re-insertion attempt data will be tracked through
      the medical record in the nursing section for venous lines and need for reinsertion of the IV
      or escalation to a midline, peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), or central venous
      catheter (CVC) will be noted. If the patient is discharged prior to the time of follow-up
      assessment then the time of discharge will be documented and the IV will be presumed
      functional until time of discharge unless otherwise noted in the chart.

      The medication administration record will be queried for all medications given through each
      catheter with specific attention to antibiotics and anticoagulants. Vesicants/irritants that
      are generally given via central line or considered caustic to the vessel will be noted in
      both groups. Number of doses will be recorded. Additional data gathered by research staff on
      follow-up evaluation includes: dwell time in days/hours, hospital length of stay, and number
      of peripheral IVs for duration of stay.
    
  