
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) was noted to have a familial component as early as 1880. More
      recently, the discovery of several genetic factors influencing Parkinson's disease has
      emphasized the importance of heredity in PD.

      Objective: The goal of this protocol will be to contribute to the genetic understanding of
      Parkinson's disease. Clinical data will be collected in order to document the features of
      Parkinson's disease in affected individuals (phenotyping). Genetic characterization will be
      undertaken for the discovery of specific genes which cause or contribute to the risk for
      Parkinson's disease (genotyping).

      Design: The study design has two components. The first (aim 1) involves positional cloning
      for gene discovery in families with apparent Mendelian inheritance. The second (aim 2) will
      utilize an association study design, using genetic case-control methods for assessment of
      genetic risk factors. We will examine individuals affected by Parkinson's disease and their
      family members towards Specific Aim 1. Specific Aim 2 will involve evaluation of individuals
      with apparent sporadic Parkinson's disease, and also, healthy adult volunteers who will be
      recruited as control subjects.

      Outcome Measures:

      Primary Outcome Measures for Specific Aim 1 are:

        1. The identification of new genes causal for Parkinson's disease.

        2. The identification of new mutations in known genes.

      Primary Outcome Measures for Specific Aim 2 are:

        1. The discovery of gene variants which confer risk for Parkinson's disease.

        2. The validation of already reported polymorphisms as risk factors for PD.

      Secondary Outcome Measures (both Specific Aims 1 and 2): Genotype/phenotype correlations for
      specific genetic forms of Parkinson's disease. For example, we will assess if a particular
      age of onset, cardinal or secondary feature of PD or associated clinical course is associated
      with a given genotype.

      Future Direction: Because 1) the larger sample base the greater the likelihood of the
      discovery of genes of minor effect and 2) discoveries of genetic risk factors require
      validation in additional sample series, it is likely that renewal of this protocol will be
      sought after five years.

      Study Population: We aim to enroll a total of 2500 subjects over five years. These will
      include approximately 500 samples for the Mendelian studies (Specific Aim 1), and 2000 for
      association studies (Specific Aim 2). These estimates are based both on feasibility and on
      statistical power. Subjects will be evaluated at the NIH Clinical Center.
    
  