
    
      During pregnancy, the organic systems of a woman are subjected to physiological modifications
      consequential to hormonal, anatomic and metabolical alterations. The most significant
      modification in the circulatory system is an increased cardiac output from the first three
      months of gestation. Women with heart disease may present with severe complications during
      the gestational period, because of inappropriate adaptation of her body to this hemodynamic
      overload, even those patients who are thought to have an appropriate functional capacity
      during early pregnancy. There are scant studies in the literature on the effects of local
      anesthetics, with and without vasoconstrictor, used in dental procedures on the
      cardiovascular variables of pregnant women with valvar disease, as well as on their concepti.
      Driven by this shortage, we decided to have this subject studied, by assessing and analyzing
      cardiotocographic parameters, such as fetal heart rate (FHR), fetal motility(FM) and uterine
      contractions (UC), in addition to blood pressure (BP) and electrocardiographic variables,
      such as heart rate (HR) and extrasystoles (ES), in pregnant women with rheumatic valvar
      disease who undergo local anesthesia with lidocaine, with and without vasoconstrictor, during
      restorative dental procedure. For this, 31 rheumatic heart disease patients who were in their
      28th to 37th week of gestation, had 24-hour ambulatory monitoring of their BP and Holter
      electrocardiography (Holter-ECG), and cardiotocography (CTG), performed during: (1) baseline
      - 60 minutes before the procedure for BP and Holter-ECG monitoring, and 20 minutes before the
      procedure for CTG; (2) procedure - 56±15.5 minutes (mean±SD); (3) post-procedure - 20
      minutes; and (4) mean 24-hour HR and ES measurement, and mean wake and sleeping periods BP
      monitoring. Variation of the above variables was analyzed in two groups, one with infusion of
      a 2% solution of lidocaine without vasoconstrictor (Group LNE) composed of 14 patients, and
      the other with infusion of a 2% solution of lidocaine with epinephrine 1:100,000 (Group LE)
      composed of 17 patients, randomized drawing and single blind. The investigator wise person
      which solution of lidocaine was being used, therefore the proper local vasoconstriction
      denounced if it was infiltrated or not epinephrine. The used technique was of the modified
      periodontal ligament (PDLm injection), by means of the equipment The Wand, infusing 1.8 ml
      (one cartridge) in six minutes. We use the technique of analysis of variance (ANOVA) with
      repeated measures to calculate the size of the sample and for the analysis and multiple
      interpretation of the variable in three distinct periods, on the basis of the table of Vonesh
      and Shork (15 patients in each group, considering a correlation enters the measures of next
      value the 0,4, a level of significance of 5% and to be able of test of 80%). All the variable
      had been initially analyzed descriptive. For the quantitative variable this analysis was made
      through the comment of the minimum and maximum values, and of the calculation of medium
      averages and shunting line-standard and. For the qualitative variable we calculate absolute
      and relative frequencies. The level of significance used for the tests was of 5% (p<0,05).The
      maternal HR values obtained during the procedure showed a significant reduction only in
      comparison with the other time periods (P<0.001)in the two groups. The comparison of the
      groups LE e LNE did not reveal any significant difference (P>0.05). ES was detected in 9
      (29.0%) patients, being 7 of them (41.8%) from the Group LE. BP did not show any significant
      difference neither between time periods, nor between groups (P>0.05). The same occurred in
      the comparative analysis of the fetal parameters obtained during CTG - number of UC, level
      and variability from baseline of the FHR, number of accelerations of the FHR and fetal
      reactivity pattern. Our conclusion was that the use of 2% solution of lidocaine in
      association with epinephrine proved safe during dental procedure in pregnant women with
      rheumatic valvar cardiopathy.
    
  