
    
      Pleural effusion is a medical condition, which occurs when too much fluid collects in the
      space between the lungs and the chest wall. This extra fluid makes it hard for the lungs to
      fully expand and take in enough air when inhaling. Malignant pleural effusions (MPE) are
      effusions related to cancer. Common symptoms of MPE include: dyspnea (shortness of breath),
      cough, weight loss, and chest pain. Tunneled pleural catheters (which are inserted into the
      body) are now commonly used to treat the symptoms of malignant pleural effusions by draining
      this extra fluid on a daily basis. This drainage can be done and home and need not be
      performed at a hospital.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the shorter versus longer external
      length Rocket速 pleural catheter in managing malignant pleural effusions in terms of patients'
      self-rated quality of life, its ease of use, the incidence of complications, and levels of
      health care provider satisfaction. The Rocket速 pleural catheter has been approved by the Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) and Health Canada for the management of malignant pleural
      effusions.

      This study will take place in Ottawa, Ontario, and will include 100 patients who are
      receiving tunnelled pleural catheters to treat their symptoms of MPE. All information
      required to evaluate the Rocket速 catheter will be collected from routine medical follow-up
      visits. The period of time for the study is approximately 4 weeks (28 days).

      The Rocket速 catheter will be provided to patients who wish to participate in this study. If
      patients do not wish to participate, they will receive the current standard of care (the
      PleurX catheter) and will undergo the same standard medical assessments that will be
      performed in this study.

      All patients eligible for the study will have a regular full length Rocket catheter inserted
      at baseline, with an external length of 16cm. All patients will have their catheter length
      modified at 2 weeks in clinic and shortened to an external length of 5cm.
    
  