
    
      This study is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled study to
      evaluate efficacy and safety of BCX4208 alone and in combination with allopurinol in
      approximately 80 subjects with gout. The study is a factorial design, evaluating doses of
      BCX4208 previously found to be safe and well-tolerated in healthy subjects and subjects with
      psoriasis and gout. Doses of allopurinol are according to package insert recommendations.

      Approximately 80 subjects will be randomized equally to one of 16 treatment groups.

      The study will consist of 3 periods: the Screening Period, the Treatment Period, and the
      Follow-Up Period. The Screening period will be conducted within Day -30 to Day -1, as long as
      all inclusion and exclusion criteria are satisfied (see Section 8). For subjects receiving
      urate-lowering therapy; these subjects must discontinue the urate-lowering therapy by Day -14
      to assure a washout period of at least 14 days before entering the Treatment Period. Some
      Screening procedures such as a recording of medical history and clinical laboratory tests
      performed at Screening only may be performed at any time during the Screening Period (Day -30
      to Day -1). Other Screening procedures must be performed within the 7 days prior to the first
      dose of study drug (i.e., from Day -7 to Day -1); these include: physical examination,
      height, weight, clinical chemistry (including baseline and qualifying sUA), hematology, and
      urinalysis evaluations, CD4+, CD8+, CD20+, and CD56+ lymphocyte counts, a serum pregnancy
      test in females of child-bearing potential, 12-lead ECG, and vital signs assessments. An
      otherwise qualified subject may have up to 2 repeated determinations of sUA and/or lymphocyte
      subsets assayed to meet the entry criteria for this study, as long as the qualifying sUA and
      lymphocyte subsets assays occur 7 or fewer days prior to the first dose of study drug. These
      assessments will constitute the Baseline assessments for the purpose of comparisons with
      these same assessments post-dose.

      Gout flare prophylaxis with colchicine or naproxen is required to be started prior to the
      first dose of study drug. Colchicine 0.6 mg once a day will begin at least 7 days prior to
      Day 1, or naproxen 250 mg twice daily will be started at least 48 hours prior to Day 1. For
      subjects who discontinue urate-lowering therapy, the required gout flare prophylaxis will
      begin at or before the cessation of the urate-lowering therapy.

      A recording of concomitant medications and AEs will take place from the time of the signing
      of the Informed Consent Form (ICF) and throughout the duration of the study.

      The Treatment Period begins on Day 1. Subjects are to arrive at the study clinic on Day 1
      after an overnight fast. After a final review of eligibility criteria, pre-dose vital signs
      assessments, and BCX4208, allopurinol, and oxypurinol PK blood draw have been performed,
      subjects will be randomized and administered the first dose of study drug. Subjects will
      remain in the study clinic for Hour 2, Hour 4, and Hour 8 PK sampling and will return to the
      study clinic for efficacy and safety evaluations prior to dosing on Days 2, 8, and 15.

      Subjects will take study drug daily from Day 1 to Day 21, so that the Day 22 evaluation will
      occur approximately 24 hours after the last dose of study drug. After the Day 22 evaluation,
      subjects will enter the Follow-Up Period and will return to the study clinic on Day 29 for
      safety evaluation. Subjects may resume their prior urate-lowering therapy after the
      assessments on Day 29.

      Subjects who on Day 29 have unresolved treatment-emergent AEs will be followed beyond Day 29
      until either resolution of the AE or until clinically stable. This subset of subjects will
      conclude their study participation at the Day 50 Telephone Safety Follow-Up Contact.

      Efficacy will be assessed during the study by means of sUA concentrations. Safety will be
      assessed during the study by means of physical examination, weight, clinical chemistry,
      hematology, and urinalysis parameters, absolute CD4+, CD8+, CD20+, and CD56+ lymphocyte
      counts, 12-lead ECG, vital signs assessments, and AE assessments.
    
  