
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 6 groups of 3 participants will be enrolled in
      the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 46 participants will be enrolled in Phase II.

      ***Study was halted early due to slow accrual in the Phase I portion without opening Phase
      II. ***

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of ipilimumab you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level of ipilimumab. Each new group will receive a higher dose of ipilimumab than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of ipilimumab is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, you will receive ipilimumab at the highest dose
      that was tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of cisplatin, temozolomide, interferon
      alfa-2b and IL-2.

      If you develop intolerable side effects while on study, your dose of IL-2 may be lowered 1-2
      times until the side effects get better.

      Catheter:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have a central venous
      catheter (CVC) inserted, if you do not already have one. A CVC is a sterile flexible tube
      that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will
      explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate
      consent form.

      Study Drug Administration:

      The study drugs will be given in 3 stages: induction, consolidation, and maintenance.

      Induction:

      Induction will last 12 weeks. You will receive the study drugs in up to four 3-week cycles:

        -  You will receive ipilimumab by vein over 90 minutes on Day 1 of each cycle.

        -  You will take temozolomide by mouth 1 time a day on Days 2-5 of each cycle. You should
           take temozolomide on an empty stomach at least 2 hours before or after a meal. Do not
           open the capsule, mix it with food, or chew it.

        -  You will receive cisplatin by vein over 1 hour on Days 2-4 of each cycle.

        -  You will receive aldesleukin by vein as a continuous infusion on Days 2-5 of each cycle.

        -  You will receive interferon alfa-2b as an injection under your skin on Days 2-6 of each
           cycle.

      Consolidation:

      Consolidation will last 12 weeks. You will receive the study drugs in three 4-week cycles.

        -  You will receive ipilimumab by vein over 90 minutes on Day 1 of consolidation.

        -  You will receive interferon alfa-2b as an injection under your skin on Days 1-5 of each
           cycle.

        -  You will receive aldesleukin by vein as a continuous infusion on Days 2-5 of each cycle.

      Maintenance:

      Maintenance will last about 1½ years. You will receive ipilimumab by vein over 90 minutes on
      Day 1 of up to six 12-week cycles.

      Other Drugs:

      You will be given other drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. The study staff will
      tell you about these drugs, how they will be given, and the possible risks.

      Study Visits:

      Before each cycle (+/- 3 days):

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may have
           had.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine
           pregnancy test.

      Every week, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Before each cycle, some
      of this blood will be used to check your liver and kidney function.

      At the end of each cycle, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your
      weight. Any tumor that can be felt with the hands will be measured during the physical exam
      to see if it has changed size.

      Every 2 cycles (+/- 7 days), you will have a chest x-ray and CT or MRI scans to check the
      status of the disease.

      Anytime the doctor thinks it is needed, photos of the skin lesions will be taken. Your
      private areas will be covered (as much as possible), and a picture of your face will not be
      taken unless there are lesions on your face.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for up to 2 years. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment
      visit and follow-up.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 14 days after you stop the study therapy, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may have
           had.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a CT or MRI scan.

      Follow-Up:

      Every 2 months for up to 3 years, you will be contacted by phone or during a clinic visit to
      see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Temozolomide, cisplatin, ipilimumab, interferon alfa-2b,
      and aldesleukin are FDA approved and commercially available to treat metastatic cancer.
      However, it is investigational to give temozolomide to patients with metastatic melanoma.

      Up to 64 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  