
    
      Coronary artery disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide. The diagnosis via the
      gold standard, cardiac catheterization, remains a time consuming, expensive, and invasive
      procedure with some considerable risks. In addition, there is a significant risk due to
      cumulative amount of iodinated contrast delivered (between 80 - 120 cc) in patients who have
      abnormal renal insufficiency or at a high risk for developing contrast nephropathy. Cardiac
      catheterization specifically involves arterial puncture with a needle, usually in the groin
      or upper extremity, through which a guidewire is passed fluoroscopically to the ascending
      aorta. A catheter is then inserted over the guidewire and subsequently, the guidewire is
      removed and iodinated contrast is injected to opacify the aorta or coronary arteries. As
      such, there are different kinds of catheters that are used to engage either the right or left
      native coronary arteries or by-pass vein grafts. This procedure requires separate injections
      into the coronary arteries or by-pass grafts which can induce arrhythmias, require over one
      hour of procedural time, requires larger bore catheters, exposes the physician and patient to
      ionizing radiation and subjects the patient with coronary artery disease to contrast induced
      nephropathy, especially in cases requiring higher loads of iodinated contrast.

      Of the noninvasive techniques, the most common limiting factor when employing IV-enhanced CTA
      is the underlying blood pool, which also enhances when contrast-enhanced protocols are
      employed using a peripheral intravenous contrast injection route. This results in a frequent
      obscuration of the native coronary arteries. Reproducible enhancement of the distal and
      tributary anatomy is another pitfall with IV-enhanced coronary CTA. In addition, the amount
      of contrast agent required is similar to that amount required during invasive coronary
      angiography. As such, the method of the present study provides an imaging concept of the
      coronary arteries employing a catheter device in conjunction with computed tomography (CT)
      imaging machine that will enable a reduction of the total amount of dye delivered to the
      patient.
    
  