
    
      P: Population: Stage III periodontitis presenting intraosseous defects I: Intervention:
      Non-Incised Papilla Surgical Approach (NIPSA) C: Control: Modified Minimally Invasive
      Surgical Technique (M-MIST) O: Outcome measurements T: 1- year S: Randomized clinical trial

      Surgical Procedures:

      The operator will anesthetize the surgical sites with 4% ARTINIBSA containing Articaine
      hydrochloride Epinephrine (adrenaline) 1: 100.000 injection for both groups. For patients
      that recieved (NIPSA) as reported by (Moreno Rodríguez and Caffesse 2017).

        -  After locally anesthetizing the area an apical horizontal incision on the buccal mucosa,
           as far as possible from the interdental papillae and marginal KT will be performed. Soft
           tissue will be reflected apico-coronally by a full-thickness flap showing the
           granulation tissue filling the bony defect after exposing the coronal limit of the
           intra-bony component of the defect, while the marginal tissue will be kept unaltered.

        -  Horizontal mattress sutures with single interrupted sutures will be placed as the second
           line of closure.

      while patients that received (M-MIST) reported by (Banthia et al. 2016a)

        -  Access to the defect will be gained through the tiny buccal triangular ﬂap: from the
           buccal 'window' the soft tissue ﬁlling the defect (i.e. the so-called granulation
           tissue) will be sharply dissected from the papillary supra-crestal connective tissue and
           from the bony walls with a micro-blade and will be removed with a mini-curette (The soft
           tissue will be sharply dissected from the osseous defect)

        -  No interdental and/or lingual intra-sulcular incisions will be performed. The
           supra-crestal interdental tissues.

        -  Surgical flaps will be sutured to the pre-surgical level with 5-0 vicryl suture
           utilizing single interrupted suturing techniques that will achieve primary closure.

        -  Sutures will be removed 2 weeks post-surgically. Patients will be asked to discontinue
           mechanical tooth-brushing technique in the surgical area for 2 weeks.

        -  After this period, patients will be instructed to continue mechanical tooth brushing
           again of the treated sites using a soft toothbrush.

      Patients will be recalled monthly for supportive periodontal therapy during the course of the
      study. And then will be recalled every six months for supportive periodontal therapy after
      the study.
    
  