
    
      Background:

        -  Worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth most common cause of cancer
           related death with a median survival of 6-9 months.

        -  Biliary tract carcinoma (BTC) is relatively uncommon and includes cancers of the
           gallbladder and intra- and extra-hepatic biliary ductal system, although periampullary
           tumors are often considered part of this group as well.

        -  A class of agents that in the recent years has been at the epicenter of immunotherapy
           approaches in gastrointestinal malignancies are the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against
           the immune checkpoint inhibitors CTLA4, PD-1 and PD-L1.

        -  Durvalumab is a human monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin G1 kappa (IgG1 )
           subclass. Durvalumab inhibits binding of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) to
           programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and CD80. Anti-PD-L1 antibodies directly target tumor
           cells and are expected to have less adverse events in comparison with anti-PD-1
           antibodies that target effector T-cells in the tumor microenvironment.

        -  Tremelimumab is a-uman IgG2 mAb directed against CTLA-4. Tremelimumab blocks the
           inhibitory effect of CTLA-4, and therefore enhances T cell activation.

        -  Angiogenesis is defined as the formation of new blood capillaries, which is a complex
           process that promotes vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and other proangiogenic
           factor expression, thus enhancing metastasis. Inhibition of VEGF function by bevacizumab
           can lead to the inhibition of the new blood vessels formation surrounding a tumor, and
           consequently arrest the tumor growth by depriving essential nutrients and oxygen.

        -  TACE has been shown to induce anti-tumor immunity.

        -  Early phase studies have shown that anti-VEGF treatment with bevacizumab in combination
           with TACE decreases neovascular formation.

        -  We have previously shown that locoregional therapies can be safely combined with immune
           checkpoint blockade. There are also preclinical data suggesting that anti-VEGF therapy
           may target myeloid cells with suppressor activity.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the 6-month progression free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced HCC
           BCLC stage B treated with bevacizumab, durvalumab, tremelimumab and TACE.

        -  To evaluate the 6-month PFS in patients with BTC and HCC BCLC stage C treated with
           bevacizumab, durvalumab and tremelimumab.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histopathological confirmation of HCC or BTC or histopathological confirmation of
           carcinoma in the setting of clinical and radiological characteristics which, together
           with the pathology, are highly suggestive of a diagnosis of BTC.

        -  Patients must have evaluable or measurable disease per RECIST 1.1.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection,

      radiofrequency ablation, or liver transplantation.

      Design:

      -This is an open label Phase II trial conducted to evaluate efficacy of

      durvalumab, bevacizumab and tremelimumab combined treatment in patients with advanced HCC
      BCLC stage C or BTC and efficacy of durvalumab, bevacizumab, tremelimumab and TACE combined
      treatment in patients with advanced HCC BCLC stage B.

        -  Initially 3-6 patients with HCC BCLC Stage C or BTC will be enrolled into safety run-in
           of Arm

           1 to determine the safety of combined treatment of durvalumab, bevacizumab and
           tremelimumab.

        -  Once safety has been determined, subsequent patients with HCC BCLC Stage C and BTC will
           be enrolled in Arm 1 and patients with HCC BCLC Stage B will start enrollment into Arm
           2,

      consistent of durvalumab, bevacizumab, tremelimumab and multiple TACE procedures.

      -Treatment will continue until progression or unbearable toxicity.
    
  