
    
      Maintenance of normal blood pressure range is necessary to prevent early occurrence of
      cardiovascular diseases and kidney disease. Adherence of healthy behavior and lifestyle along
      with medication (if prescribed) are mandatory for effective management of hypertension.
      Although knowledge and motivation is required for such adherence through health education to
      the patients,however, no studies has been conducted in Nepal in community setting. Thus, our
      study will evaluate the effect of health education on blood pressure reduction in community
      settings.

      Method: Cluster randomized trial will be conducted in Birendranagar Municipality of Surkhet
      District of Nepal. Wards will be clusters where only four ward will be selected randomly
      among 12 wards wards. Screening program will be conducted for uncontrolled hypertensive
      patients by visiting every household in systematic manner. Total 36 eligible participants
      will be enrolled from each cluster who meet the inclusive criteria and provide consent. Then,
      two clusters will be assigned to for intervention by using simple randomization procedure.
      Uncontrolled hypertensive patients from rest of two clusters will be the control group who
      will get usual care by their physician. Four sessions of hypertension related health
      education will be provided by medical officer and/or registered nurse to intervention group
      within six months. Trained female health volunteer will visit the participant's home twice a
      month and will record their blood pressure, motivate the patient and their family members to
      adhere on healthy behavior and medicine. Follow up data collection will be done after six
      months. Paired t- test (continues variable) and Chi-square test (binary variable) will be
      used to test the significance for baseline and after six months for both intervention and
      control group. Similarly, independent t test (continuous variable) and Chi-square test
      (binary variable) will be used to test the difference between the groups. Multiple logistic
      regression analysis will be conducted to evaluate the effect of intervention with and without
      adjusting confounders.

      Expected Results: Primary outcome of the study will be proportion of normalized systolic
      blood pressure in both the groups. The study will determine the effect of intervention on the
      between-group difference in the proportion of patients with normalized systolic blood
      pressure.

      Conclusion: The study will be useful to evaluate the effectiveness of health education in
      community setting. Thus the study will be useful for planning and implementing health
      education in community to control blood pressure.
    
  