
    
      Limb girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders
      encompassing various genetically defined subtypes (LGMD 2A-2H). Therapeutic trials should
      address each disease entity separately to assess effectiveness of medical treatments. A
      placebo-controlled trial in patients with dysferlinopathy may reveal insights in the natural
      course of the disease and show therapeutic options in a homogeneous group of patients. So
      far, steroids are the only drugs showing efficacy in muscular dystrophies, mainly in Duchenne
      muscular dystrophy (DMD). Both dystrophin and dysferlin are attached to the sarcolemma and
      deficiency of both proteins cause sarcolemmal defects; therefore, any membrane-stabilizing
      steroid effect may be beneficial in both DMD and LGMD2B/ Myoshi myopathy (MM). Furthermore,
      there is marked inflammation in muscle biopsies of many LGMD2B patients. Therefore, the
      anti-inflammatory effect of steroids may improve muscle function in LGMD2B/MM. In our trial,
      effects of deflazacort in patients with dysferlinopathy (LGMD2B/MM) on strength and
      daily-life activities are addressed. The present study is designed to assess the natural
      history and evaluate therapeutic efficacy and side effects of deflazacort / placebo in
      LGMD2B/MM patients.

      Although no major therapeutic breakthrough has been achieved and curative treatment
      modalities are not yet applicable, life expectancy and quality of life of dysferlinopathy
      patients could be remarkably improved by establishing a drug therapy, capable of delaying the
      dystrophic process and improving muscle strength and function. Therefore, the results of this
      study are warranted and may influence further guidelines for steroid treatment in
      dysferlinopathies. Furthermore, the assessment of the natural history of the disease will
      provide new insights in the clinical understanding of dysferlinopathies.
    
  