
    
      OVERALL CLINICAL INVESTIGATION DESIGN:

      This is a multicentre, stratified, parallel, double-blinded, randomized, feasibility clinical
      investigation of the Alteco® LPS Adsorber.

      Subjects will be enrolled in an adaptive fashion with up to two interim analyses, and the
      possibility of recruiting additional patients, in order to establish an indication of the
      feasibility of treating a target population of subjects with septic shock and endotoxemia.

      Subjects will be stratified in accordance with the origin of their infection, i.e. abdominal
      or urogenital sepsis. Subjects in each stratum will receive either:

        -  LPS Adsorber group (i.e. investigational medical device [IMD] group): current best
           practice in combination with Alteco® LPS Adsorber treatment, OR

        -  Placebo device group (i.e. comparator group): current best practice in combination with
           placebo adsorber treatment.

      Allocation to either treatment arm will be performed in a 1:1 ratio. Upon enrolment (i.e.
      pre-treatment phase), subjects admitted to the ICU with suspected endotoxemia will be
      screened for fulfilment of the "Illness Severity Criteria" confirming early stage severe
      sepsis.

      Within six (6) hours of enrolment, subjects who also fulfil the "Treatment Criteria"
      confirming septic shock will be eligible for randomization.

      Randomization to either of the treatment groups will be performed as close as possible to
      start of treatment with the Alteco® LPS Adsorber or placebo device.

      Treatment with LPS Adsorber or placebo device must be initiated within six (6) hours (Day 1)
      following fulfilment of the "Treatment Criteria". A second device treatment will be performed
      24 hours after the end of the first device treatment on Day 2, as long there is no evidence
      that treatment with the investigational device will not be beneficial or will indicate an
      unnecessary risk for subjects (for example, the subject is vasopressor support-free).

      Initially: 20 abdominal sepsis subjects (Stratum A) and 12 urogenital sepsis subjects
      (Stratum B) Optional: additional 12 subjects (abdominal, urogenital or both) after interim
      analysis decision.
    
  