
    
      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1. To determine the extent of muscle apoptosis during aging in young healthy
      controls and in high-functioning and low-functioning older subjects. The investigators
      hypothesize that the observed level of muscle cell apoptosis is associated with physical
      disability. The investigators will recruit a cohort of ten young control subjects (age
      20-35). The investigators will also recruit and stratify a cohort of forty elderly (age 70-99
      years) into two distinct categories by set criteria based on their level of physical
      performance. Subjects with a summary performance score ≥ 11 at the Short Physical Performance
      Battery (SPPB) (66) will be considered high-functioning. Conversely, subjects with a summary
      performance score ≤ 7 will be considered low-functioning. In addition to the SPPB, the
      investigators will also perform the hand grip strength test and the isokinetic knee extensor
      test, and will implement 3D magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to precisely quantify the
      quadriceps contractile area. The investigators will obtain a muscle biopsy for each subject
      to determine the severity of apoptosis using biochemical and histological analyses (see
      Methods). Disability will be assessed using a self-report questionnaire. Hence, the
      investigators will determine the extent muscle apoptosis and the investigators will be able
      to correlate this to the level of physical disability and muscle mass.

      Specific Aim 2. To elucidate the role of Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) and
      apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) in the induction of apoptosis in human skeletal muscle. The
      investigators hypothesize that the observed cell loss due to apoptosis is mainly related to a
      caspase-independent mechanism. The investigators have recently shown that activation of
      mitochondrial caspase-independent pathway of apoptosis may play a more important role than
      the caspase-dependent pathway in contributing to nuclear cell death (67). Furthermore, the
      investigators hypothesize that the PARP-1/AIF pathway of apoptosis might be involved in the
      age-related muscle wasting process. The investigators will quantitatively assess PARP-1 and
      AIF and correlate these measures with the extent of muscle apoptosis.

      Specific Aim 3. To assess the role of mitochondria dysfunction and energy failure in muscle
      apoptosis, sarcopenia, and disability. The investigators hypothesize that mitochondrial
      dysfunction and the resulting reduced production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is causally
      related to sarcopenia, possibly by triggering the apoptosis program. It has been estimated
      that the mean ATP production in the quadriceps muscle of old human subjects is approximately
      50% of that of younger subjects (68), and it has been postulated that energy failure might
      trigger apoptosis (58). Consistently with these findings, the investigators have recently
      found that in rats' gastrocnemius muscle, ATP content and the rate of ATP production declined
      by ~50% with age (59). The investigators will quantitatively assess myocytes' ATP content
      along with key mitochondrial metabolic enzymes, namely citrate synthase, cytochrome-c-oxidase
      (COX), ATPase, and aconitase. The investigators will correlate these parameters with the
      level of apoptosis and with measures of physical performance, disability, and muscle mass.

      Specific Aim 4. To correlate changes in physical function and muscle mass with muscle
      apoptosis and biochemical parameters at follow-up (longitudinal study). After 4 years
      subjects in the high-performance group will be reevaluated for muscle apoptosis rate, PARP-1
      and AIF activity, and energy production. The investigators will correlate these parameters
      with measures of physical performance and muscle mass assessed by MRI, as well as with
      self-reported disability. Hence, the investigators will be able to directly correlate an
      eventual decline in physical performance, muscle mass and functional status at this very old
      age with changes in muscle apoptosis and in biochemical parameters.

      Research Plan:

      Using a cross-sectional design (age 20-35 and 70-99 years) the investigators will quantify
      the level of apoptosis in the vastus lateralis muscle in a healthy (see inclusion/exclusion
      criteria) population. Apoptosis of irreplaceable post-mitotic cells may be important
      mechanism in the development of sarcopenia and has not been investigated in healthy humans
      with age. A variety of chronic diseases have documented cases of apoptosis in human skeletal
      muscle; i.e., chronic pulmonary diseases (69,70) and patients with heart failure (69,71,72).
      However, it is essential to establish baseline levels of apoptosis in relatively healthy
      humans before proceeding to more complex conditions, such as disease conditions and frailty.
      In addition, the investigators will determine knee extensors strength, the myocyte volume,
      extra cellular space and the myonuclear domain (cross-sectional muscle area/nucleus) by
      quantifying the number of nuclei within a cross-sectional area of muscle. This specific aim
      will establish baseline levels of apoptosis and assess standard measures to assess
      sarcopenia.

      Study design. To accomplish our aims, the investigators propose two separates, yet
      complementary studies

        1. In order to gain insights into changes of the apoptosis potential with age and its
           contribution to muscle mass and strength loss, the investigators will quantify the level
           of apoptosis in the vastus lateralis muscle in young (age 20-35 years; N =20), old
           high-functioning, (age 70-99 years; N = 25), and old low-functioning (age 70-99 years; N
           = 20) subjects. Muscle biopsy and MRI scan to quantify quadriceps contractile area will
           be performed in the study participants. Muscle strength will be assessed by hand grip
           strength test and the isokinetic knee extensor test.

        2. Preliminary data on the contribution of skeletal muscle apoptosis to sarcopenia,
           physical function loss in advanced age will be gathered by quantifying the extent of
           muscle apoptosis in the vastus lateralis muscle of old (age 70-99 years),
           high-functioning (N = 25) and low-functioning (N = 20) subjects, along with measures of
           muscle mass (MRI), muscle strength (hand grip and knee extension test), and overall
           physical performance (Short Physical Performance Battery, SPPB (67)). In addition, the
           investigators will collect preliminary data regarding the role mitochondrial-driven
           apoptosis in muscle wasting and functional loss at old age.

      A brief physical exam will be administered to all study participants, and major biological
      signs (body weight, standing height, body temperature, blood pressure, and pulse) will be
      recorded. A basic questionnaire regarding participants' health history will also be
      administered

      After four years the old participants will be reevaluated for physical performance,
      functional status muscle mass (MRI), muscle apoptosis, and biochemical parameters Disability
      will also be assessed using a self-report disability questionnaire. In order to gain
      information regarding changes in physical performance and functional status with time and to
      maximize retention, an annual visit employing SPPB, hand grip and knee extensor testing, will
      be scheduled for the old participants.
    
  