
    
      Initial Study: THREE ARM (INTERVENTIONAL) STUDY

      This randomized, controlled phase III protocol, initiated in 1988, was the first study to
      examine intervention with antiretroviral therapy and alpha interferon in patients with HIV
      infection. It evaluated the relative efficacy of zidovudine (AZT) vs. AZT + alpha interferon
      (IFN) vs. IFN in increasing time to first opportunistic infection, reducing HIV viremia, and
      lessening immune system deterioration in HIV-infected persons.

      For the AZT alone arm, AZT dosing consisted ofthe standard regimen of 200 mg q4h. Persons on
      the AZT + IFN combination arm received AZT 100 mg q4h with IFN beginning at 1 million units
      qd, escalating up to 2.5 million units at 2 weeks, then in increments of 2.5 million units
      every 2 weeks. Patients on the IFN-alone arm began therapy at 5 million units qd and
      escalated in 2.5 million unit increments every 2 weeks, unless escalations were precluded by
      toxicity. Patients who had evidence of HIV infection and a CD4 countgreater than or equal to
      500 were randomized to one of the three treatment groups. Patients were treated with their
      assigned medication until intolerable toxicity, opportunistic infection, or progressive
      Kaposi's sarcoma developed, or CD4 count declined to less than 200/mm(3).

      Our statistically significant findings during this pre-HAART era study showed that
      interferon-alpha decreased HIV RNA viral load levels, both alone and in combination with AZT.

      Long-Term Follow-up: EXTENSION PHASE (NATURAL HISTORY STUDY)

      Once the intervention phase was completed, this protocol entered a long-term follow-up phase
      and evolved into a longitudinal natural history study. As of 2013 this work earned the
      distinction of following a cohort for 25 years or more. It continues to serve as an important
      source of data regarding the long-term outcomes of patients receiving anti-HIV treatment, and
      to provide information on the long-term consequences of therapy. In addition, stored blood
      and cells enable the study of cutting edge research questions, such as those related to
      immune activation, with new state-of-the-art laboratory assays.
    
  