
    
      The purpose of this randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled, single-center clinical
      trial is to determine the efficacy of antimicrobials in young children with acute otitis
      media (AOM). The primary objectives are to compare time to resolution of symptoms (initial
      and sustained) in children receiving amoxicillin-clavulanate (90/6.4mg/kg/day in 2 divided
      doses for 10 days) to children receiving placebo (in 2 divided doses for 10 days), and to
      compare the weighted average AOM-Severity of Symptoms (AOM-SOS) scores in the two groups
      during days 1-7. The secondary objectives are to: evaluate the clinical efficacy of
      amoxicillin-clavulanate vs. placebo at the on-therapy visit (Day 4-5, and at least 72 hours
      after initial dose of study medication); evaluate the clinical efficacy of
      amoxicillin-clavulanate vs. placebo at the end-of-therapy visit (Day 10-12); compare AOM-SOS
      and AOM-Faces scales between treatment groups during each of the first 7 days of therapy and
      at all study visits; compare the proportion of children in each treatment group who develop
      worsening symptoms before having received 72 hours of study medication; compare the two
      treatment groups regarding the quantity of analgesic medication administered by children's
      parents; compare the incidence of adverse events accompanying the two treatment regimens;
      compare the effects of amoxicillin-clavulanate vs. placebo on the overall proportion of
      children with nasopharyngeal (NP) colonization with AOM pathogens (S. pneumoniae, H.
      influenzae, M. catarrhalis, S. pyogenes), and on the proportion of children with NP
      colonization with penicillin non-susceptible S. pneumoniae; compare the 2 treatment groups
      regarding tympanometric outcomes at the on-therapy (Day 4-5), end-of-therapy (Day 10-12) and
      follow-up (Day 21-25) visits, using an algorithm that permits estimation of the probability
      of middle ear effusion given any particular tympanographic configuration; compare direct and
      indirect medical costs between the two treatment groups; and compare parental satisfaction
      with therapy between the two treatment groups. Participants will include 268 children, aged 6
      to 23 months, diagnosed with acute otitis media in Western Pennsylvania. These participants
      will be recruited into the study at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh (CHP), Pittsburgh, PA,
      and Armstrong Pediatrics (Children's Community Pediatrics: an affiliate of CHP) in
      Kittanning, PA. Subjects will be randomized to receive either amoxicillin-clavulanate or
      placebo twice daily for 10 days. Parents of the subject will be asked to track symptom
      status, medication use (study medication and acetaminophen), fever and diarrhea in a study
      memory aid. Study procedures will include a medical history, vital signs, weight, clinical
      information regarding signs and symptoms of infection, nasopharyngeal specimens, and a
      physical exam including tympanometry. Each child will be examined three additional times: 4-5
      days after starting the medicine, study day 10-12 and 21-25 days after enrolling in the
      study. During these visits, study staff will review the child's symptoms and examine the
      child's ears. The study staff will also obtain a nasopharyngeal culture in order to look for
      resistant bacteria and to make appropriate changes in antibiotic treatment. Daily telephone
      assessments will be made by study staff on days 2, 3, and 4 of therapy to make sure the child
      is getting better. The study staff will see a child anytime a parent feels their child has
      not improved or has worsened.
    
  