
    
      Rationale: In dermatology anesthetics are frequently injected or topically applied to achieve
      local anesthesia. Injectable anesthetics are effective but uncomfortable during
      administration, especially for people who are needle phobic. Application of topical
      anesthesia is painless but time consuming and often only partial aesthesia is achieved due to
      the barrier function of the stratum corneum. (Manuskiatti, Triwongwaranat et al. 2010)
      Penetration of local anesthetics could be enhanced by pretreatment of the skin with ablative
      fractional lasers (AFXL) which locally disrupts the stratum corneum by creating an array of
      microscopic ablation channels. (Sklar, Burnett et al. 2014) In a previous pilot study,
      conducted at our institute, we demonstrated that effective anesthesia could be achieved
      within ten minutes after application of a topical anesthetic on skin pretreated with AFXL at
      painless settings. (Meesters, Bakker et al. 2015) However, little is still known about the
      role of the type of anesthetic the type of anesthetic and the application time on the
      efficacy of the anesthesia.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of two different
      commercially available local anesthetics on AFXL pretreated skin, a low concentration
      articaine solution and a high concentration lidocaine/tetracaine cream. We also aim to
      compare the efficacy of AFXL assisted topical anesthesia after various different application
      times.

      Study design: Prospective, single blinded, randomized, controlled, within subject, pilot
      study.

      Study population: 15 healthy volunteers ≥18 years, who give written informed consent

      Intervention: In each subject, six test regions on subject's back of 1x1 cm will be
      pretreated with the fractional carbon dioxide (CO2) laser at 2.5 mJ and 15% density and will
      be randomly allocated to application of (I) articaine hydrochloride 40 mg/ml + epinephrine 10
      μg/ml 30 solution (AHES) (5 minutes application time), (II) AHES (15 minutes application
      time), (III) AHES (25 minutes application time), (IV) lidocaine 70 mg/g + tetracaine 70 mg/g
      cream (LTC) (5 minutes application time, (V) LTC (15 minutes application time), (VI) LTC (25
      minutes application time). After 15 minutes a pain stimulus, consisting of a pass with the
      fractional CO2 laser at 50 mJ and 5% density (scanned area 6x6 mm), will be given at each
      test region. In addition, a reference pain stimulus with the CO2 laser at the same settings
      will be given at unanesthetized skin. Subjects will be asked to indicate pain on a visual
      analogue scale (VAS) from 0-10 (0: no pain; 10: worst imaginable pain) directly after each
      pain stimulus
    
  