
    
      Background:

        -  There are more than 130 identified primary tumors of the central nervous system (CNS).
           Most have an annual incidence of less than 1000 in the United States.

        -  Given the rarity of each of the tumors listed above, there is a paucity of proven
           therapies. Most of these neoplasms are treated with maximum surgical resection followed
           by treatment with external beam radiotherapy. With few exceptions (medulloblastoma,
           adult ependymoma), there are no effective systemic regimens and even in chemotherapy
           sensitive disease, most patients with recurrence eventually have no remaining salvage
           treatments available.

        -  In the setting of this unmet need, we propose to create a basket protocol that will
           evaluate the efficacy of the PD-1 inhibitor, nivolumab, in patients with refractory rare
           central nervous system neoplasms.

        -  This study seeks to establish effective therapies at recurrence in patients with rare
           CNS tumors. We hypothesize that this therapy will improve progression free survival
           and/or objective responses.

        -  It will be important to determine whether any determined survival benefit is associated
           with improvements in symptoms or does a worsening of symptoms offset the increase in
           survival. Precedence exists for measuring non-therapeutic endpoints in oncology
           research, and specifically in studies evaluating therapeutic benefit in patients with
           CNS tumors. There have been efforts in neuro-oncology to evaluate secondary endpoints
           using validated instruments as an additional indicator of benefit. The M.D. Anderson
           Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor Module (MDASI-BT) and Spine Tumor Module (MDASI-SP) allow
           for the self-reporting of symptom severity and interference with daily activities for
           patients with either brain or spinal cord tumors. The availability of validated
           instruments provides an opportunity to prospectively assess the impact of treatment,
           both positive and negative, on patients.

      Objective:

      Determine the efficacy of nivolumab in a variety of recurrent, refractory primary central
      nervous system tumors as measured by disease control rate (confirmed CR/PR or durable SD for
      at least 6 months).

      Eligibility:

        -  Documented recurrent or progressive disease that corresponds to one of the tumors
           eligible for testing.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years of age.

        -  Karnofsky Performance greater than or equal to 70%.

        -  Tumor tissue available for review to confirm morphologic diagnosis

        -  Tumor tissue or slides available for molecular and immune profiling

      Design:

        -  This is an open label phase II clinical trial. Patients will be treated with the immune
           checkpoint inhibitor, nivolumab, at a standard dose of 240 mg intravenously every 2
           weeks (+/- 3 days) for cycles 1 through 2, then doses of 480 mg every 4 weeks for a
           total of 14 additional doses (cycles). A maximum of 18 treatments will be given (64
           weeks).

        -  A cycle will be defined as 4 weeks and patients will undergo efficacy assessments using
           MR imaging every 2 cycles. Toxicity assessments will occur before the initiation of each
           cycle and patient outcomes measures (PROs) will be completed at the time of each

      imaging study (every 2 cycles) but prior to the patient being informed of the imaging
      results.

      -After completion of the planned treatment course or if treatment was stopped because of
      toxicity, patients will undergo imaging evaluations and PRO measurements every 8 weeks (or 2
      months) for one year, then every 3 months for the next year, then every 4

      months for the next year and then every 6 months while the patient remains on the protocol.
      Patients off treatment because of disease progression will not undergo future imaging or PRO
      assessments on this protocol.

        -  Bayesian Optimal Phase 2 design (BOP2), will be used to conduct this phase II trial in
           patients with a variety of recurrent, refractory primary central nervous system tumors.

        -  The study will be comprised of 2 disease cohorts: heavily pretreated (defined as having
           received 3 or more prior therapies due to relapse) and non-heavily pretreated (defined
           as having received up to 2 prior therapies due to relapse). Each cohort will be
           evaluated

      independently for efficacy.
    
  