
    
      Since April 15 and 17, 2009, when the first two cases of novel influenza A (H1N1) infection
      were identified in two southern California counties, as of 12 March 2010, the virus has
      spread to more than 213 countries and overseas territories or communities where it has caused
      the deaths of at least 16713 people. Therefore, a rapid diagnosis is clinically necessary and
      can provide clinicians the rapid answers and make early treatment possible to reduce the
      complications and case-fatality rate. In addition, early diagnosis of the patients will alert
      parents and public health workers to prevent the contacts earlier and to limit the influenza
      spread.

      Electrosensing antibody probing system (e- Ab sensing), which was developed for the rapid and
      sensitive detection of hapten, proteins or viral antigen in medical samples, will be used for
      analyzing the interaction kinetics between Q.anti-influenza-virus and its influenza virus
      antigen present in flu patients'and normal samples. The system incorporates the use of
      engineered semiconductive antibodies or virus in vertical and lateral chip (eVchip) or
      lateral flow through (eVsignal) formats. In electrosensing antibody probing, semiconductive
      antibodies are bound as a suitable electrosensing probe which specifically and selectively
      binds influenza-virus epitope target molecules in the test samples.

      The investigators evaluate the performance of e- Ab sensor, including reproducibility,
      sensitivity, specificity, and cross-reaction. The potential factors which may interfere with
      the results would be investigated. e- Ab sensor threshold decisions must maximize its
      sensitivity. Therefore, the threshold value in the test group is to find the decision could
      have 90% sensitivity and 90% specificity. With such technique, the investigators hope to make
      early diagnosis and give influenza patients early treatment to reduce the complications and
      case-fatality rate.
    
  