
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) remains the leading cause of death and disability in the Western
      world, with approximately 12.6 million individuals in the United States having a history of
      myocardial infarction (MI), angina, or both. There is mounting evidence that "conventional"
      therapies aimed at traditional risk factors have not optimized clinical outcomes. For
      example, in the Heart Protection Study with 20,536 subjects, the 5-year risk of a first major
      vascular event (nonfatal MI or CHD death, stroke, or coronary or noncoronary
      revascularization) among placebo-treated patients was 25%. Treatment with simvastatin reduced
      this risk to 20% over 5 years, which would project out to a 10-year risk of 40%. (The
      National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III considers "high risk" or CHD
      equivalent a 10-year risk of an event greater than 20%.) Even among patients entering the
      study with baseline low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) already near or at goal
      (i.e., LDL-C less than 116 mg/dL) and who achieved a mean on-trial LDL-C of 70 mg/dL with
      simvastatin, the 5-year risk of an event was still 18% (projecting to a 10-year risk of 36%).
      This residual and unacceptably high risk is likely due to the increasing prevalence of
      obesity, type II diabetes mellitus, and the metabolic syndrome. These disorders are typically
      accompanied by a constellation of abnormalities that include impaired glycemic control,
      hypertension, procoagulant and inflammatory states, and atherogenic dyslipidemia. The latter
      includes a wide spectrum of lipid abnormalities (low HDL-C, high triglycerides and
      triglyceride-rich remnant lipoproteins, and a preponderance of small dense, highly-oxidizable
      LDL particles).

      Conventional LDL-C-focused therapies are not effective in targeting this type of
      dyslipidemia. Evidence that therapy directed at atherogenic dyslipidemia among patients with
      CHD can lower outcomes was shown with gemfibrozil in the VA-HIT trial, which showed a 22 to
      24% cardiovascular (CV) event reduction by raising HDL-C (by an average of 6%) and lowering
      triglycerides (by an average of 31%). Niacin is an even more effective agent for
      simultaneously raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides and levels of small dense LDL, and
      holds the most promise among existing therapies for substantial risk reduction in this
      population when added to a statin. This was demonstrated in the HDL Atherosclerosis Treatment
      Study (HATS) trial in which atherosclerosis progression was virtually halted and CV events
      were reduced by 60 to 90% using combined niacin plus statin therapy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      AIM-HIGH is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, controlled clinical
      trial designed to test whether the drug combination of extended release niacin plus
      simvastatin is superior to simvastatin alone, at comparable levels of on-treatment LDL-C, for
      delaying the time to a first major CV disease outcome over a 4-year median follow-up in
      patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia. Prior clinical trials have found only 25 to 35% CV
      risk reduction using statin monotherapy (i.e., event rate 2/3 to 3/4 of placebo rate). The
      study is needed to confirm whether statin-niacin combination therapy, designed to target a
      wider spectrum of dyslipidemic factors in addition to LDL-C, will provide a more substantial
      (greater than 50%) reduction of CV events. Epidemiologic studies confirm the high prevalence
      of atherogenic dyslipidemia and its impact on CV event rates. Preliminary clinical trials
      suggest that targeting these factors with dyslipidemic therapy will reduce CV events. The
      study will enroll an estimated 3,300 men and women more than 45 years old at high risk of
      recurrent CV events by virtue of having established CV disease together with the two
      dyslipidemic elements of metabolic syndrome: low HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) (less than or equal
      to 40 mg/dl) and high triglycerides (TG) (greater than or equal to 150 mg/dl). The study
      specifically aims to test this hypothesis for the primary composite clinical end point of CHD
      death, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome with
      objective evidence of ischemia (troponin-positive or ST-segment deviation), or symptom-driven
      coronary or cerebral revascularization. Secondary end points include the composite of CHD
      death, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, or hospitalization for high-risk acute coronary
      syndrome; the composite of CHD death, nonfatal MI or ischemic stroke; and cardiovascular
      mortality.
    
  