
    
      IBD is a common term for two chronic diseases, Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis
      (UC). IBD occurs often between the ages of 20-30 years. There are about 25,000 people in
      Denmark with IBD and diseases incidence and prevalence has increased over the past 20 years
      [1]. In Denmark, the incidence of CD increased fourfold to 10 per 100,000 inhabitants per
      years and the incidence of UC doubled to 17 per 100,000 inhabitants per years [2]. Its causes
      are not completely known but it indicates an interaction between genetic and external
      factors.

      IBD as mentions is a chronic disease which means that it flare up periodically throughout
      life. Studies show that about 50% at a given time is in clinical remission, 25% had moderate
      disease activity and 25% have significant disease activity [3]. This means that patients with
      IBD are more likely to undergo repeatedly examinations to confirm or invalidate disease
      activity. It is essential for patients that the disease is kept under control so they can
      maintain a normal working life and a well-functioning social life.

      Most studies as when the investigators study began have been in the form of conventional
      small-bowel follow-through and computed tomographic (CT). A few places in Denmark are
      beginning to experiment with MRI diagnostics but the method has still no standardized
      protocol.

      There are many advantages by using MRI:

      Patients avoid being exposed to X-ray radiation and thus the examination can be carried out
      repeatedly without any problems. It is especially important for fertile women.

      There is no evidence of harmful effects of MRI as opposed to CT scanning, where repeated
      exposure to X-ray radiation increases the risk of cancer [4].

      You could potentially avoid more invasive procedures, thus reducing study duration.

      General requested the following highlighted in this project:

      Compare the three different MRI scans Compare the clinic with MRI: Calprotectin compared with
      MRI findings.

      The investigators will examine the following hypotheses:

      MR enterography can diagnose pathology as well as or better than MRI enteroclysis.

      Plain MRI can diagnose pathology as well as or better than MRI enteroclysis. Plain MRI can
      diagnose pathology as well as or better than MRI enterography.

      Method:

      This study is carried out as a prospective cross-sectional study (study I-V and a pilot
      study) in collaboration between radiology department and gastroenterology department at
      Herlev Hospital. The study recruit both inpatients and outpatients with known or suspected
      IBD. The main study will include at least 77 patients, while pilot study will include a
      minimum of 15 patients. Two experienced radiologists in the diagnosis of diseases
      gastrointestinal will describe the MRI scans. Interpretation of MRI are performed according
      to a standard table. Studies I-III will be compared to evaluate effectiveness these studies.

      Patients will receive a faeces sample kit the first day they meet to MRI. The sample should
      be taken two days after the MRI scan and sent through the mail. The sample should contain
      about 5-10 g of faeces and it will be analyzed by ELISA method for calprotectin. Calprotectin
      is a good marker for the degree of inflammation in the intestines. [5] Analysis of each
      sample immediately after the reception is too costly. The samples are therefore frozen on the
      gastroenterology department at Herlev Hospital. When the investigators have collected about
      20 samples which is expected to do within one month the samples are analyzed for
      calprotectin. The material are destroyed immediately after the analysis and can not be used
      in future research projects.

      The study was approved by the Local Committee for Health Research Ethics and the Danish Data
      Protection Agency.

      Study I: Plain MR: Patients undergoing an MRI of the abdomen without oral or IV contrast
      agent [6]. There are several new studies that show that the diffusion-weighted MRI is good at
      showing pathology [7-9]. Intravenous buscopan is given in all the studies to reduce
      peristalsis in the intestines during scan.

      Study II: MR enterography: This study is done immediately after study I. Patients from the
      study I must then take approximately 1.5 l VoLume orally over 1 hour. Previous studies have
      shown that water alone, taken orally is absorbed very quickly in the intestines and thus does
      not result in the desired dilation [10-11].

      VoLume is an aqueous solution of barium sulfate and it is not reabsorbed by the intestine.
      The contrast has no immediate side effects, it may in some cases cause constipation. It is
      crucial for the interpretation of MRI to achieve an optimal dilatation of the intestines. In
      the end of the scan patients get iv gadolinium. MR enterography is the gold standard in this
      study.

      Study III: MR Enteroclysis (MRE): The above patients will undergo MRE approx. 7 days later. A
      nasojejunal tube will in placed under fluoroscopy. The radiation that patients are exposed to
      is minimal and without risk [11-12].

      For study II and III should be comparable, it is important that the same amount of fluid is
      consumed in both studies.

      Study IV: This part of the study will consist of a questionnaire-based study of the above
      patients' experience of the studies II-III [13].

      Study V: In this study the calprotectin is compared with study II.

      Study VI: Conducted as a pilot study. A small group of patients undergoing an MRI scan with
      IV contrast, as in substudy II, albeit without prior intake of 1.5 l barium solution. These
      patients also have an MRI enterografi (which substudy II) 3-7 days later. The results from
      these two scans are compared.

      The study does not include operational or other interventional procedures on the patients
      involved in the study, and will not be used placebo.

      Subjects Minimum 77 subjects in study I-V and minimum 15 subjects in the pilot study are
      included. All patients should eighter have a known IBD diagnose or suspect IBD. There will
      not be considered healthy subjects. Participants must be over 18 years old.
    
  