
    
      Bulimia nervosa (BN) is a kind of chronic mental disorder which is easy to relapse,
      characterized by repeated binge eating, compensatory behaviors to prevent weight gain and
      excessive attention to one's own weight and body shape. Current treatment strategies for BN
      are limited. The total effective rate of pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy is only about 50%.
      All countries have listed SSRI drugs (fluoxetine 60mg/d has the most evidence from studies,
      and it is the only drug which has regulatory approval for the treatment of BN by FDA) and
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) as the first-line treatment for BN. Other commonly used
      treatments include topiramate and dialectical behavior therapy (DBT).The preliminary studies
      and clinical experience of this project indicate that :(1) fluoxetine, DBT and CBT were
      effective in controlling binge eating and purging behaviors in patients with BN;(2) the
      short-term efficacy of fluoxetine group is better than DBT group ;(3) treatment with
      fluoxetine is more convenient and easier to be accepted by Chinese patient and Chinese
      doctors. Based on these factors above, this study was designed using fluoxetine as the
      initial treatment. However, there is no evidence for patients who fail to respond to
      fluoxetine therapy to choose further treatment. As the result of fact, this study is proposed
      to adopt a two-stage sequential study design.BN patients who had poor response to fluoxetine
      with adequate dosage and duration would receive a secondary treatment, and randomly assigned
      to three groups: topiramate, fluoxetine +CBT, fluoxetine +DBT.This study was designed as a
      multicenter randomized controlled study, in which 550 patients with bulimia were enrolled.
      During 1year of follow-up, the onset time, short-term and long-term efficacy, duration of
      treatment and the cost of each treatment strategies would be observed and compared. Based on
      the comprehensive evaluation of the advantages and disadvantage of each strategies, an
      evidence-based optimal strategy could be formed. The factors influencing the initial
      therapeutic effect and sequential therapeutic effect of BN would also be explored. If the
      expected results are obtained, it will provide strong support for the formulation of optimal
      clinical treatment strategy for BN.
    
  