
    
      All recruited patients will receive the same standard care, only those who will be allocated
      to the experimental group will receive the intervention. This project will run over total
      period of 21 months. Patients will be offered to join the project over a duration of 12
      months. With the help of oncologists and surgeons, an oral agreement will be collected from
      the eligible patients who agree to be contacted by an investigator of the study. Once the
      patients have entered the study, they will be followed for 26 weeks, including 12 weeks of
      intervention or control period and 12 weeks of follow-up to evaluate if the expected
      intervention-induced behavioural change is maintained:

        -  Week 1: inclusion and first visit. The patients will be contacted (phone call) by an
           investigator who will provide explanations about the study. Notably, the investigator
           will explain that the patients will be allocated randomly to one of two study arms and
           that they may not chose which one they will be allocated to. In addition, the
           investigator will check eligibility through a brief questionnaire-based interview.
           Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to come to the Luxembourg
           Institute of Health (Strassen, Luxembourg) for the first visit. During this first visit
           (duration: 90 min), patients will be asked to sign the written informed consent. Then,
           patients will be asked to fill in several questionnaires available in English, French,
           German and Portuguese: three background questionnaires and one cancer-specific health
           related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ30). Height and weight will be
           measured. Patients will subsequently perform physical fitness tests, including ramped
           Bruce protocol test on a treadmill, leg strength and grip strength tests. Finally,
           patients will receive a 3D-accelerometer (Actigraph) measuring physical activity
           behaviour, which they will have to wear for one week. Further details one these
           methodologies are provided below.

        -  End of week 1: phone call. An investigator will call the patients one day before the end
           of the recording period of physical activity to remind them to send back the
           accelerometer. Furthermore, patients will reply by telephone to the generic HRQoL
           questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, please see details of this questionnaire in the
           "Cost-effectiveness of the intervention" section). This questionnaire will be
           administered repetitively throughout and at the end of the intervention.

        -  Week 2 to week 13: intervention. During a period of 12 weeks, the patients in the
           intervention group will attend 2 face-to-face and 10 telephone motivation interviewing
           sessions (please see details in the "Intervention" section). The patients entering the
           control group will not receive this specific treatment during that period.

        -  Week 5: phone call. The patients will be called to answer the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.

        -  Week 9: phone call. The patients will be called to answer the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.

        -  Week 13: phone call. Patients will be called for a reminder of the second visit date
           (already determined during the first visit).

        -  Week 14: second visit. Patients will be invited to come to the Luxembourg Institute of
           Health (Strassen, Luxembourg). During this second visit (duration: 70 min), patient will
           fill in the EORTC-QLQ30 questionnaire and the cost questionnaire (please see details of
           this questionnaire in the "Cost-effectiveness of the intervention" section). Height and
           weight will be measured. Patients will perform the same physical fitness tests as during
           the first visit (ramped Bruce protocol on a treadmill, leg strength and grip strength).
           Patients will be handed out the accelerometer to be worn during one week to evaluate
           their physical activity behaviour.

        -  End of week 14: phone call. An investigator will call the patients one day before the
           end of the recording period of physical activity to remind them to send back the
           accelerometer and to answer the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.

        -  Week 14 to week 25: follow-up.

        -  Week 25: Phone call. Patients will be called for a reminder of the third visit date
           (already determined during the second visit).

        -  Week 26: third visit. Patients will be invited to come to the Luxembourg Institute of
           Health (Strassen, Luxembourg). During this third visit (duration: 70 min), patient will
           fill in the EORTC-QLQ30 questionnaire and the cost questionnaire. Height and weight will
           be measured. Patients will perform the same physical fitness tests as during the first
           and second visits (ramped Bruce protocol on a treadmill, leg strength and grip
           strength). Patients will be handed out the accelerometer to be worn during one week to
           evaluate their physical activity behaviour.

        -  End of week 26: phone call. An investigator will call the patients one day before the
           end of the recording period of physical activity to remind them to send back the
           accelerometer and to answer the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.
    
  