
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare overall survival of patients with stage IIIB-IV non-small cell lung cancer
           treated with cediranib vs placebo administered in combination with paclitaxel and
           carboplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the objective response rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To estimate time to response and response duration in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To evaluate the nature, severity, and frequency of toxicities, including hemorrhage and
           hemoptysis, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel between the two arms in a subset of
           enrolled patients

        -  To compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine the incremental cost effectiveness and cost utility ratios for these
           regimens.

        -  To correlate the expression of tissue markers (at diagnosis) with outcomes and response
           in an exploratory fashion OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified
           by gender, center, disease stage (IIIB vs IV), weight loss (< 5% vs 5-10% vs unknown),
           and prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
           arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral cediranib once daily on days 1-21 and paclitaxel IV over 3
           hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily on days 1-21 and paclitaxel and
           carboplatin as in arm I.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 21 days for 4 to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 1 of each course, and periodically
      thereafter.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 12 weeks.
    
  