
    
      Objectives:

      To evaluate the clinical use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) by travelers or their
      peers during travel, as a decision aid for the management of febrile illness.

      Design: Prospective cohort study of febrile illness in international travelers

      Population: Travelers who are going to destinations in the tropics (South-East Asia (SEA),
      Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) and South America (SCA)) for 3 weeks or longer will be invited to
      participate and, after obtaining informed consent, recruited in the study protocol(s) at the
      time of planning departure (directly at the ITM or through travel/ humanitarian relief
      organizations).

      Methods: Participants will be offered pre-, per- and post-travel consultation as explained
      below:

      Inclusion through ITM; 1. Pre-travel consultation at a certified travel clinic ("Erkend
      Centrum voor Medisch Reisadvies en Inentingen") will systematically be recommended; this
      consultation will include:

      (1) routine travel advice directed at travel destination, (including vaccinations and
      prescription for anti-malarial chemoprophylaxis according to current recommendations, details
      of which are published at www.reisgeneeskunde.be and (2) the following research-related
      activities:

        -  Briefing sessions on the topic "Fever in The Tropics" by an ITM physician (during this
           session the differences between fever at home and in the tropics will be addressed and
           the importance of consulting a local doctor will be stressed).

        -  Collection and recording of demographic, clinical and travel data.

        -  Sampling of a baseline serum sample (for paired pre- and post-travel diagnostic
           analysis).

        -  Training of travelers, peers and travel guides to perform and interpret a malaria RDT
           (training is a prerequisite for study participation).

        -  Provision of study materials (study diary/apps, malaria kits, thermometer, …) and
           written instructions for use during travel if fever occurs.

           2. During travel

        -  In case of any illness (associated with fever or not), the traveler will record symptoms
           in the study diary.

        -  If fever is documented (axillary temperature ≥ 37.8°C - or in case a thermometer is not
           immediately available, fever sensation in association with sweats or chills)- blood from
           a finger prick will be collected for use of the malaria rapid diagnostic test (RDT,
           presenting as a nitrocellulose strip in a plastic cassette).

        -  In case of a positive RDT result the traveler is advised to start artemisinin based
           combination therapy (ACT) as 'standby emergency treatment' (SBET) for malaria as soon as
           possible.

        -  All febrile travelers are advised to seek medical attendance as they would do when not
           participating in the study.

        -  To guide interpretation of the RDT test results, precise instructions will be provided
           (Annex); to allow post-hoc verification, photographs of the RDT test will be taken at
           the time of reading, to be kept or sent to the ITM study team for advice (see
           below)quality control and study documentation. Participants will also asked to store the
           RDT cassette for further analysis upon return.

        -  The final decision to use standby emergency treatment malaria treatment (SBET) is made
           by the study participant, in accordance with precise and written instructions.

        -  The study team (Tropical medicine experts at ITM) will be available for teleconsultation
           by Email or Telephone, and will provide medical advice (including assistance in RDT
           reading and interpretation) within 12 hours. Note: contacting the ITM study team is an
           option, but should not cause delay in treating suspected malaria.

        -  Study participants will collect all relevant data related to the (outcome of the)
           illness episode (duration of symptoms, consultation of a health practitioner,
           admission/duration of stay in a hospital, treatment received and timing, repatriation)

           3. Post-travel consultation will be scheduled for all study participants who
           experience(d) any illness (febrile or not) within a week after travel- sooner if the
           medical condition requires so- and for those who have no complaints but do seek
           post-travel health evaluation.

        -  A structured clinical evaluation will be performed by an expert in travel medicine and
           will be recorded in the database. Laboratory evaluation will include hematological,
           biochemical and microbiological/parasitological analysis

        -  Used RDTs will be collected for confirmation of the test result by Polymerase Chain
           Reaction (PCR).

             -  Data analysis : All data (demographic, geographic, clinical, laboratory and final
                diagnosis) will be recorded in an encoded database. Descriptive and inferential
                statistics as appropriate, STATA 14.

             -  Sample size: n= 350 fever cases; at an incidence of fever of 8% a cohort of 4400
                (healthy) travelers will be recruited over 30 months (Feb 2016 - Aug 2018).

             -  Endpoints:

        -  To determine the post-test probability for malaria after a negative RDT result (i.e.
           excluding power of the RDT) as well as other measures of diagnostic accuracy
           (sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value) in travelers with febrile illness,
           when performed by travelers (or their peers)- compared with PCR detection of Plasmodium
           spp. on the RDT after return

        -  Qualitative description of ease of self-/peer- use of malaria RDT

        -  Incidence rates for malaria (by use of RDT and post-travel PCR on RDT)

        -  Clinical course and outcomes of (self-)management of febrile illness during travel.

      Expected results and relevance:

      If the study demonstrates that malaria can be ruled out safely by travelers themselves using
      a RDT, a combination of self/peer testing with SBET may become an alternative to antimalarial
      chemoprophylaxis in travel medicine.
    
  