
    
      In patients with CFS / ME, neuroimmune, gastrointestinal, autonomic and cardiovascular
      alterations have been observed, among others. CFS / ME is characterized by disabling chronic
      fatigue, non-restorative sleep, severe intolerance to physical exercise, neurocognitive
      dysfunction with changes in concentration and immediate memory and neurovegetative symptoms
      in the form of dizziness, syncopes and alterations in bowel and bladder rhythm . Within the
      etiopathogenic hypotheses of the disease, they are involved if patients treated with
      ImmunoVita® could significantly reduce the scores on the scale of the impact of fatigue,
      sleep problems, neurovegetative dysfunction, anxiety / depression, and improve the quality of
      life compared to the placebo group.

      Based on the different etiopathogenic hypotheses of the syndrome, various mechanisms would be
      involved, which could modulate them, the ImmunoVita food complex.

        1. Do patients with CFS / ME have high scores on the fatigue impact scale, hospital
           anxiety-depression scale and Pittsburg sleep quality questionnaire?

        2. Do patients with CFS / ME have high scores in the autonomic dysfunction symptomatology
           scale?

        3. Do patients with CFS / ME have low scores in the SF-36 quality of life questionnaire?

        4. Do CFS / MS patients treated with ImmunoVita significantly reduce the scores on the
           scales of fatigue, anxiety / depression and autonomic dysfunction?

        5. Will patients with CFS / ME treated with ImmunoVita significantly increase the scores on
           the SF-36 quality of life questionnaire?

      GOALS

      Main goal

      The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of active ImmunoVita® in patients with
      CFS / MS vs. placebo in the perception of fatigue, evaluated through the scale of perception
      of fatigue (FIS-40).

      Secondary goals:

        1. Analyze the efficacy of active ImmunoVita®, in patients with CFS / ME vs. placebo in the
           improvement of neurovegetative dysfunction, through the COMPASS 31 questionnaire.

        2. Evaluate the efficacy of active ImmunoVita® in patients with CFS / MS vs. placebo in the
           improvement of sleep dysfunction, through the Pittsburg questionnaire.

        3. Analyze the efficacy of active ImmunoVita®, in patients with CFS / ME vs. placebo in the
           improvement of anxiety-depressive symptomatology, through the hospital
           anxiety-depression scale (HAD).

        4. Evaluate the efficacy of active ImmunoVita®, in patients with CFS / ME vs. placebo in
           the improvement of the quality of life, through the SF-36 questionnaire.
    
  