
    
      This study is a prospective randomized controlled trial performed at a women's health center
      from April 2015 . All participants had a complete blood count performed during their initial
      visit to the clinic during the first trimester of pregnancy. IDA was defined as a hemoglobin
      concentration <10.5 g/dL and ferritin levels < 15 ng/ml.

      Inclusion criteria were healthy pregnant women ages 18-42 with a singleton gestation and a
      diagnosis of IDA between 16-19 weeks. The investigators included only women with full access
      to medical computerized files. Exclusion criteria were: multiple pregnancies, hyperemesis
      gravidarum continuing past 20 weeks of gestation, Thalassemia, abnormal blood smears, vitamin
      D deficiency, mal-absorption disorders (inflammable bowel diseases; Crohn's, Ulcerative
      Colitis) and chronic diseases associated with anemia (i.e SLE). Vitamin B12 and blood smears
      were performed at the time of allocation. Additional inclusion criteria applied after
      allocation were: deterioration in hemoglobin levels mandating IV iron administration, more
      than 3 capsules missed at the 2 weeks check-up, diarrhea lasting more than 5 days, vomiting
      lasting more than 5 days less than 2 hours after supplement , administration of blood
      products during pregnancy, any use of multi-vitamin supplements containing iron,
      hospitalization periods greater than two weeks and a time period shorter than 15 weeks from
      allocation to delivery.

      All participants diagnosed with IDA fulfilling the inclusion criteria were randomized by
      "Randomizer" (http://www.randomizer.org) to receive either one or two capsules of aktiferrin
      F (containing DL-Serine 129 mg; Iron (Ferrous Sulfate) 34 mg; Folic Acid 0.5 mg) or
      Foliferrin (containing DL-Serine 120 mg; Iron (Ferrous Sulfate) 34 mg; Folic Acid 0.5 mg). No
      cross-over was permitted between groups.

      Participants were instructed to take one capsule at least 2 hours after consumption of dairy
      products or two capsules 12 hours apart at least 2 hours after consumption of dairy products.
      Validation of compliance to medical regimens was performed by a count of empty pill packages
      every two weeks during regular check-ups. All participants were monitored for weight, BP and
      urine dipstick measurements every 2-3 weeks until 34 weeks. Episodes of vomiting,
      constipation and diarrhea were recorded. Constipation was defined as fewer than three bowel
      movements a week or bowel movements consisting of hard, dry and small stool, making it
      painful or difficult to pass. Fetal BPP and estimated weight were performed every 2-3 weeks
      until 34 weeks of gestation. Fetal monitor was performed every two weeks from 34 weeks of
      gestation.

      Laboratory follow up was performed by measurements of ferritin and hemoglobin levels at fixed
      time intervals during gestation: 15-20 weeks, 24 weeks, 35 weeks and also 6 weeks
      post-partum. All lab studies were performed in a single central laboratory.

      The data extracted included demographic data (age, parity, chronic disease, weight and BMI at
      allocation and weight gain during the study period), obstetrical complications (GDM,
      preeclampsia, IUGR, preterm labor, preterm delivery, IUFD and blood product transfusion) and
      non obstetrical complications (diarrhea, thrombocytopenia, gastroenteritis, appendicitis,
      hypo/hyperthyroidism, pre-gestational diabetes) and newborn outcome (birth-weight and Apgar
      score and immediate post-partum complications). Any gastrointestinal symptoms, obstetrical
      complications or hospital admissions were reported in real time to the PI
    
  