
    
      ALI/ARDS is a life-threatening condition that involves inflammation of the lungs and fluid
      accumulation in the air sacs, which leads to low blood oxygen levels and respiratory failure.
      Common causes include pneumonia, septic shock, and lung trauma. Symptoms usually develop
      within 24 to 48 hours of the original injury or illness, and most patients require immediate
      care in an intensive care unit (ICU). The main form of treatment for ALI/ARDS is the delivery
      of oxygen and a continuous level of pressure to the damaged lungs through mechanical
      ventilation. Past research has shown that lower tidal volume ventilation (LTVV), a protective
      ventilator management technique in which lower volumes of oxygen are administered, improves
      short-term clinical outcomes in individuals with ALI/ARDS. However, the long-term impact of
      LTVV remains unknown. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of LTVV on
      long-term outcomes in individuals with ALI/ARDS.

      This study will enroll individuals admitted to an ICU who have been recently diagnosed with
      ALI/ARDS. Once enrolled, participants' medical records will be reviewed for demographic and
      medical information. Participants will be examined to determine level of cognition and
      delirium. Questionnaires will be used to assess the participant's status prior to ICU
      admittance, including level of hearing, physical functioning, quality of life, employment,
      and living status. Questionnaires will be given to participants as well as a close contact to
      increase the reliability of feedback. While in the ICU, participants will receive normal
      clinical care. Data on laboratory tests, mechanical ventilator settings, arterial blood gas
      values, and medical status will be collected throughout the ICU stay. Information regarding
      the medical staff-to-patient ratio and the use of different medical treatments and therapies
      will also be collected by reviewing medical records and interviewing nurses. Follow-up
      evaluations, lasting approximately four hours each, will occur 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60
      months following the ALI/ARDS diagnosis. At each follow-up visit, participants will undergo a
      physical examination, and standardized surveys and tests will be used to assess medical
      outcomes, organ impairment, pulmonary function, mental function, and quality of life. If
      participants are unable to return to the research clinic for the follow-up evaluations,
      visits may occur at their home or over the phone.

      The original 2-year follow-up duration, for which participants were consented, was
      subsequently extended to allow 5-year follow-up. In recruiting these previously consented
      participants into the 5-year follow-up extension, they will be randomized to selected
      recruitment strategies (e.g., different mailing and telephone strategies) in order to gain
      insight regarding the most effective methods of recruiting participants.
    
  