
    
      Youth will be selected to participate based on request for initial intake appointments
      regarding atopic dermatitis or eczema at the Pediatric Dermatology office at 'Specially for
      Children. Once consented into the study, youth and parents will be randomized into either the
      routine care group (medical visit with nurse and medical provider) or the prevention group
      (medical visit with nurse and medical provider, psychoeducation session with psychologist).
      Randomization will occur through a pre-determined randomized list. Next, youth and parents
      will complete questionnaires (listed above, see Appendix X) in the clinic setting prior to
      their appointment with the medical provider. At that time, the intervention will commence.
      All patient interaction between the patient, patient's family, and the study investigators
      will be conducted at the Pediatric Dermatology Clinic at 'Specially for Children or Dell
      Children's Medical Center. Demographic and clinical data will be collected and de-identified
      from the patients' medical records. Each condition's details are listed below along with a
      flowchart describing the investigation process.

      Routine Care Group Initial Evaluation: The family will be requested to fill out all measures
      for an initial assessment (Parenting Stress Index, Children's Dermatology Quality of Life
      Index/Infant Dermatitis Quality of Life Index, and the Patient Oriented SCORAD). As part of
      the medical initial evaluation, the medical provider will complete the SCORAD as part of
      his/her medical evaluation. Further, nursing staff will spend time educating the patient and
      family about therapy involved in medically treating atopic dermatitis. The total time
      estimated to fill out measures and complete initial intake evaluation is about 40 minutes.

      First Follow-up Appointment: Patient will be seen two weeks later for a follow-up visit where
      the family will complete the Patient Oriented SCORAD and the medical provider will complete
      the SCORAD as part of the medical evaluation and recommendations that make up the follow up
      appointment. Nursing staff will again spend time educating the patient and family about
      therapy involved in medically treating atopic dermatitis to determine that family has
      sufficient education regarding care. Additional data collected at this time will be the
      number of days since initial visit (collected through medical record).

      Two month Follow-up Appointment: Finally, the family will be requested to schedule a 2 month
      follow up to fill out all measures again and have a follow up medical visit. Additional data
      collected at this time from the medical chart will be number of times the family has
      contacted the dermatology office since the initial evaluation appointment. The family will
      also be asked to complete a satisfaction survey about their experience at this time.

      Prevention Group Initial Evaluation: The family will be requested to fill out all measures
      for an initial assessment (Parenting Stress Index, Children's Dermatology Quality of Life
      Index/Infant Dermatitis Quality of Life Index, and the Patient Oriented SCORAD). During the
      medical part of the visit, the medical provider will complete the SCORAD as part of his/her
      medical evaluation. Nursing staff will briefly educate the patient and family about therapy
      involved in medically treating atopic dermatitis. Then, the family will meet with the
      psychologist for about 30 minutes following medical visit to get psychoeducation and
      introduction to coping, sleep, and behavior strategies. The total time estimated to fill out
      measures and complete initial intake evaluation is about 50 minutes.

      First Follow-up Appointment: Patient will be seen two weeks later for a follow-up visit where
      the family will complete the Patient Oriented SCORAD and the medical provider will complete
      the SCORAD as part of the medical evaluation and recommendations that make up the follow up
      appointment. Additional data collected at this time will be the number of days since initial
      visit (collected through medical record). The family will meet with the psychologist for
      another 30 minutes a review or elaboration of coping, sleep, and behavior strategies.
      Additional data collected at this time will be the number of days since initial visit
      (collected through medical record).

      Two month Follow-up Appointment: Finally, the family will be requested to schedule a 2 month
      follow up to fill out all measures post prevention and have a follow up medical visit.
      Additional data collected at this time from the medical chart will be number of times the
      family has contacted the dermatology office since the initial evaluation appointment. The
      family will also be asked to complete a satisfaction survey about their experience at this
      time.
    
  