
    
      Stroke recently declined from the third to the fifth leading cause of death in the United
      States. However, Stroke remains the leading cause of long-term disability and is among the
      most expensive chronic diseases, costing the US approximately 34 billion dollars per year.
      The decrease in stroke-related mortality has led to an increase in stroke survivors, and it
      is estimated that the overall prevalence will increase by 25% by 2030 to a record 11 million
      stroke survivors. Importantly, two-thirds of the nearly one million Americans experiencing
      ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) will regain functional independence. In
      these patients, engagement in habitual purposeful physical activity (PA) is a powerful means
      of secondary stroke prevention.

      Habitual PA can improve several other important health indicators in stroke survivors,
      including cardiorespiratory fitness, functional independence, gait stability, overall
      vascular health, and cognition, while also reducing the risk for falls, cardiometabolic
      disease, and adverse recurrent events. Consequently, the American Heart Association/American
      Stroke Association (AHA/ASA) recommends patients who have survived a stroke and regained
      functional independence both increase PA and reduce sedentary behaviors (SB). However, these
      recommendations are not always prescribed, and when they are prescribed, patient compliance
      is often poor. Recent research involving the use of objective PA monitors shows that stroke
      survivors are significantly less active than controls and maintain a high level of SB
      one-year after discharge, regardless of functional capacity. This is especially problematic
      given that patients who engage in low PA and high SB levels after stroke experience
      cardiovascular deconditioning, worsening PA intolerance, and additional disability,
      ultimately increasing risk for recurrent events.

      Several barriers may account for low PA and high SB levels in stroke survivors. Many avoid
      engaging in PA due to fear of falling or triggering a recurrent event. However, the risk of
      inactivity in this regard is far greater than any risks associated with adopting habitual PA.
      Other barriers may include post-stroke fatigue, depression, lack of interest, or motivation,
      negative beliefs towards PA, and lack of support for PA behavior change. Despite the obvious
      need for behavioral interventions to assist stroke survivors in overcoming barriers to
      adoption and maintenance of habitual PA, there have been relatively few. Most interventions
      to date have only included intensive and costly supervised exercise components and have not
      included instruction in standard PA behavior change strategies (e.g., self-monitoring,
      goal-setting, reinforcement).

      The recent advent of commercially available mobile health (mHealth) technologies that
      automatically monitor and provide feedback on time spent in PA and SB (i.e., fitness/activity
      trackers) provide a potentially powerful means to enhance the efficacy and reach of
      interventions targeting stroke survivors. While a recent randomized controlled trial showed
      that providing a similar fitness/activity tracker in combination with a single in-person goal
      setting/counseling session and related printed behavior change materials was more effective
      than a pedometer and printed materials for increasing both daily moderate-to-vigorous PA
      (MVPA) and steps in older overweight women, the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy to
      this approach in post-stroke and TIA patients is unknown.

      The proposed project involves a randomized controlled trial to test the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a mHealth-enhanced PA intervention to increase
      daily bout-related (≥10-minute bouts) and total (≥1-minute bouts) moderate-intensity PA (MPA)
      and decrease daily SB in 70 non-physically impaired patients with ischemic stroke or TIA.
      After visiting the Weight Control Diabetes Research Center (WCDRC) and completing a baseline
      assessment that includes wearing a multi-sensor armband for 7 days to monitor daily MPA and
      SB, participants will be randomized to 12 weeks of either: mHealth-enhanced PA intervention
      (Tech-PAI; n=35) or a standard PA intervention (PAI; n=35), which will serve as an active
      control group. Participants assigned to Tech-PAI will receive 2 face-to-face
      goal-setting/counseling sessions (one at baseline to set individualized goals using data
      observed on the baseline armband monitor) for the first 6 weeks of the intervention and the
      other at the mid-intervention point (i.e. to evaluate progress and refine individualized
      goals), a fitness/activity tracker and access to the accompanying website to monitor and
      observe their progress towards set goals, weekly online skills training videos (during weeks
      1-6) to help change PA and SB behaviors, and weekly e-mail feedback from research staff on
      their progress towards goals (during weeks 1-12). Participants assigned to PAI will also
      receive two face-to-face PA goal-setting counseling sessions, a pedometer, and printed
      materials to assist with recording and increasing MPA and steps. Participants in both groups
      will wear the multi-sensor armband monitor again for 7 days both at mid-intervention (end of
      week 6) and post-intervention (end of week 12). The Tech-PAI and PAI groups will be compared
      on changes in daily time spent in MPA and SB from baseline at mid- and post-intervention. At
      these same time points, the groups will be compared on changes in performance-based measures
      of cardiorespiratory/physical and cognitive function; questionnaire-based assessments of
      stroke-specific impact and quality of life and PA-related attitudes and beliefs; and blood
      pressure and inflammation (i.e. C-reactive protein levels collected via blood samples).
      Finally, the acceptability of the Tech-PAI will be examined as indicated by fitness tracker
      and related website usage patterns, completion of online skills training sessions, and
      participant satisfaction ratings.
    
  