
    
      Carotid artery aneurysm (CAA) is a relatively infrequent, but significant clinical condition
      with numerous diagnostic and therapeutic implications. CAA affects laminal flow in the
      carotid artery implicating the risk of thrombus formation in the aneurysm cavity, and
      subsequent ischemic stroke from distal embolization. Another important clinical problem
      related to the CAA is a possible aneurysm dissection and rupture. Symptomatic CAA and
      increasing dimensions of CAA institute unquestioned indications for the CAA treatment.

      Surgical carotid aneurysm repair bears a significant risk (periprocedural stroke, cranial
      nerve damage, carotid artery ligation). Therefore endovascular techniques of CAA exclusion
      were developed. Covered stents, stent-grafts, and combined stenting and aneurysm embolization
      with coils were applied. However, covered stents were demonstrated to increase the restenosis
      risk, and other complications such as CAA neck endo-leak.

      Newer technique involves the flow diversion by implantation of stent in dense-structured
      stent (such as Wallstent) or stent-in-stent implantation. In this case a luminary flow
      dominates over aneurysm filling, which is limited by stent structure. Gradual thrombosis and
      occlusion of aneurysm cavity and healing of aneurysm follows.This method disadvantage was
      related to necessity of double stent load and increased restenosis risk (double metal layer).

      These issues were addressed only recently by the double layer mesh stents that demonstrate
      natural flow diverting capabilities. CGuard Stent system is a self-expandable stent covered
      with PET mesh (MicroNet) that prevents plaque protrusion into the vessel lumen. In addition,
      in low flow conditions MicroNet can act as the flow diverter. These stents are routinely
      implanted in elevated risk plaques in high reference centers in Europe.

      Several published observations indicate the CGuard stent also demonstrates flow-diverting
      capabilities, but the systematic observation of such application was not performed.

      C-HEAL is a non-randomized, single arm, open label academic observational study of CGuard
      stent implantation in carotid arteries in patients with symptomatic, dissecting or enlarging
      carotid artery aneurysm. Procedures are performed according to the center routine, with
      application of proximal or distal embolic protection device (if feasible), and standard
      pharmacotherapy according to the current guidelines.
    
  