
    
      This will be a randomised controlled trial of patients undergoing polypropylene mesh and
      nylon darn repair for inguinal hernias at St. Luke Hospital, Kasei, Ghana.

      The study will be conducted at the St. Luke Hospital, Kasei, Ghana. St. Luke Hospital is a
      primary hospital facility situated in the Ejura-Sekyedumase district of Ghana.

      The surgical unit of the hospital has 58 beds and offers specialist surgical services through
      the outpatient's clinic, 24-hour emergency unit and the operating theatre.

      Elective groin hernia repairs are performed daily by the surgical team comprising specialist
      surgeon, medical officers, anaesthetists and perioperative nurses. Both nylon darn technique
      and mesh repairs are performed.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      Mommers et al., in their use of COMI-hernia tool to assess patient quality of life following
      120 hernia repairs, reported a mean score of QoL at 6 weeks postop of 1.6 (SD ± 1.5) and a
      mean VAS pain score at 6 weeks postop of 1.0 (SD ± 1.7).

      Assuming this score and using the sample size formula for non-inferiority clinical trials
      (two-sample parallel trial)

      n=(〖2(zα+zβ)〗^2.σ^2)/(ϵ-δ)^2

      Where:

      n=Sample size Zα= 1.64, corresponding to one-tailed significance level for α =0.05 Zβ=0.84,
      corresponding to power of 80% σ = Standard Deviation ε = 0% (ie. = 0.00), true difference in
      mean between the treatment and active control [μ2(test) - μ1(control)] δ = non-inferiority
      margin of 50%

        -  (2(1.64+0.84)^2.〖(1.7)〗^2)/(-0.00-(-0.50))^2

        -  (2(2.48)^2 〖(1.7)〗^2)/(-0.00-(-0.50))^2 =2x6.1504x2.89/((0.25) ) =142.2 Providing for
           10% attrition at the patient level, we arrive at a sample size of 158.

      A hundred and twenty-two patients (79 for each arm), who fulfil the inclusion criteria, will
      be recruited for the study.

      Consecutive patients presenting with an inguinal hernia who fulfil the inclusion criteria
      will be approached for recruitment into the study. The study and its objectives will be
      clearly explained to the prospective participant as per the patient information leaflet. The
      patient will then be given the opportunity to ask questions. Prospective participants will be
      assured that they are not under obligation to participate in this study. They may change
      their mind later and stop participating even if they agreed earlier. If they choose not to
      participate, they will receive the established standard treatment offered at St. Luke
      Hospital for patients presenting with inguinal hernia.

      If a patient consents to participate in the study, that participant will then sign or
      thumbprint the written consent form. If a prospective participant is non-literate, the
      participant information leaflet will be interpreted to the participant in his/her local
      language, in the presence of a literate witness. The literate witness will countersign the
      written informed consent form. A copy of the consent form will be kept in the investigator's
      records. Another copy will be given to the patient in addition to the patient information
      leaflet.

      Randomisation will be done using a computer-generated sequential schedule in blocks of six
      (6) with an allocation ratio of 1:1. The generated schedule will be sealed in serially
      numbered opaque envelopes to be placed in a container at the operating theatre. Theatre staff
      will be chosen to pick the envelopes and allocate participants to either group during the
      surgery. This will only be done after the surgeon has performed high ligation of the sac for
      indirect hernias or reduction of the contents of the sac for direct hernias. The next
      serially numbered envelope will be opened for each new participant. The sequence will be
      generated by an independent statistician who will not be involved in the enrolment,
      management/treatment or assignment of participants. Trial participants will not be informed
      of their assignment, but this will be known by the operating surgeons.

      A participant can withdraw from the study at any point of the study without having to explain
      the decision. In the event of a participant withdrawing from the study, the established
      standard treatment offered to patients presenting with inguinal hernia at St. Luke Hospital
      will be continued. A trial exit form will be completed by the principal investigator for that
      participant.

      The participant and the trained research assistant will be blinded to the intervention used
      for the participants.

      One hundred and fifty-eight patients (18 years and above) presenting for inguinal hernia
      repair at the surgical theatre of St. Luke Hospital within the study period of one year will
      be approached and screened to determine their eligibility to participate in the study.

      After obtaining consent, initial data including socio-demographics of the patient, history
      and clinical examination to characterize the inguinal hernia, will be extracted from the
      patient's folder and recorded on the data gathering form.

      The patient's identity will be protected by using coded identifiers. Data gathering will be
      done under the strict supervision of the project supervisor.

      Patient pre-operative data will also be collected according to the structured data gathering
      form.

      This will include the grade of the inguinal hernia based on Kingsnorth's classification of
      inguinal hernia The ASA (American Society of Anaesthesiologists) score as recorded by the
      qualified anaesthetist during the anaesthetic assessment will be recorded

      Patients will be operated as day cases as practiced in the hospital. If for any reason a
      patient has to stay overnight, they will be included in the study and the reason for
      overnight stay noted.

      During the surgery, the operating surgeon will be informed about which arm the patient has
      been randomized into after the skin incision has been made and the surgeon has performed high
      ligation of the sac for indirect hernias or reduction of the contents of the sac for direct
      hernias.

      Group 1: Patients to undergo inguinal hernia repair using nylon darn technique Group 2:
      Patients to undergo inguinal hernia repair using polypropylene mesh. The inguinal hernia
      repair will be performed using anaesthesia as determined by a qualified anaesthetist during
      the anaesthetic assessment.

      Inguinal hernia repair by either technique will be carried out by a specialist surgeon or a
      trained medical officer.

      Patients will be discharged home on a five (5) day supply of oral diclofenac sodium to be
      taken 12 hourly after meals for pain control.

      A dedicated phone number (of the primary investigator) will be provided for patients to call
      in case they have any concerns.

      Wound dressings will be changed by a qualified nurse in the hospital's wound dressing room.
      This will be done on alternate days, starting on postoperative day 3 for patients in both
      arms of the study. At each wound dressing, the investigator will assess for haematoma,
      seroma, testicular swelling and wound infection. If any wound problems are diagnosed, this
      will be recorded on the case report form and the patient managed appropriately.

      If no wound problems are found, all stitches will be removed on the seventh postoperative day
      at the surgical outpatients' clinic.

      Participants will be contacted 12 weeks after surgery to come for a clinical review at the
      general surgery outpatients' clinic. If for any reason the participant cannot come for the
      12th-week clinical review, a follow-up visit to the participant in his community will be
      done. If this is not successful, a follow-up phone call will be placed and the follow-up
      interview administered.

      In case the participant actively withdraws consent, dies anytime between the allocation and
      the 12th-week follow-up or patient could not be reached for the 12th-week follow-up
      interview, a trial exit form will be completed for that participant.

      Data collection will be done by the primary investigator and the trained research assistant
      into the structured data entry form, including the COMI-Hernia tool. For each patient, the
      COMI-hernia total score before surgery and 12 weeks after surgery will be calculated.

      Participant's identity will be protected by using coded identifiers. Data will be transcribed
      into electronic form using Microsoft® Access® 2010 (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond,
      Washington). Data cleaning will be done weekly to ensure consistency.

      Data will be coded and analysed using STATA v.14 software (StataCorp LLC, College Station,
      Texas). Data will be presented using descriptive statistics. Measures of central tendency and
      dispersion will be used to describe quantitative variables such as the COMI-hernia score
      (mean ± standard deviations (SD) for normally distributed data and median and ranges for
      skewed data). Categorical variables will be expressed as numbers and percentages. Differences
      between mean COMI-Hernia total scores of patients undergoing nylon darn repair and
      polypropylene mesh repair will be determined with the Student's t-test. One-way analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) with post-hoc analysis will be used to confirm significance between the
      groups if the data is normally distributed. For skewed data, Kruskal Wallis analysis will be
      used. Chi square goodness of fit will be used to test association between variables. Relative
      risk [95% confidence interval (CI)]. Statistical significance will be set at p< 0.05.
    
  