
    
      Very low birth weight infants are at risk for developing intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).
      Post hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PPH) is a major complication of IVH and contributes to
      long-term developmental delays. Progressive PHH often requires management of ventricular
      dilation by adjusting CSF fluid volume. There are 3 methods employed to acutely decrease CSF
      volume: 1) serial lumbar puncture, 2) open drain system (continuous CSF removal), and 3)
      reservoir system. Serial lumbar puncture is only effective if there is communicating
      hydrocephalus. The open drain system is infrequently used as it is cumbersome and there is a
      relatively high risk of infection. The method most commonly used to manage CSF volume is the
      reservoir system where an in-situ drain is connected to a subcutaneous (Omaya) reservoir
      which is periodically aspirated by needle puncture through the scalp. Because the Omaya
      system is closed, intraventricular volume and, thus, pressure must necessarily rise prior to
      and decrease after CSF aspiration. Ventricular dilation is controlled by the frequency and
      volume of CSF aspiration.

      When hydrocephalus continues to be a problem despite removal of CSF, a ventricular-peritoneal
      (VP) shunt is placed. Approximately 50% of infants with hydrocephalus treated with removal of
      CSF resolve their hydrocephalus and do not require VP shunt placement. Placement of a VP
      shunt is difficult in extremely preterm infants due to increased risk of ulceration around
      the shunt site and the high protein concentration in CSF which can occlude the valve in the
      VP shunt requiring revision. Thus, hydrocephalus is usually treated with serial removal of
      CSF to allow for identification of those infant's whose hydrocephalus resolves over time.
      However, timing and method of CSF management is controversial because the effect of
      increasing hydrocephalus on cerebral perfusion, oxygenation, electrical activity, and
      neuronal damage has not been established.

      Serial removal of CSF causes a change in intracranial volume/pressure that can be potentially
      transmitted to intracranial vessels. The caliber of cerebral vessels may be modified by this
      balance between intravascular and intracranial pressure, and if the caliber should change,
      the blood flow characteristics should also change. In cerebral veins and capillaries where
      intraluminal pressure is low, high intraventricular pressure may significantly affect blood
      flow and can cause venous stasis. NIRS measures cerebral oxygenation in capillaries and
      veins. Intracranial arteries and arterioles may be somewhat less affected, except when
      intraventricular pressure greatly increases. The resultant decrease in the arterial supply
      can affect tissue perfusion. Arterial flow can be measured by Doppler ultrasonography. Thus,
      there is concern that during periods of increasing or fluctuating ventricular size cerebral
      arterial perfusion may be compromised and further cerebral injury may result. Intracranial
      pressure is further influenced by the plasticity/deformability of the immature brain and the
      easy expansibility of the cranial vault due to the presence of sutures and open fontanelles.

      There is indirect evidence from experiments in animals that ventricular distention itself may
      cause secondary brain injury. Thus, axonal stretching and disruption secondary to progressive
      ventriculomegaly is be associated with gliosis. Periventricular vascular distortion and
      compression may decrease cerebral blood flow causing ischemic injury to periventricular white
      matter. Inflammation and repair may interfere with CSF flow.

      Little research is available that helps answer the primary question involved in clinical
      management of ventricular dilation in premature infants: Are there relationships between
      ventricular enlargement, cerebral perfusion, brain oxygen delivery, and on-going cerebral
      damage?

      Doppler ultrasonography has been applied in premature infants to characterize post delivery
      changes in arterial and venous cerebral blood flow velocities.[1] Critically low superior
      vena cava flow measured by Doppler ultrasonography in the first 24 hours of life has been
      associated with intraventricular hemorrhage in premature infants born before 30 weeks
      gestation.[2] Using pulsed Doppler ultrasonography, the resistive index can be measured which
      is a inversely related to blood flow. In older infants with established hydrocephalus,
      cerebral blood flow resistive index appeared to be a good indicator of increased intracranial
      pressure.[3] However, in a review article, the value of Doppler indices alone in predicting
      increased intracranial pressure was strongly questioned.[4] In a recent article, the
      resistive index of the anterior cerebral artery decreased significantly after CSF drainage in
      infants with PHH. [5] Although Doppler ultrasonography is easy to perform, its role in
      detecting significant changes in cerebral perfusion associated with increased CSF volume and
      ventricular dilation is not yet established.

      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a portable non-invasive technique used to measure
      regional cerebral oxygen saturation in cerebral blood.[6] NIRS has been used to evaluate
      effect of head [7] and body position [8] on cerebral hemodynamics in preterm infants, and the
      effect of certain treatments, such as surfactant administration [9] and suctioning on
      conventional or high-frequency ventilation.[10] NIRS measurement of cerebral oxygenation and
      hemodynamics shows impairment in those neonates at risk for developing severe brain
      ischemia.[11] In premature infants with PHH, CSF fluid aspiration was associated with a
      significant increase in cerebral perfusion, cerebral blood volume, and oxidative
      metabolism.[12,13] In a small animal model of acute hydrocephalus, NIRS measurement of global
      cerebral blood flow using oxygen as a tracer was highly correlated to cerebral blood flow
      measured by radioactive microspheres over a wide range of increased intracranial
      pressure.[14] As intracranial pressure increased, NIRS measurement and absolute measurement
      of cerebral blood flow decreased. NIRS measured cerebral perfusion appears to directly
      reflect absolute cerebral blood flow and is sensitive enough to detect significant changes in
      cerebral perfusion which occur with evacuation of CSF in infants with PHH.

      Amplitude-integrated EEG (aEEG) is a device used for neurologic surveillance. The cortical
      electrical activity is transformed into a single signal that represents overall
      electrocortical background activity of the brain. Specifically the upper and lower voltage
      margins and the amplitude of the tracing and the presence of seizure activity can be
      evaluated. In addition, the presence of sleep-wake cycles, a rhythmic sinusoidal variation in
      amplitude, can be evaluated. Infants > 34 weeks gestation have predictable aEEG patterns. The
      signal depends on gestational age and postnatal age and standards for preterm infants have
      been reported.[15,16] In a case report, 2 preterm infants with PHH demonstrated abnormal
      sleep-wake cycles and markedly decreased cerebral electrical activity with increasing
      ventricular enlargement prior to clinical signs of increased intracranial pressure. In one
      infant, aEEG normalized after VP shunt placement.[17] To date, there are no clinical studies
      on the effect of aspiration of CSF on aEEG in preterm infants with PHH.

      Biomarkers for cerebral injury have been used to predict severity of injury and long-term
      outcome, identify patients early at risk for poor neurologic outcomes, and evaluate
      effectiveness of therapeutic interventions. Neuronal specific enolase (NSE), a marker for
      neuronal damage, and S100B, secreted by astrocytes and a marker of glial/neuronal injury,
      have been shown to be increased in children after traumatic brain injury.[18] In preterm
      infants with PHH, S100B and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), a structural protein in
      astrocytes, were significantly elevated in those infants who had brain parenchymal lesions
      and poor neurological outcomes.[19] These biomarkers are quickly metabolized and thus ongoing
      elevation would indicate ongoing damage. Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-ß), produced by
      fibroblasts and released into the CSF after injury, stimulates production of extracellular
      protein which could result in PHH due to a permanent obstruction to CSF flow.[20] Cytokine
      IL-6 is a marker of inflammation. There are no longitudinal studies on the effect of
      aspiration of CSF on these markers of cerebral damage in preterm infants with PHH.
    
  