
    
      The prevalence of HF in France is increasing. According to a report from the Haute Autorité
      de Santé (HAS) - the French Health Authority - published in June 2015 concerning discharge of
      patients hospitalized for HF, 2.3% of the French adult population is affected. Despite
      improvements in treatment and HF-specific care, the rehospitalization rate for HF remains
      substantial, and HF management is a major public health issue.

      Chronic HF leads to psychological and physiological issues in patients. Furthermore, this
      disease affects patient quality of life and activities of daily living.

      The HAS also reported that even if iterative hospitalizations are the consequence of
      complicated and multifactorial situations, some could be prevented by improved patient care.

      The aim of the EduStra-HF study is to examine the effect of an intensive therapeutic
      education on patients discharged from hospital after an episode of acute HF. It will study
      whether this intervention reduces the rate of rehospitalization and increases quality of life
      in this population.

      To achieve this goal, a multicentre, randomized, two parallel arm study will be conducted.
      Patients will be included in several cardiology centres in Paris (Ile-de-France) over 2 years
      and 3 months.

      Included patients, chosen from patients admitted for acute HF in the participating hospitals,
      will be randomized into two groups, which will determine the monitoring they receive after
      discharge. For each patient, monitoring will last for 1 year from the day they return home.

      The first group of patients will be randomized to receive "usual care" monitoring and will
      not be given specific therapeutic education after discharge.

      The second group (intervention arm) will receive a specific educational monitoring programme
      from nurses via telephone calls and home visits, for 1 year. Monitoring will began early
      after discharge. Annual medical monitoring and visits to the cardiologist will also be
      planned.

      All patients, regardless of attribution arm, will meet a nurse trained in therapeutic
      education during their stay in hospital. Moreover, validated and HF-related self-assessed
      questionnaires will be analyzed to assess quality of life and impact of HF on patient
      activities of daily living.

      In the interventional arm, patients will receive monitoring documents, such as a HF
      information booklet and a personal monitoring agenda.

      The EduStra-HF study will provide a specific analysis of a multisupport therapeutic education
      (including medical monitoring). Data on all HF drug treatments, including the more recent
      ones (e.g. Entresto), blood tests results, and cardiologic data will be recorded.
    
  