
    
      Specific Aims Methamphetamine use among young adult Latina women with histories of intimate
      partner violence are at disproportionate risk for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and
      sexually transmitted infection (STI). Studies demonstrate that these women are also at
      extremely high risk for a myriad of mental health conditions, including depression. There is
      promising support that addressing the co-occurrence of drug use and depression can lead to
      increased safe sex behaviors, positive outcomes and HIV/STI risk reduction. However, there
      are countless systemic barriers to engaging drug using young adult women who face high rates
      of psychological, interpersonal relationship and legal problems into safe sex interventions.

      In response to the University of Southern California (USC) Clinical and Translational Science
      Institute (CTSI) Clinical and Community Research Award, this application proposes to assess
      the feasibility of an integrated HIV behavioral intervention, FASTLANE II that has
      preliminary evidence of efficacy in increasing safer sex behaviors and simultaneously
      targeting depressive symptoms among active drug users. FASTLANE II utilizes cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) and incorporates motivational interviewing (MI) techniques as well
      as central theoretical components from the theory of reasoned action. The study will deliver
      FASTLANE II for a new population and new setting and obtain initial data on its feasibility,
      acceptability and preliminary outcome data. Specifically, the proposed application builds
      upon an on-going National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) funded R01, "Proyecto San Antonio
      Latina Trajectory Outcomes (SALTO) - 5R01DA039269-04, a longitudinal community-based study
      examining long-term health outcomes of drug and partner violence victimization trajectories
      for a cohort of Mexican American women in San Antonio, Texas (SAT). Findings demonstrate a
      high-needs population with high rates of STIs, illicit drug use and depression confounded by
      low rates of access and utilization of health care. The investigators will employ a quasi-
      experimental, single group pretest-posttest study design and qualitative interviews to
      evaluate feasibility, acceptability and effect. Specifically, the investigators plan to
      pursue the following specific aims:

        1. To assess the feasibility of recruiting and retaining active methamphetamine using
           Mexican American women in SAT;

        2. Obtain outcome data (depression, sex risk and methamphetamine use) for a new population
           in a new setting;

        3. Explore participant's perceptions of the acceptability of the FASTLANE II intervention.

      This study will provide preliminary data that would inform a future randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) to implement a promising HIV intervention for this underserved vulnerable
      population using National Institute of Health (NIH) Funding Opportunity Announcement Number
      PAR-17-490/ PAR-17-491 "Implementing the Most Successful Interventions to Improve HIV/AIDS
      Outcomes in US Communities". Moreover, the study takes advantage of a unique team of
      collaborators including: 1) the University of Incarnate Ward San Antonio; 2) the University
      of California San Diego and 3) the University of Southern California.

      Research Strategy Significance Research has demonstrated the heightened risk for HIV/STI
      infection among methamphetamine users engaged in unprotected sexual behaviors. Studies
      demonstrate significantly more sex partners, engagement in anal sex behavior, engagement in
      prostitution or exchange of sex for drugs and less likely to use condoms. Despite this, few
      interventions exists to increase safer sex behaviors among populations of methamphetamine
      users. This is particularly important given that curtailing and/or changing drug use
      behaviors is a time-intensive specialized process and often times not a realistic goal for
      active users engaged in sexual risk behaviors. Thus, the proposed study will add to the
      limited interventions that exist in reducing sexual risks in the context of active drug
      (methamphetamine) using women.

      Our study population represents one of the largest and fastest growing Hispanic subgroup in
      the U.S. living in poverty (27% compared to 15% U.S. general population). Mexican Americans'
      disadvantaged status (e.g. high poverty and declining economic progress and educational
      attainment) has been shown to persist with each succeeding (i.e. 3rd and 4th) generation.
      Confounding this status is evidence documenting intimate partner violence (IPV) and related
      substance use and sexual risk patterns among women. There are important limitations in the
      existing knowledge resulting from a lack of attention to Mexican Americans in studies of
      women's health and from issues related to the lack of attention to the barriers that
      contribute to underutilization of healthcare services. This study will contribute to
      examining the feasibility and acceptability of an intervention that takes into account drug
      using women's unique susceptibility for mental health conditions and engaging in sexual risk
      behaviors. While it is particularly important to recognize the sociocultural disadvantage
      these women experience, there is an immediate need to address the acute vulnerability that
      heightens their risk on a day-to-day basis.

      The proposed study builds off emerging findings from "Proyecto SALTO" that demonstrate a
      current rate of 56% that tested positive for Herpes Simplex Virus Type 2 (HSV-2) infection
      and strong comorbidity with drug use, Hepatitis C, sexual violence, incarceration, and mental
      illness. Moreover, preliminary results from the parent study demonstrate a high-needs
      population of methamphetamine users with high rates of co-occurring risky sex behavior and
      detrimental mental health.

      Approach

      Quasi-Experimental Design and Methods

      Study Setting - San Antonio

      The San Antonio population is more than 1 million, of which more than 50% is of Mexican
      descent. SAT is among the top 10 cities with the largest number of people living in
      distressed zip codes and has the highest level of spatial inequality between zip codes.
      Building upon the research team's "Proyecto SALTO", the proposed intervention study site is
      located in the most distressed zip code. Findings demonstrate a marginalized and vulnerable
      population of young women with high rates of STIs, illicit drug use, and depression
      confounded by low rates of access and utilization of healthcare.

      Community Advisory Board (CAB). A CAB will be assembled to advise the research team. The
      investigators will take advantage of the existing CAB members for the ongoing SAT NIDA funded
      study who have expressed their willingness to provide insights and suggestions for the
      implementation of the intervention. It will meet three times to advise and discuss such
      issues as cultural norms, values and beliefs, attitudes towards methamphetamine use, gender
      sensitivity, sexual behavior cultural scripts, etc. The CAB will monitor progress of the
      project and provide guidance on both cultural and community issues that develop during the
      course of the study.

      Phase I: Feasibility and Evaluation of Recruitment Capability The objective for aim 1 is to
      evaluate the feasibility of recruitment and retention of appropriate participants. The
      investigators intend to recruit 40 participants through a variety of methods including a)
      existing participants in the ongoing "Proyecto SALTO" study; b) street outreach in targeted
      neighborhoods; and c) snowball sampling techniques. The investigators will assess and
      document participant flow through recruitment rates, eligibility criteria, and resulting
      sample characteristics in order to evaluate the feasibility of FASTLANE II in this setting.
      The investigators will also assess adherence rates to study procedures, intervention
      attendance, and engagement. In order to minimize underreporting of sensitive behavior, the
      investigators will utilize REDCAP for data collection purposes. Computerized assessments will
      occur at baseline, posttest and 4 months post-baseline. Participants will be compensated $30
      for completing study assessments.

      FASTLANE II (FL II) Intervention Developed by our University of California, San Diego (UCSD)
      collaborator (Patterson), FL II counseling sessions are highly interconnected given they are
      built on multiple frameworks. For instance, self-efficacy and outcome expectancies are
      developed through Social Cognitive Theory (SCT) and intention is explored through the Theory
      of Reasoned Action (TRA). While MI teaches individuals to use existing skills in risky
      situations,

      CBT compliments the therapy by building on existing strategies and knowledge in order to
      develop new approaches individuals can use to improve mood and reduce risk behavior. Thus,
      individuals develop a "toolbox" for mood self-management to improve emotional self-regulation
      and reduce maladaptive coping mechanisms to minimize drug and sex risk behavior. The
      intervention consists of nine weekly face-to-face (i.e., individual) counseling sessions,
      focused on addressing the following: 1) depressive symptoms, 2) methamphetamine use, and 3)
      sexual risk behavior. Counselors use a client-centered approach and develop a goal for each
      area alongside the participant. Three sessions are devoted to each described elsewhere.

      Results from the FL II intervention among a sample of randomized HIV-negative, heterosexual
      methamphetamine users found reductions in depression, meth use, and condom-less sex. Limited
      efficacy was demonstrated in changes over time that pointed towards gender moderation
      effects. That is, FL II demonstrates the importance in interventions targeting
      gender-specific factors, in particular for women who demonstrate unique vulnerabilities
      (homelessness, gendered power dynamics, dependent children, lower income, more severe trading
      sex for meth).

      Analysis -Analyses will focus on the proportion of participants who complete the intervention
      and retention at 4- month follow-up. The investigators will use χ2 tests (or Fisher's exact
      tests if cell sizes are small) for categorical and t-tests for continuous variables to
      explore whether participant attributes are associated with intervention and study completion.
      χ2 tests will explore change from baseline to 4-month follow-up on the categorical outcome
      variables. Paired sample t-tests will be used to examine whether there was change on the
      outcomes from baseline to follow-up. The qualitative analysis will implement 4 inductive
      strategies. 1) Item level: unrestricted line-by-line reading and initial coding for items
      and/or elements. 2) Pattern level: more focused coding to establish linkages among
      classifications. 3) Structural level: organizes relationships among patterns of the data into
      larger sociocultural constructs. 4) Interpretation: provides meaning of structures in
      relation to existing content and used to assist in adaptation of intervention.

      Limitations - A problem that could arise is that the investigators are unable to recruit the
      proposed sample. Given the team's highly successful work, trust and rapport with young adult
      women in "Proyecto SALTO", the investigators are confident that this would not occur.
      However, should this occur, the investigators will implement direct advertising recruitment
      using bulletin board posts/flyers at local community- based organizations working with
      targeted population.
    
  