
    
      FIT untethered is an open-label, randomized, repeated measures cross-over design study,
      testing glycemic control in "untethered" continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII)
      therapy compared to usual CSII therapy, in physically active patients with T1D (N=30). During
      2-week screening visits, participants are randomized into either the usual CSII arm or the
      untethered CSII arm. Patients in the usual group continue with their established CSII
      therapy. Patients in the untethered group are to administer 50% of their basal dose through
      an insulin degludec injection every morning, with the other 50% achieved through their
      established CSII therapy. Bolus insulin remains at the established dose in both groups. After
      randomization, patients begin Phase I and transition into a 2-week insulin optimization
      period. Then, participants will complete 2 in-clinic, supervised exercise visits (1 moderate
      and 1 high intensity exercises) in the following week. After, participants must complete 2
      unsupervised at-home exercises per week for 3 weeks (cumulative total of 2 moderate and 4
      high intensity exercises). After the home exercise period, participants cross-over to the
      other study arm and begin Phase II. Phase II is similar to Phase I: 2 weeks of insulin dose
      optimization, 1 week of supervised clinic exercise, and 3 weeks of unsupervised home
      exercise. For both in-clinic and home-based exercise, the participant's insulin pump will be
      disconnected and suspended 60 minutes prior to beginning the workout, and will be reconnected
      immediately following each workout. A continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device will be worn
      by each participant for the entire duration of the study. The co-primary outcomes of the
      study include time in range (4.0 - 10.0 mmol/L) in the 6 hours after the start of moderate-
      and high-intensity exercise. The key secondary outcomes include the glucose variability
      during the 24 hour period after the start of both moderate and high intensity exercise, and
      patient reported outcomes before and after exercise.
    
  