
    
      The central hypothesis is that accumulation of ADMA constitutes a major mechanism for the
      sympathetic overactivity and hypertension in patients with CKD. In this study, the
      investigators will determine if restoration of NO production with the infusion of L-arginine
      reduces SNA and blood pressure. On the experimental day, CKD patients will arrive at the
      laboratory fasted with no morning meds, will refrain from caffeine for 12 hours, and alcohol
      and physical activity for 24 hours. The collaborating physician Dr. Ashfaq Siddiqui will
      review subject medications and advise regarding any withholding of medications. If Dr.
      Siddiqui deems that a medication should not be withheld the investigators will proceed with
      the patient taking the medication. Prior to any screening/testing, all experimental
      measurements and procedures will be explained in detail and subjects will provide written,
      informed consent. A medical health history questionnaire will be filled out. Women of
      child-bearing age will provide a urine sample for a pregnancy testing prior to any study
      procedures. The research nurse will place an intravenous catheter in antecubital or hand
      vein. Subjects will be familiarized with the experimental measures and procedures prior to
      actual testing. Following this, the subjects will be instrumented with ECG leads, an arterial
      blood pressure (BP) finger-cuff (Finometer), an arterial BP upper-arm cuff for intermittent
      absolute BP values, and a strain gauge pneumobelt placed around the abdomen to monitor
      respiratory excursions. After measuring blood pressure and pulse wave velocity using
      applanation tonometry, a Doppler ultrasound probe will then be positioned for beat-to-beat
      measurements of blood velocity and artery diameter and flow-mediated dilation (FMD) will be
      performed. After this, continuous recording of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) will
      be obtained from the peroneal nerve of the leg, as described below. Following all
      instrumentation, 25 minutes of resting baseline data (continuous heart rate, MSNA, BP,
      respiration, and blood flow) will be collected. A blood sample will then be obtained from the
      intravenous catheter. Next, systemic intravenous infusion of L-arginine, at a dose of 250-350
      mg/kg, or saline will be performed for 30 minutes in a randomized order. During each
      infusion, cardiovascular measurements (heart rate, BP and MSNA) will be recorded continuously
      and an FMD and cold pressor test performed. The blood draw will be repeated after L-arginine
      infusion. A 15-minute recovery period will be provided between infusions. Thus, for this
      study, patients will visit the lab once and the visit will take approximately 5 hours.
    
  