
    
      Using cutting-edge single cell RNA-Seq technology, we will identify in the BAL fluid of
      subjects of SSc-ILD emerging pathogenic cell populations in the lung that were previously
      unrecognized using standard RNA-Seq and microarray technologies, which lack the resolution to
      analyze transcriptomes of individual cells. Alveolar macrophages isolated from
      bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from SSc patients with clinically significant lung
      fibrosis will be studied at baseline and at 6 months after enrollment to assess
      longitudinally the presence and persistence of an emergent, pro-fibrotic alveolar macrophage
      population.

      Subjects with SSc-ILD will be recruited from the Scleroderma Program. We will recruit adults
      who fulfill 2013 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) SSc criteria and clinically relevant
      SSc-interstitial lung disease. Patients will undergo bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage
      at month 0 and then at month 6. Healthy control subjects will complete demographic and basic
      medical forms to ensure health. Pertinent clinical data will be downloaded from the
      Enterprise Data Warehouse, an electronic database in use at Northwestern that was designed to
      aggregate and store patient data from various medical systems, or through manual chart
      review, and entered into a RedCap database created specifically for this project.

      During an elective bronchoscopy procedure in SSc and healthy control subjects the
      bronchoscope will be wedged into an affected lung segment guided by CT scanning. After
      wedging the bronchoscope, 120ml of sterile 0.09% normal saline will be instilled. All
      subsequent aliquots will be pooled. Up to 40-60 mL of BAL fluid will be obtained for analysis
      during each sampling. Alveolar macrophages will be sorted on a fluorescence-activated cell
      sorter (FACS) Aria III instrument. High-throughput single cell transcriptomic (Drop-seq) data
      will be processed on Northwestern high-performance computational cluster using Cell Ranger
      pipeline and post-processed using modified AltAnalyze pipeline.
    
  