
    
      Introduction:

      Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic inflammatory diseases of the intestinal tract,
      consisting of crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). In The Netherlands, there are
      about 90,000 IBD patients, mainly young adults who are in a turbulent part of their life with
      starting a family and career. The prevalence of IBD seems to be rising. The peak incidence is
      between 15 and 30 years. The disease is characterized by periods of disease activity (flares)
      alternating with periods of (clinical) remission. Physical symptoms include abdominal pain,
      diarrhea, rectal bleeding and fatigue. Although the arsenal of drugs has increased in recent
      decades, there is no cure for the disease and patients are usually long-term treated with
      different (immunosuppressive) medications. Nevertheless, at this moment, we are only
      partially able to keep our IBD patients in remission.

      Even in those in remission, IBD is associated with increased levels of psychological stress,
      with estimated prevalence rates of 21% for depressive symptoms and 35% for anxiety symptoms.
      In periods of disease activity, prevalence of elevated anxiety levels was even found to be as
      high as 75.6%. Besides psychological stress, IBD patients in remission report lower quality
      of life compared to the general population. This is due to the physical symptoms but also to
      fatigue, worries, anxiety, depression, impaired satisfaction with social role and sleep
      disturbances. More than 40 % of the IBD patients experience fatigue. This may contribute to
      the higher sick leave days and higher work impairment rates in quiescent IBD, causing high
      societal costs. In addition, poor sleep seems common in individuals with IBD and has been
      linked to disease activity and shown as a predictor for subclinical inflammation and a risk
      factor for relapse and poorer outcomes.

      Mindfulness training, typically in the form of mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) or
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT), is a psychosocial group-based intervention that
      has been shown to reduce psychological distress and improving quality of life, both in
      patients with mental health problems and those with chronic diseases such as diabetes,
      cancer, cardiovascular disease, rheumatoid arthritis and fibromyalgia. Mindfulness training
      focuses on the progressive acquisition of mindful awareness to better cope with negative
      repetitive thoughts and feelings, and for that reason may be a good option to reduce
      psychological stress and fatigue, and improve quality of life in patients with chronic
      conditions including IBD.

      Although the available literature on the effectiveness of mindfulness-based interventions for
      IBD is still relatively scarce, a recent meta-analysis showed significant benefits in terms
      of stress, depression, and quality of life. However, the variety in types of interventions
      was rather high, and individual studies typically suffered from methodological limitations,
      including small sample size, poor blinding of the outcome assessors, incomplete data
      reporting and a relative lack of fidelity measures. Therefore, it seems warranted to conduct
      a high-quality, multicenter randomized controlled trial investigating the effectiveness of
      MBCT to improve stress, sleep quality, and quality of life.

      Aims:

      Considering the limited availability of psychosocial interventions for IBD, this study aims
      to investigate MBCT as an adjunctive treatment to TAU to reduce psychological stress in
      patients with IBD who report elevated stress levels. In addition, we aim to improve sleep
      quality/regularity and fatigue, IBD-related quality of life, perceived control over IBD,
      clinical indicators (fecal calprotectin, c-reactive protein levels, Harvey Brashaw Index for
      CD, Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index for UC), IBD-related flare. We also aim to improve
      repetitive negative thinking, mindfulness skills, self-compassion skills, and positive mental
      health. We will investigate whether improving sleep quality may be one of the pathways
      through which mindfulness may help reduce psychological distress and improve quality of life
      in IBD (working mechanism).

      Method:

      A two-armed randomized, multicenter, parallel group pragmatic trial comparing
      Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) vs. Treatment As Usual (TAU) for reducing
      psychological distress in distressed patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD).
      Assessments will be conducted at baseline, post treatment (3 months) and follow-ups at 6, 9,
      and 12 months. Objective sleep measures will be taken at baseline, post treatment and 12
      months.

      The control group will receive treatment as usual (TAU) according to Dutch and European IBD
      treatment guidelines. The intervention group will receive Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy
      (MBCT) in addition to TAU. The MBCT protocol that will be used is based on the protocol
      published by Segal, Williams and Teasdale. MBCT consists of eight weekly 2.5h group sessions,
      a six-hour silent day and daily home practice assignments guided by audio files. Mindfulness
      is characterized by deliberate, non-judging and sustained moment-to-moment awareness. Health
      related benefits include enhanced emotional processing and coping regarding the effects of
      chronic illness and stress, improved self-efficacy and control, and a more accepting attitude
      towards difficult emotions, thought and bodily sensations. Psycho-education and interactive
      dialogue typically focus on stress management, balancing activities, lifestyle factors, and
      strategies to stay well in the future (relapse prevention). Each group will be comprising
      8-12 participants. MBCT courses will be taught on site by qualified mindfulness teachers.
      Teacher competency will be assessed with the Mindfulness-Based Interventions - Teaching
      Assessment Criteria, using a random selection of videotaped sessions, assessed by expert
      teachers who have been trained to use these assessment criteria.
    
  