
    
      Underserved communities of color in low income, largely ethnic-minority neighborhoods face an
      excessive burden of illness from depression due to higher prevalence of depression and lower
      access to quality care. Evidence-based quality improvement (QI) programs for depression in
      primary care settings-where many low-income and minority patients receive their only mental
      health care-can enhance quality of depression care and improve health outcomes. These
      programs are under-utilized in community-based health care settings, and have not been
      adapted for use across diverse agencies (social service, faith based, primary and specialty
      care) that could partner to support disease management for depression. Partners in Care
      (PIC)and WE Care are interventions designed to improve access to evidence-based depression
      treatments (medication management or psychotherapy) for primary care patients and, in WE
      Care, social service clients. PIC evaluated a services delivery intervention while WE Care
      was an effectiveness trial with study-provided treatments. Both studies promoted use of the
      same evidence-based treatments. Both PIC and WE Care programs improved use of evidence-based
      treatments for depression and health outcomes for African Americans and Latinos. The PIC
      interventions reduced health outcome disparities evident in usual care in the first follow-up
      year and at five-year follow-up. While these findings offer hope to underserved communities,
      such communities have poor resources to support implementation of these programs, and may
      have historical distrust in research and health care settings. There is no evidence-based
      approach to support agency networks in underserved communities in implementing QI programs
      for depression. To address this information gap, investigators created Community Partners in
      Care (CPIC), a group-level randomized, controlled trial, with randomization at the level of
      an agency site or "unit." The trial is being fielded in two underserved communities,
      Hollywood and South Los Angeles, and conducted through a community- participatory, partnered
      research (CPPR) approach.

      The specific aims of the study are:

        1. To engage two underserved communities in improving safety-net care for depression.

        2. To examine the effects of a community-engagement approach to implementing evidence-based
           depression quality improvement toolkits (PIC/WE Care) through a community collaborative
           network across services sectors, compared to technical assistance to individual programs
           from the same services sectors coupled with culturally-competent outreach to implement
           the same toolkits. The outcomes are: a) client access to care, quality of care and
           health outcomes, with the primary outcome being mental-health related quality of life
           and additional outcomes reflecting social determinants of mental health of interest to
           the community (physical health, homelessness risk factors, employment); b) services
           utilization and costs; c) agency adoption of PIC/WE Care; d) and provider attitudes,
           knowledge and practice.

        3. To describe the process of implementation of the community engagement intervention.

      CPIC was awarded funds from the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) in 2013
      to accomplish the following 3 aims:

        1. To compare the long-term (3-year) effectiveness of community engagement and planning
           versus agency technical assistance to implement depression QI and improve depressed
           clients' health status and risk for homelessness

        2. To determine how depressed clients in under-resourced communities prioritize diverse
           health and social outcomes and identify their preferences for services to address
           priority outcomes

        3. To identify capacities of providers to respond to depressed clients' priorities and to
           generate recommendations for building capacity to better address clients'priorities.

      We hypothesize that community engagement and planning will be more effective than technical
      assistance in improving 3-year outcomes and that clients will prioritize quality of life. We
      expect to find gaps in provider capacities to address client priorities that network
      strategies could address.

      Our primary outcome for the long-term follow-up is mental health related quality of life and
      secondary outcomes are use of healthcare and community services for depression and physical
      functioning and homeless risk factors.

      In 2014, CPIC was awarded funds from the National Institute on Minority Health and Health
      Disparities (NIMHD) to use existing quantitative CPIC data and collect new qualitative data
      to describe pathways to reducing disparities. The funding allows us to longitudinally track
      the implementation of the CEP model in a new county-wide initiative to develop community
      networks to promote healthy neighborhoods. The aims under this additional funding are:

        1. To determine pathways to reducing mental health and social disparities by conducting
           community-academic partnered analyses of CPIC data by 1) examining intervention effects
           for disparity subgroups (African Americans, Latinos, gender groups, insurance and
           housing status groups); 2) identifying predictors and mediators of barriers to
           access/services and client outcomes; 3) analyzing intervention effects on provider
           workforce diversity; and 4) generating explanatory models for intervention effects and
           their sustainability by interviewing CPIC administrators and providers, as well as prior
           and current clients.

        2. To explore the generalizability and replicability of the CPIC partnered model and, more
           broadly, to inform the process of incorporating science into policy by conducting a
           longitudinal case study of the CEP model implementation in a county-wide "neighborhood
           health" initiative in Los Angeles to reduce mental health and social disparities.

      As a result of this study, we will be able to explain how community-engaged and participatory
      models of intervention implementation can reduce health and social disparities and ultimately
      achieve public health impact. Study findings will be disseminated widely using traditional
      academic, community-valued, and policy-relevant dissemination channels.
    
  