
    
      Detailed Description:

      The aim of this study will be comparing efficacy of superficial cervical plexus block with
      cervical retro laminar block both combined with auriculotemporal nerve block in parotid
      surgeries.

      Technique of ultrasound guided auriculotemporal nerve block:

      The patient will be placed in a supine position with each side facing up. The
      temporomandibular joint will be identified after palpitation. A high frequency linear
      ultrasound transducer (7-12 megahertz) will be attached to ultrasound machine (SIEMENS ACUSON
      P300, Germany) will be placed between the tragus and temporomandibular joint. Color Doppler
      imaging will be used to identify the superficial temporal artery. The injection needle will
      be inserted anterior to the tragus posterior to the temporal artery (out-of-plane approach) 1
      to 1.5 cm till reaching the periosteum. The reason of out-of-plane approach is that the
      superficial temporal artery is in the needle entry of in-plane procedure during
      auriculo-temporal nerve block. Following negative aspiration local anesthetic will be
      injected in fractionated doses following intermittent aspiration.

      Technique of ultrasound guided superficial cervical plexus block:

      Standard precautions for the ultrasound guided nerve blocks performance will be done which
      include standard monitoring, the skin overlying the injection site will be free of signs of
      infection and after proper skin sterilization with an antiseptic solution and the probe
      surface in contact with the skin will be covered with a sterile adhesive dressing Patients
      will be in the supine position with the head turned slightly away from the side to be blocked
      to facilitate operator access. The anesthesiologist will be at the patient's side at the
      level of the shoulder. Posterior in-plane approach to the superficial cervical plexus block
      will be done. In this approach, a high-frequency linear transducer (7-12 Megahertz) will be
      attached to ultrasound machine (SIEMENS ACUSON P300), the transducer will be placed in a
      transverse orientation across the neck with the probe marker facing medial (toward the
      thyroid cartilage). A 22-gauge needle will then be inserted at the posterior border of the
      sternocleidomastoid muscle at the level of the cricoid cartilage and advanced underneath the
      muscle belly toward the carotid artery. The needle tip will be positioned to inject local
      anesthetic deep to the sternocleidomastoid muscle along its tapering posterolateral border
      but superficial to the prevertebral fascia. Deeper injection should be avoided because it can
      result in a deep cervical plexus block. As much as 10 ml of local anesthetic will be used for
      this block.

      Technique of ultrasound guided cervical retrolaminar block:

      The patients will be in the lateral position. Patient neck will be slightly flexed forward,
      the anesthesiologist will stand behind the patient. Firstly, landmark will be the
      identification of cervical vertebrae number 7 as it is the largest and most prominent spinous
      process by palpation in axial plane. Then the high-frequency linear transducer (7-12
      Megahertz) which attach to ultrasound machine (SIEMENS ACUSON P300), Ultrasound scanning will
      be performed while the probe in transverse position in the mid sagittal plane of cervical
      vertebrae number 7 spinous process. Then counting up the spinous processes till reaching the
      spinous process of cervical vertebrae number 4 and then the probe will be moved laterally 1
      cm to image the left or right muscles. Identification of the echogenic (bright, reflective)
      laminae will be seen, above it muscles will be imaged. The splenius capitis lies deep to the
      trapezius and is a broad, flat muscle. The semispinalis capitis will be easily recognized as
      a long, strap-like muscle divided into 2 sections by an aponeurotic intersection. The deep
      neck muscle group has a distinctive tear drop shape (semispinalis cervicis, multifidus, and
      rotatores).

      An in-plane approach by using a 22 gauge, 50 mm, echogenic needle. The needle will be
      introduced to reach the lamina. After negative aspiration the local anesthetic will be
      injected through the needle under real-time ultrasound visualization. The criteria for
      assessment of correct spread of the injectate will creating a plane/hypo-echoic.
    
  