
    
      This study is a 3-phase investigation designed to test two caloric restriction (CR) regimens
      for participant compliance and variability in metabolic and physiologic effects. Initially,
      and through phase 1 (1 week pre-phase, and 6 weeks phase 1), participants will maintain
      normal habits at home.

      Then for phase 2 (24 weeks), the 44 participants will be randomized to one of two diets (Diet
      HG or Diet LG), which they will consume at either 70% or 90% of baseline energy intake. The
      participants randomized to 90% CR (both diets) will form the control group. All food will be
      provided during this phase, and participants will be required to attend weekly group or
      individual meetings with the behavioral counselor and dietitian, and perform regular
      self-monitoring.

      During phase 3 (24 weeks), participants will prepare their own food at home according to
      their CR regimen and will eat to maintain the CR specified for phase 2. They will continue to
      attend the weekly meetings and to perform self-monitoring.

      Diet HG: a diet based on the USDA Food Guide Pyramid, but with additional emphasis on
      adequate fiber and low energy density foods, including use of whole grains rather than
      refined carbohydrates, limited liquid calories, high variety of low energy items such as
      fruits and vegetables and low variety of high-energy discretionary foods.

      Diet LG: a modification of the HG diet in which low energy density is maintained even though
      the percent of energy from fat and protein is increased (by increased use of high-protein
      foods and foods with high water content) and use of different carbohydrate sources and
      physically intact food items (whole grains, raw fruits and vegetables) to further lower
      glycemic load through reducing the glycemic index (GI). High fiber intakes, low energy
      density, limited use of liquid calories, high variety of low energy items such as fruits and
      vegetables and low variety of high-energy discretionary foods will be the same as for the HG
      diet.
    
  