
    
      The Investigators tested the hypothesis on a Phantom that contain bones and tissue that
      simulate human tissue. The above phantom is used in the oncology department for testing
      radiation protocols delivered to patients. Those preliminary testing showed that a lead
      rectangle decreased significantly the radiation scattered towards the operators and personnel
      in the catheterization laboratory. In all chosen places whether 40 or 100 cm from the
      radiation beam - The Investigators detected a significant reduction in scattered radiation.
      The significant reduction in these experiments is attributed to the location the
      Investigators choose but also to the size of the lead drape 100 X60 cm which give a large
      area of protection. From simple geometric calculations it's understandable that the zone or
      volume of radiation protection become much larger further away from the lead
      rectangle.Patients who are admitted for an elective PCI procedure ( or stable ACS patients)
      will be ask to participate in the study and sign an informed consent. All the procedure will
      be as standard of care, after cleaning the right or left arm, and the groin a sterile towel
      will cover the groin, on top of the sterile towel the lead rectangle (that by itself will be
      inserted to a sterile nylon bag) will be put over to cover the area from the umbilicus and
      down.

      (In case that the radial approach will fail and femoral approach will be needed, it is easy
      to remove the lead rectangle while keeping sterile field in the groin area). Few dosimeters
      will be used to assess radiation exposure, two underneath the lead apron, one on top, and two
      dosimeters for the operator (two detecting the radiation exposure in the neck area).

      The Investigators will approach patients in whom a long procedure time and higher radiation
      exposure are anticipated (like patients with chronic total occlusion, heavily calcified or
      tortuous coronary arteries). In those, the fluoroscopy time on average, is longer than usual.

      A total of 50 patients will be recruited (based on the Investigators preliminary radiation
      testing on the phantom and the results of Politi et al). In 25 patients a lead rectangle will
      be used on top of the regular protection (personal lead suit, leaded glass shield), in 25
      patients only regular protection for the operators.
    
  