
    
      Major intra-abdominal surgery represents one of the commonest groups of surgical procedures
      performed both worldwide and within Singapore. Common general surgical conditions requiring
      major intra-abdominal surgery include intestinal pathologies such as cancer, ischaemia,
      infection, haemorrhage and perforation.

      Major surgery within the abdominal cavity is associated with significant complications which
      may be life threatening with an associated hospital mortality rate of as high as 20% for
      emergency surgery. Importantly, the recovery from this type of major surgery often entails
      significant pain and discomfort for the patient during healing of the abdominal wound and
      internal organs from tissue trauma associated with these surgical procedures.

      Recent developments in major intra-abdominal surgery have demonstrated the importance of the
      early surgical recovery period where common postoperative complications including pain, chest
      infection, intestinal ileus and delerium are not only associated with prolonged hospital stay
      but are harbingers of poor long term surgical outcomes. Current recommendations for
      perioperative management of patients undergoing major intra-abdominal surgery stress the
      importance of high quality perioperative care to minimise these sequelae. Key features of
      these recommendations are to provide a pain free postoperative surgical recovery with minimal
      nausea and vomiting to facilitate early mobilisation and functional recovery from surgery.

      Patient controlled analgesia (PCA) with opioids is the first line analgesia therapy currently
      used in the immediate post-operative period following major abdominal surgery. PCA with
      opioids has some inherent disadvantages that include side-effects of opioids such as nausea,
      vomiting, prolonged ileus, dizziness, hallucination and respiratory depression with the need
      for supplementary oxygen. This is most pertinent in elderly patients who are more prone to
      these side-effects in addition to being more likely to have difficulties in understanding how
      to use the PCA and so are more vulnerable to inadequate pain control. Consequently, there may
      be a delay in resuming mobility and discharge from hospital.

      Continuous local wound infusion (CLoWI) with Ropivacaine that is delivered into the
      extraperitoneal plane via an ON-Q® (Halyard) infusion pump has been shown to be an effective
      analgesia post-operatively. The use of CLoWI negates the side-effects of opioids and
      furthermore, the small portable pump allows early ambulation with no requirement for
      supplementary oxygen. Previous published research has demonstrated the benefits of continuous
      local wound infusion with local anaesthesia in terms of postoperative analgesia and surgical
      recovery However, there are no randomized controlled trials comparing PCA versus continuous
      local wound infusion alone; this study will be the first randomised controlled trial to
      compare PCA (Morphine) with CLoWI-LA (Ropivacaine).

      The local anaesthetic drug to be used for the wound infiltration system is Ropivacaine. Its
      mechanism of action involves inhibiting sodium influx through sodium-specific ion channels in
      the peripheral nerve axonal cell membrane, in particular, the voltage gated sodium channels.
      When the influx of sodium is interrupted, an action potential cannot arise and the conduction
      of a pain signal is inhibited. The local anaesthetic will be administered via 2 catheters
      that will be placed under direct vision by the surgeon at the time of wound closure.

      Ropivacaine 0.5% will be infused at a rate of 4mls/hour (2mls/hour in each catheter) for a
      total of 4 days. It is currently in clinical use within our hospital as a routine method of
      providing postoperative analgesia following major abdominal surgery.
    
  