
    
      This is a multi-center retrospective matched cohort study of early and late stage CRC
      patients who received 5-FU doses determined using body surface area (BSA) and in patients who
      underwent pharmacokinetically (PK)-guided 5-FU dose monitoring and adjustment. A
      retrospective chart / electronic medical record review of colorectal cancer patients treated
      with infusional 5-FU regimens between May 1, 2009 and December 31, 2013, satisfying the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be performed. In this multi-center study, patients who
      underwent PK-testing during at least two different 5-FU administrations will be matched to
      patients who received doses based on their BSA, treated at the same institution. Matching for
      selection of the BSA cohort at each site will be done using the following criteria (based on
      factors that may influence 5-FU metabolism): age, gender, disease stage, prior chemotherapy
      treatment, and 5-FU containing treatment regimen being used. Each patient will be assigned a
      random five-digit Study ID number to protect patient confidentiality. Minimal medical
      history/demographics data will be collected from the patient's medical records / clinic chart
      using paper case report forms (CRFs). The data to be collected from each patient's records
      will include: patient demographics (i.e. gender, age, height, and race), colorectal cancer
      diagnosis (i.e. date of primary diagnosis, tumor stage, grade, histology and phenotype, and
      date of metastatic diagnosis and sites of metastases if applicable), use of prior therapies
      for treatment of CRC, 5-FU containing regimen details throughout the 5-FU treatment (i.e.
      weight, BSA, ECOG status, doses of each drug used in the regimen, and 5-FU infusion
      start/stop dates and times), 5-FU PK testing results (if applicable), concomitant procedures
      and medications, CBC and chemistry testing results, adverse events experienced during 5-FU
      therapy regimen, and tumor response and follow-up information. Patients will not be contacted
      for the purposes of this study and a waiver of HIPAA authorization will be requested from the
      appropriate IRB. Once data has been collected and monitored, all records tying the random
      Study ID number to a specific patient at the sites will be destroyed, rendering all
      information de-identified.
    
  