
    
      IC-Green Injections:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, a member of the study staff will
      give you between 6-16 injections of IC-Green through a needle in your hand, arm, and breast.
      The study doctor will discuss the number of injections that you will receive in more detail.
      The injections will be given after you are under anesthesia.

      These IC-Green injections will allow researchers to see the flow of the liquid through your
      body during imaging and locate the lymph nodes that will be removed during your standard of
      care surgery. After all of the IC-Green injections have been given, the imaging procedure
      will begin. Researchers will use an experimental camera that shines a special red light onto
      your skin causing the IC-Green to glow when the images are taken. The red light is like the
      red light in a grocery store scanner. The imaging procedure will take about 1 hour to
      complete.

      Before the IC-Green injections and during imaging, a member of the research staff will
      monitor and record your vital signs (blood pressure, breathing rate, heart rate, and
      temperature).

      After the IC-Green injections, a study staff member will closely monitor the injection site
      for possible side effects every 15 minutes during the first hour, and then every 30 minutes
      during the second hour. A study staff member will call you the next day and ask you to take
      your temperature. This phone call should last about 5 minutes.

      Follow-Up Evaluation:

      If you spend the night in the hospital after your surgery, a study staff member will visit
      you for a follow-up the day after surgery. At this visit, your temperature will be recorded
      and you will be asked how you are feeling and if you have had any side effects. The visit
      should last about 10 minutes.

      If you do not spend the night in the hospital after surgery, you will be contacted by phone
      the day after surgery. You will be asked the same questions described above, as well as what
      your temperature is. The phone call should last about 10 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      After all of the images have been taken, and the follow-up evaluation is complete, your
      participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. IC-Green is FDA approved and commercially available for
      mapping heart, liver, and eye function. The use of IC-Green for mapping the lymph nodes in
      breast cancer patients is investigational.

      The experimental camera, and the images taken with it, are being used for research purposes
      only and will not be used to manage your treatment.

      Up to 20 patients will be take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  