
    
      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial that will 1) assess the uptake of a CRC
      screening blood test among patients who have declined both colonoscopy and FIT in the
      previous 6 months, including diagnostic evaluation of positive results and 2) survey patients
      about their beliefs and attitudes regarding CRC screening and testing options. All
      participants will be primary care patients at the Manhattan VA Medical Center. Based on a
      recent internal audit, there were 1502 patients who had at least one primary care visit from
      August 2016 through August 2017 and were not up to date with CRC screening. Up-to-date CRC
      screening is defined as either 1) a colonoscopy within the past 10 years or 2) FIT within the
      past year. We will perform an updated CRC screening audit at the beginning of the study to
      obtain the entire pool of eligible patients who are not up to date with screening. Eligible
      patients will then be randomized 1:1 to either an intervention group or a control group. All
      patients will receive a letter noting that they are not up-to-date on screening and
      encouraging them to contact a study number if they choose to screen with colonoscopy or FIT.
      Patients who call will speak to a research assistant who is trained in patient navigation and
      can facilitate referrals for colonoscopy or FIT. Following the sequential testing approach,
      letters addressed to the intervention group will also include an option to participate in the
      blood test, with instructions to call the study number to schedule the blood draw. In
      addition to the letter, both groups will also receive a follow-up telephone call that
      reiterates information in the letter. The research assistant will make and receive all calls
      using a standard script. All patients will also be asked to complete a survey about their
      beliefs and attitudes regarding CRC screening. The survey will be mailed with the invitation
      letter and will also be administered over the telephone by the research assistant. The study
      team will notify patients and their primary care physicians of blood test results and will
      facilitate a colonoscopy referral for those with positive tests. Primary care physicians will
      not be asked to notify the patients or make the colonoscopy referral because most will not
      have adequate knowledge of the Septin9 test to provide appropriate patient education.

      Participants who are randomized to the blood test arm will undergo phlebotomy, which will be
      performed by the study research assistant. The blood sample will be temporarily stored
      on-site and then transported to an off-site commercial laboratory (Lenco Diagnostic
      Laboratory, Brooklyn, NY) to run the assay.

      Clinical outcomes for both the intervention and control group participants will be measured
      as a secondary outcome. This includes timing and result of a screening colonoscopy or FIT for
      individuals in the controls group as well as diagnostic colonoscopy for participants who had
      a positive blood test.
    
  