
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the tumor response in women with stage IV breast cancer who achieve
      partial remission after a mini-conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine and
      cyclophosphamide, followed by allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT),
      and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI). II. Determine the progression free survival in patients
      who achieve complete remission after this treatment regimen. III. Determine whether DLI
      exerts graft versus tumor effect in these patients. IV. Determine the acute and delayed
      toxicities of this regimen in these patients. V. Determine the rates of durable hematologic
      engraftment in patients treated with this regimen. VI. Determine the incidence and severity
      of acute and chronic graft versus host disease in patients treated with this regimen. VII.
      Determine the extent of chimerism in patients treated with this nonmyeloablative conditioning
      regimen. VIII. Determine the rate and quality of immune reconstitution in patients treated
      with this regimen. IX. Determine the event free and overall survival in patients treated with
      this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive salvage chemotherapy comprised of
      docetaxel IV over 1 hour and doxorubicin IV over several minutes on day 1. Treatment
      continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning within 4-10 weeks after completion of salvage chemotherapy, patients
      achieving complete or partial remission or stable disease receive mini-conditioning comprised
      of fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -8 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on
      days -3 and -2. Patients then receive filgrastim (G-CSF) and sargramostim (GM-CSF) mobilized
      allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) IV on day 0. Beginning on day 120 after PBSC
      transplantation, eligible patients receive unmobilized donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) over
      15-30 minutes. Treatment continues monthly for a total of 3 DLIs in the absence of grade III
      or IV graft versus host disease or marrow aplasia. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2
      years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  