
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are the most common serious bacterial infections in young
      children, with acute pyelonephritis or APN (i.e., kidney/upper urinary tract infections) and
      APN-associated renal scarring causing the most potential long-term damage to a child's
      health. Approximately two-thirds of young children with febrile UTI (UTIF or UTI presenting
      with fever) will have APN, making UTIF a major indicator of APN. Other than the presence of
      fever, it is currently difficult for physicians to determine which infant patients have or
      will develop APN and renal scarring. Individual risk factors for the host (e.g.,
      uncircumcised males, cytokine production) and the pathogen (e.g., presence of fimbriae for
      adhesion) have individually been linked to APN and renal scarring, but no single trait
      identified can be correlated with all cases. Multiple factors on both sides of the
      host-pathogen relationship likely interact to determine the severity of the illness and the
      outcome. Although the NIDDK/NIH is currently funding two clinical trials to investigate the
      rate of recurrent UTI and the rate of renal scarring in children (Randomized Intervention of
      Children with Vesicoureteral REflux, RIVUR; and Careful urinary Tract Infection Evaluation,
      CUTIE) neither of these studies will be able to identify the child's initial risk for having
      APN since patient recruitment will occur too long after treatment of the UTI. Also, neither
      study proposes as a specific goal to obtain bacteriological samples with which to study the
      microbe's role in the pathogenesis of APN. Thus, to the best of our knowledge, no
      comprehensive study exists that aims to analyze the relationships between the clinical
      manifestations of UTIs, the host risk factors and immune response, and the microbial species
      that cause these conditions. Our proposed collaborative study between Children's National
      Medical Center (CNMC) and the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI) will collect clinical data as
      well as urine and blood samples from six distinct infant patient populations presenting with
      UTIF and correlate the clinical, host, and pathogen data for each patient with the severity
      of the disease and development of APN and renal scarring. Metagenomic and genomic sequencing
      on the urine and isolated bacteria, respectively, will allow us to comprehensively study both
      the culturable and unculturable pathogens responsible for the UTI. Using a genome-wide
      association study (GWAS) we will evaluate the polymorphisms of all known UTI-associated host
      genes, paying particular attention to the immune system host genes previously identified as
      potentially linked to APN. To correlate all collected data a publicly available database and
      website will be created to allow physicians and scientists to traverse the data. Using the
      data collected in the database, the final result of the study will be a clinical severity
      score to personalize diagnostic and treatment strategies for infants with UTIF, with the goal
      of decreasing the morbidity of APN and improving patient outcomes. An improved understanding
      of the microbial risk factors associated with APN and renal scarring will allow for better
      diagnostic approaches and improved methods for treating patients, inclusive of novel
      medications in at risk individuals.
    
  