
    
      Alcohol misuse continues to pose a major burden for public health. Screening and brief
      intervention for alcohol misuse in primary care settings has been recommended for decades,
      and the evidence base supporting it in primary care is robust. However, many primary care
      providers do not intervene in alcohol misuse, and those that do often fail to do so
      systematically or in accordance with best-evidence standards. Computerization of screening
      and brief intervention for alcohol misuse holds the promise of alleviating many of the
      barriers that have prevented its adoption into routine care, and also offers new
      opportunities for optimizing the effectiveness of brief interventions. This Phase 2 Small
      Business Technology Transfer (STTR) project follows up on Research Circle Associates' (RCA)
      successful proof-of-concept work done under Phase 1, which led to the development of a
      versatile software platform (Interventionaire©) to support computerized alcohol misuse
      screening and brief intervention using evidence based strategies including motivational
      interviewing and normative feedback. The investigators' computerized alcohol misuse
      intervention includes a normative feedback component that is unique in its micro-targeting of
      alcohol use feedback based on participant demographic characteristics (race/ethnicity,
      gender, and age), drawing population normative data from the National Surveys on Drug Use and
      Health. This represents a novel use of epidemiological data to inform clinical services. The
      Phase 2 project is designed to answer a number of important research questions and prepare
      the product for successful commercialization. Specifically, during Phase 2 the investigators
      intend to implement several refinements into the Interventionaire© platform that will
      increase its usability and streamline the creation of complex content with tailored feedback.
      The investigators will also upgrade the software to make it compatible with a major
      electronic health record system used by the investigators' clinical partner site. This will
      increase the reach of the product and ensure maximum readiness for deployment into the modern
      healthcare marketplace, a dynamic and rapidly evolving industry. The investigators will also
      conduct a study at the investigators' clinical partner site using qualitative key informant,
      focus group, and survey methodologies to investigate barriers to adopting computerized
      alcohol screening and brief intervention systems. A critical question is whether the
      computerized alcohol misuse intervention is effective in changing drinking behavior. To
      answer this question, the investigators will conduct a cross-over randomized controlled trial
      examining the short-term impact of the computerized alcohol misuse intervention with
      micro-targeted normative feedback and motivational messaging compared to an
      "attention-control" (placebo) generic health promotion message. This trial will help to
      establish the short-term efficacy of the intervention and set the stage for larger trials and
      adoption of the product in healthcare settings. Finally, the investigators will conduct a
      projection analysis of the economic and health impacts of the intervention under a variety of
      assumptions regarding intervention effect size, target population, and product penetration.
      Satisfying these Phase 2 objectives will leave RCA well-poised to deploy the product
      commercially, which will leverage the power of the market to improve clinical service
      delivery and promote public health.
    
  