
    
      Oral corticosteroids (CS) are the treatment of choice for moderate flares of ulcerative
      colitis (UC) in patients who are on 5-aminosalicylic acid (5ASA) maintenance therapy.
      However, the efficacy of oral CS is limited, with up to 50% of remission rate in the
      available randomized controlled trials (RCTs). By the other hand, uncompleted disease
      remission after CS use, that is, clinical but not endoscopic remission, has been associated
      with a higher risk of hospitalizations and need for immunomodulator or colectomy in UC.
      Uncontrolled data suggests that intravenous CS (IV CS) may increase the remission rate and
      also reduce the proportion of patients developing steroid-dependency after the index course
      of CS.

      The hypothesis of this study is that the addition of a 3-day high-dose IV CS pulses schedule
      administered in the outpatient infusion unit, added to a conventional oral CS course
      increases the endoscopic remission rate and reduces the 1-year proportion of patients
      developing steroid-dependency.

      This is a randomized, phase IV, open-label, multicenter, controlled study.

      The planned number of patients to be included is 148, distributed in two treatment arms (with
      or without initial high-dose CS pulse), and stratified regarding disease onset and mesalazine
      use.

      The main end-point will be the proportion of patients with steroid-free, clinical and
      endoscopic remission at 8 and 54 weeks, with no rescue therapies.

      The demonstration of a higher efficacy of the proposed treatment schedule would impact on a
      lower requirement for conventional immunosuppressive therapy (thiopurines) and biological
      agents, reduced hospitalizations and surgery. Moreover, this treatment regimen allows an
      outpatient management of moderate flares.

      Baseline characteristics will be analyzed by descriptive statistical analysis by conventional
      methods. Categorical variables will be compared using Mann-Whitney test and continuous
      variables by Student T test.

      In order to evaluate the primary endpoint a Chi square test will be performed to compare the
      proportions of patients in both study groups that achieved clinical and endoscopic
      steroid-free remission at 8 weeks and is maintained without steroids or salvage therapy and
      with no rescue therapy up to 54 weeks.

      Per protocol (PP) and intention-to-treat (IT) analysis will be made The Per Protocol analysis
      will include all participants who did adequately adhere to the protocol, in particular those
      who did received the total amount of the intervention.

      Missing outcomes data will be treated as non-response imputation (NRI). The intention-to
      treat-analysis will only include all randomized patients in the analysis, all retained in the
      group to which they were allocated, except those patients with missing outcomes that did not
      completed treatment regimen due to SAE criteria or treatment failure.

      In order to evaluate the secondary endpoints a Chi square test and a Student T test will be
      performed for both study groups.

      Cumulative probabilities of relapse, steroid dependency and surgery will be evaluated in both
      groups by Kaplan-Meiery, and compared by using log-rank test.

      Finally, association analysis of early clinical response, clinical and endoscopic remission
      at week 8 and week 8 and 54 will be performed by chi-square test and Student T test; those
      variables that reach a Pvalue ≤ 0.1 will be included in the logistic regression analysis.
    
  