
    
      Apparatus:

      Activity Monitors: The ActiGraph GT3X+ monitor (ActiGraph, Pensacola, FL) has been shown to
      be reliable and to have good validity under both laboratory and free living conditions. It is
      one of the most widely respected monitors used for measuring physical activity and sedentary
      behaviour and is currently being used in an intervention trial with patients with LSS . The
      GT3X+ monitor includes a triaxial accelerometer, an inclinometer and light sensor. It is
      capable of measuring activity counts, steps, position relative to gravity and can
      discriminate between day and night. This accelerometer based sensor system does not impede
      normal movement and can be worn throughout the day on the waistband, in virtually all
      environments, except in water. The wGT3X+ activity monitor has the capacity to collect data
      at up to 100Hz.

      Procedure:

      Each participant will be given an ActiGraph wGT3X+ activity monitor with instructions to wear
      the monitor during waking hours over 7 consecutive days except when bathing, showering or
      swimming. Each ActiGraph monitor will be fastened to a belt over the anterior axillary line
      at the right hip as per the manufacturer's recommendations and initialized to collect data in
      1s epochs. They will also be asked to complete log sheets recording the time they put the
      monitor on and take it off each day. Participants will complete 2 separate 7-day bouts, six
      weeks apart.

      For the surgical group the ActiGraph will be used in the week leading up to their surgical
      intervention. The follow-up will occur 6-weeks post surgery. For the no intervention group
      the ActiGraph will be used in the week immediately after it is determined they are a surgical
      candidate, and the follow-up will occur 6-weeks later while they are on the surgical
      waitlist.

      Pre-Surgery test:

      They will receive the device at a pre-surgical assessment when they will complete their
      baseline questionnaires, and they will return the device upon their presentation for
      scheduled surgery.

      Post-Surgery test:

      When the patient presents for their 6-week post surgical follow-up they will again receive
      the device, complete questionnaire forms, and be given the device with a postage-paid Express
      Post envelope to return the monitor to the researchers once they are done with it. Upon
      arrival of the device, the participant compensation will be issued.

      Pre-No Intervention test:

      Immediately following the assessment visit when it is determined that the patient is a
      surgical candidate they will receive the device and complete their baseline questionnaires.
      In addition, patients will be given a postage-paid Express Post envelope to return the
      monitor to the researchers once they are done with the it.

      Post-No Intervention test:

      Six weeks later, the patient will be asked to report to the laboratory where they will again
      receive the device, complete questionnaire forms, and be given the device with a postage-paid
      Express Post envelope to return the monitor to the researchers once they are done with it.
      Upon arrival of the device, the participant compensation will be issued.

      Statistical Analysis:

      To identify possible explanatory variables, multiple regression will be used to determine
      relationships between physical activity and sedentary behaviour data (e.g., number of minutes
      of sedentary, light, moderate physical activity/day, maximum number of consecutive minutes at
      or above 100 activity counts/ min, maximum sedentary bout length) with demographic factors
      such as age, duration of diagnosis, body mass index, pain ratings.

      Separate paired student's t-tests will be used to compare participants to themselves in terms
      baseline and follow-up questionnaire scores. Separate unpaired student's t-tests will compare
      questionnaire based outcome measure scores between groups pre and post intervention. Repeated
      measures analysis of variance will be used to compare pre- and post-intervention measurements
      of physical activity and sedentary behaviour within and between groups. Specifically, for all
      ActiGraph recorded measures separate 2 Group (Surgery, NI) x 2 Time (pre, post) analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) designs will be employed. Post-hoc analysis will be performed on effects
      involving more than two means, as needed, using Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference
      (HSD).

      To compare the agreement between the self-report measures and the direct activity monitor
      data, intra-class correlation (ICC) two-way mixed models will be used.

      Adverse Events/Serious Adverse Events:

      While this study includes clinical intervention the outcome measures of interest pre- and
      post-surgery would not be predicted to yield any adverse events. The surgical procedures used
      are not considered part of the experimental design. The clinical intervention in this study
      is the routine surgical procedures taken for patients requiring surgery for degenerative
      lumbar spinal stenosis. If the patients were not enrolled in the study they would be under
      equal risk for adverse events as a result of the clinical intervention.

      Planned Dissemination:

      The results of this study will be prepared for dissemination first at relevant clinical and
      scientific conferences. Subsequently, this work will be submitted to a peer-reviewed journal
      for consideration of publication.

      Additional Ethical Aspects of Protocol:

      Potential Benefits to Participants and Others:

      The potential benefits of participation to participants include receiving $10 parking
      reimbursement, on two occasions, and an online gift card for $40 from a grocery store. There
      are no other direct benefits for participating in this study.

      Indirect benefits include knowledge that they have contributed to the advancement of
      scientific understanding the relationship of physical activity pre and post-surgical
      intervention.

      There are no direct benefits to others. Indirect benefits include those to the scientific
      community through the planned dissemination of the work. The results of this study will be
      prepared for dissemination first at relevant clinical and scientific conferences.
      Subsequently, this work will be submitted to a peer reviewed journal for consideration of
      publication.

      Potential harms to Participants and Others:

      There is no anticipated potential harm for participants in regard to outcome measure
      completion. In regard to surgical intervention the risks and potential harms are equal to
      those of the patient having surgery outside the research study. All patients recruited for
      this study would otherwise receive the surgery even if not enrolled in the study.

      To protect participant privacy all data collected will be coded and put into database format.
      All data will be de-identified and kept on a single study computer at each site which is
      password protected and located in a locked office. As such, access to study subject
      information/data will be highly safeguarded and can only be accessed by Dr. Passmore. Any
      paper forms and questionnaires will be kept in a locked cabinet in a locked room. Identifying
      information that will be collected is the subject's name, contact information and date of
      birth.
    
  