
    
      Study Specific Procedures:

        -  Study specific imaging will include endoscopic evaluation of the esophagus one day
           before surgery at the time of the pre-op Transesophageal Echocardiography (TEE) and
           again 1-day post-op. This will include endoscopic esophageal intubation with visual
           assessment of the entire esophagus and grading of lesions. Coupled with this procedure
           will include endoscopic ultrasound assessment of the esophagus at the level of the left
           atrium with specific attention to the sub-mucosal layer that separates esophagus from
           the cardiac tissue. The patient will undergo moderate sedation during this procedure,
           which will accompany the TEE.

        -  The Esophageal Cooling Device (ECD) will be placed by trained study staff following
           endotracheal intubation. Proper positioning will be verified. A temperature probe will
           be placed to verify the patients core temperature. The target temperature will be set to
           the core temperature at the beginning of the procedure. Two minutes prior to ablation on
           the posterior wall the target temperature will be changed to the minimum temperature
           setting which will allow for maximal cooling. Cooling will take place throughout the
           duration of posterior wall ablation. After ablation in this territory is complete the
           target temperature will return to the patients core temperature. The device will be
           removed at the completion of the procedure by anesthesiology when there is no further
           need for an orogastric tube.

        -  LET monitoring will not be performed in the patients of the intervention group as the
           ECD is prohibitive. Therefore, ice lavage of the esophagus, as detailed below, will not
           be performed in this group.

      Standard Care Procedures:

        -  Medical History will be obtained by interview and will involve identification of
           contraindications to the use of the ECD. This includes a history of esophageal
           perforation or varices. An allergy to silicone will be assessed.

        -  The patient's active medication list will be reviewed as is standard protocol for atrial
           fibrillation ablation, but this is not specific to the study as there are no medications
           that would impact the use of the ECD.

        -  All subjects will be on Protonix (40mg; twice daily) immediately following surgery for
           30 days and anticoagulation for 3 months following surgery.

        -  The physical exam will be performed. Study specific exam is included as part of the
           airway assessment which is performed on a regular basis by anesthesiology. The
           oropharynx will be assessed prior to placement of the ECD.

        -  Radiofrequency ablation involving the posterior aspect of the left atrium will be
           performed with standard LET monitoring which may include intermittent boluses of iced
           lavaged saline through the nasogastric tube when the temperature rises above 1 degree
           centigrade. Termination of atrial fibrillation with provocation testing will be
           completed and further atrial tachyarrhythmia ablation will be carried out as indicated.

        -  The patient will follow-up in the office based on standard procedure with 10 day and 3
           month follow-up to be scheduled.
    
  