
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective radiographic response rate associated with RO4929097 in
      patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have progressed following at least two prior
      treatments in the metastatic setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) associated with
      this agent.

      II. To determine the safety and tolerability of RO4929097 in this patient population.

      III. To assess whether response correlates with up regulation of the Notch pathway, to be
      determined through immunohistochemical analysis of Notch1, ICN and HES1 on available
      paraffin-embedded tissue samples (exploratory aim).

      OUTLINE:

      Participants will take 20 mg of RO4929097 by mouth at home in the morning for 3 days and then
      not take it for 4 days, continuously. The tablet is to be taken at approximately the same
      time the days they take it on an empty stomach, 1 hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal.
      Participants will be asked to keep a "pill diary" recording each dose of study drug
      (including missed, skipped, or vomited doses) and return the diary to the study staff each
      visit. Participants will be informed that tablets should not be broken or opened; that they
      should avoid eating grapefruits or drinking grapefruit juice while on the study; that if they
      miss a dose of study drug, they should not try to make up that dose; that instead, they
      should wait until their next scheduled dose. Participants will see their study doctor and
      undergo standard blood work (approximately 12 mL) every 4 weeks. During these visits,
      participants will be asked about side effects of the RO4929097 and undergo a physical
      examination. Participants will continue taking the RO4929097 as long as they are tolerating
      it and as long as the cancer is shrinking or remains stable.
    
  