
    
      Low-income racial/ethnic-minority women have greater challenges with breastfeeding uptake and
      duration than the general population, resulting in an average breastfeeding duration of four
      months. This duration is substantially shorter than evidence-based recommendations by the
      American Academy of Pediatrics to exclusively breastfeed for six months in addition to
      continued breastfeeding through the first year. Insufficient duration of any breastfeeding is
      related to multiple maternal and child health problems and increases in breastfeeding
      duration could be cost saving medically and societally.

      Even though breastfeeding counseling and peer support have been effective in prolonging
      breastfeeding duration in the general maternal population, the effect has not been as strong
      for WIC-eligible (Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children
      (WIC)), low-income mothers. Examining novel adjunctive intervention components that could
      enhance standard WIC counseling and support is warranted. We tested an incentive-based
      intervention among low-income Puerto Rican mothers in a pilot study. Results suggested strong
      potential for efficacy of monthly financial incentives contingent on observed breastfeeding
      for 6 months combined with WIC usual care, compared to WIC usual care only.

      The current, full-scale randomized trial will test the efficacy and generalizability of the
      6-month incentive-based approach to increase breastfeeding duration in WIC-eligible mothers
      through 12 months. The aims of the study are guided by the mission of NICHD's Pregnancy and
      Perinatology Branch to improve the long-term maternal and infant health of low-income
      populations via encouraging breastfeeding in the translational research context.

      This study is a 2-group, multi-site, parallel randomized controlled trial. The study will be
      conducted in two regional sites with high concentrations of low-income racial/ethnic minority
      mothers, Philadelphia, PA and Newark, DE. Participants (n=168) include WIC-eligible mothers
      who will be allocated into one of the two study groups: (1) A Standard Care Control (SC)
      group consisting of breastfeeding support through WIC, with home-based individual support, or
      (2) Standard Care plus Incentives contingent on demonstrating successful breastfeeding
      (SC+BFI).

      Participants randomized into SC will receive standard breastfeeding services from WIC plus
      monthly home visits that facilitate navigation to as-needed resources and referrals to
      services that support breastfeeding and problem solving. Participants randomized into SC+BFI
      will receive the same WIC services and monthly home visits as the SC group, with addition of
      financial incentives following each home visit that are contingent on observed breastfeeding.
    
  