
    
      This is a Prospective Observational Study. All new patients in chronic pain OPD are been
      administered BPI questionnaire as a standard of practice in our institute, in the language
      best understood by them e.g. English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali. The participants will be asked
      to complete it once during their first visit to the pain clinic, before the start of
      treatment or ongoing treatment for pain (Baseline) and then during subsequent visits (Follow
      up). Most chronic pain patients are advised to follow-up by one to two weeks. Patients who
      are willing to participate in the study will be included after obtaining an informed consent.
      Data will be collected from BPI, Chronic Pain Record form and EMR and will be analyzed.
      Demographic data, diagnosis, pain data sheet, drug treatment as well as other form of
      therapies will be recorded. There will be no direct communication with the patient and data
      of quality of life will be retrieved from pain clinic records.

      The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) long form and short form questionnaire is a validated
      multidimensional pain assessment tool developed by Cleeland and Ryan. It is one of the most
      commonly used measures for assessing both pain severity and interference with functions in
      adults with cancer, thereby satisfying two recommendations (assessment of pain to include
      both intensity and interference) set by the Initiative on Methods, Measurements, and Pain
      Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT) group. It is brief, self administered, easily
      understood and can be administered to large numbers of patients,.

      It contains three questions regarding pain intensity and seven regarding pain interference
      that are rated on an ordinal numerical scale with anchors of 0 (no pain/interference) to 10
      (maximum pain/interference). Pain intensity is measured according to the worst pain
      experienced in the last three days, average pain in the last three days, and current pain.
      Pain interference assesses how that pain has affected general activity, mood, walking
      ability, normal work, relations with others, sleep, and enjoyment of life. The sum of the
      scores of the pain intensity items represents the summed pain intensity score and the sum of
      the scores on the pain interference items represents the summed interference score. In
      addition, the patient enters his pain localization on a body drawing and can give details of
      his current medication.
    
  