
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the overall objective response rate (complete response and partial response) in
      patients with inoperable stage III or IV melanoma harboring somatic alterations in c-KIT
      treated with imatinib mesylate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this drug. II. Determine if
      c-KIT mutational status by DNA sequencing, DNA copy number status by fluorescent in situ
      hybridization (FISH) or comparative genomic hybridization, and/or protein expression by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) can best predict clinical benefit from imatinib mesylate.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate tumors resistant to small molecule inhibitors of Kit for the development of
      secondary Kit mutations or for changes in Kit copy number.

      II. To evaluate for changes in Ki-67, phospho-Akt, phospho-MEK, phospho-S6, phospho STAT3,
      cleaved caspase 3, IGF-1R, and Kit expression in paired tumor samples obtained from patients
      treated with a small molecule inhibitor of Kit.

      III. To analyze baseline and post-resistance blood samples for soluble cKIT levels, soluble
      VEGFR1, soluble VEGFR2, VEGF, PlGF, FGF, and melanoma inhibitory activity (MIA) levels, and
      circulating tumor cells.

      IV. To analyze concomitant samples of blood and tumor for imatinib levels in patients treated
      with imatinib.

      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study. Patients are stratified according to true
      amplification of c-KIT by FISH vs mutations by DNA sequencing.

      Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily for up to 12 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Tumor tissue samples or unstained tissue slides/paraffin blocks may be collected. c-KIT is
      evaluated by IHC and comparative genomic hybridization.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  