
    
      LINDA-Brasil is a multicenter randomized clinical trial to test the effectiveness of a
      lifestyle intervention program tailored to women with a recent diagnosis of GDM to be
      implemented within two-year after pregnancy with the goal of preventing type 2 diabetes. It
      is based on a cohort study of women recruited during pregnancy. At first contact, the study
      protocol is explained, and it is made clear that not all women enrolled in the cohort will be
      eligible to participate in the post partum clinical trial. During pregnancy and the immediate
      post-partum period, women are monitored monthly by telephone to maintain contact. From six
      weeks to two years after delivery, high risk status is determined and women at high risk are
      contacted to evaluate their eligibility for the trial. Those potentially eligible are then
      invited to the research center for an examination prior to randomization. Once eligibility is
      confirmed, women return to the clinical research center at which point key aspects of the
      clinical trial protocol are reviewed and remaining questions clarified. Those willing to
      participate provide specific informed consent and are then allocated to one of the two
      comparison groups. The randomization scheme is 1:1 by trial arm, stratified by center and has
      random blocks. Based on results of key previous clinical trials on diabetes prevention, LINDA
      has tailored its intervention to meet the particular needs of women with previous GDM during
      their post partum. Building from social cognitive theory, interventions are
      participant-centered, allowing adaptation to each women´s setting, within the limits of a
      standardized prevention program with defined goals and structure. Communication strategies
      are based on motivational interviewing and health coaching approaches that can be implemented
      in the primary care setting. Follow-up is planned to continue until all women have completed
      at least 18 months of participation and the average length of follow up for the whole sample
      is at least three years. Outcomes are assessed at baseline, at 6 months and then annually.
      Women who develop diabetes will be notified and oriented to seek medical treatment.
    
  