
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide, and stable coronary
      artery disease (SCAD) accounts for the greatest proportion of cardiovascular disease. In the
      past decades, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has become one of the most common
      treatments for SCAD, and therefore assessing the hemodynamic significance of coronary
      stenosis is important for physicians to make the optimal treating strategy. Coronary CT
      angiography (CTA) or invasive coronary angiography (CAG) is usually performed to evaluate the
      severity of coronary stenosis depending on the probability of CAD. However, the stenosis
      severity is not closely corresponding with the hemodynamic significance in coronary arteries.

      As a result, fractional flow reserve (FFR) with pressure wire measurement was introduced to
      functionally assess the coronary stenosis. FFR is defined as the ratio of maximum blood flow
      distal to a stenotic lesion under hyperemia state to normal maximum flow in the same vessel.
      The cutoff value of FFR to detect significant ischemia is set to be 0.80, indicating that PCI
      should be considered if FFR≤0.80. FAME (Fractional Flow Reserve versus Angiography for
      Multivessel Evaluation) study confirmed that FFR guided PCI was superior to angiography
      guided PCI in reducing major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in patients with
      multivessel disease. In the subsequent FAME 2 study, FFR guided PCI plus the optimal medical
      treatment (OMT), as compared with the OMT alone, decreased the composite event rates mainly
      driven by urgent revascularization in SCAD patients. However, FFR does have some limitations,
      such as risks of pressure wire injury, extra time and cost, and side effects of hyperemic
      agents.

      To overcome the limitations of FFR, CTA- and CAG-based methods to functionally assess
      coronary stenosis were proposed, i.e. FFR derived from CTA (FFRCT) and FFR derived from
      angiography-based quantitative flow ratio (QFR), which can simultaneously evaluate anatomic
      and hemodynamic significance of stenotic lesions. A number of studies have demonstrated that
      FFRCT has high sensitivity and specificity in identifying myocardial ischemia. However, the
      diagnostic accuracy of FFRCT depends on the image quality of coronary CTA, and it is
      relatively low in lesions with severe calcification and/or tortuosity. Besides, the
      methodology of FFRCT relies on computational fluid dynamics, which is complicated and time
      consuming. As for QFR, it is a novel method for deriving FFR based on 3-dimensional
      quantitative coronary angiography (3D-QCA) and contrast frame counting during CAG. Recent
      studies have shown that QFR has good diagnostic performance in evaluating the functional
      significance of coronary stenosis. The accuracy of QFR is also highly associated with
      anatomic information, thereby its diagnostic accuracy may be decreased in diffuse, tandem,
      thrombus-containing, calcified, or torturous lesions, and it is not suitable for prior
      infarction-related or collateral donor arteries as well. Given the above issues concerning
      FFRCT and QFR, we proposed a novel approach that integrates coronary CTA and CAG images to
      calculate FFR (FFRCT-angio) using artificial intelligence. The present study was undertaken
      to test the diagnostic accuracy of FFRCT-angio in patients with SCAD.
    
  