
    
      SWORD Health has developed a novel digital biofeedback system for home-based physical
      rehabilitation - SWORD Phoenix- which is an FDA-listed class I medical device. The company
      has previously conducted two pilot studies (NCT03047252; NCT03045549) comparing a digital
      rehabilitation program using this device against conventional face-to-face physical therapy.
      These studies have proven the feasibility, safety and effectiveness of this medical device on
      rehabilitation after total knee and hip arthroplasty.

      SWORD Health is now seeking additional validation of its digital programs on chronic MSK
      conditions, to assess the acceptance, engagement and outcomes of these clinical programs.
      This study will also unveil disease-specific human motion patterns that may be used to inform
      the development of new diagnostic and treatment tools.

      Data to be collected on every individual undergoing our programs includes:

        1. data that is sourced from the subject through online assessment forms

        2. data that is sourced from the subject, collected by the physical therapist managing that
           subject (i.e. suggestions for improvement);

        3. data that is generated by the physical therapist through interaction with the web-based
           Portal (i.e. session composition in terms of exercises, sets, repetitions, usage or not
           of external resistance)

        4. data generated by the patient through interaction with the mobile app (i.e. pain and
           fatigue levels, satisfaction)

        5. data that is generated automatically by the medical device (i.e. range of motion,
           compliance)

      Collection and objective analysis of the collected data will allow:

        1. Monitoring of user needs, engagement and satisfaction to guide further improvements;

        2. Analysis of the effectiveness of these digital care programs;

        3. Correlation of results with patient's demographic and clinical profiles;

        4. Compilation of patient cohorts to increase and disseminate knowledge on each disorder,
           its progression and response to physical therapy programs;

        5. Explore the cost-efficiency of these digital programs

        6. Development of novel intelligent tools to assist therapists with patient management.
    
  