
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate immunologic and virologic responses in an Analytical
      Treatment Interruption (ATI), in participants who received VRC01 or placebo and got HIV while
      enrolled in the HVTN 704/HPTN 085 Antibody-Mediated Prevention (AMP) Study (NCT02716675).

      ATI begins with the cessation of ART on Schedule 1 (Monitoring ATI). Participants on Schedule
      1 will attend study visits every week for the first 8 weeks and at least every 2 weeks for
      the next 16 weeks. After that, participants will attend study visits once a month for the
      next 6 months, if their body is controlling their HIV without ART. Participants on Schedule 1
      for more than a year will have visits every 3 months.

      For participants on Schedule 1 (Monitoring ATI), a confirmed VL ≥ 200 copies/mL will trigger
      transition to Schedule 2 (ATI monitoring with viremia). Participants on Schedule 2 will
      attend study visits every week for the first 8 weeks and at least every 2 weeks for the next
      28 weeks. After that, participants will attend study visits once a month for the next 4
      months, if their body is controlling their HIV without ART. Participants on Schedule 2 for
      more than a year will have visits every 3 months.

      For participants on Schedule 1 (Monitoring ATI), any of the following non-virologic criteria
      will trigger re-initiation of ART and transition to Schedule 3 (Follow-up on ART) : confirmed
      CD4+ T-cell count < 350 cells/mm3, any HIV-related syndrome, pregnancy or breastfeeding, or
      ART re-initiation requested by participant or if deemed medically necessary by primary HIV
      provider or clinical research site Investigator of Record. Participants on Schedule 3 will
      attend study visits every 2 weeks for the first 12 weeks, once a month for the next 16 weeks,
      and on 2 occasions 3 months apart for the next 24 weeks.

      For participants on Schedule 2 (ATI monitoring with viremia), the following virologic
      criteria will trigger re-initiation of ART and transition to Schedule 3 (Follow-up on ART):
      viral load remains ≥ 1,000 copies/mL for ≥ 4 consecutive weeks AND viral load has not dropped
      0.5 log from the previous week (Week 0 - Week 24), confirmed viral load ≥ 200 copies/mL
      (after Week 24). Or, the following non-virologic criteria will trigger re-initiation of ART
      and transition from Schedule 2 (ATI monitoring with viremia) to Schedule 3 (Follow-up on
      ART): confirmed CD4+ T-cell count < 350 cells/mm3, any HIV-related syndrome, pregnancy or
      breastfeeding, or ART re-initiation requested by participant or if deemed medically necessary
      by primary HIV provider or clinical research site Investigator of Record.

      Study duration is potentially indefinite for participants maintaining extreme and extended
      viral control during ATI. Study duration for most participants is expected to be 13-18
      months. The maximum anticipated duration for any participant is expected to be approximately
      2 1/2 to 3 years.

      Visits may include medical history review, physical exam, HIV testing, other STI testing
      (blood, urine, and rectal and oral swab collection), blood draws, pregnancy testing for
      participants assigned female sex at birth that can become pregnant, HIV transmission risk
      reduction counseling, and interviews/questionnaires.
    
  