
    
      Improving the identification and management of alcohol misuse is a VA priority. Alcohol
      misuse includes the spectrum of alcohol consumption ranging from hazardous drinking to
      alcohol use disorders (alcohol abuse and dependence). The VA recommends using a set of
      clinical strategies referred to as Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment
      (SBIRT) to identify and address alcohol misuse in primary care settings. Brief intervention
      (BI), a core component of SBIRT, significantly reduces alcohol consumption, morbidity, and
      healthcare utilization in hazardous drinkers, but its efficacy is not well-established
      outside of outpatient settings. In the hospital setting, nurses are well-positioned to
      deliver BI, but research is needed to determine the efficacy of inpatient nurse-delivered BI,
      particularly with hazardous drinkers. The few previous trials of BI in the inpatient setting
      demonstrated limited effects on alcohol consumption and alcohol-related problems, potentially
      due to assessment reactivity--extensive patient assessment that inadvertently raises patient
      awareness about drinking in both groups, mimicking the effect of BI and thus driving findings
      towards the null. Additionally, very few of these trials involved nurse delivery of the
      intervention and many included patients with alcohol use disorders, patients believed to be
      beyond the "therapeutic reach" of BI.

      The primary goal of this 3-arm randomized controlled trial is to examine the efficacy of
      nurse-delivered alcohol BI with hospitalized patients who are hazardous drinkers and to
      identify barriers and facilitators to implementation of BI in inpatient settings. Arm 1 (BI)
      consists of Veterans randomized to nurse-delivered BI, Arm 2 (AC) consists of Veterans
      randomized to an attention control, and Arm 3 (AC-LA) consists of Veterans randomized to an
      attention control with limited assessment of readiness to change and adverse consequences of
      alcohol use so as to reduce and evaluate assessment reactivity.

      Specific Aim 1 is to determine the impact of a nurse-led BI on the alcohol screening status,
      number of drinks/week, number of binge drinking episodes, readiness to change drinking
      behavior, and adverse consequences of alcohol use in hospitalized hazardous drinkers.
      Specific Aim 2 is to formatively evaluate the process of the intervention implementation to
      inform the design and execution of a future, multi-site randomized effectiveness trial of the
      intervention. A secondary aim is to identify factors, issues, and themes related to Veterans'
      interest and motivation for changing their alcohol consumption.

      We will recruit 320 hospitalized Veterans admitted to one of the three medical-surgical units
      at the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System. Veterans will be included who are >21 years old, able
      to speak English, and are hazardous, non-dependent drinkers, as defined by criteria
      established by the National Institute for Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and by the Composite
      International Diagnostic Interview Substance Abuse Module. Patients randomized to Arm 1 will
      receive a three-part nurse-delivered BI. Patients randomized to Arms 2 and 3 will receive
      usual care plus healthy lifestyle brochures addressing general healthy lifestyle behaviors,
      such as limited alcohol consumption, tobacco cessation, and weight management. For Specific
      Aim 1, we will use various multivariable linear and logistic regressions that account for
      continuous outcomes, dichotomous outcomes, and clustering within medical units. Poisson
      regressions or negative binomial regressions will be used if the continuous outcome measures
      are not normally distributed. For Specific Aim 2, we will use basic descriptive statistics in
      order to describe the numbers of deviations and interruptions to intervention delivery as
      planned. Based on interventionist field notes, we will categorize the types of
      deviations/interruptions. We will also use these descriptive statistics to describe duration
      of the audio-recorded intervention; the presence/absence of various techniques within the BI;
      the receipt/nonreceipt of additional alcohol feedback, advice, or counseling; and patient
      responsiveness to/perceptions of the BI. We will also code brief free-text perceptions
      responses using a modified grounded theory approach.
    
  