
    
      Research objectives are to compare the effectiveness of ototoxicity monitoring implemented
      using Comp-VA or usual care with regard to (1) improving Veterans' hearing and quality of
      life outcomes, (2) assisting oncologists in pre-treatment counseling and therapeutic planning
      and (3) increasing use of post-treatment rehabilitative services.

      The investigators plan to recruit a total of 320 Veterans undergoing cisplatin
      chemotherapeutic treatment over 4 years and 120 control subjects.

      Program Evaluation: Hearing testing prior to treatment will be done in order to establish
      eligibility, enroll and randomize each subject into one of two study arms. At 5 weeks and at
      one year post-randomization hearing will be re-tested in order to obtain an estimate of
      longitudinal trends in hearing and quality of life assessment. Use of audiological services
      following treatment from the randomized subjects will be tracked. Finally, data will also be
      collected at each treatment interval to track use of counseling tools and oncology personnel
      treatment decisions.

      Serial measurements from subjects receiving cisplatin prior to treatment who are randomized
      to:

      Comp-VA group will get a screening hearing test prior to treatment, at each treatment
      interval and at one-month post-treatment. Auditory testing will be done on or near the Chemo
      Unit and will include otoscopy, immittance testing, and a hearing testing done by the Veteran
      using a self-testing procedure, and may be tested using distortion product otoacoustic
      emissions (DPOAEs), if they cannot take a reliable hearing test.

      Usual care group will receive a full audiometric evaluation (otoscopy, immittance testing,
      air conduction and bone conduction hearing testing, speech audiometry, and distortion product
      otoacoustic emissions, DPOAEs) scheduled in the audiology clinic sound booth according to
      Audiology Service ototoxicity monitoring protocols. Testing will be arranged according to
      availability of appointments and patient convenience.

      Additionally data will also be collected from control subjects who are similar in age and are
      tested at intervals similar to the chemotherapy subjects.
    
  