
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform gene panel sequencing of patients with neuroendocrine tumors under care at Fox
      Chase Cancer Center for the purpose of identifying therapeutic targets and prognostic
      markers.

      II. To assess the feasibility of performing a clinical trial of molecularly matched therapy
      in patients with differing subtypes of neuroendocrine tumors (neuroendocrine tumors of the
      pancreas [PNETs], non-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors [NETs], and poorly differentiated
      NETs), based upon the proportion of patients with actionable mutations.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the proportion of patients whose therapy is altered based upon the results of
      molecular testing.

      II. To evaluate the percent of patients for which a local protocol offers a potential
      therapeutic option.

      III. To evaluate the number of patients who are treated based on therapy guided by molecular
      profiling.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the outcomes of patients treated with early therapy based on gene profiling
      with the outcomes of those treated via National Cancer National Comprehensive Cancer Network
      (NCCN) guideline recommended therapies (systemic therapy, liver directed therapy, hepatic
      resection) or expectant observation via measurement of progression free survival (PFS), via
      radiographic response rates, and via biochemical response rate.

      II. To evaluate the prognostic power of commonly (>= 10%) detected mutations. III. To
      evaluate the impact of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway alterations (mutations of
      phosphatase and tensin homolog gene [PTEN], phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase,
      catalytic subunit alpha [PIK3CA]) on efficacy of mTOR targeted therapeutics, as assessed by
      progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

      IV. To evaluate the impact of o-6-methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase
      (MGMT) status on the efficacy of an alkylating based chemotherapy regimen (Temodar,
      dacarbazine, streptozocin), as assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate
      (RR).

      V. To evaluate the impact of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) status on the efficacy of a
      fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy regimen (capecitabine, 5-fluorouracil), as assessed by
      progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

      VI. To evaluate the impact of excision repair cross-complementing 1 (ERCC-1) status on the
      efficacy of a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen (carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin), as
      assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

      OUTLINE:

      Previously collected tissue samples are analyzed via mutational sequencing and
      immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study, patients are followed for up every 3-6 months for 3 years.
    
  