
    
      All patients taking part in the study are first given a R.E.N.A.L. nephrometry score. Based
      on that score they are allocate to either of :

      cohort I (low complexity of the tumour) or cohort II (intermediate complexity of the tumour).

      Thereafter, the patient will be randomly placed into either to laparoscopic partial
      nephrectomy or robotic-assisted partial nephrectomy. Both these surgical techniques are well
      established and standardized procedures to remove a renal mass.

      Preoperatively, the preparation is nearly the same for both techniques. The patient is
      positioned in flank position with the affected side up.

      Thereafter:

      Pneumoperitoneum is achieved with a Veress needle and trocars which are placed under direct
      vision. The only difference between the two techniques is the number of trocars, performing
      the laparoscopic partial nephrectomy three or four ports are used, performing the
      robotic-assisted partial nephrectomy five ports are used.

      Intraabdominal, the kidney is exposed by incising along the Toldt line to moblize the colon.
      After exposing the ureter and the gonadal vein dissection is continued proximally toward the
      renal hilum. Following this, Gerota's fascia is incised to expose the tumour and the
      surrounding renal capsule. Now the renal artery has to be clamped to avoid bleeding followed
      by excision of the tumour. The surgery takes about three hours, the complication rate is more
      the same for both techniques.

      Primary endpoint is the resection margin to see if there are any difference between the two
      surgical techniques.

      Information about the resection margin and pathological staging will be given through our
      pathological department. The histological examination normally takes about five to seven
      days.

      Further parameters are taken by following schema:

      Information about age, sex, body mass index, other diseases and medication is documented on
      the day of inpatient admission.

      Blood samples for haemoglobin and kidney function are taken at the day of inpatient
      admission, four hours after surgery, first day after surgery and the day of discharge from
      hospital.

      The duration of surgery is documented throughout the operative protocol. R.E.N.A.L
      Nephrometry score is evaluated preoperative, to be able to compare the complexity of surgery.

      Renal ischemia is documented throughout the operative protocol. Blood loss is documented
      during surgery. Pain is documented with the aid of the visual analogue scale (VAS Scale).
      This will be evaluated four hours after surgery, day one after surgery, day two after surgery
      and on the day of discharge from hospital.

      Complications are documented with the aid of the clavien-dindo classification. Three
      follow-ups will be performed. The first follow-up will be held two weeks after surgery to
      discuss the histological result and examine haemoglobin, kidney function and pain. The second
      follow-up will be held six months after surgery, the third follow-up 12 months after surgery.
      At this time a re-examination again haemoglobin and kidney function will be performed as well
      as a computed tomography.
    
  