
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Despite great advances in atherothrombosis science, the complex
      interplay of factors leading to plaque progression remains elusive. Specifically, the
      dynamics leading a stable plaque towards rupture and over imposed thrombosis are largely
      speculative. Wall shear stress (WSS), the mechanical force elicited by blood flow on the
      vessel walls, is emerging as a potent trigger of bio-humoral processes eventually leading to
      endothelial damage, plaque progression and destabilization.

      Fractional flow reserve (FFR), assessing the aggregate hemodynamical significance of a
      stenosis on the subtended myocardium, stratifies the risk of major adverse cardiovascular
      events and reduces their occurrence when used to guide revascularization. While this event
      reduction is mainly driven by ischemia-caused urgent revascularization, it is emerging that
      FFR-guided revascularization may also reduce myocardial infarction.

      While the physiological relationship between a lesion's FFR and resulting ischemia in the
      subtended myocardium is intuitive, the mechanisms linking FFR to atherothrombosis are less
      clearly defined.

      Lesions with lower FFR are associated with adverse atherosclerotic plaque characteristics
      (APCs), however, the causative nexus of this relationship is not well established. It has
      been proposed both that the physiological base for this relation underlies in disturbed
      lesion hemodynamics, occurring at a greater extent as the degree of functional obstruction
      increases (i.e. FFR reduction drives APCs), and that APCs directly impair the vessel's
      vasodilatory reserve resulting in detrimental hyperemic perfusion (i.e. APCs drive FFR
      reduction).

      WSS measures the regional tangential hemodynamic forces produced by viscous blood flow on the
      endothelium, which is established drivers of plaque progression and transformation toward an
      adverse plaque phenotype. Intriguingly, WSS may thus represent the missing link between FFR
      and atherothrombosis.

      Few studies have focused on the interplay of FFR and WSS and the provided results are
      inconclusive (9, 10). This relation remains thus to be fully characterized.

      This study will investigate the association of aggregate with regional hemodynamic forces as
      defined by the lesion-level relation of FFR or instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) and
      regional WSS across the lesion.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a retrospective observational multi-center study, including consecutive
      patients who underwent coronary angiography at for symptom/ischemia-driven, suspected stable
      coronary artery disease or for acute coronary syndromes (ACS) with evidence of at least one
      lesion with 30-90% diameter-stenosis, that underwent subsequent iFR/FFR assessment.

      Coronary angiography of the screened patients will be retrospectively evaluated by an
      experienced Interventional cardiologist and, if deemed suitable for baseline angiographic
      reconstruction will be included in this registry.

      3-dimensional (3D) geometric reconstructions of each patient's target vessel will be created
      by using end-diastolic angiographic projections at least 25° apart. Computational fluid
      dynamics models will be applied to derive regional WSS values across the stenosis.

      Clinical baseline characteristics and angiographic features obtained by visual and functional
      assessment, and 3-D reconstruction and computation, along with major adverse cardiovascular
      events, will be collected in a dedicated electronic form.

      The analysts performing angiographic 3-D reconstruction and WSS computations will be blinded
      to FFR/iFR values and clinical data.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS This study will investigate the association of aggregate and regional
      hemodynamic forces as established by the lesion-level relation of FFR/iFR with regional WSS
      across the lesion.

      The association of regional WSS with major cardiovascular adverse events at available
      follow-up will be further evaluated to assess if lesion-level WSS might predict overall
      patient-level outcomes (in case of more than one lesion for a single patient, the lesion with
      the highest WSS will be considered for this analysis).
    
  