
    
      Therapies that have brought about sharp decreases in neonatal mortality have not brought
      about similar decreases in neurodevelopmental morbidity for preterm infants. Developmentally
      supportive care is NICU care that seeks to optimize the developmental course and outcomes for
      preterm infants. While other staff training programs for developmentally supportive care
      exist, it is the Newborn Developmental Care and Assessment Program (NIDCAP) that has been the
      methodology used in randomly controlled trials that demonstrate positive medical and
      neurobehavioral outcomes for preterm infants receiving developmentally supportive care. NICUs
      that care for all out-born or transported infants face unique challenges in balancing
      developmentally supportive nursing care with the high-technological medical needs of the most
      critically ill and extremely premature infants. Yet it is these most fragile infants who can
      most benefit from the positive impact the NIDCAP program can offer. Yet, there are no
      published studies documenting the impact of the NIDCAP program on neurobehavioral outcomes of
      these transported preterm infants exclusively.

      Objectives: The objective of this project is to study the impact of implementing the NIDCAP
      program of individualized patient consultation on the neurobehavioral organization of
      transported preterm infants in the NICU of a major pediatric medical center.

      Research Methods: A random sample of approximately 40 preterm infants will be recruited to
      participate in this descriptive study. In this phase-lag design, 20 infants will participate
      in the pre-NIDCAP intervention phase and 20 infants will participate in the post-NIDCAP
      intervention phase. Each infant within each phase will be videotaped during 2 routine
      nurse-caregiving sessions. The first session will occur within 72 hours of admission to the
      NICU at Children's Memorial Hospital (CMH). The second session will occur when the infant is
      34-36 weeks corrected gestational age. The videotapes will be collected so that observations
      of the infant's physical environment and caregiving and an assessment of the infant's
      behavioral function can be scored randomly at the end of the study by an outside consultant
      without bias as to what phase the infant participated. In addition, demographic data will be
      collected on the sample infants. Data will be subjected to descriptive statistics,
      inferential statistics and correlational procedures.
    
  