
    
      Background:

        -  The standard of care for metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) is systemic therapy resulting
           in median survival of 6-12 months and rare survivors of up to three years.

        -  For patients with limited MGC, retrospective studies have shown improved overall
           survival following gastrectomy and/or metastasectomy plus systemic therapy (e.g. median
           survival after liver resection for metastatic gastric cancer of 15-37 months, with a
           five year survival rate of 25%).

        -  This prospective randomized trial for patients with MGC and limited metastases is
           designed to compare two therapeutic approaches-gastrectomy with metastasectomy plus
           systemic therapy (GYMS) vs. systemic therapy alone (SA)-- and to evaluate outcome in
           light of selection criteria to define those patients who may benefit from the more
           aggressive approach.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      - To compare two therapeutic approaches--GYMS vs. SA--in terms of overall survival in
      patients with limited MGC.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To analyze selection criteria for patients who might benefit from the GYMS approach.

        -  To determine progression-free survival in both arms.

      Eligibility:

        -  MGC with limited metastatic disease thought to be resectable to no evidence of disease.

        -  18 years old or greater with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-2

        -  Laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable limits by standard of
           practice guidelines prior to surgery

      Design:

        -  Patients will be randomized to receive gastrectomy and metastasectomy followed by
           systemic chemotherapy (GYMS) or systemic chemotherapy (SA) alone and will be stratified
           based on sites of metastatic disease, previous therapy and disease free interval.

        -  Patients in both arms will receive the FOLFOXIRI regimen (5-FU, leucovorin, oxaliplatin
           and irinotecan)

        -  No cross over will be allowed.

        -  Survival analysis will be done in intention to treat fashion from time of randomization.

        -  Based on estimated 12 and 20 months overall survival for the SA and the GYMS arms
           respectively, 68 patients per arm (power=0.80, 0.05 two-tailed log-rank test) will be
           enrolled. Patients will be recruited over 6 years and followed for an additional 2 years
           from the date of entry of the last patient.
    
  