
    
      Multiple chronic conditions (MCC) among older adults are prevalent and costly. Almost 70% of
      Americans 65 years and older, most of whom are Medicare beneficiaries, have at least two
      chronic medical conditions and 14% have 6 or more chronic conditions, which lowers life
      expectancy and reduces quality of life (QOL). Over 90% of the Medicare spending is devoted to
      individuals with MCC. Despite these facts, health care and research are primarily focused on
      single diseases. Living with MCC is complex and burdensome. Individuals with MCC are burdened
      by the work required to manage their illnesses. This work includes processing complex and
      sometimes conflicting information about symptoms and treatments, integrating clinician
      recommendations into their daily lives, monitoring their disease and managing symptoms and
      medications, enlisting support from others, and coordinating and following-through with
      frequent clinician visits. Family members are intimately involved in supporting
      health-related behaviors of individuals with MCC. On average, patients with MCC and their
      family caregivers spend 2 hours a day on health-related activities plus an additional 2 hours
      for every visit to a health care facility (between travel time, wait time, and actual time
      receiving the health service). Medicare patients see, on average, 2 primary care clinicians
      and 5 specialists annually. Attending frequent clinician visits increases treatment burden
      for these patients, independent of the actual treatments received. This fragmented provision
      of health care for older adults with MCC and their family members requires a simplified,
      coordinated approach to care that reduces burden on patients and families.

      Patient priorities care (PPC) is an innovative solution to address the discrepancy between
      the care older adults with MCC receive and the outcomes they want. When faced with tradeoffs
      between desired QOL outcomes and health care options that can increase treatment burden,
      individuals vary in their health priorities. Patients' health priorities include both their
      health outcome goals and their health care preferences. Health outcome goals are the personal
      health and life outcomes that patients hope to achieve through their health care (i.e.,
      function, survival, social activities, or symptom relief). To inform clinical
      decision-making, health outcome goals should be specific, measurable, actionable, realistic,
      and time-bound (SMART) and aligned with what matters most to patients (patients' values). The
      overall goal is to evaluate effectiveness and implementation of PPC- an approach to clinical
      decision-making that is used by patients' existing clinical care team members, in North
      Carolina. The feasibility and efficacy of this approach has previously been demonstrated in a
      large primary care practice in Connecticut.

      The investigators will randomize 8 primary care practices to PPC-NC or usual care (UC). The
      investigators will match intervention and UC practices within the same geographic region on
      the number of Medicare/Medicare Advantage or dually eligible patients supportive and the
      number of full-time equivalent clinicians. The investigators will select practices for
      randomization that have strong leadership commitment and support and that serves at least 10%
      Medicare patients. Practices randomized to UC will not receive the PPC-NC intervention.

      The PPC process occurs during routine clinic visits and is implemented by staff and
      clinicians within practices. The PPC process begins when a 'facilitator' (i.e. a member of
      the health care team with motivational interviewing skills- e.g., a social worker) meets with
      the patient and helps patients identify their value-based priorities during a structured
      conversation . Values, which represent what matters most to individuals, tend to remain
      stable over time and form the basis of patients' health outcome goals. Patients' values are
      clarified using questions such as "What would make your life not worth living if you were
      unable to do it?" and "What would you like to be able to do that you cannot do now?" Based on
      these values, the facilitator helps patients identify their health outcome goals, which are
      the specific, measurable, actionable, and realistic, and time-bound health and life outcomes
      (e.g. walk ½ mile daily to visit grandchildren) that patients hope to achieve through their
      health care, given their care preferences. Care preferences refer to the health care
      activities (e.g., medications, self-management tasks, health care visits, testing, and
      procedures) that patients are or are not willing and able to do to achieve their health
      outcome goals. After the facilitator identifies' the patients' health care priorities, the
      clinician will work to align clinical decision-making around those priorities. This can be
      manifested by stopping, starting, or continuing therapies in response to knowing the
      patients' priorities. Patients' priorities will be communicated between care team members via
      the electronic health record (EHR).

      Facilitators and clinicians will be trained in the PPC approach with an initial training,
      followed by ongoing support from the research team, using quality improvement principles. The
      investigators will collect the following practice level data for both PPC-NC and UC
      practices: number of patients, number of encounters, number and type of clinicians, payer
      mix, and patient demographics of the practices (age, sex, race/ethnicity). The investigators
      will also collect: socio-demographic factors (age, sex, race/ethnicity, educational level,
      living arrangement, and marital status), subjective social status, health literacy, and
      cognitive impairment. A research assistant will collect all patient-reported survey data
      using the web-based application REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) three times over a
      one year period (baseline, 6 months later, and 12 months post baseline. The investigators
      will use mixed linear models to compare the primary and secondary patient-reported outcomes
      between PPC-NC and UC practices.
    
  