
    
      The primary objective of this study is to compare the effect of an investigational,
      non-adherent dressing to a commercial wound dressing, 3M™ Tegaderm™ Matrix Dressing with PHI™
      technology (Matrix dressing), in the management of diabetic foot ulcers. Subjects' wounds
      will be observed for a four week, pre-treatment period with wound assessments being made and
      samples of wound fluid and tissue collected and analyzed to characterize the wound. Following
      this pre-treatment observational stage, subjects continuing to meet inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be randomly assigned, with stratification by center, wound size and wound
      duration, in either of two groups in the eight week treatment stage of the study. Subjects in
      one group will have their wound managed with an investigational non-adherent dressing, and
      subjects in the other group will have their wound managed with a Matrix dressing. At Visit 4
      (start of the treatment stage of the study), subjects with a study wound that is less than 1
      cm2 at this point will be dropped from the study. A second investigational device will be
      used to measure the pH of the wound, which will be compared to wound healing data.

      Pre-treatment Stage Secondary Objectives

        1. To measure and compare changes in wound size and wound assessments with changes in wound
           biomarker levels, wound pH, microbial load, and changes in systemic levels of C-reactive
           protein and homocysteine.

        2. To measure and compare changes in wound biomarker levels, pH, and microbial load, and
           changes in systemic (blood) levels of C-reactive protein and homocysteine, looking for
           relationships.

      Treatment Stage Secondary Objectives

        1. To measure and compare the incidence of adverse events experienced by subjects in each
           of the 2 treatment groups.

        2. To measure and compare the wound characteristics of each treatment group.

        3. To measure and compare the subjects' quality of life of each treatment group.

        4. To measure and compare the cost effectiveness of each treatment group.

        5. To measure and compare changes in wound size with changes in wound biomarker levels, pH,
           and microbial load; and changes in systemic (blood) levels of C-reactive protein and
           homocysteine.

        6. To measure and compare changes in wound biomarker levels, pH, microbial load, and
           changes in systemic levels of C-reactive protein and homocysteine, looking for
           relationships within treatment groups and overall.

        7. To assess the ease of using these dressing

      Post-treatment Stage Secondary Objectives

      Subjects whose wounds heal prior to Visit 12 are expected to have a follow-up appointment
      12-14 weeks after their wound has healed. Subjects whose wounds do not heal by Visit 12 are
      expected to complete a follow-up appointment 12-14 weeks after their last appointment. The
      objectives of this are to determine the frequency of complete healing between the two
      treatment groups and to determine the number of wounds that had healed by the end of the
      treatment phase and remained healed for each group at the follow-up appointment.

      The objective is to measure and compare the percentage of wounds healed by Visit 12 (or
      before) that remained healed at the follow-up appointment by treatment group.
    
  