
    
      The intention of the present project is to evaluate the effectiveness of multi-factorial
      medical treatment of patients with hip fractures in a specially designed geriatric unit for
      elderly hip fracture patients (orthogeriatric unit) as compared to traditional care in an
      orthopedic unit.

      Every year 9000 patients undergo surgery for hip fractures in Norway. The epidemic of hip
      fractures is among the most common causes of acute hospitalization of older people and is
      associated with high morbidity, mortality, disability and subsequent hospital and social
      costs as well as reduction in quality of life.

      Traditionally hip fracture surgery is performed and followed by care in orthopedic
      departments. Additional rehabilitation within the hospital is sometimes provided by a
      geriatrician and a team of rehabilitation specialists, but there is a lot of variety in these
      rehabilitation programmes. Studies have shown improved outcomes when older people were cared
      for by a specialist multidisciplinary team. However, the results are not conclusive and more
      research is needed also in that field, as stated by a Cochrane review.

      It is well known that hip-fracture patients are frequently characterized by high age,
      co-morbidity and frailty, which may often be the main reason for falls and injuries as hip
      fractures. In a previous project performed by our group we showed that by treating acutely
      sick, frail elderly patients in a geriatric evaluation and management unit mortality was
      significantly reduced and patients' chances of living at home was improved. Later our
      research group has focused on assessment and treatment of older persons at risk of falling.
      Now we have started to focusing on the ultimate consequence of falling in frail elderly
      people: the hip fracture, through an observational study. The present study is partly also a
      consequence of this.

      The present project will primarily examine the effect of establishing a radical and new
      clinical pathway for patients with hip fracture starting immediately at admittance to
      hospital by randomizing patients to treatment in an orthogeriatric unit (intervention group)
      or to treatment in orthopedic wards (control group) in the emergency department. There will
      be no specific follow-up after discharge from hospital.

      Primary endpoints will evaluate possible effects on mobility as measured by Short Physical
      Performance Battery (SPPB). As secondary endpoints other relevant functional aspects, site of
      residence, health economic variables and mortality will be studied. This study will give
      increased scientific understanding of whether treatment in a specialized orthogeriatric unit
      can improve outcomes as mobility, the extensive numbers of nursing home admissions and high
      mortality after a hip fracture.
    
  