
    
      Digestive cancers account for 30% of all cancers. The most common of these colorectal cancer
      (CRC) is the third most common cause of cancer in the world.

      In the metastatic phase, patients with digestive cancers generally benefit from medical
      treatment based on cytotoxic chemotherapy, which can be combined with targeted therapy in
      certain locations. Their use is based on demonstrating a significant improvement in the
      overall survival of patients.

      However, the therapeutic choice and follow-up of these treatments as a the first line
      treatment and beyond remain difficult given a cruel lack of biomarkers capable of predicting
      the response to these different molecules upstream but also usable during treatment to
      evaluate their efficacy or identify the development of secondary resistance mechanisms.

      Indeed, the only biomarkers currently validated and used before the initiation of anti-cancer
      treatment to stratify patients are:

        -  the search for mutations in Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) and
           neuroblastoma rat sarcoma viral oncogene (NRAS) oncogenes as predictive factors for
           non-response to anti-Epidermal Growth Factor receptor (EGFR) in colorectal
           adenocarcinomas.

        -  the search for overexpression of the human epidermal growth factor (HER2) receptor to
           introduce trastuzumab treatment in esophageal adenocarcinomas.

      In addition, they are conventionally determined from tumor tissue, which requires an invasive
      biopsy or surgical sampling that is difficult to repeat over time.

      In this context, it seems essential to us to identify new parameters allowing a better
      personalization of anti-cancer treatments, by favouring blood biomarkers that have the
      advantage of being evaluated in a minimally invasive manner and therefore be repeated to be
      able to judge tumor dynamics.

      To this end, we propose the creation of a collection of samples that will be collected before
      and then under treatment in patients with digestive adenocarcinoma in the 1st and 2nd
      metastatic line and which, depending on scientific progress, can be used for research
      projects aimed at developing tailored patient management strategies.
    
  