
    
      BACKGROUND:

      LT-ETEC is the most common cause of travelers' diarrhoea. Dukoral® (SBL Vaccines) reduces the
      severity and duration of LT-ETEC induced diarrhea. Dehydration due to diarrhea poses a risk
      to the health of renal transplant recipients. Therefore Dukoral may benefit this group of
      travelers.

      AIM OF THIS STUDY:

      Primary objective: To verify whether vaccination with Dukoral® (SBL Vaccines) induces an
      immune response in renal transplant recipients on prednisolone in combination with either a
      calcineurin inhibitor (cyclosporine or tacrolimus) or mycophenolate mofetil.

      Secondary objective: To evaluate to what extent, the immune response differs, depending on
      the use of different classes of immunosuppressive drugs (CNI or MMF).

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Single center interventional study.

      Population: The population base of the study consists of adult renal transplant recipients
      who received their transplant at our medical center. The control population consists of the
      healthy partners and siblings of the renal transplant recipients. We intend to include 10
      healthy volunteers and 60 renal transplant recipients (20 on prednisolone and a CNI and 20 on
      prednisolone and MMF).

      Intervention: Dukoral® (SBL Vaccines) will be administered orally at baseline (day 0) and at
      day 14.

      Laboratory analysis: Serum CTB antibody (ELISA), Vibriocidal assay. The analysis is performed
      at Crucell.

      Statistical analysis: No formal sample-size calculation was performed. The crude outcome
      estimates will be adjusted for variables that may influence the outcome (age, time after
      transplantation, past treatment for transplant rejection, current renal function, cumulative
      prednisolone dose, serum concentration (i.e. area under the curve) of CNI and MMF.

      Note: the study intended to also recruit a study arm consisting of patients on a mTORi.
      Recruitment for this study arm was unsuccesful due to the scarcity of elligible patients.
    
  