
    
      Colorectal cancers (CRC) are the most common gastrointestinal cancers in Western countries
      (both Europe and the US) ; they are both associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
      The 5-year survival is around 63.5% (including all stages). Sporadic colon cancers make up
      85% of all colorectal adenocarcinoma. Preneoplastic lesions accumulate alterations in genes
      that regulate cell growth.

      Patients suffering from CRC have a modified intestinal flora compared to healthy people. A
      specified microbiota profiled combined to genetic and immunological characteristics should be
      involved in colorectal carcinogenesis. Recent data have showed that responses to
      immunotherapies are associated with presence of certain bacteria in intestinal flora which
      potentially boost immune antitumor response.

      Immunotherapy is highly efficient in tumors with high mutation load and Microsatellite
      Instability-High (MSI-H). MSI-H tumors represent 15% of local colorectal tumors. Today, it is
      important to understand all immune agents roles in colorectal carcinogenesis in order to
      describe new interesting immune checkpoints to target.

      Tumor cells and tissues can escape immune surveillance and immune defense by several
      mechanisms. All immune cells subtypes present in the tumor, at the invasive tumor front
      and/or in tertiary lymphoid structures constitute the "immune context". The immune
      microenvironment has been shown to play a crucial role in disease progression, maintenance
      and resistance to therapy. All immune cells could play a pro-tumor or an anti-tumor role. For
      example, lymphocyte infiltrate is described as a prognostic factor in colorectal cancer : a
      tool (Immunoscore) has been validated as prognostic tool and it provides independent and
      superior prognostic value to TNM classification. This immune classification measures the host
      immune response at the tumor site and helps to guide treatment strategies.

      Adaptative immunity is well known ; however, innate immunity should also play an early role
      during carcinogenesis. Role of neutrophils in the tumor microenvironment remains
      controversial, with evidence for both pro- and anti-tumor roles.Tumour-associated neutrophils
      (TANS) have an antitumorigenic in early stage of carcinogenesis or a protumorigenic functions
      in metastatic stage. Evidences indicate that neutrophils manifest functional plasticity
      during oncogenic process. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio is associated with patient prognosis
      ; a high ratio seems to be associated with poor prognostic.

      Intestinal microbiota and immune infiltrate play key roles in colorectal microenvironment.
      Their interdependent interaction and their impacts on colorectal neoplasia and treatments are
      not well known. The primary objective of COLON-IM is to describe colorectal tissue
      microenvironment of patients with benign or malignant colorectal lesion (from stage I to III
      according to TNM/UICC classification).
    
  