
    
      Epilepsy is a known comorbidity of Alzheimer's disease. In the past, it was considered to be
      a late complication of AD. Recent literature suggest seizures to be prevalent much earlier in
      the time course of the disease. Systematic reviews suggest the occurrence of at least one
      seizure in 10-22% of AD cases and of epilepsy in 5 out of 100 AD cases. One important factor
      leading to the underdiagnosis of epilepsy in AD, is the fact that it is difficult to diagnose
      epilepsy in patients with AD because of an overlap in symptomatology (e.g. speech arrest,
      staring, confusion, …) A recent pilot study showed that even subclinical epileptiform
      discharges, without overt epilepsy, were more frequent (42%) in patients with dementia due to
      AD than in healthy controls (10%). These subclinical epileptic discharges were diagnosed with
      prolonged electroencephalogram (EEG)-monitoring and magnetoencephalogram (MEG)-registration.

      There is overlap in AD and epilepsy pathogenesis. In both diseases, activation of microglia,
      astrogliosis, neuroinflammation and hippocampal neuronal loss has been described. Studies in
      mice have shown that hippocampal hyperexcitability is an early electrophysiological
      impairment in AD, and, that this might be a consequence of soluble Amyloid bèta oligomers.
      Another study in mice, expressing human Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP), showed hippocampal
      synchronized large amplitude potentials to be present before onset of spontaneous seizures,
      memory impairments or Amyloid bèta plaques. Low levels of soluble forms of Amyloid bèta might
      have increased excitability. Increased neuronal activity per se increases both Amyloid bèta
      and Tau secretion. This means that recurrent epileptic activity in AD might establish a
      vicious cycle.

      Since hippocampal hyperactivity might be an early electrophysiological impairment in AD
      according to rodent studies, even before memory impairment exist, the investigators thought
      it to be useful to track subclinical, hippocampal epileptic activity by use of
      magnetoencephalogram - high density electroencephalogram (MEG-EEG) in patients with MCI due
      to AD (aka a stage of predementia) and compare this prevalence to healthy controls. The
      investigators would also like to track evolution to AD in patients with MCI and subclinical
      epileptiform activity versus those without.

      This could support further investigations, with monitoring of the effect of several
      antiepileptic drugs in patients with MCI due to AD.
    
  