
    
      Two persons (at least one trained nurse [RN] or physician [MD] and/or one health care aid
      [HCA]) will be required to perform the procedure, one of whom will also measure the time
      between critical steps of the protocol using a stopwatch. The technique involves a
      combination of fluid administration and non-invasive bladder stimulation manoeuvres that
      include gently finger tapping the abdomen with or without lower back massage.

      The first step involves bottle or breastfeeding each infant with an amount of milk that is
      appropriate for its weight and age. Breastfed babies that have no history of poor feeding
      will be fed ad libitum. Those that feed poorly will be encouraged to supplement the feed with
      either expressed breast milk or formula at the discretion of the parent/guardian. Formula fed
      infants will receive a 10 ml feed on the first day of life, increasing by 10 ml per day of
      age to a maximum of 70 ml per feed. For infants greater than 7 days old, 25 ml/kg will be
      administered per feed. Babies that demonstrate mild clinical dehydration and/or fail attempts
      at oral feeding may, at the discretion of the most responsible physician (MRP), have a
      peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter placed and receive a fluid bolus of 0.9% normal saline
      up to a maximum of 10-20 ml/kg given over 20-25 minutes. Infants will not be excluded if they
      do not feed well.

      Approximately 20 minutes after the feeding or IV fluid bolus, the infant's genitals will be
      cleaned in a sterile technique using 0.05% chlorhexidine. Non-pharmacological analgesia, as
      achieved with a soother and/or 24% sucrose will be offered to prevent or lessen crying.

      The second major step of the technique involves holding the infant under the axillae with
      their legs dangling safely above the crib mattress. An RN or MD then begins bladder
      stimulation by gently finger tapping on the lower abdomen in the midline just above the pubic
      symphysis at a frequency of 100 taps per minute. If this step is unsuccessful after 30
      seconds, the RN/MD will then stimulate the lower back in the lumbar paravertebral zone by
      lightly massaging the area in a circular motion using both thumbs. This too will be performed
      for a maximum of 30 seconds. The two stimulation manoeuvres will be repeated in succession
      (up to a maximum of 5 minutes, or 5 cycles) until micturition occurs and a midstream urine
      sample can be caught in a sterile container.

      Infants who spontaneously urinate after cleaning, but prior to bladder stimulation, will have
      their clean catch urine sent to the lab. These cases will be considered successful
      "non-invasive" attempts.

      Infants who fail to produce urine will have further feeding/fluid administration and bladder
      catheterization at the discretion of the MRP.
    
  