
    
      Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is one of the most frequently diagnosed conditions in patients with
      knee complaints.

      Studies investigating the therapeutic effect on PFP revealed that the majority of patients
      with PFP were still suffering of knee pain after 5 to 8 years, despite initially received
      treatment and education, indicating that the current treatments fail to prevent the
      chronicity of symptoms. Considering that current treatment-strategies of patients with PFP
      seem to be unable to avoid the development of chronic symptoms, the question arises if the
      underlying factors of PFP are understood sufficiently.

      In contrary to the current broad body of literature on weakness, potentially underlying
      factors which might influence or even lead to PFP, such arthrogenic muscle inhibition (AMI)
      or the break phenomenon remain understudied.

      Pain in PFP has been proven to be linked to quadriceps strength deficit, gluteal strength
      deficits, knee stability, irregularities in the quadriceps torque curve, and functional
      performance. Bazett et al. (2011) described that pain "is more than a symptom and might play
      a role in the etiology or progression of PFP". Furthermore, pain seems to play a crucial role
      in AMI. However, the correlation between pain and AMI in patients with PFP has not been
      investigated currently.

      No assessment in isolation can provide a full picture of the problem. The combination of AMI,
      the break phenomenon with a biomechanical analysis might enable the determination of the
      impact of inhibition and strength on biomechanical changes. In addition, it might provide an
      answer to whether AMI or weakness cause biomechanical alterations, which would help to
      optimise treatment approaches in PFP.

      The PowersTM strap strap was developed with the aim of assisting lower limb kinematics,
      decreasing knee varus through supporting femoral abduction and external rotation. This
      treatment may potentially also directly improve functional performance. As the functional
      performance in participants with PFP after the application of the PowersTM strap has not been
      investigated, this study aims to analyse if there is a direct link between the application of
      the PowersTM strap to functional performance and pain.
    
  