
    
      Physical therapists use many ways to treat joints that do not move well. One way takes 1-2
      seconds. Another way may take up to 1 minute. Both stretches seem to work, but we do not know
      how. Certain changes in the brain and spinal cord may cause joints to become more flexible
      after these kinds of stretches. Right now, we do not have very much information about how
      these might work in people who have injured their ankle. This study will find out if changes
      in the brain cause better flexibility in the ankle joint after different kinds of stretches.
      In this study, subjects with a certain kind of ankle sprains and limited ankle joint
      flexibility will be assigned to 1 out of 3 groups. Subjects will not get to choose their
      groups. The first group will have an ankle stretch that lasts 1-2 seconds. The second group
      will have a stretch that last 1 minute. The third group will have their foot held without any
      stretching. We will use a machine to stimulate the brain and spinal cord to find out how
      these stretches affect the brain and spinal cord. The machine sends a magnetic signal to the
      brain, and we will measure how much signal gets through to the leg muscles using electrodes
      on the skin. We also will use 3 flexibility tests to find out how well each stretch worked.
      One test is with the subject lying on their stomach, and the others are with the subject
      standing up. To start the study, subjects will get their brain stimulated. They will then get
      their brain stimulated again one hour later. After the second stimulation, subjects will have
      their flexibility tested and then get 1 of the 3 treatments. After the treatment, subjects
      will get a last brain stimulation test and flexibility tests. We think subjects that get a
      fast stretch will have better brain function and flexibility than subjects that get the slow
      stretch or no stretch. To test our idea, we will compare how each group did with the brain
      stimulation and flexibility tests. We will also look at the relationship between brain
      function and flexibility.
    
  