
    
      The primary aim of the study is to assess the effectiveness of the intervention on home
      design for wellness (DWELL). This will be measured through the use of a validated DWELL
      questionnaire for actions related to changes in home environment for wellness. Secondary aims
      are to: 1) assess the effectiveness of the intervention on health behaviors, specifically in:
      nutrition, physical activity, smoke-free homes and hygiene; 2) improve awareness of the
      importance of the environment in healthy behavior; 3) improve wellness; 4) assess
      associations between level of participation (active social, active non-social, passive use)
      and other outcomes: DWELL, awareness of importance, health behaviors, and wellness.

      Participants will be Israeli mothers who are at least 18 years old and have children up to 18
      years old, who are willing to participate in the study, can read and write Hebrew, and have
      internet access and Facebook profile. Recruitment for the trial will be mainly through
      Facebook and WhatsApp. Semi-structured focus groups will be conducted in order to create
      DWELL content for intervention and the DWELL questionnaire to assess intervention's
      effectiveness.

      A randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted to assess effectiveness of an online
      intervention. Recruitment for the trial will be mainly through Facebook and WhatsApp. Sample
      size will be calculated based on initial results from the focus group's pilot. After
      recruitment, participants will be randomised into intervention and wait list control groups,
      using the online software "Research Randomizer". A three-month Facebook intervention will be
      carried out. Participants in both groups will fill pre, mid and post intervention
      questionnaires online. After the first 3 months of the intervention, the investigators will
      open the group to all participants, including those on the wait list control group. This will
      allow control group participants to access the treatment and to compensate the participants
      for participation. The investigators will continue to follow and manage the group and monitor
      its long-term activation.

      A general linear model will be used which takes in to account repeated measures. A
      time-to-event analysis using Cox proportional hazards models will be conducted to examine the
      length of time for which change persisted.
    
  