
    
      Every year, one out of three elderly people make at least one fall, and 10% of them cause a
      fracture. Of these fractures, those of the proximal humerus, the forearm and the wrist count
      for approximately one third of total osteoporotic fractures in elderly people. Proximal
      humerus fractures can be treated surgically (eg: pinning, plate and screws, etc..) or
      conventionally by wearing a splint or a cast. Whether either of these approaches, the
      individual requires rehabilitation to prevent function limitations.

      Among the possible reasons for the low use of rehabilitation services, there are 1) poor
      availability of rehabilitation services for fractures of the humerus; or 2) the difficulty of
      the elderly to travel to receive these services because of their precarious status.
      Telerehabilitation is a promising alternative approach that can help improve access to
      rehabilitation services once patients are discharged from hospital.

      Some studies demonstrate that physiotherapy is a significant factor in the process of healing
      and functional recovery of a proximal humerus fracture, and that, for conservative or
      surgical treatment. This is showed by the good recovery of patients and by their satisfaction
      with the physiotherapy. In addition, since the majority of patients with a proximal humerus
      fracture are elderly, it becomes relevant to find a new way to offer quick service
      physiotherapy and simple and suitable to their condition.

      The main objective of the study is to compare the clinical effects of the innovative
      telerehabilitation approach (TELE group) compared to face-to-face visits to a clinic (CLINIC
      group) for patients treated for a proximal humerus fracture.

      The research hypothesis are:

        1. TELE intervention will be as effective as CLINIC intervention to improve upper extremity
           function.

        2. TELE intervention will be as effective as CLINIC intervention to improve deficiencies of
           the shoulder (increase range of motion).

        3. Participants who received the TELE intervention will be as satisfied of their care as
           participants who received the CLINICL intervention.

        4. TELE intervention will be less costly compared to the CLINIC intervention.

      Methodology: The study has a randomized control trial design. The study population of
      interest is individuals who have had proximal humerus fracture and who receive a conservative
      treatment at the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Sherbrooke (CHUS) and who are returning
      at home. Participants will be recruited during their visit at the emergency or outpatient
      clinic by the medical team or research nurse assistant. The investigators expect to recruit
      52 participants, that is to say 26 per group. All evaluations will be completed in the
      research center/hospital and will be approximately 1.5 hour in duration. The first evaluation
      will be conducted when medical team will ask for rehabilitation (T1) to allow participant
      base measures to be collected. The other evaluation will be conducted immediately after the
      2-month intervention (T2). The independent variable is conventional physiotherapy and
      experimental intervention by telerehabilitation. The dependant variables are 1) upper
      extremity function; 2) range of motion; 3) user satisfaction; 4) cost of services according
      to the healthcare system.

      Platform used: In this study, a platform based on a technological infrastructure that was
      developed and tested in previous telerehabilitation studies will be used. The infrastructure
      combines a clinical information system with videoconference components (Tandberg 550 MXP, H
      264) and uses cameras that are controlled by the clinician using computer software.

      The difference between the two groups will then be compared using a t-test or a chi-square
      test. The economic analysis will be a type of cost-effectiveness. The cost per unit of change
      in the main dependent variable (Constant Score) will be determined for the two groups (TELE
      and CONTROL) and the cost differential will be established.
    
  