
    
      Premature rupture of membranes (PROM), defined as spontaneous rupture of membranes (ROM)
      before the onset of uterine contractions, is one of the most common diagnostic dilemmas in
      contemporary obstetrical practice. Premature rupture of membranes can occur at any
      gestational age, and preterm PROM (PPROM, defined as PROM before 37 weeks) is responsible for
      20-40% of preterm births. Early and accurate diagnosis of PROM would allow for gestational
      age-specific obstetrical interventions designed to optimize perinatal outcome and minimize
      serious complications such as cord prolapse, preterm delivery, fetal distress and infectious
      morbidity (chorioamnionitis, neonatal sepsis). Conversely, a false-positive diagnosis of PROM
      may lead to unnecessary obstetric interventions, including hospitalization, administration of
      antibiotics and corticosteroids, and even induction of labor. Therefore, the correct and
      timely diagnosis of this disorder is of critical importance to the clinician because PROM and
      PPROM may be associated with serious maternal and neonatal consequences.

      The diagnosis of fetal membrane rupture is conventionally made using a clinical assessment.
      The most common method of diagnosis includes the sterile speculum exam (SSE) which includes
      visual inspection of pooling of fluid in the posterior fornix, a nitrazine/pH testing of the
      vaginal environment, and a microscopic evaluation of the collected specimen (ferning). If
      during the sterile speculum exam, the clinician observes amniotic fluid leaking from the
      cervical os, then the diagnosis of rupture can be made without the three additional
      evaluations. Although the SSE approach is considered an acceptable standard, it requires an
      intrusive (speculum) examination and may not provide a rapid or accurate diagnosis.

      The literature has shown the SSE to have limitations in terms of diagnostic accuracy, cost
      and technical ease. The test becomes progressively less accurate when more than one hour has
      elapsed after the membranes are ruptured. The nitrazine assessment, which is the most common
      method of determining the status of the membranes in hospitals today, has a sensitivity
      reported between 90-97%, but a specificity as low as 16-70%. The poor specificity is thought
      to be due to a high rate of false-positives caused by cervicitis, vaginitis, and
      contamination with blood, urine, semen and antiseptic agents. The reported sensitivity and
      specificity for the fern test are also less than adequate, at 51% and 70% respectively.

      As a result, rapid, point of care, qualitative immunochromatographic tests (ie., ROM Plus®,
      Amnisure®) have recently gained popularity as aids in the diagnosis of fetal membrane
      rupture. These tests are designed to detect proteins found in amniotic fluid at high
      concentrations. One such test, ROM Plus, uses a unique monoclonal/polyclonal antibody
      approach to detect two different proteins found in amniotic fluid at high concentrations. ROM
      Plus detects Placental Protein-12 (PP-12, also known as Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding
      Protein-1) as well as Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP). The combination of PP12 and AFP were chosen
      not only because of their robust historical literature support as ideal protein markers for
      amniotic fluid, but also their unique characteristics. PP12 is synthesized by the decidua of
      the placenta and reaches a very high concentration level in the amniotic fluid early in the
      first trimester and stays at that level until delivery. AFP is synthesized by the fetal liver
      and yolk sac and reaches its peak concentration late in the second trimester/early third
      trimester. This increases the chance that the proteins will be detected, especially in the
      preterm patients, when the diagnosis of ROM is most crucial. Amnisure uses a
      monoclonal/monoclonal antibody approach to detect one protein, Placenta-Alpha Microglobulin-1
      (PAMG-1).

      This study is designed to assess the performance (sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV) of ROM
      Plus and Amnisure as compared to the standard clinical assessment including but not limited
      to nitrazine, ferning and/or sterile speculum exam confirmed by a thorough chart review after
      delivery.
    
  