
    
      The CREDO 2 study follows CREDO 1 study, which aims to construct an objective evaluation of
      endoscopic remission in Crohn's Disease (CD). In addition to reproducibility and validation,
      the predictive value of this remission evaluation needs to be tested in different settings to
      valorise its usefulness in clinical practice and in clinical trials.

      CREDO 2 aims to investigate whether the evaluation of endoscopic remission, as defined in
      CREDO 1, in patients in clinical remission is predictive of sustained clinical remission at 2
      years. The design of CREDO2 is a multicentre longitudinal prospective cohort study. The
      screening period to include a patient is two weeks. Patients will be followed up to week 104.
      The primary endpoint is sustained clinical remission at week 104. The primary secondary
      endpoints are sustained clinical remission at weeks 26 and 52. The sustained clinical
      remission at 2 years is defined by the absence of relapse and complication of the disease.
      Relapse is defined as Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) > 220 or between 150 and 220 for
      2 consecutive weeks with an increase of at least 70 points relative to the baseline CDAI,
      associated with an objective marker of inflammation: C-reactive protein (CRP) ≥5 mg/l and /
      or faecal calprotectin ≥250 μg/g. CD complication is defined by an intestinal resection
      surgery for CD, stricturoplasty, endoscopic dilatation, hospitalisation for intestinal
      strictures, abscess and / or fistula (including anoperineal disease) and/or therapeutic
      escalation. Therapeutic escalation is defined as an increase in the dosage of the treatment,
      shortening of the treatment interval, addition of a new treatment for CD (including
      corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, biologics, Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors or any
      experimental treatment). The number of patients to be included is 320 when using a two-sided
      test with a type 1 error of 5% to detect with a power of 80% an association between a
      predictor and week 104 sustained remission failure, corresponding to a variation in
      proportions of patients who failed from 40% in the high-risk group to 20% in the low-risk
      group, and assuming a 12% loss due to treatment discontinuation or patient withdrawal.
      Patients will be recruited via two cohorts. First, patients included in CREDO 1 could be
      included in CREDO 2 if they agree and meet the criteria of non-exclusion. Assuming that 2/3
      of the 15 patients included in each of the 16 centres involved in CREDO 1 could be included
      in CREDO 2, 160 patients will be included from CREDO 1. An additional cohort of 10 patients
      per centre will be included in CREDO 2 by the same local investigator within each centre
      using the same methods as for CREDO 1 cohort, except that recruitment criteria will be those
      of CREDO 2, to provide 160 additional patients to reach the targeted cohort size for CREDO 2.
      Recruitment will therefore be performed in 16 centres and each local investigator will have
      to register 20 videos, including those selected from CREDO 1, stratified by endoscopic
      remission status according to his/her global judgment: complete remission; almost complete
      remission; neither complete nor almost complete remission. The main inclusion criteria are
      adult patients, with established CD with ileal and / or colonic involvement, without
      significant clinical activity for more than 3 consecutive months with, at baseline, CDAI <150
      and CRP <5 mg / l and faecal calprotectin <250 μg / g, stable maintenance treatment for more
      than 3 months, an ileocolonoscopy planned for CD and the decision to maintain or decrease the
      treatment (but not increase) after the colonoscopy. All maintenance treatments are authorized
      / immunosuppressive (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate), biologic (infliximab,
      adalimumab, certolizumab, golimumab, ustekinumab, vedolizumab) and JAK inhibitors.The main
      exclusion criteria are an incomplete record of the ileocolonoscopy or more than three
      resected ileocolonic segments (not counting ileocecal valve), taking NSAIDs in the two weeks
      prior to endoscopy, anoperineal MC without luminal involvement, suspicion of intestinal
      infection within 4 weeks prior to baseline endoscopic assessment. The expected period of
      recruitment is 12 months from the first patient included in the study and 20 patients will be
      included in each of the 16 centres in Belgium and France. At inclusion, demographic,
      phenotypic, medical history and treatment data will be collected and ileocolonoscopy will be
      performed and recorded by the local investigator using pre-specified standards, provided
      sufficient quality. Biological (albumin, haemoglobin, platelets, CRP and faecal calprotectin)
      assessments will be carried out at the inclusion and at each follow-up visit (week 26, 52 104
      and unplanned). The clinical activity will be evaluated through CDAI. Within each centre, the
      local investigator, as local reader, will read the 20 ileocolonoscopy videos of the centre.
      In addition, each video will be read by central readers, selected among 12 central readers in
      four groups of 3 central readers. Each video will be read by 2 central readers and by a third
      one in case of disagreement between the first two. Each central reader will read a little
      more than 54 videos due to these disagreements. All these readers, local and central, will
      have undergone the training session validated by an examination on the evaluation of
      endoscopic remission. In a separate delayed session, the central readers will evaluate
      components of usual endoscopic severity indices. Agreement between data provided by local
      readers and central readers will be assessed through Kappa and intraclass correlation
      coefficient estimates. If agreement is satisfactory, endoscopic data provided by local
      readers will be used to investigate the association between baseline endoscopic evaluation
      and sustained clinical remission at week 104 using the logistic regression method, ROC
      curves, sensitivity and specificity. If agreement is poor, the association will be studied on
      central reader data using the same methods.

      This study should provide a tool to evaluate the ability of endoscopic remission evaluation
      in patients in clinical remission to accurately predict sustained clinical remission. If it
      is the case, this tool could become the therapeutic objective for patients in clinical
      remission with ileal and/or colonic CD. If agreement is satisfactory between local and
      central reading, the tool could be used in therapeutic trials, but also in clinical practice.
      If this is not the case, the tool should be used in clinical trials using central readings.
    
  