
    
      Purpose:

      To determine if Celebrex (Celecoxib) is as effective as Toradol (Ketorolac) at controlling
      postoperative pain when given in addition to standard postoperative pain control regimens.

      Rationale:

      Toradol (Ketorolac) is currently used by many surgeons as adjuvant therapy in addition to
      standard narcotics in managing immediate postoperative pain. Toradol (Ketorolac) is a
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug that acts as a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX),
      inhibiting COX-1 and COX-2 isoforms. (Toradol) Ketorolac has been associated with significant
      complications including postoperative bleeding and acute renal insufficiency. Celebrex
      (Celecoxib) is a selective COX-2 inhibitor that has been associated with adverse
      cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing cardiac disease but not with
      postoperative bleeding or renal insufficiency. Celebrex (Celecoxib) has also been shown to
      control postoperative pain but has never been compared to Toradol (Ketorolac).

      Population:

      Patients undergoing hysterectomy on the gynecology oncology service.

      Design:

      Randomized control trial.

      Procedures:

      All patients will receive a standard posteroperative pain regimen with oral Tylenol
      (Acetaminophen), oral Lortab (Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen) as needed, and IV Diludid
      (Hydromorphone) as needed.

      Randomization: Each participant will be assigned a number using a random number generator for
      assignment to one of the two postoperative pain regimens:

      Arm 1:

      Patients ages 18-65 will receive IV Toradol (Ketorolac) 30mg q6 hrs after their operation for
      48 hrs or until hospital discharge if patients are discharged home in less than 48 hours
      after their operation.

      **Patients over age 65 will receive IV Toradol (Ketorolac) 15mg q6hrs instead of 30mg

      Arm 2:

      Patients who will receive oral Celebrex (Celecoxib) 400mg 1 hour prior to their procedure
      then 200mg oral twice daily for a total of seven days. Patients discharged prior to 7 days
      will be given a prescription for Celebrex (Celecoxib) to complete a total of 7 days.

      Following surgery all patients will be given a postoperative questionnaire at the day of
      surgery, which was returned at the two week postoperative visit, examining time until return
      to ADLs, days of narcotic use, and number of narcotic pills used.
    
  