
    
      Patients who seek primary healthcare vary in their time and resource requirements. Patients
      with acute medical conditions or poorly controlled chronic disease typically require more
      time and attention compared to patients with stable chronic disease.

      Patients with chronic disease routinely make follow-up visits to their primary care provider
      for assessment of their chronic disease status and for changes to their medications as
      necessary. Patients with well-controlled stable chronic disease may go through several visits
      to their primary care provider in 3 or 4-monthly intervals with little or no change to their
      medication regimen. These patients have to wait in line with the rest of the patient crowd
      for a doctor's consultation before getting their regular supply of medications. We hence saw
      the potential of replacing some of these physician visits with an automated healthcare kiosk
      so that if the disease condition of such patients remained stable, they can continue on their
      current medications without having to see a doctor.

      We previously described the feasibility of using an automated healthcare kiosk (SEEK®
      MyHealthKiosk) for the management of patients with stable chronic disease in the primary care
      setting. We propose a follow-up study to show equivalence of health outcomes for patients
      managed with SEEK compared to the current standard of care. The study will be a 2-armed
      randomized controlled trial of 120 patients with stable chronic disease on 4-monthly
      follow-up visits over a 12-month period. Patients will be assigned randomly to intervention
      or control groups to receive kiosk or nurse management respectively. The main primary outcome
      measure is the overall chronic disease control of the patients. Other primary outcome
      measures are the blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels for patients
      without diabetes; and blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and hemoglobin A1c
      levels for patients with diabetes. Secondary outcome measures are visit duration, patient
      satisfaction with the management process, health-related quality of life, and the occurrence
      of any adverse event.

      The potential benefits from the use of SEEK are:

        1. Appropriate stratification of patient care needs so that more time and resources can be
           channeled to patients with complex or acute needs;

        2. Patient empowerment in the management of their chronic health conditions, with
           flexibility of self-care and monitoring and decreased dependency on healthcare
           providers;

        3. Substitution of nurse clinicians for the management of stable chronic disease;

        4. Reduction in the number of doctor visits per year for patients with stable chronic
           disease.
    
  