
    
      Phase 1: Development of the online Teacher Help program. The Teacher Help research team will
      develop content for three modules (ADHD, ASD, and LD) so that these are evidence-based and
      appropriate for implementation in grade 1 - 12 classrooms across Canada. A Team Lead, in
      conjunction with the Principal Investigator, will develop each module with the support of
      Research Staff and advice from the larger Teacher Help team.

      Each module will contain 6 sessions which will be made available to teachers as they complete
      each session (e.g., after a teacher completes session 1, session 2 will be made available).
      Each session should take approximately 1 hour to complete, including all worksheets and
      materials. Each session should take approximately one week to implement all activities;
      however, teachers can take up to two weeks to complete each session. Each session will
      provide factual information, strategies for implementation of best practices to address the
      specific mental health disorder in the classroom setting, and access to additional help and
      advice. Each module will typically include the following session topics: 1) An informative
      overview of the disorder and its treatments; 2) How teachers can help and the team approach;
      3) The main intervention and how to implement this in the classroom; 4) Additional classroom
      strategies that may be helpful in addressing the core symptoms of the disorder; 5) Additional
      needs of students with the disorder and how to help; 6) Wrapping up the program and planning
      for the future.

      Each session will provide strategies to help support teachers in their implementation of the
      information provided (e.g., confirmation and discussion of the challenges faced in
      implementing these strategies, self-help tips). The program contains text and photo
      information, selected videos to further explain certain concepts, as well as worksheets and
      supplemental materials to further engage teachers in interactive learning. The intervention
      program will be conceptually consistent across age groups in terms of the focus of each
      session; however, age-specific information will be included for two targeted grade groups:
      elementary school (typically grades 1- 6) and junior high and high school (typically grades
      7-12; or grades that employ a rotary system where students have more than one teacher).

      Many teachers will use the online information and guidance to implement the strategies
      without further support. A review of the literature supports this, and indicates that
      internet interventions can be successful without additional support. However, the Teacher
      Help program provides extra support whereby teachers can contact a collaborating psychologist
      via a messaging system internal to the program to seek direction and guidance during
      implementation of the program. Online collaborating psychologists will be psychologists
      (e.g., school/educational) working within the same school system/school as the teachers.
      Additionally, teachers will have access to peer-support through a Discussion Board function
      internal to the Teacher Help online platform.

      Phase 2: Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to Evaluate the Effectiveness of the
      Intervention.The goal of this research is to evaluate the effectiveness of an online
      intervention designed to help teachers intervene with students with mental health disorders
      in typical grade 1 - 12 classroom settings. The intervention will be delivered across Canada,
      and the RCT will be coordinated through the implementation site at Halifax, NS. Assessments
      will be conducted at baseline as well as at 3 and 5 months post randomization. The primary
      goal is to assess the immediate impact (baseline vs. 3 months) of the intervention on
      teacher's attitudes toward students with these specific mental health disorders (i.e., ADHD,
      ASD, LD), as well as on student's mental health outcomes and quality of life as reported by
      guardians (e.g., parents) and teachers. Guardians will also be asked to report on how the
      intervention has impacted their family overall. Youth will also be asked to report on the
      impact of the intervention on themselves. Guardians, teachers, collaborating psychologists,
      and youth will be asked to report on their satisfaction with the intervention, and
      psychologists will be asked to track their experience with the intervention as well as their
      fidelity to the program manuals. The secondary goal is to evaluate the longer-term impact
      (baseline, 3, and 5 months) of the intervention on teachers, guardians, psychologists, and
      students.

      Research Design. The investigators will use a cluster RCT (chosen to reduce contamination
      among participants) design to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention using a
      pragmatic RCT approach (i.e., only measures that are necessary to test the effectiveness of
      the intervention rather than the mechanisms of change will be used). For this cluster RCT the
      point of randomization will be the collaborating psychologist. However, randomization of a
      social unit will occur as the psychologist represents the participating school board, school,
      and a minimum of 12 teacher-student-guardian triads. Data collected at 3 and 5 months will
      assess the degree of maintenance of any initial intervention effects on teachers, students,
      and guardians. Consort 2010 guidelines will be adhered to when reporting the trial.

      Randomization. After baseline, each collaborating psychologist will be randomized to either
      the wait-list group or to the intervention (Teacher Help) group. Randomization to the
      wait-list group means that the psychologist and their teacher-student-guardian triads are
      free to access other interventions during the study, but will not be given access to the
      Teacher Help program right away. Psychologists and their teacher-student-guardian triads
      assigned to the intervention arm will be given access to the Teacher Help intervention after
      baseline and will also be allowed to access other interventions during the intervention
      phase. Therefore participants in the intervention arm could be considered to be receiving the
      internet-intervention plus usual services.The investigators will use block randomized
      stratification. Stratification and blocking will control for variation in sociodemographic
      differences among the sites. Computer-generated block randomization will be developed into an
      electronic algorithm using randomize.net. Random allocation will be independent and
      concealed.

      The project manager will be responsible for ensuring all eligible participants complete their
      baseline assessments. After baseline assessment, collaborating psychologists with eligible
      participants will be electronically randomized to the wait-list or intervention group.
      Psychologists and their teacher-student-guardian triads in the wait-list group will not have
      access to any Teacher Help sessions during the cluster RCT, but will have the opportunity to
      complete the Teacher Help program in September the following academic year if they so choose.
      Collaborating psychologists and their teacher-student-guardian triads assigned to the
      intervention group will be automatically directed to the intervention website after
      randomization. A Teacher Help team member (e.g., research assistant), who will be blind to
      randomization allocation, will contact participants in both groups to encourage completion of
      assessments (outcome measures). All teachers, students, and guardians will be asked to
      complete assessments at baseline, 3 months, and 5 months. Teachers, students, and guardians
      in the wait-list group will be notified to wait until someone contacts them for a 3-month
      follow-up and again at 5 months. Psychologists in the intervention group will be asked to
      complete a support log throughout the intervention phase, and complete a Client Satisfaction
      Questionnaire at 3-month follow-up. Collaborating psychologists in the wait-list group will
      not be required to complete any assessments.

      The wait-list group will be provided access to the program in September the following
      academic year due to the timelines of the project (5-month follow-up of the RCT will occur at
      the end of the academic year). Additionally, there are several benefits to providing the
      intervention to the wait-list group at this time. These benefits include more time for
      wait-listed teachers to implement the intervention, intervention for students at the
      beginning of the academic year rather than at the end, and increased reach of the program.
      Increased reach of the program will be achieved by providing access to the Teacher Help
      program to teachers recruited to participate in the cluster RCT the previous academic year as
      well as to the new (current academic year) teacher of the students recruited to participate
      in the cluster RCT the previous academic year. Wait-listed psychologists will also be given
      Teacher Help access codes for 10 additional teachers who may benefit from the program.

      Participants. The investigators will aim to recruit 55 collaborating psychologists across
      Canada to partner with them in the cluster RCT. Psychologistss are those psychologists who
      work for or within school systems across Canada, and who are willing to act as an online
      support for teachers using the Teacher Help program. The investigators will collaborate with
      the psychologists to recruit enough participants to have 660 teacher-student-guardian triads
      across Canada. The goal will be to have 220 teacher-student-guardian triads per Teacher Help
      module (i.e., ADHD, ASD, and LD). Psychologists will be asked to recruit a minimum of 12
      classroom teachers within their assigned schools to participate. A student of each teacher
      and one of his or her guardians (e.g., parents) need to agree to participate as well. As
      such, each psychologist will work with 12 teacher-student-guardian triads. Overall, the goal
      will be to recruit approximately 715 participants for the final assessment.

      Inclusion and Exclusion criteria for this study are individualized for each group of
      participants. However, all participants need to be within Canada, as well as have access to
      an internet connection and an email address. Please see the Eligibility section to see the
      criteria pertaining to each different group.

      Recruitment. Utilizing the Teacher Help team's Health Care Innovation Community (HCIC), the
      investigators will recruit psychologists to partner with them on the cluster RCT.
      Psychologists will be asked to recruit a minimum of 12 classroom teachers associated with
      their schools who teach grades 1 to 12. A student of each teacher and one of his or her
      guardians (e.g., parents) both need to agree to participate as well. A range of recruitment
      strategies, including word of mouth through our Advisory Board and Partners, website
      advertisements on our HCIC's websites, particularly our end-user websites (Canadian ADHD
      Resource Alliance [CADDRA], Learning Disabilities Association of Canada [LDAC], and Autism
      Canada), online and printed newsletters, and social media. The investigators will aim for at
      least one collaborating psychologist per province.

      Assessments. All assessments will be completed online. Assessments will be conducted at
      baseline, and at 3 and 5 months post-randomization. For guardians and teachers, assessments
      at baseline will take approximately 40 minutes to complete and at 3 and 5 months will take
      about 30 minutes to complete. For those students who are able to complete assessments,
      questionnaires should take approximately 30 minutes at Baseline and 20 minutes at
      3-and-5-month follow-up to complete. For collaborating psychologists in the intervention arm,
      the support log should take approximately 15 minutes to complete each week, and the Client
      Satisfaction Questionnaire should take approximately 5-10 minutes to complete at 3-month
      follow-up. A Teacher Help team member, blinded to randomization, will send an email to
      participants at the appropriate time requesting they complete the assessments and will follow
      up by email and/or telephone to answer any questions and encourage completion of the forms.
    
  