
    
      A longitudinal experimental mixed methods effectiveness-implementation hybrid research design
      will be employed. The study will be conducted across thirty primary schools representing both
      semi-urban and rural communities. We expect to involve 3,000 youth (in primary schools grades
      2 through 7; 8 to 13 years) and their adult caregivers (3,000) in Uganda, 180 youth and their
      caregivers (180) in Ghana, and 180 youth and their caregivers (180) in Kenya.

      Schools will be randomly assigned to 3 study conditions: 1) MFG-delivered by trained family
      peers; 2) MFG-delivered by community health workers (school health education program
      coordinators in Ghana); or, 3) Comparison: mental health and school support materials (e.g.,
      books, uniforms). Data will be collected at baseline, 8 and 16 weeks, and 6 months follow-up
      (10 months from baseline).

      More specifically the objectives of this study are:

      Primary objectives

        1. To examine short- and long-term outcomes associated with the MFG. Hypothesis: Children
           in the treatment groups (MFG) will improve significantly more compared to those in the
           treatment (usual care) group.

        2. To examine how systematic variations in the delivery of an evidence-based MFG program
           impacts outcomes for children with behavioral difficulties and their caregivers in each
           country context.

           Hypothesis: Children who participate in MFG with their families will display
           significantly reduced conduct difficulties and increased functioning over time compared
           to those involved in comparison condition. We expect that parent peers - compared to
           community health workers - will evidence significantly more success engaging families to
           attend MFG sessions, thus, children in the MFG-parent peer delivered condition will
           evidence the great improvement relative to the other two study conditions.

           Secondary objectives

        3. To compare the uptake and implementation of MFGs by trained existing family peers and
           community outreach health workers.

           Hypothesis: Given the level of training that community outreach health workers have
           received prior to the study as part of their regular professional training, they will
           evidence higher fidelity initially, yet with training and ongoing supervision, we expect
           these differences to decrease over time.

        4. To examine multi-level (state/government, NGOs, families, schools, communities)
           influences on the uptake, implementation, effectiveness and sustainability of EBPs that
           address serious child disruptive behavioral challenges.
    
  