
    
      This is a prospective, single institution, controlled pilot study of adult patients admitted
      to the surgical ICU. A sample size of 104 (52 per group) is targeted. Patients in the control
      group will undergo usual care which includes ABCDEF bundle (Appendix 1) use, including daily
      delirium screening using the CAM-ICU score (Appendix 2), but will not have routine
      psychiatric involvement. Patients in the intervention group will also have ABCDEF bundle
      performed, and additionally have psychiatry routinely participating in ICU rounds. A member
      of the psychiatry team (attending, resident, or fellow) will round with the surgical ICU team
      in the surgical ICU daily. On a daily basis, the ICU attending will review the list of the
      ICU patients with the psychiatry team to determine if there are any changes to the patient's
      management required.

      Inclusion criteria are: 1. any patient >18 years of age admitted to the surgical ICU for >48
      hours; 2. Patients admitted to the ICU <24 hours who have been in the hospital >48 hours; 3.
      Patients who return to the ICU after being discharged from the ICU to the floor due a
      complication or need for higher acuity care. Exclusion criteria are: 1. Patients in whom
      CAM-ICU cannot be performed (severe dementia, stroke or other neurological condition,
      encephalopathy, mental retardation, severe psychiatric disorder, vegetative state, severe
      traumatic brain injury, deaf/blind, etc.); 2. Vulnerable patient populations (i.e. transplant
      recipients); 3. Patients who don't speak or understand English; 4. Current alcohol or
      substance abuse. Patients will be screened for eligibility on rounds daily. Study personnel
      will obtain informed written consent from patients or their families.

      A psychiatry attending, psychiatry resident, or psychiatry nurse practitioner will round with
      the surgical ICU team on 7W daily until the target subject enrollment # of 52 is achieved. On
      a daily basis, the ICU attending will review the list of the ICU patients with the psychiatry
      team to determine if there are any changes to the patient's management required. The ABCDEF
      bundle will be implemented on daily rounds, which includes daily screening for delirium using
      the CAM-ICU scale.

      Data which will be collected includes: age, gender, body mass index, history or alcohol or
      substance abuse, admitting diagnosis, dementia, comorbid conditions, admitting SOFA score,
      deliriogenic medications used during study enrollment, the interventions/medications used to
      treat delirium as designated by psychiatry (in intervention group) and the ICU team (control
      group), and the number of days from admission to study enrollment. Data on the incidence of
      ICU delirium, duration of delirium/mechanical ventilation, in-house mortality, ICU and total
      hospital length of stay will also be collected.

      Descriptive statistics, including Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney U-test, for continuous
      variables and χ2 or Fisher's exact test, for categorical variables, will be used to summarize
      the data and compare characteristics between the 2 groups. The incidence of delirium will be
      compared using χ2 test and multivariable logistic regression. Differences in the duration of
      delirium and MV between the intervention and control groups will be analyzed by analysis of
      variance (ANOVA). The length of stay will be compared by truncated negative binomial
      regression, while mortality rates will be compared via logistic regression. A sensitivity
      analysis will be performed in order to assess the possible confounding effect of the
      non-randomized nature of our study design. A propensity score model for receipt of standard
      care vs. psychiatric involvement will be performed in order to approximate a balanced
      covariate distribution between the 2 groups as that would be expected by randomization. The
      investigators will then use the propensity score for each subject to perform an inverse
      probability weighted comparison of the groups on our trial outcomes.
    
  