
    
      Does call-handlers awareness of caller Degree-Of-Worry affect triage outcome in telephone
      consultation? - a randomized trial.

      Background When conducting a telephone consultation the call handler will make the decision
      of help needed on the basis of the dialog with the caller. The need of health care is
      difficult to estimate due to the lack of visual cues (Rothwell, Ellington, Planalp, & Crouch,
      2012) and might be complicated by factors related to the caller or the call handler herself
      (Lindström, Heikkilä, Bohm, Castrèn, & Falk, 2014). Especially in cases of low-urgency and
      non-normative symptom description, as in the case of the majority of calls to the OOH, the
      call handlers' own health belief will have an impact on the triage outcome (Leprohon & Patel,
      1995; Ogden, 2011). Callers' Degree-Of-Worry (DOW) when contacting an Out-of-Hours service
      (OOH) has proven to be a valuable source of information of the callers' perception of the
      actual situation (not published). Call-handlers awareness of DOW can potentially increase the
      amount of telephone consultations terminated with advice of self-care or to seek General
      Practioner (GP) during office hours. Therefore, the present study seeks to investigate if
      call handlers' awareness of DOW affect triage outcome?

      Aim: Does call-handlers awareness of caller Degree-Of-Worry affect triage outcome in
      telephone consultation

      Methods Design The design of the study is a randomized controlled design blinding the
      call-handlers to callers' DOW in a computer assisted 1:1 ratio Eliglibility: all calls to
      hotline 1813 where informed consent is obtained. Intervention: blinding call-handlers to
      callers' DOW.

      Setting The acute care system within the Capital Region of Denmark is divided into two
      facilities. The Medical Emergency Service and the Out-Of-Hours services (OOH) (hotline 1813)
      (Wadmann, Kjellberg, & Kjellberg, 2015). All acute contact to the health care system within
      the region is pre-assessed and triaged. The OOH handles approx. 1 million calls per year of
      which approx. 40% are triaged to either self-care or consultation at their general
      practitioner (GP). The call handler is a nurse or physician, who triages the caller to either
      home visit, clinic consultation, self-care or GP. Triage and determination of urgency is
      guided by criterion based triage tools. The triage tool used in the OOH has been locally
      developed and has not been validated.

      The present study is a part of a larger study which aims to construct a scale that
      systematically incorporates the callers' perspective in a "DOW" -scale" and to explore the
      consequences for the actors in the system - caller, call-handler, and health care system.

      Data collection The research questions (see above) will be answered through the analysis of
      carefully collected data material incorporating the state of art set up at the hotline 1813
      and the Danish health registers.

      The data collection points are:

        -  Datapoint 1: After calling the hotline 1813 before reaching the call handler (caller
           delivers data).

        -  Datapoint 2: Right after call terminated (caller delivers data)

        -  Datapoint 3: 48 hours after initial contact to the medical hotline 1813 (Danish
           Registers delivers data)

      Data will be collected at three different points during a call made to the hotline 1813.
      Participation in the study is voluntary. The data collection will be carried out as an
      automated telephone questionnaire. After the telephone consultation the caller will receive
      an automated call for further information. In case of non-response a text message will be
      sent after 30 and 60 minutes.

      The randomization data is generated by reviling caller DOW to the call-handlers. DOW will be
      shown as a part of the medical history template, alongside civil registration number,
      address. In order to assure the DOW is seen by the call-handler this will be presented on the
      medical history template in red, size 14 numbers.

      Triage outcome will be collected from the internal database at the hotline 1813.

      The data analysis within the RCT will be limited to triage response given by call-handlers.

      The plan of analysis is:

      Primary outcome Does call-handlers awareness of caller Degree-Of-Worry affect triage outcome
      in telephone consultation

      Chi2 test and OR of difference between intervention-and control group.

      Log regression on outcome in exposure (little, medium and very much worry)

      Sub-group of primary outcome (caller)

      Eksplorative outcomes- DOW in three groups (little, some, much)

      Is there a difference (intervention/control group) in triage outcome in the group of young
      children and old people, respectively?

      Chi2 test of difference between intervention-and control group

      Sub-group of primary outcome (call-handler)

      Eksplorative outcomes - Is there a difference (intervention/control group) in triage outcome
      in call-handler gender, years of experience, waiting time?

      Gender (chi2 test), Years of experience and waiting time

      Non-response analysis Is there a difference between age, sex, triage-response, criteria, time
      of day and weekday? (participants/non-participants) age, sex, triage response, Criteria, Time
      of day, Weekday (Descriptive - mean and %)
    
  