
    
      The prognosis of patients newly diagnosed with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is
      extremely poor with a 5-year overall survival rate of less than 5%. To improve this dismal
      outcome, new treatment approaches are urgently needed. So far, immune-checkpoint therapy was
      not successful in patients with PDAC. Given the poor response to conventional chemotherapy,
      there is an imperative need to make PDACs amenable to immune-checkpoint therapy. Irreversible
      electroporation (IRE) is a relatively novel and safe ablation technique that destroys tumors
      by using apoptosis-inducing electrical currents inducing local and systemic pro-inflammatory
      cytokine expression and enhances the presence of cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells, while the apoptotic
      cell material preserves neo-antigen properties detectable by dendritic cells. This effect
      might be further enhanced by immune-checkpoint therapy.

      The rationale of our study is to convert immunologically cold PDACs into hot PDACs by
      triggering an enhanced local and systemic immune response. We hypothesize that among patients
      with metastatic PDAC, the IRE of one liver metastasis followed by the administration of an
      immune-checkpoint inhibitor leads to a measurable radiological response in a selected
      non-treated liver metastasis. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the immune response is both
      local in the form of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILS) and an immunologically activated
      tumor microenvironment in the IRE-treated metastasis, as well as systemic as evidenced by an
      abscopal response in the IRE-untreated metastatic and primary site.

      The objective of the trial is to examine whether for patients with metastatic PDAC the
      combination of IRE of one liver metastasis followed by the administration of five doses of
      nivolumab leads to a measurable radiological response in a selected non-treated liver
      metastasis.

      To demonstrate that the trial treatment leads to a measurable immune response, multiple
      translational research projects will assess the effect of IRE and nivolumab on the
      development of the local and peripheral tumor immune response over time.
    
  