
    
      Utility of CholangioFlex and Fluorescent in situ Hybridization in the Diagnosis of Malignant
      Biliary Strictures

      Objectives

        1. To assess the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of CholangioFlex in malignant
           biliary stricture diagnosis

        2. To assess the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of Fluorescent in situ
           Hybridization(FISH) in malignant biliary stricture diagnosis

      Study design One academic center, prospective, diagnostic study

      Research Methodology Target population: Patients who are diagnosed malignant biliary
      stricture. Sample population: Patients who are diagnosed malignant biliary stricture in
      Chulalongkorn Hospital

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Age > 20 year-old

        2. All patients who are diagnosed malignant biliary stricture by 3 months and undergo ERCP
           in Chulalongkorn Hospital.

        3. All patients have to sign the consent form Exclusion Criteria

      1.Cannot follow up for 1 year 2.Bleeding tendency including decompensated cirrhosis, chronic
      kidney disease and long-tem antiplatelets or anticoagulants 3.Pregnancy 4.History of
      fluorescein allergy

      Timeline: From January 2012 to December 2013

      Sample size Due to no study in Thai population before, investigator will perform pilot study
      in 50 malignant biliary stricture patients

      Method

        1. All patients had informed the consent.

        2. Take the history, physical examination and then fill in the record form 3.5 ml of blood
           sampling for CA19-9 and 20 ml for further test by keeping in -20c temperature for 5
           years

      4.Set confocal endomicroscopy at the same session of ERCP 5.After successfully cannulation;

        -  10% Fluorescein sodium 2.5 ml was injected intravenously.

        -  Confocal endomicroscopy (CholangioFlex) was performed at the suspected area. The video
           will record the images with Cellvizio program recorder.

           6.Brush cytology was performed 7.Record the duration and complication of the procedure
           8.Send the tissues to one clinically-blinded GI pathologist for pathological diagnosis
           and FISH test 9.Compare the pathology and FISH report and endoscopic finding 10.Report
           the result According to Miami-criteria 2009, the Criteria for malignant biliary
           stricture from CholangioFlex are one of the followings;

             1. Thick branching bands (>20 microns)

             2. Dark clumps or glands (usually measuring > 60 microns)

             3. Bright and tortuous vessels

                Follow up

        -  The patients who are diagnosed malignant biliary obstruction will be treated as standard
           management

        -  The patients who are not diagnosed malignant biliary obstruction will be followed up
           every 3 months for 1 year

        -  The gold standard is pathology or clinical of malignancy including evidence of
           metastasis.

      Statistical analysis Sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value(NPV), positive
      predictive value(PPV) and accuracy by McNemar's test

      Ethical considerations There is not a clearly evidence about the significant serious side
      effect of fluorescein injection. If the patients have side effects during the research, the
      procedure will be terminated and the patients will be in the responsibility of all
      investigators.

      Expected benefit and application

        1. Increase rate of malignant biliary stricture diagnosis by using CholangioFlex and/or
           FISH test

        2. Decrease the mortality rate of malignant biliary stricture
    
  