
    
      The advances in LVAD engineering and design, tailored towards defined physiological goals,
      have resulted in the creation of much smaller CF pumps that possess technical superiority,
      pump durability, and ease of implantation compared to the older and larger PF pumps. The
      addition of artificial pulsatility to the next generation centrifugal CF LVADs, has decreased
      the incidence of device related adverse events. However, given the recent nature of these
      advances, the physiologic impact has yet to be fully elucidated. LVADs in general have
      demonstrated good outcomes and are rapidly gaining traction towards becoming standard therapy
      for refractory end stage HF. The investigators are in a position to study this new technology
      and the impact of the resultant altered physiologic state.

      Our interest lies in the impact of continuous flow hemodynamics on endothelial function and
      the cardiac and end-organ responses to this novel therapy. Basal homeostatic properties of
      healthy endothelium are in part based on the effects of hemodynamic forces such as
      hydrostatic pressure, cyclic stretch, and fluid shear stress, which occur as a consequence of
      blood pressure and pulsatile blood flow in the vasculature. Under ambient conditions, these
      forces are generally atheroprotective and increase the expression of nitric oxide synthase
      (eNOS) to generate nitric oxide (NO), decrease reactive oxidative species (ROS) and oxidative
      stress, decrease expression of proinflammatory adhesion molecules, and maintain an
      antithrombotic surface. Increases in shear stress stimulate compensatory expansion of the
      vessels and thereby return shear forces to basal levels. Likewise, a decrease in shear stress
      can narrow the lumen of the vessel in an endothelium-dependent manner. In essence, the vessel
      remodels itself in response to long-term changes in flow, such that the luminal diameter is
      reshaped to maintain a constant predetermined level of shear stress. The capacity of the
      endothelium to sense shear stress is therefore an important determinant of luminal diameter
      and overall vessel structure. Failure to adapt to pathophysiological stimuli may lead to
      maladaptive responses that result in seemingly permanent alterations in endothelial phenotype
      and promote endothelial dysfunction. This phenomenon plays an integral role in several
      cardiovascular disease processes. Endothelial dysfunction (of both microvascular and conduit
      arteries) is a component of chronic heart failure and correlates with severity of disease.
      Improvement in cardiac function, whether via medical therapy or cardiac output augmentation,
      can improve endothelial function and benefit patients through better peripheral vascular
      reactivity. However, much of the improvement in endothelial function is thought to be related
      to the pulsatile laminar flow that occurs in majority of vascular beds. With the increasing
      use of CF pumps, it has become clear that the lack of pulsatility adversely affects the
      endothelium by decreasing vessel wall shear stress; reducing cyclic stretch that affects
      vascular cell proliferation; disrupting endothelium-dependent vasodilation; activating
      extrinsic pathway of thrombosis; and heightening vascular inflammation. The reintroduction of
      pulsatility through flow modulation control strategies could help mitigate these device
      specific issues and help promote endothelial recovery. Our knowledge of the impact of these
      specific advances in LVAD therapy is however limited by the relative youth of the field.
      Thus, the goal of this research project is to study human LVAD patients to determine the
      impact of artificial pulsatility in CF physiology on microvascular and endothelial function
      and its association with cardiac and peripheral organ function.
    
  