
    
      Recently Investigators have demonstrated that RBC lifespan has substantial inter-individual
      variation even in people without diabetes or obvious hematologic diseases affecting RBC
      lifespan (5,6). Investigators combined Endocrinology-Hematology research group has taken a
      leading role in applying state-of-the-art methods for RBC survival measurement.The published
      articles articles are now cited when investigators refer to the state of the art
      understanding of true RBC lifespan (7). Using a biotin labeling method that involves ex vivo
      labeling of cells with biotin and then re-infusion of those cells, Investigators were able to
      demonstrate that RBC lifespan is sufficiently heterogeneous even in the hematologically
      normal population with normal reticulocyte count to significantly affect HbA1c interpretation
      (5). Recognizing the limitations of the safe but relatively invasive biotin technique,
      Investigators more recently developed a stable isotope (SI) in which RBC heme is labeled with
      orally administered 15N-glycine (6). This is a benign and noninvasive technique and expands
      the scope of RBC lifespan studies to sizable epidemiologic and physiologic studies, a number
      of which investigators are initiating and planning.

      However, the feasibility of making the findings translatable to widespread patient care has
      been perceived as a limitation to the merit of answering these scientific questions. The SI
      approach still requires multiple blood measurements over months (6). This proposed project is
      designed to test the feasibility of a method to satisfy the unmet clinical need for measuring
      RBC survival easily, noninvasively, and inexpensively. The goal is to access most individuals
      with or at risk for diagnosis of diabetes in or near most doctors' offices. Over the next
      year Investigators intend to determine whether exhaled alveolar carbon monoxide (eCO), a
      measure of heme breakdown and hence of RBC turnover, can be used in this manner to provide a
      single point measure of RBC lifespan. Interestingly, heme metabolism is the only known
      endogenous source of carbon monoxide in people (8) and there are recent studies by others
      suggesting its potential for measuring RBC lifespan (9,10) Now that technology has advanced
      to measure CO with sufficient sensitivity and cost, investigators will explore the use of
      instrumentation at the same time investigators expand their studies using the SI approach.
      The results from this method will be compared with a previous small population of subjects
      that had lifespan measured by biotin and/or SI technique.
    
  