
    
      E.V.O.L.U.T.I.O.N.: A Randomized Study to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of the Excel Sirolimus
      Eluting Stent with a Biodegradable Polymer Versus Sirolimus Eluting Stent with a
      Non-Biodegradable Polymer in the Treatment of Patients with de novo Coronary Artery Lesions.

      A prospective, randomized, controlled, parallel two-arm multi-center study, comparing the
      ExcelTM DES to CypherTM DES in the treatment of patients with de novo coronary artery
      lesions.

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Excel DES (biodegradable polymer) compared to the
      Cypher DES (non-biodegradable polymer) in the treatment of patients with de novo coronary
      artery lesions.

      Approximately 1944 patients will be enrolled in up to 25 centers in China. Primary
      Endpoint:Ischemia-driven Target Vessel Failure which is a composite of cardiac death,
      myocardial infarction (Q and non-Q wave) and target vessel revascularization (TVR) at 12
      months.

      Secondary Endpoint:

        1. Ischemia-driven Target Lesion Failure (TLF) at 12 months defined as a composite of
           cardiac death that can not be clearly attributed to a vessel other than the target
           vessel, target vessel MI (Q and Non-Q wave) and ischemia-driven TLR.

        2. Rates of stent thrombosis, defined (per ARC definition) as definite or probable and
           categorized as early, late or very late.

        3. Rates for each component of the TLF composite endpoint (cardiac death, target vessel MI,
           ischemia- driven TLR) at 12 months post-procedure.

        4. Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) defined as cardiac Death, target vessel MI (Q and
           Non-Q wave), or target Lesion revascularization (TLR) at 30 days, 6 months, 12 months
           and 2 to 5 years annually.

        5. Device Success defined as achievement of a final residual in-stent diameter stenosis of
           < 30% (visual estimate) and a TIMI flow of 3 using the Excel/Cypher DES.

        6. Procedure Success defined as achievement of a final in- stent diameter stenosis of < 30%
           (visual estimate) and a TIMI flow of 3 using any percutaneous method, without the
           occurrence of in-hospital MACE. (ALL TLR IN THIS STUDY WILL BE CLINICALLY INDICATED)
    
  