
    
      OVERALL DESIGN The study is a prospective, multicenter, single arm study Possible study
      candidates are patients requiring resection of the left colon (descending colon and sigmoid)
      or the upper rectum (15cm above the anal rim) due to malign or benign disease. After informed
      consent has been achieved, and after physical examination and checking of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, potential subjects will be enrolled in the study, and the investigational surgery
      will be performed during hospitalization. The devices, i.e. C-REX LapAid and C-REX DMH/DMHC,
      included in C-REX Ring-locking Procedure are applied to the inside of the intestine and
      connected to catheters that allow monitoring of the anastomosis (if DMC is applied).

      The healing period is expected to be approximately 10 ± 2 days. The short-term implant, i.e.
      the anastomotic ring, detaches via necrosis on the inner part of the intestinal surface and
      is expelled the natural way during hospitalization.

      The subject can be discharged from the hospital when the short-term implant has been
      evacuated, and the subject has begun to eat and has normal bowel movements. The observation
      period lasts until 30 days after surgery. The subject then continues follow-up according to
      local routine.

      QUALITY CONTROL Authorization to perform C-REX Ring-locking Procedure According to
      CarpoNovum's regulation (Document 0041: Procedure, Accreditation of Surgeons for Clinical
      Studies), clinical investigators must be authorized to conduct the C-REX Ring-locking
      Procedure with C-REX LapAid and C-REX DMH/DMHC by performing at least one surgery on pigs and
      at least one train-in surgery on patients with the person in charge of the study (MD, PhD,
      Senior colorectal surgeon Anders Grönberg). When the clinical investigator is authorized to
      perform the C-REX Ring-locking Procedure with C-REX LapAid System, he or she receives a
      certificate. This certificate could also admit the clinical investigator the right to
      authorize other surgeons to perform C-REX Ring-locking Procedure with C-REX LapAid and C-REX
      DMH/DMHC (i.e. to perform at least one operations on pigs and at least one train-in
      operations on patients with the authorized clinical investigator).

      Monitoring To ensure that the study is appropriately conducted, a monitor appointed by the
      sponsor will visit the investigation site regularly and oversee the investigator's compliance
      with the CIP, perform source-data verification and report to the sponsor on the progress of
      the study.

      Each investigation site and clinical investigator in the study will be monitored. On all
      occasions, the responsible monitor and/or the person in charge of the study will secure for
      example that:

        1. Compliance with CIP is maintained and any deviation from CIP is discussed with the
           clinical investigators, documented and reported to the sponsor; if the changes are
           significant, the competent authority and the ethical committee will be informed;

        2. The device is being used according to CIP, IB and IFU, and if modifications are required
           either to the device or its method of use or to the CIP, this need shall be reported to
           the sponsor;

        3. Signed and dated informed consent forms have been obtained from each subject at the time
           of enrolment and before any study-related procedures are undertaken;

        4. The data in CRFs are complete, are recorded in a timely manner and are consistent with
           the source data;

        5. Traceability and device accountability of the investigational device are properly
           maintained;

        6. Maintenance and calibration of equipment relevant for assessment of the study is
           performed;

        7. Possible adverse events or device deficiencies have been properly documented and
           reported;

        8. Subjects withdrawal and/or non-compliance is documented and discussed with the clinical
           investigator and reported to the sponsor;

        9. Clinical investigators have and continue to have staff and facilities to conduct the
           study safely and effectively;

       10. Clinical investigators have and continue to have access to an adequate number of
           subjects and the investigational device to complete the study.

      The responsible monitor will write a report after each visit to the medical institutions. The
      reports will be sent to the sponsor and the principal clinical investigators.

      Documentation and data processing Medical record of subjects

      The following information should be clearly documented in medical record of subjects:

        -  That the subject is informed about the study and that the subject has signed the
           informed consent forms.

        -  That the subject is participating in the study; the identification code for the subject,
           the name of the study, and the study number (i.e., CREX-005).

        -  Which treatment the study refers to (i.e., C-REX Ring-locking Procedure with use of
           C-REX LapAid and C-REX DMH/DMHC).

        -  Name of the principal clinical investigator.

        -  All AEs and device deficiencies. Document and data control Prior to commencement of the
           study, clinical investigators and their staff will be informed about CIP, CRFs and other
           study documents and procedures.

      For each subject enrolled, regardless of medical device initiation, a CRF must be completed
      and signed by corresponding investigation personnel. This applies to those subjects who fail
      to complete the study. If a subject withdraws from the study, the reason must be noted on
      CRF.

      Data and information of subjects derived from the study are considered as source data. To
      ensure that all data are complete and correct, source data verification (SDV) will be
      confirmed by the monitor.

      Comments in CRF should be made with a ballpoint pen with permanent ink in paper based CRF. In
      both paper based CRF and eCRF, if comments are missing in CRF, reasons for this must be
      stated. No questions, squares, fields or similar should be left without comments.

      CRF entries and corrections will only be performed by investigational personnel, authorized
      by the principle clinical investigator. In paper based CRF, errors should be crossed out but
      not obliterated, the correction inserted, and the change initialled and dated by the clinical
      investigator.

      Then entries will be checked by the monitor and any errors or inconsistencies will be checked
      and corrected immediately.

      The responsible clinical investigator is obliged to keep the subject identification lists
      with the subject's identification code and identity in a safe place at the investigation site
      (hospital), accessible only to the investigation personnel. These source data and subject
      identification lists will be saved for 10 years after the close of the study at the medical
      institution.

      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS The aim of this study is to verify the novel device in clinical practise
      in a big population. Since no control group is included, there is no need for power
      determinations.

      Considering that similar anastomotic devices have been used in clinic for decades, the study
      will include about 250 subjects from 5 different centres/hospitals. In which, 100 subjects
      will be included in Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS OF VARIABLES Descriptive methods are used to analyze the data collected
      in the study. The incidences of anastomotic leakage and other AEs/device deficiencies are
      calculated.
    
  