
    
      Eggs are nutrient dense, convenient, affordable, and provide key macro and micronutrients in
      one's diet. Despite having a lot of benefits of consuming eggs in relation to health recent
      epidemiological studies raise health concerns about egg intake for subgroups of people. For
      instance, under free-living conditions, higher egg intake is associated with increased
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in diabetic individuals as well as increased risk of
      developing type 2 diabetes. However, these studies do not establish that egg consumption
      "causes" health issues.

      It is also possible that the association of egg intake with increased CVD risk in diabetics,
      or with a greater risk of developing diabetes, is simply due to the other foods that people
      usually eat with eggs, such as saturated fats, and not due to eggs per se.

      For part I, the investigators propose to test this hypothesis by determining the food intake
      of 48 non-diabetic individuals under free-living conditions using the remote food photography
      method (RFPM), which uses smartphone technology. The frequency of egg consumption will be
      obtained using a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). In addition, participants will record
      their food intake using food record diary and a 24-hour food recall method. Energy intake
      information gathered from RFPM will be compared with the 7-day food record and the 24-hour
      recall.

      Next, for part II, the same study participants will be offered four separate test breakfasts
      of similar calories, containing 1) Eggs; 2) Eggs with a high amount of saturated fat; 3)
      Cereal breakfast (neither eggs nor saturated fat); or 4) Cereal breakfast with a high amount
      of saturated fat. Alteration of blood glucose, insulin, hunger, and satiety hormones
      (ghrelin, PYY, GLP-1), and metabolic rate will be measured before and after each breakfast in
      part II.

      The investigators expect to determine if the purported association of eggs to alterations in
      glucose control and related metabolic alterations are independent of eggs, but mainly due to
      saturated fat is eaten along with eggs rather than the egg consumption itself.
    
  