
    
      Introduction/Objectives:

      There is a group of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that suffer from chronically
      painless synovitis in the hands. The mean of this is still unknown and does not exist studies
      in the literature that assessing the predictors of this behavior or synovial potential to
      cause bone erosion.

      The objective of this study is to compare painless synovitis (called "cold" synovitis) with
      painful synovitis according to the sonographic (Gray-scale and power Doppler) findings,
      articular damage (x-Ray and sonography), clinical, laboratory and demographic variables in RA
      patients.

      Methods: Cross-sectional study with RA patients, which will be evaluated metacarpophalangeal
      joints of patients without local painful. Sixty RA patients will be selected in the Federal
      University of São Paulo ambulatory (Unifesp). The patients will be divided in two groups of
      thirty patients each: "painless synovitis" Group and "painful synovitis" Group. All patients
      will be measured through clinical evaluation, hands ultrasound and laboratory parameters
      (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, ESR; rheumatoid factor, RF; anti-cyclic-citrullinated
      peptide antibodies, CCP) on the same day. The clinical evaluation will be measured by a
      trained rheumatologist with experience in joint physical examination (synovitis). This
      measure will be done before the sonography examination and the assessment tools will be:
      painful joint count; swollen joint count; painful visual analogue scale (VAS 0-10); swollen
      VAS; activity disease VAS; measurement of grip strength and pinch with Jamar dynamometer and
      Preston Pinch Gauge; 28 joint Disease Activity Score (DAS 28); Stanford Health Assessment
      Questionnaire (HAQ); Cochin Hand Functional Scale (CHFS) and patient clinical evaluation. The
      level of statistical significance will be 5%.
    
  