
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Surgical myocardial revascularization (CABG) is an effective treatment for triple vessel and
      left main coronary artery disease used for thousands of patients annually in the United
      States. CABG certainly prolongs life, and data demonstrates that it improves functional
      status for the majority of patients. The intervention in this trial is based upon the
      outcomes of the investigators' first trial, which showed a benefit to maintaining mean
      intra-bypass mean arterial pressure (MAP) at 65 mm Hg in the high MAP group vs. 52 mm Hg in
      the low MAP group. Intra-bypass MAPs corrected for intervals less than full flow were 81 mm
      Hg for the high group and 59 mm Hg for the low MAP group. Cardiac and neurologic morbidity
      and mortality were 4.8 percent in the high MAP group versus 12.9 percent in the low MAP group
      (p=.026). All adverse outcomes were lower in the high MAP group (16.1 percent) than in the
      low MAP group (27.4 percent). Data from the previous study also suggests that outcomes may be
      further improved by maintaining intra-bypass MAP close to the patient's preoperative MAP.
      This is consistent with the investigators previous work in non-cardiac surgery, which shows
      that maintaining MAP within patient's usual autoregulatory range is associated with lower
      cardiac and renal complication rates. This study will determine whether refining the approach
      to hemodynamic management will further improve patient outcomes after coronary
      revascularization.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The First Clinical Study

      During the first three years of grant support, from August, 1991 to November, 1995, clinical
      research was conducted on a comparison of intraoperative high versus low mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) on outcomes after coronary artery bypass. In this study, 248 patients
      undergoing primary, nonemergency coronary bypass were randomized to either low (n = 124) or
      high (n = 124) mean arterial pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass. The impact of the mean
      arterial pressure strategies on the following outcomes was assessed: mortality, cardiac
      morbidity, neurologic morbidity, cognitive deterioration, and changes in quality of life. All
      patients were observed prospectively to six months after the operation. Results are described
      under the Results Section.

      Second Clinical Study

      The second clinical study under grant R01HL44719, began in December, 1995 and was a
      prospective trial of 412 patients who were evaluated pre-operatively, monitored
      intra-operatively and followed post-operatively according to a standardized surveillance
      protocol. Patients were randomized to two forms of hemodynamic management during
      cardiopulmonary bypass. In one group, the intra-operative mean arterial pressure (MAP) during
      bypass was maintained at 65 mm Hg (or 81 mm Hg at full flow), thus employing the most
      effective strategy from the investigators' first trial. In the second group, the
      intra-operative MAP was maintained at their pre-operative MAP (but below 90 mm Hg), a
      strategy supported by data from the first trial. The principal outcome was the occurrence of
      any one of the following: mortality at six months, major cardiopulmonary morbidity (i.e.,
      myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, cardiogenic shock or low flow state), cognitive
      complications (defined by a summary definition which included improvement and decline on
      neuropsychologic tests of memory, psychomotor/attention, and linguistic function), major
      neurologic complications (i.e., new focal deficits, such as hemiplegia, aphasia, cortical
      blindness) and significant deterioration in functional status at six months postoperatively.
      The long term objective was to preserve and further improve the quality of life after CABG.

      Although the study was described as a clinical trial, the Behavioral Medicine Study Section
      defined it as clinical research, not a NIH-defined Phase III trial.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  