
    
      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a safe and non-invasive brain stimulation
      technique. It uses a magnetic coil to stimulate brain tissue painlessly using only a magnet
      (no electrodes or electrical wires) in a procedure that does not involve any surgery or
      sedation. TMS is currently FDA approved to treat depression and migraines. Although this
      technology is applicable to many other brain conditions as well, it has not been
      systematically examined in individuals with "Chemo-brain". Chemo-brain or Post-Chemotherapy
      Cognitive Impairment (PCCI) is defined as cognitive changes including impairment of memory,
      learning, concentration, reasoning, executive function, attention and visuo visio-spatial
      skills that occur during or after chemotherapy treatment.

      In this study, investigators will:

        1. use high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of individuals' brains to determine
           precisely where to place the TMS magnetic coil in order to stimulate the target brain
           region based off their unique brain structure.

        2. use TMS to stimulate the target region of the brain.

        3. take high-resolution MRI pictures of the brain both baseline and post-TMS to study
           whether the brain activity of the target region changes as a result of the TMS
           stimulation.

        4. perform neuropsychological tasks baseline and post-TMS to study if performance is
           improved following stimulation of the target brain region.

        5. collect data from completing Frailty assessments, baseline and post-TMS.

        6. study the short-term and long-term treatment effects.

        7. collect subject's daily activity and sleep/wake patterns from watch style device
           (http://www.actigraphy.com/solutions/actiwatch/actiwatch-plus-specifications.html).

        8. perform behavioral assessments, baseline and post-TMS, to study whether there are
           measurable changes following stimulation of the target brain region.
    
  