
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the efficacy (progression free survival [PFS] and objective response rate [ORR])
      of combined immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy as treatment for relapsed small-cell lung
      cancer (SCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of antigen priming using radiation therapy (XRT) on the efficacy of
      immune checkpoint inhibitors.

      II. To determine immune related objective response rate.

      III. To estimate overall survival measured as time from randomization to death from any
      cause.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and programmed cell death 1 ligand 1
      (PD-L1)/programmed cell death 1 (PD1) expression in paired tumor biopsies at baseline, end of
      cycle 2 and at the time of progression.

      II. To determine dynamic changes in cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) and the
      immunophenotype of peripheral blood repertoire of circulating lymphocytes using
      multiparameter flow cytometry.

      III. To determine changes in circulating cytokine mediators of inflammation and immunity
      using Luminex assay.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving disease control may restart treatment upon evidence of
      progressive disease, with or without confirmation.

      ARM II: Patients undergo radiation therapy daily for 5 days over 1 week or for 3 fractions
      every other day for 1 week and then receive the same treatment as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  