
    
      1. Febrile neutropenia Febrile neutropenia is a serious side effect of cancer treatment.
      Febrile neutropenia predisposes to serious and sometimes life-threatening infections. Given
      the seriousness, the majority of febrile neutropenia patients are admitted to hospital for
      treatment with intravenous antibiotics. Thus, chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia can
      result in death, increased hospitalisations and intravenous antibiotic use. In addition, it
      can lead to significant chemotherapy dose modifications, which may theoretically be of
      concern for treatments with curative intent. Clearly, prevention of chemotherapy-induced
      febrile neutropenia is a medical priority.

      2 Prophylaxis of febrile neutropenia To prevent chemotherapy-related febrile neutropenia,
      prophylaxis with antibiotics and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) have proven
      efficacious [1-3]. The use of the G-CSF was shown to shorten the duration of neutropenia,
      resulting in reduction of the incidence of febrile neutropenia, hospitalisation and use of
      intravenous therapeutic antibiotics by approximately 50%. .Antibiotics may, however, lead to
      emergence of microbial resistance. G-CSF has only few side effects, but is expensive.
      Previous guidelines recommended primary G-CSF prophylaxis to prevent febrile neutropenia, but
      only for patients at substantial risk of febrile neutropenia (more than 40%). In 2006,
      updated G-CSF guidelines conclude that primary G-CSF prophylaxis has clinical benefits for
      and should be offered to patients at a more than 20% risk of febrile neutropenia.

      Most of the recent EORTC-reviewed evidence indicate that primary and secondary G-CSF
      prophylaxis had no significant impact on survival, despite the fact that G-CSF prophylaxis
      enabled to maintain chemotherapy dose and dose intensity. In the GEICAM 9805 study, primary
      G-CSF support did not lead to improved median dose intensity or cumulative dose when compared
      to secondary G-CSF prophylaxis, although the percentage of patients who completed six cycles
      of therapy increased significantly.

      3. Developments in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer After the introduction of taxanes
      in the treatment of advanced breast cancer in the late nineties, these agents have now also
      been introduced in the (neo) adjuvant setting. Many adjuvant trials with a positive outcome
      have recently been reported.

      Based on the available data with many positive and few negative trials, one can consider the
      use of taxanes as standard of care in the adjuvant setting in node-positive breast cancer,
      although the preferred schedule, concurrent or sequential, with or without
      dose-densification, needs to be clarified from ongoing trials.

      Martin et al. report on the results of a randomized adjuvant trial comparing TAC with FAC for
      high-risk N0 breast cancer patients, the GEICAM 9805 trial. Comparisons are reported for
      toxicity and quality of life. Only secondary G-CSF prophylaxis was allowed or even mandatory
      after an episode of febrile neutropenia. After a protocol amendment, patients in the TAC arm
      received primary G-CSF prophylaxis. So, in addition to the upfront planned comparison of TAC
      versus FAC, the unplanned comparison of TAC-pre versus TAC-post amendment is reported. This
      comparison is very interesting, as it is to our knowledge the first comparison of primary
      versus secondary G-CSF prophylaxis ever reported. The use of primary G-CSF prophylaxis
      significantly reduced the incidence of febrile neutropenia associated with TAC chemotherapy.
      The percentage of patients with febrile neutropenia in one or more cycles was 24.6% and 6.5%
      in TAC-pre and TAC-post, respectively. Of note, in the TAC-pre group 71.1% of patients had
      received secondary G-CSF prophylaxis during on average 4 cycles of treatment. In the FAC
      group, only 2.3% of patients had febrile neutropenia as per protocol definition.

      So, the combined use of anthracyclines and taxanes come with considerable increased risk of
      febrile neutropenia. Perez concluded in an editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine
      that on the basis of the available data, one can consider TAC (docetaxel, adriamycin,
      cyclophosphamide) to be a standard of care, as is the dose-dense regimen of doxorubicin and
      cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel, for patients with node-positive breast cancer. With
      this regimen, prophylactic growth-factor support is necessary to ameliorate myelosuppression
      and febrile neutropenia.

      4. Consequences for health care costs We have recently reported that, even for patients with
      a considerable risk of febrile neutropenia, primary G-CSF prophylaxis comes with considerable
      extra costs in the Netherlands: on average € 5,123 per patient who have a baseline risk of
      febrile neutropenia of 32%. The updated guidelines and changes in daily clinical practice
      will have a significant impact on our health care resources. In the Netherlands several
      thousands of patients with many tumour types will require primary G-CSF prophylaxis, leading
      to an cost increase of at least € 10-20 million per year.

      5. Rationale for the present study It has been demonstrated that there is a higher risk of
      febrile neutropenia for the first chemotherapy cycle compared to subsequent cycles in small
      cell lung cancer patients. Also in advanced breast cancer the majority of first observed
      episodes of febrile neutropenia occur in the initial chemotherapy cycles. With primary G-CSF
      prophylaxis the absolute neutrophil count nadir is less deep and of shorter duration in later
      cycles compared to the first cycle. This may suggests that there may be a priming effect of
      G-CSF to subsequent cycles, emphasizing that administration of G-CSF early in the course of
      treatment might be important.

      So, irrespective of tumour type or chemotherapy regimen, the risk of febrile neutropenia is
      highest during the first two cycles of chemotherapy. Thereafter, the risk rapidly declines,
      and the benefit of G-CSF largely seems to disappear.

      So, in order to improve the cost-effective administration of primary G-CSF prophylaxis, it is
      justified to assess whether G-CSF prophylaxis can be limited to the first two chemotherapy
      cycles as compared to the current practice of continuous G-CSF prophylaxis.
    
  