
    
      Major depression is an independent risk factor for incident cancer, recurrence and mortality.
      Women with chronic major depression exhibit a four-fold increased rate of incident breast
      cancer and a 39% higher mortality rate compared to non-depressed women with breast cancer.
      Although the precise biological mechanism linking depression with cancer progression remains
      unclear, elevated concentrations of systemic inflammatory biomarkers (e.g., pro-inflammatory
      cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) and associated cytokine proteins) have been independently
      associated with depression and cancer progression. In the context of breast cancer, secretion
      of tumor-derived cytokines is a known mechanism by which epithelial tumors are able to
      recruit immune cells (MDSCs). The presence of MDSCs at the primary tumor site favors tumor
      pathogenesis and correlates with more aggressive breast cancer subtypes. At the systemic
      level, increased levels of interleukin-6, circulating MDSCs, circulating tumor cells (CTCs)
      and inflammatory markers in the bloodstream of breast cancer patients are found to strongly
      correlate with poor prognosis.

      Medical conditions such as major depression are associated with increased levels of systemic
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, thereby creating a host environment that promotes cancer
      progression. Indeed, innate immune activation and chronic inflammation have been implicated
      in the pathogenesis of major depression and may account for the biological mechanism linking
      depression and cancer progression. Several studies have shown antidepressant treatment
      response attenuates and normalizes pro-inflammatory cytokine plasma levels in
      medically-healthy patients with depression. To date, only three randomized controlled
      antidepressant studies have been conducted in depressed women with breast cancer. Two studies
      found mainserin to be effective and superior to placebo, whereas paroxetine and desipramine
      were comparable to placebo. Notably, several randomized controlled trials in depressed breast
      cancer patients found psychotherapy to be an effective depression treatment. Moreover, these
      studies found psychotherapy significantly lengthened survival time in depressed breast cancer
      patients with metastatic disease. Remarkably, no randomized controlled trials have examined
      the impact of antidepressant medications on cancer survival.

      To date, there have been no randomized, placebo-controlled antidepressant studies in
      depressed women with breast cancer to investigate the impact of depression treatment on
      cognition and the inflammatory mediators that promote cancer progression. This study will
      explore the efficacy of vortioxetine on depression and cognition in women with breast cancer,
      and determine whether successful treatment of depression alters circulating cytokines, immune
      mediators, and circulating tumor cells, thus elucidating a possible mechanism to explain
      improved cancer outcome with effective antidepressant treatment. Given the disproportionately
      high rate of depression in women with breast cancer and its negative impact on cancer
      outcome, understanding the biological mechanism that drives this relationship is critical.
      This study may uncover novel immune-mediated mechanisms by which vortioxetine treatment
      ameliorates depression, enhances cognition, and influences cancer outcome.

      Primary Objective - To assess antidepressant efficacy of vortioxetine (VTX) treatment in
      women with major depressive disorder (MDD) who have completed curative treatment of Stage I,
      II or III breast cancer.

      Primary Endpoint Antidepressant efficacy will be assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating
      Scale-21 (HDRS-21) total score administered at specified time points. Antidepressant response
      is defined as a 50% reduction in baseline HDRS-21 total score, and treatment remission is
      defined as an HDRS-21 total score ≤7. Antidepressants will be deemed effective if the
      patient's depression does not worsen. A participant's depression will be classified as
      "worse" if a) the participant becomes suicidal or psychotic, b) their HAM-D score increases >
      18, or over a four-week period of time: c) the HAM-D score increases, and d) the CGI
      Improvement Rating has increased by at least one point. The definitions of antidepressant
      efficacy and worsening depression remain the same during Cycle 2.

      - Cognitive function will be assessed by Brief Assessment of Cognition in Affective Disorders
      (BAC-A) test battery with measures in: (1) list learning, (2) digit sequencing task, (3)
      token motor task, (4) verbal fluency, (5) tower of London test, (6) symbol coding, and (7)
      affective processing subtest. All BAC-A measures will be administered at specified time
      points, and the total composite z-scores will be compared to baseline total composite
      z-scores.
    
  