
    
      INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE:

      Coronary artery aneurysm is defined as coronary dilatation which exceeds the diameter of
      normal adjacent segments or the diameter of the patient's largest coronary vessel by 1.5
      times. Described by Bourgon, it is an uncommon disease which has been diagnosed with
      increasing frequency since the advent of coronary angiography. The incidence varies from 1.5%
      to 5% with male dominance and a predilection for the right coronary artery.

      Although several causes have been reported, atherosclerosis accounts for 50% of coronary
      aneurysms in adults. Reported complications include thrombosis and distal embolization,
      rupture and vasospasm, causing ischemia, heart failure or arrhythmias. The natural history
      and prognosis remains obscure, since definitive data are scarce. Controversies persist
      regarding the use of medical management (antithrombotic) or interventional/surgical
      procedures.

      OBJECTIVES.

      Taking into account the classical coronary aneurysm definition, the investigators propose:

        -  ANATOMIC OBJECTIVES.

             -  To characterize coronary aneurysms frequency over all cause invasive coronary
                angiography.

             -  To describe anatomy, location and aneurysms features.

             -  To assess intracoronary imaging data if available.

             -  To describe the natural history, when evolutive chats were available

        -  CLINICAL OBJECTIVES.

             -  Cause for the diagnostic catheterization and aneurysms symptoms, if present.

             -  Patient´s clinical features.

             -  Long-term outcomes.

        -  THERAPEUTIC OBJECTIVES.

             -  To assess management strategies, conservative, interventional or surgical and its
                short and long term results.

             -  Outcomes regarding management.

      DESIGN:

        -  Retrospective recruitment, prospective follow-up registry.

        -  Multicentric/international.

        -  Anonymized.

        -  Electronic database. Centralized analysis (core) at Hospital Clínico San Carlos.

        -  Recruitment: 1/january/2002-1/december/2015.
    
  