
    
      Based on the fact that a high incidence rate (14.2%) of rare tumor (incidence rate
      <2.5/100,000) as defined in this study according to the National Cancer Registry data from
      National Cancer Center of China, as well as the current status of lacking guidelines and
      consensus of rare tumor treatment. We proposed this study "A Phase II, open label,
      non-randomized, multiple-arm, single-center clinical trial in patients with advanced rare
      solid tumors who failed to standard treatment", aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      targeted drugs of specific tumor-driven genes in patients with advanced rare solid tumors
      with corresponding actionable alterations, as well as the safety and efficacy of immune
      checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitors in patients with advanced rare solid tumors without actionable
      alterations. Patients with advanced rare tumors who failed to standardized treatment carrying
      actionable alterations as "EGFR mutation (exon 19 deletion mutation, L858R replacement
      mutation), ALK gene fusion, ROS-1 gene fusion, C-MET gene amplification or mutation (D1010
      mutation, 14 exon mutation, y1003 mutation), BRAF mutation, CDKN2A mutation, BRCA1/2
      mutation, HER-2 mutation, HER-2 over expression/amplification, C-KIT mutation", will enroll
      targeted therapy arms and be given corresponding targeted drugs (Dacomitinib, Crizotinib).
      And patients without targeted alterations mentioned above will enroll PD-1 inhibitor arm and
      to be treated with Sintilimab. After acquired resistance patients treated with olaparib and
      palbociclib will receive combination treatment with durvalumab. After acquired resistance
      patients treated with vemurafenib will receive combination treatment with atezolizumab. The
      statistics of current study adopts Simon's two-stage Minimax design: In the first stage of
      clinical research, 12 subjects will be observed. If the number of CR + PR is less than 1, the
      trial will be terminated, otherwise, the group will continue to expand to 16 subjects.
      Therefore, in the first stage, there are 12*5/(1-10%)=54 patients of targeted treatment group
      and 126 patients in the immunotherapy group, 180 patients totally in the first stage. If they
      all enter the second stage, the final target treatment group is 16*5/(1-10%) = 72 patients
      and the immunotherapy group which has 168 patients which brings to a total of 240 patients.
      The sample size of the study shall be adjusted according to the interim analysis. Primary
      Endpoint of this study is objective response rate (ORR) in immunotherapy group and targeted
      therapy group assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) and investigator.
      Secondary Endpoints are Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the targeted treatment group
      assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review and investigator; PFS (RECIST 1.1) and iPFS
      (iRECIST) in the single drug immunotherapy group assessed by Blinded Independent Central
      Review and investigator; Duration of Response (DoR) in the targeted therapy and single
      immunotherapy groups assessed by the investigator; Durable Clinical Benefit (DCB) in the
      single drug immunotherapy group; Incidence of Adverse Events (AE) in subjects ect.
    
  