
    
      There will be two groups in this randomized control study: technology-enhanced group and
      usual care group. The total amount of subjects includes both the palliative care recipients
      and the family caregivers (both the patients and their family caregiver will sign informed
      consent.)

      A family caregiver is broadly defined as the person self-identified as the family member or
      unpaid friend who is the primary informal caregiver for a patient with a terminal illness.
      The family caregiver may or may not be a member of the patient's nuclear family.

      For the technology-enhanced group, the study nurse experienced in palliative care will have a
      visit with the caregiver within the first 24 hours after consent, and have daily visits with
      the caregiver as long as the patient is still in the hospital. During these visits, the nurse
      will talk to the caregiver about their own self-care needs, begin transitional care planning,
      and develop Readiness Plans to anticipate care giving needs the caregiver may have when they
      discharge from the hospital.

      For the technology-enhanced group, the caregiver will take an iPad home so that the study
      team nurse can video chat with them. The iPad will need to be returned upon completion of the
      study. The study nurse will have a video chat with the caregiver at home within 24-48 hours
      of discharge from the hospital, and at least weekly for 8 weeks after that. The caregiver and
      the study nurse may also decide to have other calls on the phone during this time.

      For the usual care group, doctors and nurses along with input from the Palliative Care
      service will help the caregiver make a plan for discharge from the hospital and for taking
      care of the patient upon discharge. Someone from the study team will call the caregiver once
      a month to check in for the 6 months after the patient discharges from the hospital.

      Both groups will be asked to complete questionnaires before starting the study, and then up
      to seven more times over the course of 6 months.
    
  