
    
      Primary Objectives Phase I: Determination of the MTD and dose-limiting toxicities of a
      stereotactic boost to chemoradiotherapy for stage II/III non-small cell lung cancer.

      Phase II: Two-year local control rate

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of a stereotactic boost to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  To determine the 2-year overall survival.

        -  To determine the 2-year disease-free survival.

        -  To determine the 2-year regional control rate.

        -  To characterize the change in pulmonary function tests over the first 2 years after
           chemoradiotherapy.

      Statistical Design The Phase I study followed a standard 3+3 dose escalation design. Three
      dose levels were evaluated. The DLT observation period was the 7-week chemoradiotherapy
      period and the subsequent 8-week recovery period.

      To better study the toxicity at the MTD of the stereotactic boost, there was a 10 patient
      expansion cohort.The primary endpoint of the phase II portion of the study was two-year local
      failure rate of the protocol treatment. Local failure was defined as biopsy-proven recurrent
      disease, or if a biopsy was not attainable, by increasing FDG-avidity on PET-CT on 2
      consecutive scans at least 1 month apart. Based on prior studies, a 2-year local failure rate
      of 15% would be worthy of further study, while a 2-year local failure rate of 35% would not
      justify further utilization of the treatment. With 32 eligible patients on this study, the
      treatment will be deemed promising if at least 25 patients are free of local failure at 2
      years. Using this design, there was an 8% probability of declaring the treatment worthy of
      further study if the true 2-year local failure rate was 35%, and a 90% probability of
      declaring the treatment worthy of further study if the true 2-year local failure rate was 15%
      by using a one-sided one-sample exact binomial test.
    
  