
    
      1. Evaluate the clinical efficacy of andrographolide 140 mg administered orally twice a day
           versus a placebo in:

             -  Delay in the disability capacity progression through the Expanded Disability Status
                Scale (EDSS) and Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC) at 24 months
                compared to the baseline.

             -  Delay in cognitive impairment by means of Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test
                (PASAT), Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) and depression (Beck) at 24 months
                compared to the baseline.

             -  Quality of life Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS 29) and fatigue (Krupp)
                through parameters reported by the patients at at 24 months compared to the
                baseline.

             -  Tolerability of andrographolide measured by the Treatment Satisfaction
                Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM) at 24 months.

             -  Delay in the decrease in brain volume measured by Magnetic Resonance (MR) at 24
                months compared to the baseline.

             -  Number and volume of new lesions or larger size in T2 by MR at 24 months compared
                to the baseline.

             -  Number of new hipointense lesions in T1 or (gadolinium captive) by MR at 24 months
                compared to the baseline.

             -  Delay in the retineal thinning measured by Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and
                visual field at 24 months compared to the baseline.

             -  Safety of andrographolide at 24 months through the record of adverse effects in
                symptom dairy and programmed interviews.

        2. Explore the pharmacokinetic of andrographolide 140 mg administered orally twice day in:

             -  bio availability and concentration of andrographolide in the patients with
                treatment.

             -  half-life, maximum concentration, clearance of andrographolide in equilibrium
                state.

        3. Determine the immunomodulatory effects of andrographolide 140 mg administered twice a
           day orally on lymphocyte populations in patients through the:

             -  Determination of Th1, Th2, Th17 and Treg lymphocyte sub-populations.

             -  Determination of cytokines IFNgama, TNFalpha, IL2, IL17alpha and TGFbeta.

      Population: adult patients, men and women with progressive forms of MS. The number of
      patients to be selected will be 68, to randomly assign 34 patients to each group.
    
  