
    
      Background: Impairments in social competence are among the most prevalent sequelae after
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). Without successful social skills a person is often isolated, in
      conflict with others, and denied access to social and vocational opportunities. The aim of
      this study is to determine the effectiveness of a manualized group treatment program to
      improve and maintain social competence for individuals with TBI with identified social skill
      deficits. The Group Interactive Structured Treatment (GIST) - Social Competence program is a
      holistic, dual-disciplinary intervention targeting the pervasive interpersonal and
      communication problems that often interfere with participation at work, home, school and in
      the community after TBI.

      Aims and Hypotheses: Aim 1: Measure the effectiveness of the GIST intervention with multisite
      implementation. Hypothesis 1a: Those receiving the GIST will demonstrate significant
      improvement in social competence, compared to those receiving the alternative treatment, as
      measured by the Profile of Pragmatic Impairment in Communication (PPIC). Hypothesis 1b:
      Compared to the alternative intervention, those receiving the GIST will maintain improvement
      in social competence at 3 months post-intervention, as measured by the PPIC. Hypothesis 1c:
      Compared to the alternative intervention, those receiving the GIST will demonstrate
      improvement in additional aspects related to social competence at 3 months post-intervention,
      as measured by the LaTrobe Communication Questionnaire, the Goal Attainment Scale, the Brief
      Symptom Inventory-18, and the Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Check List - Civilian version.
      Hypothesis 1d: Compared to the alternative intervention, those receiving the GIST will
      demonstrate improvement at 3 months post intervention in quality of life, as measured by the
      Satisfaction with Life Scale. Aim 2: Identify the potent ingredients associated with the
      GIST. Hypothesis 2a: FOr participants in the GIST intervention, higher group cohesion
      measured by the TFI: Cohesiveness Scale will be associated with improved social competence.
      Hypothesis 2b: Compared to the alternative intervention, those receiving the GIST will
      demonstrate stronger social self efficacy associated with improved social competence, as
      measured by the Scale of Perceived Self Efficacy.

      Study Design: This study uses a two-arm, multi-centered randomized controlled clinical trial
      design to compare the GIST treatment to an alternative treatment, in which participants are
      presented information from the GIST treatment program without the group process. A total of
      192 military, veteran and civilian participants with mild to moderate TBI will be enrolled by
      six centers. Measures will be collected at baseline, post-treatment, and 3 months
      post-treatment. Videotapes of participants will be evaluated for social competence by blinded
      independent raters, and progress on individualized social skills goals will be assessed.
      Replicable training of group leaders will include a 2 ½ day in-person workshop followed by
      feedback during a pilot of the intervention and alternative intervention. The fidelity of the
      intervention will be assessed by independent raters using a standardized instrument to ensure
      that the intervention is implemented consistently. Results of this study will be disseminated
      to relevant stakeholders via presentations and publications. By the end of this study, the
      field will have definitive evidence about the effectiveness of a group social competence
      intervention for people with TBI.

      Military Benefit: The proposed study has a high degree of relevance for returning OIF/OEF
      soldiers and veterans post-TBI due to the prevalence of social reintegration difficulties in
      this population. The GIST intervention has the potential to assist our soldiers and veterans
      in returning to full participation in their families, communities and productive activity.
    
  