
    
      The proposed project seeks to develop a maximally effective computer-delivered brief
      intervention (CDBI) for reducing heavy alcohol use. To accomplish this, we will use the
      Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST), an efficient method for optimizing intervention
      content, beginning with factorial designs evaluating main and interaction effects of specific
      intervention components. Our selection of components will be guided by: (a) Common Factors
      Theory, which highlights the tremendous contribution of non-specific factors, such as empathy
      and positive regard, to therapy outcomes, but which is of unknown relevance to CDBIs; and (b)
      Media Equation Theory, which suggests that people automatically respond to computers in
      social ways, particularly when those computers replicate human characteristics. To accomplish
      these goals, we will examine outcomes of computer-delivered brief interventions in which
      common factors (empathy & positive regard), use of a voice, and use of an animated narrator
      are systematically manipulated using a factorial design. We will also systematically
      manipulate the presence vs. absence of motivational content in order to examine possible
      interactions between common factors and specific motivational techniques. Participants will
      be 352 undergraduates who are randomly assigned to 1 of 16 intervention conditions. Mean
      drinks per day over the past 30 days will be measured at 1 and 3-month follow-ups. Secondary
      analyses will also examine past month heavy drinking days, alcohol-related consequences, and
      intention to reduce alcohol use. We hypothesize that there will be significant main effects
      for (1) the factor consistent with Common Factors Theory (empathy and positive regard), (2)
      the two factors consistent with Media Equation Theory (voice and narrator), and (3) the
      presence of motivational content. We further hypothesize that mean drinks/day will be lower
      when (1) the common factors (empathy, positive regard) are combined with a voice and/or
      narrator or (2) motivational content is combined with common factors and/or a voice/narrator.
    
  