
    
      Currently, because of its good track record, femoral nerve block is the modality of choice
      for post-operative pain control following elective anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction
      at our institution. It has been proven in the literature to provide good post-operative pain
      analgesia following this procedure (1). However, femoral nerve block is not without its
      concerns, including the concern for long-term quadriceps weakness (2). Benefits of decreased
      use of Femoral Nerve Block include the decreased incidence of side effects and/or
      complications, and use of quadriceps for immediate rehabilitation. Benefits of Adductor canal
      nerve block include possible equivalent pain control with the avoidance of motor
      de-innervation and its deleterious adverse effect of quadriceps weakness postoperatively.
      Adductor canal nerve block has proven to be effective in other orthopaedic procedures
      involving the knee including total knee arthroplasty (3). This results of this study will
      give more information on how to better control pain in the post-op period while minimizing
      the deleterious side effects for patients undergoing ACLreconstruction.

      All patients over the age of 16 undergoing primary or revision anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction with the use of bone-patellar-bone autograft are eligible for the study.
      Patients will be randomized pre-operatively to receive either an adductor canal nerve block
      (single injection) or a femoral nerve block (single injection). A single dose of 30 mL of
      0.25% marcaine is injected for femoral nerve block and 20 mL of 0.25% marcaine for Adductor
      Canal nerve block. These procedures will be performed by the attending anesthesiologist prior
      to surgery. After surgery the patient will record their pain levels using visual analog scale
      (VAS) score in a daily diary for the first 5 post-operative days. They will also record all
      medication requirements, both narcotic and non-narcotic analgesic medications. The patient
      will be tested on their ability to perform a straight leg raise in the post-anesthesia care
      unit (PACU) and at their first post-operative visit.
    
  