
    
      This is a Phase 1 randomized, double blinded, placebo-controlled, single dose and repeat dose
      escalation study to evaluate safety and tolerability, and PK of KDR2-2 in healthy volunteers.

      The trial will include a screening period, a treatment period, and a follow-up period of 7
      days for single dose escalation (SDE) or repeat dose escalation (RDE) after last
      administration. The screening period will be up to 28 days prior to investigational product
      administration. The screening process will initiate upon completion of the informed consent
      process. Once consent is provided by each participant, a thorough screening process will take
      place, including detailed medical history, physical examination and ophthalmology
      examination, vital signs, concomitant medications, safety labs, 12 lead electrocardiogram,
      serum pregnancy test, urinalysis, serology panel, assessment of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. Upon completion of the screening, qualified subjects will be randomized to KDR2-2
      or placebo (6:2 for SDE, or 8:2 for RDE). Each enrolled subject will receive one single or
      repeat assigned dose of KDR2-2 or placebo. The investigator and subjects will be blinded to
      treatment assignment. During the study, subjects will be evaluated for safety and
      tolerability, and PK of KDR2-2. In each cohort, a sentinel group of two subjects will be
      dosed first: one sentinel with KDR2-2, and the other with the placebo. The remaining subjects
      of the same cohort will be dosed at least 24 hours after sentinel dosing with approval from
      the principal investigator upon assessing the sentinel group.

      KDR2-2 or placebo will be topically administered in the right eye as a single or repeat
      instillation on Day 1. Subjects will have end-of-study (EOS) follow-up visits on Day 8 (±1)
      for SDE or Day 15 (±1) for RDE.

      The planned single dose levels are 0.03, 0.06, 0.12, and 0.24 mg/eye, and repeat dose levels
      are 0.06, 0.12, and 0.24 mg/eye, QID, × 6 days (one dose in the morning on Day 7). The
      Starting dose of KDR2-2 in repeat dose escalation stage will be at least 2 dose levels below
      the highest single dose level shown to be safe, for example, if 0.24 mg is proven to be safe
      during SDE, the starting dose during RDE will be 0.06 mg. Other higher dose level(s) might be
      optional based on emerging data from this study.
    
  