
    
      Background:

      Lymphedema is a chronic pathologic condition that causes significant functional impairment to
      the patient and has a great impact on his quality of life. It may be primary or secondary.
      Secondary lymphedema, that is the most common, is generally due to surgery and radiotherapy
      for cancer, particularly of the breast, uterus and prostate but can also occur after a
      trauma. Primary lymphedema can be congenital or begin at puberty, or more rarely after age
      35, in this case, often following a trigger event such as trauma or infection.

      There is no specific treatment for this highly disabling disease and patients must lifelong
      try to reduce edema and limit its progression by the use of elastic compression garments and
      with manual lymphatic drainage. Over the years several surgical approaches have been
      proposed, including more recently super microsurgical lymphatic-venous anastomosis (sLVA) to
      allow drainage of the lymph in the venous stream distal to the obstruction. sLVA is a
      minimally invasive procedure performed under local anesthesia with discharge the day after
      surgery. It requires an accurate visualization of the lymphatic vessels that are still
      functional. Lymphatic vessels are visualized with lymphography using a fluorescent dye,
      indocyanine green. In selected cases, magnetic resonance can also be useful. Small samples of
      the vessel selected to perform the LVA can easily be taken during surgery, formalin-fixed and
      paraffin-embedded for histologic and immunohistochemical studies without further discomfort
      or complications for the patient.

      Knowledge on the histopathological aspects of lymphedema is extremely limited, this study
      must therefore be considered an exploratory one, possibly intended to generate more
      hypotheses than to solve them. A better understanding of the physio-pathological mechanisms
      of lymphedema can lead to a more effective surgical approach and, in selected cases, even
      prevent its development with considerable advantages in terms of the patient's quality of
      life and also in reducing national health care system costs (direct costs arising from the
      need to undergo continuous physiotherapy and indirect costs due to disability, serious
      intercurrent infections requiring hospitalization and loss of work days).

      Primary purpose of the study is to evaluate the histopathologic features of the lymphatic
      vessels anastomosed with veins. The primary purpose will be divided in two phases: 1. on
      secondary lymphedema; 2. on primary lymphedema.

      Secondary purpose of the study is the correlation of histopathologic parameters with other
      clinical data: type of lymphedema (primary versus secondary), age of the patient, years from
      the onset of the disease, anatomic site of the anastomosis, morphologic characteristics of
      the vessel as assessed pre-operatively by lymphography and or magnetic resonance imaging.

      The acquired knowledge will be valuable to customize the approach to prevent and treat
      lymphedema. In particular, will help to:

        1. Select patients who can better benefit from sLVA and within them prioritize
           intervention.

        2. Select the lymphatic vessels that are more likely to give an efficient anastomosis with
           veins.

        3. Based on the comparison between the morphological features of lymphatic vessels of
           various parts of the limb affected by lymphedema, select the anatomical sites where
           efficient anastomosis are more likely to be achieved.

      Experimental design This is a single center, non commercial laboratory study to be performed
      on human biological material. Patients will be recruited with a consecutive participant
      sampling of all those who meet the eligibility criteria and are willing to provide informed
      consent. Samples of the lymphatic vessels to be anastomosed with veins will be taken at time
      of sLVA, this can be done without any inconvenience for the patient because the lymphatic
      vessels are often too long and a segment must be removed to perform the anastomosis. Usually
      during surgery 1-3 lymphatic vessels/patient are removed for technical reasons. These samples
      instead of being destroyed, will be transported to the laboratory of Prof. Elisabetta Weber
      where they will be formalin-fixed and paraffin embedded. Histologic and immunohistochemical
      studies will be performed on the obtained sections stained with appropriate markers and
      or/stains for the lymphatic endothelium (D2-40 and VEGFR-3) and of smooth muscle cells.
      Appropriate stains will be used to determine the relative proportions of smooth muscle cells
      and collagen fibers in the lymphatic wall. A morphometric analysis of data will be performed
      and data will be related with the clinical results obtained.

      All data will be statistically evaluated. As there are no previous experiences that allow to
      estimate the variability of the parameters in the study, it is not possible to hazard a
      formal analysis of the statistical power of the study. However, a sample of 25 patients
      should be sufficient to provide a first estimate of the variability of the parameters and
      inform future efficacy studies based on the hypothesis testing model tests (Tukey, 1977).
      Since the sample comprises two different types of lymphedema, primary and secondary, a
      minimum of 25 patients is required to have a sufficient number of patients for each of these
      two groups. It will not be difficult to find cases of secondary lymphedema, since it is very
      common (especially in industrialized countries, as a consequence of surgery and radiotherapy
      for cancer treatment), while it will be more difficult to find cases of primary lymphedema
      since this type of lymphedema is rare and often undiagnosed or misdiagnosed. Should the
      individual variability be considerable, it would be necessary to increase the number of
      patients. Finally, it should be noted that, given the small size of the samples (maximum of
      0.4mm diameter, 2-5mm in length), not all histological preparations will be successful.
      Therefore, the investigators believe it prudent to set a maximum number of samples of 200.

      The statistical analysis will make use, as well as of descriptive methods, of methods of
      comparison and correlation of parametric (Student t, linear correlation) or non-parametric
      (logistics analysis, chi-square, Spearman's rank correlation), in agreement to the features
      of the data distribution that will be found. The correlation between the time from onset of
      lymphedema and primary and secondary outcomes will be investigated with Cox proportional
      hazard model. Differences in outcome measures between recent (<1 year) and long standing
      lymphedema will be investigated using Generalized Linear Models using gaussian family and
      identity link. When more than one sample from the same patient is present, the patient will
      be included in the model as a random effect variable. A p value of 0.05 or less for a two
      tails distribution will be considered statistically significant. Data is presented as M ±
      robust SE All the analyses will be performed using Stata vers. 12 (Stata Corp, College
      Station, TX).

      Aim of the study:

      The aim is to better understand the pathogenetic aspects and pathophysiology of lymphedema
      (of which very little is known) and evaluate the structure of lymphatic vessel in relation to
      the stage of lymphedema, to optimize the choice of the lymphatic vessels better suited to
      achieve functioning anastomoses. The obtained data will be correlated with clinical outcome
      which will be evaluated with the following objective parameters: reduction in limb
      circumference measured at several points (hand, wrist, -5 cm from the elbow, elbow and +5 cm
      from the elbow; for leg: foot, ankle, -10 cm from the knee, the knee, to +10 cm from the
      knee); reduction/absence of episodes of lymphangitis; decreasing compression class of elastic
      compression garments. Subjective parameters will also be evaluated as indexes of the
      patient's life quality: reduction of discomfort, reduced sense of heaviness, ability to wear
      clothes more easily, improved social life.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles in the Declaration of
      Helsinki in its latest revision. Participation in the study will be subject to obtaining the
      free and informed consent.
    
  