
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterised by increased pulmonary vascular
      resistance (PVR) and elevation of pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) at rest, which rises
      markedly on exercise. Traditionally, exercise limitation had been attributed to impaired
      right ventricular (RV) function and an inability of the heart to increase stroke volume (SV)
      in response to exercise. Disease targeted therapy improves SV by reducing PVR and therefore
      afterload, with combination therapy being superior in this regard. Despite advances in
      medical therapy, most patients remain symptomatic on treatment. The 2014 UK PAH national
      audit demonstrates a 65% failure rate of monotherapy at 2 years. This lack of improvement in
      exercise tolerance suggests additional mechanisms other than poor SV are responsible for
      exercise limitation. There is consequently a need for new treatment strategies to improve
      morbidity and mortality in PAH.

      Over the past decade, it has been demonstrated that exercise training in PAH can improve
      exercise capacity and quality of life (QOL). Exercise training has been shown to result in
      more significant improvements in exercise capacity and QOL than the majority of
      pharmacological therapies, with reassuring safety and health economics. Currently, exercise
      therapy is not part of standard care in the UK and many other European countries. There are
      several unanswered questions that pose a barrier to its widespread implementation; these fall
      into three main domains:

      A. Relationship with drug therapy

      The standard of PAH care is moving towards combination therapy. In the previous studies
      assessing the effect of exercise therapy, over half of patients have been on monotherapy. No
      study has exclusively assessed the effect of exercise training in addition to optimal PAH
      therapy.

      B. Health care setting

      The strongest supporting evidence for exercise training as an effective therapy in PAH
      originates from a single centre in Germany, where there are long established, dedicated
      cardiopulmonary rehabilitation hospitals. These facilities do not exist in many other
      countries including the UK. It is unclear whether these results can be replicated outwith
      this robust rehabilitation infrastructure. Data from other centres utilising existing, less
      intensive outpatient rehabilitation programmes show less certain benefits

      C. Mechanistic information

      Limited data exist to explain the beneficial effects of exercise training in PAH. There are a
      number of pathophysiological and pathobiological processes in PAH that may impair the
      exercise response. These factors have not been studied in relation to the effect of exercise
      training. In order to best prescribe a PAH specific training programme, it is essential that
      the underlying mechanisms of improved exercise capacity are fully understood; this will
      dictate the content, duration and intensity of exercise. It is likely that it affects some or
      all of the factors listed below:

        1. Peripheral muscle structural and functional changes

           In idiopathic PAH (IPAH), there is a reduction in peripheral skeletal muscle
           capillarisation, oxidative enzyme capacity, shift in type I to II fibres, a higher
           potential for anaerobic capacity compared with aerobic capacity and reduced function and
           numbers of mitochondria. Importantly, these changes correlate with exercise capacity and
           are independent of the severity of pulmonary haemodynamics, suggesting a mechanism other
           than the atrophying affect of low cardiac output.

        2. Autonomic dysfunction

           A higher resting heart rate (HR), reduced heart rate recovery (HRR), reduced HR
           variability (HRV) and evidence of altered baroreceptor sensitivity (BRS) support
           autonomic dysfunction in PAH. These findings are independent of haemodynamic severity
           but correlate with peak oxygen uptake (VO2)

        3. Respiratory muscle strength

           Inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength are reduced in IPAH, independently of
           haemodynamic severity, leading to a reduced ventilatory capacity. Specific respiratory
           muscle training has been shown to be an important component in exercise training
           programmes.

        4. Direct myocardial effect

           In animal models, exercise training reduces RV hypertrophy and pulmonary artery
           remodelling, suggesting a direct effect on the pulmonary vasculature and myocardium.
           Exercise training in patients with stable PH on treatment improved cardiac index and
           reduced mPAP. In rats with stable monocrotaline induced PAH, exercise trained rats had
           increased capillary density in cardiomyocytes and improved exercise endurance compared
           with sedentary matched controls.

        5. Micro-RNAs (miRs)

           Systemic angiogenic defects contribute to skeletal muscle microcirculation rarefaction
           and exercise intolerance, independently of haemodynamic severity. Reduction in the
           expression of pro-angiogenic miR-126 in the skeletal muscle of humans with PAH
           correlates with capillary density and peak VO2 and is significantly reduced compared
           with healthy controls. In a PAH rat model, miR126 down regulation reduces capillary
           density and this correlates with exercise capacity. In health, change in expression of
           miRs such as miR-20a correlate with changes in VO2 following exercise training.

        6. Cytokines

      Inflammatory cytokines may contribute to proteolysis and damage contractile proteins involved
      in skeletal muscle function. Cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, IP-10 and monokine
      induced interferon-γ (MIG) are elevated in the serum of IPAH patients. In chronic
      thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), IP-10 negatively correlates with cardiac index
      and 6mwd. In left ventricular failure, cytokines such as TNF-alpha reduce with exercise
      training and correlate with improved exercise capacity.

      Currently no PAH specific exercise rehabilitation programme exists in the UK. A survey of
      patient willingness to participate in a program mirroring the successful protocol used in
      Germany was conducted at the Scottish National Centre for Pulmonary Hypertension. 224
      patients with PAH who matched the inclusion criteria of Grunig et al were contacted. 43%
      (97/224) responded to the survey, 61.9% (60/97) were interested in all components of the
      rehabilitation program. A further 11.3% (11/97) were interested in outpatient rehabilitation
      only. It is highly likely that such a program would be of benefit to the PAH population given
      the demand for it.

      Aims

        1. Demonstrate that exercise training can enhance exercise capacity and QOL when undertaken
           in addition to optimal therapy in PAH in a UK setting.

        2. Determine the mechanisms of exercise limitation and the factors that improve with
           training, assessing:

           i. Cardiac function ii. Peripheral muscle structure and function iii. Autonomic function
           iv. Respiratory muscle strength v. Inflammatory cytokines and miRNA

      Original hypothesis

        1. Supervised exercise training in patients with stable PAH improves exercise capacity,
           quality of life and right ventricular ejection fraction. This change occurs through
           improved RV function, enhanced skeletal and respiratory muscle strength and function and
           is associated with improvements in autonomic response.

        2. Exercise training affects the control mechanisms for skeletal muscle structure and
           function. Improvements are due to changes in the inflammatory cytokine profile and in
           expression of miRs associated with angiogenesis, myogenesis and inflammation.
    
  