
    
      This trial is designed to elicit the swallowability of two formulations of 200 mg tablets of
      etravirine (ETR). The trial will allow the assessment of the swallowability of the 200 mg
      uncoated tablet, the 200 mg film-coated tablet and make comparisons between these tablets and
      with the current commercially available 100 mg (uncoated) tablets. The trial will be
      performed in HIV-1 infected patients who are currently taking etravirine (ETR) at a total
      daily dose of 400 mg (four 100 mg tablets, as whole tablets orally) as part of an
      antiretroviral regimen with virologic suppression (< 50 copies/mL for at least three months).
      The trial includes only patients who are already taking etravirine since these patients will
      have pill taking experience and will also have experience with the commercially available 100
      mg tablet formulation. A minimum of 45 patients will be included in the trial to assure a
      sample representative of the HIV-1 infected population. Patients will be given a single dose
      of the etravirine (ETR) uncoated 200 mg tablet in the morning, and then complete a
      questionnaire related to that intake. Within 30 minutes, they will be administered the coated
      200 mg formulation, followed by a questionnaire. Assessments of the 200 mg tablets will be
      made in a single-blinded fashion. As the patient will be administered two 200mg tablets in
      the morning, he/she does not need to take an evening dose on the day of these assessments.
      The questionnaire will be used to assess swallowability of the 200 mg formulations and of
      their current 100 mg tablets, and will also evaluate patient preferences. Patients will be
      followed up for safety and tolerability for one week due to the short duration the patient
      will be on study treatment; it will be difficult to distinguish between Adverse Events (AEs)
      resulting from their current etravirine (ETR) intake (four 100 mg tablets) versus the study
      intake (two 200 mg tablets). A single dose of an etravirine uncoated 200 mg tablet in the
      morning, followed by completion of a questionnaire related to that intake. Within 30 minutes,
      patients will be administered the coated 200 mg formulation, again followed by a
      questionnaire. Maximum 2 weeks screening, 1 day treatment, 1 week follow up. Total duration
      of participation is 2 weeks maximum.
    
  