
    
      Cardiovascular disease, which is multifactorial and caused by complex interactions of genetic
      and environmental factors, represents the main cause of death all over the world. Traditional
      risk factors for coronary atherosclerosis include age, smoking, male gender, hypertension and
      diabetes. Newly defined risk factors such as hyper-homocysteine, elevated plasma levels of
      OxLDL and oxidative stress are also emerging.

      Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1) is the major receptor of
      oxidized low-density lipoproteins which regulates the growth of a variety of cells and is
      important in inflammation, atherosclerosis, oxidative stress, and tissue remodeling. LOX-1 is
      expressed in various cells, including endothelial cells, macrophages, and chondrocytes, and
      its expression is enhanced by proinflammatory cytokines. The LOX1 gene, also known as OLR1,
      is located on the chromosome 12p13.1-p12.3. The LOX1 protein is synthesized as a 40-kDa
      precursor protein and is composed of four domains: an extracellular lectin-like domain at the
      C-terminal, a connecting neck domain, a transmembrane domain, and an N-terminal cytoplasmic
      domain. Three single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs), namely, intron 4 (G→A), intron 5(T→G),
      and 3' UTR (T→C) in the LOX1 gene, have been previously reported. These polymorphisms have
      also been associated with CAD.

      Oxygen is a lifesaving drug. Giving oxygen to a patient with an impending clinical emergency
      has become knee-jerk reflex reaction of the clinician. Patient with AMI has compromised
      myocardial perfusion and event arises due to myocardial hypoxia. It appears quite logical and
      biologically plausible to give oxygen in such situations to improve the oxygenation of the
      ischemic myocardial tissue and decrease ischemic pain. On the other side, oxygen may be
      harmful with a mechanism such as the paradoxical effect of oxygen in decreasing coronary
      artery blood flow and increasing coronary vascular resistance due to increased oxygen free
      radicals. The investigators aimed to examine the association of the OLR1 gene with AMI or CAD
      in a novel, well-phenotyped, and homogenous, population and its correlation with oxygen
      therapy in these patients.
    
  