
    
      The oral cavity has been found to play an important role in monitoring the progression of HIV
      infection. The occurrence of specific lesions, mainly oral candidiasis and hairy leukoplakia,
      is strongly associated with a low CD4 cell count and a higher plasma viral load. Furthermore,
      even though the prevalence of specific oral lesions like candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, and
      Kaposi sarcoma (KS) has been found to be lower among patients on highly active antiretroviral
      therapy (HAART), other oral lesions such as warts have been found to be more prevalent in
      this population. In addition, saliva has been shown to harbor viral particles, antibodies,
      and cytokines, and may represent an easily and noninvasively collected specimen for various
      diagnostic assays, including early diagnosis of HIV. The purpose of this study is to
      establish a set of standardized practices for examining and diagnosing oral mucosal lesions
      and to establish a correlation between the amount of HIV found in the saliva with viral load.

      Participants in this study will attend only one screening visit and study visit and will be
      assigned to one of four groups based on viral load and CD4 count. Group A will consist of
      participants who have a CD4 count of 200 cells/mm3 or less and a viral load greater than 1000
      copies/ml. Group B will be made up of participants who have a CD4 count of 200 cells/mm3 or
      less and a viral load of 1000 copies/ml or less. Group C participants will have a CD4 count
      that is greater than 200 cells/mm3 and a viral load that is greater than 1000 copies/ml.
      Participants making up Group D will have a CD4 count that is greater than 200 cells/mm3 and a
      viral load that is 1000 copies/ml or less.

      All participants will have a medical history taken and blood collected as well as performing
      a throat wash collection and whole saliva collection. In addition, two oral exams will be
      performed at the study visit.
    
  