
    
      This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study intending to enroll 118 CF
      subjects aged 13 years of age or older who have high risk prediabetes. High risk prediabetes
      was defined during the screening visit by performing an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)
      and finding that the fasting plasma glucose level is between 110-125 mg/dl and/or the 2-hour
      plasma glucose level is between 140 and 199 mg/dl. Upon enrollment, subjects were randomized
      to receive either sitagliptin or placebo. Each subject was to be followed for 15 months to
      determine if sitagliptin prevented the conversion to frank diabetes.

      The following was to be done at enrollment and every 6 months: an OGTT with collection of
      blood at 0, 1/2, and 2 hours for measurement of glucose and insulin in order to determine
      progression of glucose intolerance; collection of blood at time 0 and 2 hours during the OGTT
      and measurement of systemic redox status, oxidative stress, and degree of inflammation to
      determine the degree of basal oxidative stress and inflammation as well as the degree of
      hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress and inflammation; collection of exhaled breath
      condensate in a subset of subjects at selected sites at time 0 and 2 hours during the OGTT
      and measurement of airway redox status, degree of inflammation, and glucose levels to
      determine basal respiratory tract redox status and inflammation, the degree of
      hyperglycemia-induced changes in redox status and inflammation, and correlation between
      plasma and airway glucose levels; collection of blood to determine safety of the study
      medication (liver and renal function, complete blood count, electrolyte concentrations); and
      determination of progression of lung disease as defined by the number of respiratory
      exacerbations severe enough to require hospitalization and the rate of decline in lung
      function.

      The results of two OGTTs performed at least one week apart was used to determine whether the
      subject had converted from high risk prediabetes to frank diabetes (primary objective).
      Conversion to CFRD was defined when both OGTTs were abnormal (abnormal is defined as a
      fasting plasma glucose level greater than 125 mg/dl and/or a 2 hour glucose level greater
      than 199 mg/dl). The results of measures of redox balance, oxidant stress and inflammation
      (secondary objectives) would provide biologic plausibility to our concept on the mechanism of
      action of sitagliptin in preventing the development of CF diabetes.

      Hemoglobin-specific A1c fraction (HbA1c) was to be measured half-way between the 6-monthly
      visits and a rise of more than 0.5% from the enrollment value would result in two OGTT tests
      done at least one week apart to determine if diabetes has developed. At these interval study
      visits, blood was also collected to assess the safety of the study drug and, if the subject
      was female, to determine if pregnancy had occurred.

      In the event that diabetes did develop, the study drug (or placebo) was to be stopped and the
      subject would have completed the study.

      In summary, this was a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to determine whether
      sitagliptin prevents the conversion of CF subjects with high-risk prediabetes to frank
      diabetes. If successful, this would be the first treatment modality available to prevent the
      development of CFRD, a serious and life shortening complication of CF. Unfortunately, the
      study sites were unable to achieve enrollment targets and the study was prematurely
      terminated March 31, 2017 because of low enrollment. For those subjects enrolled in the
      study, there was no safety concerns. Data are currently being analyzed for the subjects that
      were enrolled.
    
  