
    
      This pilot study aims to systematically obtain pilot data on compliance and efficacy as well
      as performing power analysis and sample size calculation for developing it into a randomized
      controlled trial for extramural funding purposes. Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of an
      alternative dance and gaming based cognitive-motor virtual reality therapy to that of a
      conventional rehabilitation in a clinical setting to improve physical and cognitive function
      of healthy adults and neurologically impaired community-dwelling individuals under both short
      duration high intensity and long duration intervention paradigm. The primary safety outcome
      would be the proportion of patients experiencing intervention-related adverse events during
      the study period. The primary feasibility outcome would be the total time receiving
      intervention (i.e. compliance). Motivation index found to correlate highly with compliance
      will be evaluated by the self-report Intrinsic Motivational Inventory and serve as the
      secondary factor. The primary efficacy outcome measures to determine improvements in physical
      function would incorporate main domains: Sensorimotor impairment and function (upper and
      lower extremity), balance control and fall-risk, cognition, cardiovascular function, and
      community participation and integration administered pre and post intervention (details in
      methods). Hypothesis 1: Investigators hypothesize that alternative dance and gaming based
      cognitive-motor virtual reality therapy and perturbation training would show greater efficacy
      through improvement in main domains of physical function (sensorimotor, balance control,
      cognition, fall-risk, and cardiovascular function) compared to the conventional balance
      training. Aim 2: To determine the compliance and gains in community participation and
      integration following gaming based virtual reality intervention. Hypothesis 2: With same
      number of sessions of both types of training, investigators hypothesize that virtual reality
      based interventions would show better compliance to therapy through better score on Intrinsic
      Motivational Inventory (IMI) than the conventional therapy. Higher IMI scores in this virtual
      reality intervention group will be positively correlated with the improvements in quality of
      life (Motor Activity Log), Community integration (CIQ) and Fall-risk reduction (Falls
      Efficacy and Activities-specific balance confidence scales).

      Aim 3: To compare the compliance and effect of a short duration high intensity training (20
      sessions over 6 weeks) with a low intensity longer duration (36 sessions over 12 weeks)
      balance training for the two types of interventions. Hypothesis 3: It is hypothesized that
      for both types of interventions, short duration high intensity training will be as effective
      for improvement in physical function as longer duration low intensity training. However, the
      compliance of short duration training would be greater (higher IMI score) compared to the
      longer duration training.
    
  