
    
      E-cigarette use is increasing rapidly in the United States, especially amongst youth,
      underscoring the vital need to improve understanding of its health risks. Relevant data could
      inform policy, guide public health and clinical intervention efforts, and inform individuals
      who might use or who are using this product. This research will significantly enhance the
      understanding of the possible health effects of e-cigarette use by relating the acute and
      long-term use of e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes ("products") to well-validated
      cardiovascular and pulmonary disease biomarkers. 3 different "use-groups" of participants
      will be enrolled: exclusive e-cigarette users (n=110), exclusive cigarette smokers (n=110),
      dual product users (who both smoke and vape: n=110) and a "control" group of never-users
      (n=110). These groups reflect the primary decisions that people can make regarding their
      future tobacco use: to continue to smoke cigarettes, to switch to e-cigarettes, to use both
      cigarettes and e-cigarettes, or to avoid tobacco use entirely. It is essential that smokers
      and health care providers have accurate information on the health effect of these choices.

      [Additionally,100 participants will be invited to be part of an epigenetics sub-study (50
      E-cig users, 25 smokers and 25 controls), prior to smoking, an additional 16 ml of blood will
      be collected in Vacutainer CPTTM cell separation tubes for PBMC Isolation containing sodium
      citrate.]

      Product use will be related to well-validated biomarkers that sensitively and reproducibly
      reflect mechanisms, injury, and/or future risk related to cardiovascular or pulmonary
      disease. Biomarkers will be related to: 1) acute product use in the laboratory (exposure
      challenges), 2) lifetime history of product use, and/or 3) real-time measures of product use
      in participants' daily lives. The primary cardiovascular biomarkers are brachial artery
      flow-mediated dilation (a measure of endothelial function) and carotid intima-media
      thickness, a measure of subclinical arterial injury and atherosclerosis. The primary
      pulmonary disease biomarkers will be measures of lung volumes and flow rates (FEV1, FVC,
      FEV1/FVC, FEF25-75) obtained by spirometry. Treadmill exercise stress testing will be
      performed (to assess aerobic fitness), electrocardiography (to measure heart rate
      variability, HRV), and measure heart rate, blood pressure, lipids, HgbA1c, and
      inflammation/oxidation markers (leukocyte count, C-reactive protein, urinary F2 isoprostanes
      and exhaled nitric oxide). This research will show how product use-groups differ in response
      to acute product use and long-term use as they are related to key cardiovascular and
      pulmonary biomarkers. Objective measures of product use include exhaled CO and plasma
      nicotine/cotinine and urinary nicotine/cotinine concentrations. History of product use within
      use-groups will be related to biomarker status.

      The proposed research will yield vital and comprehensive data regarding product use,
      subclinical arterial injury, atherosclerosis burden, arterial and pulmonary function, cardiac
      and aerobic fitness, cardiac autonomic regulation, systemic and pulmonary inflammation, and
      oxidative stress, as well as other key outcomes. These data will serve as a foundation for
      future longitudinal investigations of e-cigarette health effects and will inform public
      policy decisions, clinical intervention, and patient guidance regarding e-cigarettes.
    
  