
    
      Eligible consenting patients will be randomly assigned to either of the 2 treatment arms
      using a computer-generated randomization sequence. Treatment arms: 1) Intervention group,
      treated with inhalation of a mixture of NO 80 ppm and oxygen; or, 2) Control group,
      inhalation oxygen and nitrogen (placebo). In both groups, oxygen will be administered at the
      minimal FiO2 required to maintain arterial oxygen saturation determined by pulse oxymetry
      >97%. Inhalation treatment will be given throughout the angioplasty procedure via a reservoir
      face mask and a dedicated respiratory circuit. Nitric oxide will be delivered using an
      FDA-approved device marketed in Israel under license by the Ministry of Health. The device is
      in routine clinical use in intensive care units, neonatal care units, and catheterization
      laboratories. An NO-level detector will be employed in the catheterization laboratory to
      monitor the ambient NO exposure of the staff.

      Upon arrival in the catheterization laboratory, a 40 ml blood sample will be obtained for a
      full chemistry panel, lipid levels, complete blood count. Creatine kinase, creatine kinase MB
      fraction, and troponin I will be measured at baseline and every 4 hours following the
      angioplasty procedure during the first 24 hours, and then every 6 hours during the second and
      third days, and as clinically indicated thereafter.Methemoglobin levels will be measured at
      baseline, every 30 minutes throughout the interventional procedure, at procedure completion,
      and at 4 hours post procedure.

      All patients will undergo diagnostic angiography and interventional procedures as per
      standard clinical practice. Post procedural pharmacotherapy, sheath removal, and deployment
      of hemostatic devices will be left to the discretion of the attending physicians.

      Following treatment in the catheterization laboratory, medical treatment throughout
      hospitalization and recommendations for therapy after discharge will be left to the
      discretion of the attending cardiologists managing patient care on the hospital wards. These
      cardiologists will be blinded to the patient randomization status.
    
  