
    
      Ingrown toenails are common among adolescents and young adults with the big toe being the
      most commonly affected. The exact incidence is unknown. An ingrown toenail occurs when the
      nail traumatizes the surrounding skin, resulting in swelling, infection, and the generation
      of granulation tissue. This cycle causes the nail to embed itself even further into the
      surrounding tissues, leading to additional swelling and infection.

      Many treatments have been proposed for this condition. Non-surgical options include soaking,
      wearing loose shoes, antibiotics, and specialized braces. While these treatments often
      provide short-term symptomatic relief, many people with ingrown toenails eventually need
      surgery. The most common surgical treatment is a wedge excision (removal of the ingrown part
      of the nail). Most clinicians perform a partial matricectomy at the same time (destruction of
      part of the underlying nailbed with chemicals or surgical instruments). This prevents
      recurrence (where the toenail becomes ingrown again). The rate of recurrence with the wedge
      excision and matricectomy is reported to be 12-50%.

      An alternative surgical technique is the Vandenbos procedure, where the skinfold is excised
      and allowed to heal by secondary intention over a period of approximately 6 weeks. This
      approach theoretically involves more pain, a higher risk of post-operative bleeding (because
      it is initially an open wound), and a longer recovery time. Proponents of this technique
      argue that these short-term morbidities are justified given the low rate of recurrence and
      excellent long-term results.

      The original case series published by Vandenbos in 1959 found a recurrence rate of 0%. Two
      recent case series published by doctors from Ontario reported the same finding, but it was
      unclear how many patients in their series were lost to follow-up. Other studies have reported
      positive results but with a recurrence rate of 7-20%. Thus, the true effectiveness of this
      procedure remains unclear. Furthermore, there is no high quality evidence to support one
      technique over the other. Even a recent Cochrane review of 24 randomized controlled trials
      could not reach any definitive conclusions as to which procedure (among other surgical
      options) is the most effective. Previous trials show significant heterogeneity and none have
      assessed the Vandenbos procedure specifically. As a result, many clinicians continue to use
      the wedge excision and matricectomy.
    
  