
    
      Study design: Randomized phase-2, open label superiority study of the use of ADT combined
      with second line hormonal or chemotherapy in men with advanced prostate cancer and
      pre-existing cardiovascular risks.

      Study population: Subjects with pre-existing cardiovascular risk with locally advanced or
      metastatic prostate cancer and scheduled to start ADT in combination with either second line
      hormonal or chemotherapy. We will exclude patients with use of ADT 6 months prior to
      randomization.

      Intervention- Two initial loading doses of 120mg Degarelix for 1 month followed by 80mg
      monthly for eleven additional months.

      Control- GnRH agonist at the discretion of the treating Urologist/Oncologist for 1 year.

      Study Time line- The intervention phase will be for one year. During this year, follow-up
      visits will occur every 3 months. At each visit, we will assess the occurrence of
      cardiac-related events. In addition, Protein-specific Antigen (PSA) test will be performed
      each visit. At baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months cardiac biomarkers and lab measurements will be
      taken. Echocardiogram will be performed at baseline, 6, 9 and 12 months. In addition,
      cardio-vascular related events and hospitalizations will be monitored for additional 5 years.

      Primary endpoint: To compare time to first cardiovascular event of patients with advanced
      prostate cancer treated for one year with Degarelix vs. GnRH agonist. This will be a
      composite outcome composed of: Death, Cerebrovascular accident (CVA), Myocardial infarction
      (MI), Transient ischemic attack (TIA), cardiac emergency room visits, heart catheterization.

      Secondary endpoints: To compare time to first major adverse cardiovascular and
      cerebrovascular event (MACCE)- (Death, CVA, MI, heart catheterization with stent) as
      estimated by the cumulated probability at the 1-year timepoint of patients with advanced
      prostate cancer treated for one year with Degarelix vs. LHRH agonist. To compare
      cardiovascular biomarker levels of patients with advanced prostate cancer treated with
      Degarelix vs. GnRH agonist. To compare change in cardiac function as measured by
      Echocardiography in 6,9 and 12 months.

      Study impact- This study has the potential to cause a paradigm shift. If we indeed
      demonstrate that Degarelix is associated with less cardiovascular toxicity with clinical
      significance, we expect that most urologist, as well as patients, will prefer Degarelix over
      all other ADT.
    
  