
    
      Visceral leishmaniasis is a potentially fatal disease caused in South America by the
      protozoan Leishmania chagasi. In neighborhoods with high exposure rates, the outcome of human
      infection with L. chagasi ranges from asymptomatic to a disseminated wasting disease called
      visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Several studies document familial clustering of VL in
      populations at risk. Segregation analyses favor a genetic over an environmental model for
      susceptibility to L. chagasi infection. A peri-urban outbreak of VL near the Universidade
      Federal do Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN) in Natal, northeast Brazil, has allowed us to identify
      endemic neighborhoods with ongoing transmission of L. chagasi infection. Natal is ideal for
      this study because endemic neighborhoods are easily accessible, people are motivated to
      cooperate with measures to control VL, and other forms of leishmaniasis are not transmitted
      in the region. Dr. Jeronimo of the UFRN, and Dr. Mary Wilson at University of Iowa have
      collected clinical data and DNA from 400 VL families living in these endemic neighborhoods.
      We have created an unprecedented cohort through which we can identify four distinct
      phenotypic responses after L. chagasi exposure. We documented familial clustering of L.
      chagasi infection, and results of both correlation and segregation analyses are consistent
      with the hypothesis that genetic factors predispose, in part, to the diverse clinical
      outcomes after infection. Polymorphism in the TNF locus is associated with developing
      symptomatic as opposed to asymptomatic disease after infection. We recently completed a
      genome-wide scan of the quantitative immune response (DTH) and identified potential linkage
      regions on chromosomes 2, 13, 15 and 19. We have also identified a small linkage peak on
      chromosome 9 for VL. In our ongoing study, we will next perform fine mapping of these regions
      using dense SNPs to identify genes that may determine susceptibility to L. chagasi infection.
      Additionally, we will also analyze candidate genes for association/linkage with
      susceptibility to or protection from L. chagasi disease. We recently identified an
      association on chromosome 5 with the DTH immune response among two linkage disequilibrium
      blocks spanning multiple immune related genes.
    
  