
    
      Diabetes can produce complications including the inability for wounds to heal despite
      participating in a traditional wound care therapy program.

      At times of reduced tissue oxygen, such as when circulation is decreased, there is anecdotal
      evidence that pulsed IV insulin (by enabling the production of energy from glucose) may
      permit heart, skeletal muscle, skin, and other organs to function more normally and even to
      repair damage and heal. By tracking the progress in diabetic patients that have failed
      traditional wound care therapy who are monitored by their podiatrist or other health care
      professional to objectively determine the effect of pulsatile IV therapy on the rate of
      healing.

      Independent evaluation of the wound is provided including visual examination, pictures and
      measurements on a weekly to bi-weekly basis.

      Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5 minutes after a rest period of 30 or more minutes.
      The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The
      physiologic range is 0.7 to1.3. Individuals using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7,
      protein or mixed fuels is 0.8-0.9 and carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive
      calories will have RQ's higher than 1.05. The RQ can be followed serially and this is done
      before and after each pulsatile IV insulin treatment, during the 3 successive sessions on a
      single treatment day. The amount of intravenous insulin and oral glucose given is determined
      by the RQ changes during the previous session. Pulsatile IV insulin therapy encourages the
      glucose metabolism in diabetics to normalize in multiple organs, especially muscle, retina,
      liver, kidney and nerve endings. The process fundamentally requires the administration of
      high dose insulin pulses similar to those found in non diabetic humans by their pancreas into
      the surrounding portal circulation. Oral carbohydrates are given simultaneously to augment
      the process and prevent hypoglycemia. The process is monitored by frequent glucose levels and
      respiratory quotients (RQ). RQ is measured by a metabolic cart which determines the ratio
      VCO2/ VO2. This ratio is specific for the fuel used at any one time by the body. The glucose
      levels are monitored to keep glucose levels appropriate and the RQ determines the need to
      readjust the infusion protocol in each patient for subsequent insulin infusion
      sessions.Patient is evaluated post session and discharged when stable.

      Frequent monitoring of RQ is necessary as these levels change rapidly, depending on the fuel
      being utilized by the body. Pulsatile IV insulin therapy shifts metabolism from primarily
      fatty acid metabolism to primarily glucose metabolism. This shift is reflected by the
      increase in respiratory quotient. However during rest periods the RQ may fall back to lower
      levels. Therefore RQ's are done at the beginning and at the end of each insulin infusion
      session of 1 hour in order to appropriately monitor and adjust insulin and carbohydrate loads
      to reach optimal activation in each session
    
  