
    
      1. The first arm of this study serves to provide expanded access to 11C-choline injection
           as currently defined under the reference listed drug label as an investigational drug in
           geographical service areas where 11C-choline is not available. The second arm expands
           access as well but also attempts to determine the more effective imaging modality and
           conditions between PET/CT and PET/MR.

        2. The study will consist of patients who have a biochemical relapse or other evidence of
           relapse after primary treatment. The first arm of the study is open to as many patients
           who elect to participate in the study that are over the age of 18 and have experienced a
           biochemical relapse of prostate cancer after primary treatment. The second arm will
           consist of patients who have been treated with radiation therapy, or androgen
           suppression and radiation therapy who have a PSA > 2 ng/mL higher than the nadir level.
           The nadir level in patients who have been treated with androgen suppression and
           radiation therapy is determined after the serum testosterone level has normalized. This
           study group will also consist of patients who have been treated with radical
           prostatectomy and who have a biochemical relapse defined as a PSA of 0.2 ng/mL confirmed
           at that level or higher on a subsequent PSA test 3 months later. This group may consist
           of men who have other clinical evidence of relapse such as a suspicious bone scan or CT
           scan regardless of PSA kinetics. Patients identified as potential subjects will be
           screened against the eligibility criteria as defined above in Section 5.1.

        3. Informed consent will be obtained from all participants before any study related
           procedures are conducted. Each participant will be informed about the nature of the
           study, its purpose, and possible risks. Informed consent will be documented by using the
           written informed consent document approved by the local IRB at the Decatur Memorial
           Hospital.

        4. At the time of referral, patients will be asked to bring their prior records as it
           pertains to their prostate cancer history. Data collected from outside records, such as
           radiographic studies, previous imaging studies and biopsies will be incorporated into
           the study record.

        5. Abstracted data for the study record will include:

             1. Patient demographics such as age, race, and family history of prostate cancer

             2. Risk factors such as finasteride or dutasteride use, and environmental exposure
                (eg. Agent orange)

             3. Prostate exam results, most recent within last 90 days

             4. PSA test results, most current and past

             5. Past medical and surgical history

             6. Current medications

             7. Allergies

             8. Pathology reports

             9. Imaging reports

            10. Date of diagnosis

            11. Date(s) of biochemical relapse and coordinating PSA results. Once all records have
                been assessed for eligibility, an order for the 11C-choline PET CT scan and MRI
                scan will be requested from the referring physician and patient will be scheduled
                and given the appropriate prep instructions.

        6. Both arms of the study will undergo a 11C-choline PET CT scan and MRI scan. The CT scan
           will be performed with intravenous contrast unless deemed unsafe by lab values. The CT
           and MRI images will be evaluated for evidence of metastatic prostate cancer. The
           11C-choline PET CT and MRI images will be evaluated for evidence of metastatic prostate
           cancer. Unequivocal evidence of metastasis on both conventional imaging and 11C-choline
           PET will be considered a true positive. Evidence of metastasis on conventional imaging
           or 11C-choline PET will be confirmed with biopsy or surgical pathology when possible, or
           by response to treatment on subsequent imaging. If confirmation of metastasis is not
           achievable by biopsy or surgical pathology, then confirmation will be achieved with
           11C-choline PET CT and MRI images obtained 3 months after treatment conclusion. Rates of
           confirmed metastasis between conventional CT and MRI images will be compared with the
           11C-choline PET CT and MRI images.

        7. Upon conclusion of each imaging protocol, the referring physician will receive written
           documentation of the results. At this time, the patient will be considered off study and
           no further follow up is required.
    
  