
    
      Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) can both facilitate and hinder adherence in patients
      with diabetes mellitus (DM). Readings provide real-time information on hypoglycemic and
      hyperglycemic excursions. These data are crucial to successfully managing this disease, as
      SMBG can help guide decisions on titrating medications, and can potentially encourage patient
      engagement. There are drawbacks. Piercing the skin to check glucose up to several times a day
      can be uncomfortable and obtrusive for a patient with DM. SMBG offers only a snapshot of the
      patient's glucose at the time of testing.

      Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) can reveal glucose trends. A subcutaneous sensor
      transmits interstitial glucose readings approximately every five minutes. Yet, sensor
      insertion requires a needle. Patients still must test SMBG about 4 times per day to calibrate
      the CGM sensor. This modality is less accurate with low or rapidly rising glucose. CGM is
      also not widely available, due to cost and insurance issues. A non-invasive glucose monitor,
      the GlucoWatch, was discontinued due to problems with accuracy and tolerability.

      Compounding these challenges is the surging number of individuals with DM. Every 19 seconds,
      an American 20 years of age or older is diagnosed with DM. If current trends continue, 1 in 3
      Americans could have DM by 2050.

      There is thus an unmet need for a non-invasive glucose monitoring device. UCSD nanoengineers
      developed a flexible, ultra-thin sensor adherent to the skin, similar to a temporary tattoo.
      Preliminary data from seven individuals without DM demonstrated correlation between glucose
      measurements from this sensor and a glucometer. Evaluating this sensor in patients with DM
      will be critical: while hour-to-hour blood glucose fluctuates approximately 50% throughout
      the day in those without DM, it may vary up to 10-fold in patients with DM. This study would
      be the first to examine this sensor in individuals with DM. The investigators hypothesize
      that compared with a glucometer, a tattoo sensor can accurately measure glucose in patients
      with DM.
    
  