
    
      Background and Significance: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use disorder
      (SUD) comorbidity is common. The Veterans Affairs (VA)/Department of Defense Clinical
      Practice Guideline for PTSD strongly recommends providing guideline-concurrent care for PTSD
      alongside SUD treatment, but there is insufficient evidence about which guideline-recommended
      treatments for PTSD work best in this population. Trauma-focused therapy (TFT) is a frontline
      treatment approach; yet its effectiveness is less well-established among patients with
      co-occurring SUD, and TFT dropout rates are uniquely high in this population. Multiple
      guidelines suggest non-trauma-focused treatment (NTFT) as a second-line treatment approach
      for PTSD; higher completion rates for some NTFT (e.g., Present Centered Therapy) may make
      this strategy particularly effective for those with comorbid SUD. Despite providers' desire
      for an NTFT option for patients with PTSD/SUD, no guideline-recommended NTFTs have been
      evaluated in those with the comorbidity

      Study Aims: Our long-term objective is to improve the lives of patients with co-occurring
      PTSD and SUD. To meet this objective, we will conduct a pragmatic randomized clinical trial
      that will yield decisive data regarding the comparative effectiveness of two evidence-based
      approaches for the treatment of PTSD in this understudied patient population: trauma-focused
      and non-trauma-focused psychotherapy. The major aims are: (1) Determine whether TFT differs
      at a clinically-meaningful magnitude from NTFT in its effects on posttreatment PTSD symptoms
      among patients with co-occurring PTSD and SUD (2) Determine whether patients with
      co-occurring PTSD and SUD randomized to TFT drop out of PTSD treatment more often than those
      randomized to NTFT, and (3) Determine if TFT differs at a clinically-meaningful level from
      NTFT in PTSD symptom reduction and number of PTSD therapy sessions attended in patients with
      varying (a) levels of baseline SUD severity, (b) classes of misused substances, and (c)
      treatment preferences.

      Study Description: We propose a prospective, pragmatic randomized comparative effectiveness
      trial at 14 VA Medical Center sites (11 confirmed). Randomization will occur at the patient
      level and will assign participants to either (1) TFT (Prolonged Exposure or Cognitive
      Processing Therapy) or 2) NTFT (Present Centered Therapy). All participants will also receive
      concurrent SUD treatment-as-usual. Participants will complete self-report measures and a
      clinician-administered interview pretreatment, posttreatment, and six-months posttreatment.
      420 participants (210 per arm) will be veterans seeking outpatient SUD treatment in an
      enrolled clinic who meet DSM-5 criteria for a current SUD and PTSD. The sample will be
      diverse in sex, race, age, and geography. Main outcomes will be PTSD symptom severity
      measured by the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5), and PTSD treatment
      dropout (dichotomous indicator of completion of all PTSD treatment sessions). Major Aim 1
      will be tested using a linear mixed model using study intervention, assessment point, and
      their interaction as fixed effects and including random effects for participant, clinician,
      and study site. Major Aim 2 will be testing using a random effects logistic regression of
      therapy retention on intervention and baseline CAPS incorporating random effects for
      clinician and site.
    
  