
    
      This prospective observational study aims to investigate the effects of midazolam sedation on
      the diagnostic validity of lumbar medial branch blocks in patients diagnosed with lumbar
      spondylosis without myelopathy. Patients typically receive two subsequent diagnostic blocks
      prior RFTC, to ensure that the correct location has been targeted. When patients achieve at
      least 80% pain relief after both diagnostic blocks, this is considered a positive result and
      they can proceed to receive RFTC. If patients have positive diagnostic blocks but their RFTC
      is not successful, this is considered a false positive diagnostic result. This study will
      determine 1) if a higher number of sedated patients proceed to radiofrequency
      thermocoagulation (RFTC) than non-sedated patients, and 2) if there are a higher number of
      false positive results in sedated patients. The hypothesis is that the use of midazolam
      sedation will increase the number of patients who perceive to have pain relief from their
      diagnostic block results, resulting in more patients proceeding to RFTC, and that there will
      be a higher number of false positive results in sedated patients. The primary outcome measure
      is the number of sedated versus non-sedated patients that have positive block results. A
      positive result will be calculated by having at least one NRS score that is at least 80%
      lower than their baseline NRS score in the 8 hours following lumbar MBB. The secondary
      outcome will be the number of false positive blocks in sedated versus non-sedated patients.
      After patients achieve 80% relief after each of the two diagnostic lumbar medial branch
      blocks and proceeds with lumbar RFTC, we will then collect NRS scores 24 hours after both
      diagnostic Lumbar MBB, and 4 weeks and at 8 weeks after the lumbar RFTC. If a patient has not
      received at least 50% reduction from their baseline NRS score by 8 weeks, this will be
      considered a false positive. A 7-point Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) score 8
      hours after each Lumbar MBB will also be collected, and at 4 weeks and 8 weeks after the
      lumbar RFTC, and any adverse effects patients experience. In addition, Oswestry Disability
      Index (ODI) will be collected at 4 and 8 weeks after lumbar RFTC. The results of this study
      will help guide the use of sedation when performing diagnostic blocks on patients with lumbar
      spondylosis, in order to reduce the number of false positive blocks.
    
  