
    
      The primary aim of the study is to determine whether PCV10 and PCV13 are safe and immunogenic
      in PNG infants for the serotypes in the respective vaccines. This study is important for the
      following reasons:

        1. There is a lack of data worldwide on immunogenicity in populations with very high early
           onset of dense URT carriage.

        2. The EPI immunisation schedule is very accelerated in PNG (ages 1,2 and 3 months).

        3. There are not data on functional antibody to PCVs in PNG.

        4. There are no data on NTHi Protein D antibody responses in PNG and worldwide in
           population with very high URT carriage rates from a young age, i.e. those most likely to
           benefit from a vaccine including NTHi protein carrier.

        5. It is important to investigate impact of vaccine on carriage density in view of our
           finding of limited impact of 7vPCV on URT carriage.

        6. There is no data on antibody responses following 10v or 13v PCV to booster with PPV as
           young as 9 months of age (which would be the most appropriate within the current PNG EPI
           schedule and in the many other third world countries).

        7. There is no data on antibody responses (including functional assays) to 23vPPV challenge
           at age 2 years after 23vPPV booster at age 9 months in children primed with PCV.

        8. The broad range of serotypes causing IPD in PNG necessitates continuing consideration of
           23vPPV as a potential booster at age 9 months.

        9. Serotype-specific B cell memory is an important aspect that we can now test to address
           immunological safety of PPV in children primed with PCV.

       10. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) and the World Health
           Organisation (WHO) have committed to the introduction of PCV for infants in
           GAVI-eligible countries (including PNG) using novel funding mechanism. In PNG, the
           introduction of a PCV is planned for 2013.
    
  