
    
      Upon meeting inclusion criteria and consenting to participate, the subject will be enrolled
      in the study. Upon extubation, the subject will be randomly assigned using a computer
      generated table of random numbers to either the intervention or control group. Daily safety
      checks including reviewing INR and platelet counts (if performed) will be performed to ensure
      patient has maintained eligibility for the study.

      Study Intervention:

      Control Arm:

      Current practice in the intensive care units includes the provision of oral care as part of
      the Ventilator Bundle guideline focused on the reduction of VAP. Currently, the intensive
      care units utilize a commercially available pre-package oral hygiene kit. This includes mouth
      care (alcohol free mouthrinse and hydrogen peroxide) with swabs every 2 hours, tooth brushing
      (suction toothbrush with anti- plaque paste) every 12 hours, deep oral suctioning every 8
      hours and prior to ET tube retaping, and chlorohexidine gluconate (15ml) swabbed onto oral
      surfaces every 12 hours (SICU patients only). Mouth care is documented every two hours.

      On the progressive care units and general medical-surgical units, routine oral care is
      provided as part of the general hygiene care of the units, and based on the clinical
      determination of the nurse. The selection of oral care techniques currently used on the
      progressive care units is determined by the level of independence of the patient and oral
      hygiene needs of the patient. Two techniques are currently being implemented: 1)
      toothbrushing using a basic toothbrush and basic oral care products provided by the hospital
      every 12- 24 hours. 2) The prepackaged suctioning kit which includes suction toothbrush with
      toothpaste and suction oral swabs with alcohol-free mouth rinse, and hydrogen peroxide every
      4 hours or based on clinical judgement. Lip moisturizer is applied inside the mouth and on
      the lips.

      Intervention Arm The intervention proposed would include a 4-5 day systematic oral hygiene
      program provided to patients who are post-extubation. The proposed intervention would begin
      in the intensive care unit within 24 hours post-extubation and when the patient is determined
      to be medically stable. The protocol would be initiated with an intensive oral hygiene
      intervention (see Appendix A) with selected oral hygiene products in the post-extubation
      period. Following the oral hygiene intervention of the oral cavity, the intervention would
      continue even if the patient transitions from the intensive care setting to either the
      progressive care unit or general medical-surgical unit. The intervention will be provided by
      the Clinical Nurse Specialist (key personnel) from the Division of Critical Care Nursing and
      Medical-Surgical Nursing. The oral hygiene program will be provided a total of 9 times.
    
  