
    
      This study is the "umbrella" or screening study in a group of 5 studies known as the BATTLE
      (Biomarker-integrated Approaches of Targeted Therapy of Lung Cancer Elimination) program. In
      order to participate in one of the research studies, you must first agree to take part in
      this screening study, which will be used to determine if you are eligible. After
      participating in this study, you may be assigned to a study that is using an investigational
      drug. The investigational drug(s) to be used in each of the 4 studies are not approved by the
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for commercial use in this setting; however, the FDA has
      permitted its use in these research studies.

      If you agree to participate in this screening study, your complete medical history (including
      smoking history) will be recorded and you will have a physical exam, including measurement of
      vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and breathing rate), height, and weight. You
      will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests. You will also have blood (about
      1-2 tablespoons) drawn to check your blood clotting function, thyroid function, and lipid
      (fat) levels. You will have a urine test, a performance status evaluation (questions about
      your ability to perform everyday activities), and an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test that
      measures the electrical activity of the heart).

      Your tumor will be evaluated by chest x-ray and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) scans to evaluate the status of the disease. You will have a brain
      MRI. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood (about 1 teaspoon)
      pregnancy test before receiving the study drug.

      A sample of your tumor tissue will be collected for biomarker analysis. If your tumor tissue
      cannot be reached, you will not be able to participate in this research study. To collect a
      tumor biopsy, you will have either a CT-guided core biopsy, bronchoscopy, or other type of
      biopsy (such as subcutaneous, cutaneous, or lymph node). You will be asked to stop taking any
      medication that affects blood-clotting (such as aspirin or coumadin) before the biopsy
      procedure.

      For the cutaneous (skin) biopsy, you will be given a local anesthetic by either a spray or
      shot to numb your skin. A small cut will be made to remove all or a piece of the affected
      skin.

      For the CT-guided core biopsy of the lung, subcutaneous, and/or lymph node biopsy, a tissue
      sample is withdrawn from an organ or suspected tumor mass using a very thin needle and a
      syringe. The needle is guided while being viewed by the physician on a CT scan. Any site that
      can be safely biopsied will be considered for the collection of tissue. Sites not commonly
      biopsied include kidneys, adrenal glands, and brain.

      For the bronchoscopy, you will be given drugs to relax, and then a local anesthetic will be
      sprayed into your nose and throat to numb those areas. A slim, flexible tube with a light
      will be placed through your nose or mouth and into your lungs. A small brush will be fed
      through the tube and into your lungs. The brush will gently scrape off a sample of lung
      tissue. Tweezers will then be fed through the tube to collect the tissue samples (biopsy). A
      small amount of water will be sprayed into your lungs and then suctioned out through the tube
      to collect tissue samples and mucous samples.

      For the CT-guided core biopsy or bronchoscopy, you should not take any medications by mouth
      or have any solid food for at least 6 hours before the procedure. You also should not have
      any liquids 2 hours before the procedure.

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to 1 of the 4 research
      studies based on the results of your tumor analysis. You will be asked to read and sign a
      separate informed consent to take part in one of the research studies.

      You have the right to leave the study at any time. If you choose to stop participating in
      this study, you should contact the study chair and/or research nurse. Your doctor may decide
      to take you off this study if your medical condition gets worse and/or you are unable to
      comply with study requirements.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 250 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  