
    
      Enhanced patient-family health care decision making is essential to improving the overall
      quality of end-of-life care (NIH State of the Science Conference Statement on Improving
      End-of-Life Care, 2004). Although most terminally ill patients desire shared family decision
      making, few family members are prepared for this and many report high levels of distress, and
      even the inability to make such decisions (Nolan, et al., 2005). Factors positively
      influencing the surrogates are: 1) previous experience with surrogate decision making, 2)
      knowing the patient's preferences, and 3) receiving positive reinforcement about decision
      making. The last two are amenable to change in "Trial of Ascertaining Individual preferences
      for Loved Ones' Role in End-of-life Decisions" (the "TAILORED" study). The TAILORED
      intervention is a simple clinic- based protocol involving an assessment of the confidence
      (self-efficacy) of family members for making health care decisions with or for a terminally
      ill loved one. Clinicians then tailor their guidance to patients and families about issues to
      discuss at home to better prepare family members for the desired decision-making role. This
      randomized clinical trial will include 132 patient-family dyads from two diagnostic groups: a
      group expected to retain (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) or lose decisional capacity
      (advanced gastro-intestinal malignancy). A nurse will deliver the TAILORED intervention in
      the clinic at baseline and will call the family member in 4- weeks to encourage ongoing
      patient-family discussion. Outcomes will be assessed at 8-weeks. A subgroup of family members
      whose loved one has died will be interviewed in-depth about their end-of-life decision making
      and the impact of the TAILORED Intervention. Aim 1: To test the effect of the TAILORED
      intervention on family decision-making self-efficacy at 8 weeks both with respect to the
      patient's present situation and in a hypothetical situation in which the patient lacks
      decision-making capacity. Aim 2: To test the effect of the TAILORED intervention on family
      psychological outcomes (depression, caregiver burden, decision making distress). Aim 3: To
      test the effect of the TAILORED intervention on patient and family satisfaction with family
      decision-making involvement. Aim 4: To explore family decision-making self-efficacy and
      perceptions of the TAILORED intervention. PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE: Although most terminally
      ill patients prefer to share health care decision making with family and want family to make
      decisions for them if they are too ill to do so, few family members are prepared for this
      role and many report high levels of distress and even the inability to make such decisions.
      "Trial of Ascertaining Individual preferences for Loved Ones' Role in End-of-life Decisions"
      (the "TAILORED" study) tests a simple clinic-based protocol that allows clinicians to assess
      the confidence (self-efficacy) of family members for making health care decisions with or for
      a terminally ill loved one. Clinicians then tailor their guidance to patients and families
      about what issues to discuss to better prepare family members for the decision making role
      desired by the patient.
    
  