
    
      Prescription (Rx) opioid misuse is a significant public health problem and the CDC has
      declared an opioid epidemic (Dowell, Haegerich, & Chou, 2016). Chronic pain patients, often
      prescribed opioids for pain management, represent a particularly vulnerable population (e.g.,
      Boscarino et al., 2011). Responsible opioid prescribing depends on effective identification
      of misuse and comprehensive understanding of pain-related variables (Dowell, Haegerich, &
      Chou, 2016). Self-report tracking via smartphone apps is a promising solution, but
      difficulties with adherence have been found to impede the use of remote self-monitoring among
      chronic pain patients (e.g., Jamison et al., 2016), even with the inclusion of non-monetary
      rewards (Jamison et al., 2017). One robust strategy for improving adherence is contingency
      management (CM). While CM has been widely used in research, the translation to clinical
      practice has met with resistance due, in large part, to practical barriers (e.g., Carroll,
      2014).

      As a Stage 1 behavioral therapies development project (Rounsaville et al., 2001), the goal of
      this study is to examine the efficacy and feasibility of CM, delivered using a novel, fully
      automated CM app (DynamiCare), to promote daily self-monitoring of pain symptom severity and
      related variables (e.g., mood, sleep), as well as Rx opioid, alcohol, marijuana, cannabidiol
      (CBD), and Rx benzodiazepine use in a sample of chronic pain patients. The target behavior
      will be objectively defined as completing daily self-monitoring surveys via the app for which
      those randomized to CM will earn incentives.

      Participants will complete baseline assessment, followed by random assignment to either the
      experimental (CM) or control (C) group. All participants will then download the app onto
      their smartphone and be provided with instruction in its use. Based on the work by Petry et
      al. (2005) and Olmstead and Petry (2009), the CM group will receive reinforcement escalating
      with continuous performance of the target behavior while the C group will be asked to
      complete the survey, but will not receive incentivizes. Both groups will receive reminders to
      complete the daily survey. Follow-up assessments (including behavioral and psychological
      measures) will occur at intervention completion (28-days post-randomization) and both CM and
      C group members will be compensated for their time and effort.

      The specific aims of this project are to: 1) Compare number of completed daily
      self-monitoring surveys in CM and C groups; 2) Compare longest sustained period of daily
      survey completion in CM and C groups; 3) Examine agreement between daily survey and 28-day
      follow-up visit reports of Rx opioid, alcohol, marijuana, cannabidiol (CBD), and Rx
      benzodiazepine use in CM and C groups; 4) Examine feasibility and acceptability of CM app
      implementation targeting self-monitoring of pain severity, related factors, and Rx opioid,
      alcohol, marijuana, cannabidiol (CBD), and Rx benzodiazepine use; and 5) Estimate effect-size
      to be used to perform power analyses and sample size calculations as part of the design of a
      larger RCT.
    
  