
    
      The proposed study has the main objective to investigate the epidemiology of HIV-1 and
      Schistosoma mansoni co-infections and assess their association and progress of HIV positive
      individuals co-infected with S. mansoni. The study will also assess the impact of
      praziquantel treatment on S. mansoni related morbidities in co-infected HIV positive
      individuals with S. mansoni in Fishing villages, northwest Tanzania. The study is designed as
      a community based intervention trial, which consist of cross-sectional survey at the initial
      baseline survey followed by intervention trials. The initial baseline survey will include
      2000 participants from the two villages. The objective of the survey is to determine the
      prevalence of HIV-1 infection and haemoglobin levels. Also, the socio-economic, demographic
      characteristics, individual behaviour in relation to HIV-1 and helminth transmission are
      recorded. In addition, the location and altitude of each household will determined using a
      hand-held Garmin GPSmap 60CSX, which has an accuracy of ± 5m. After initial survey, study
      participant will be grouped into 2 groups, one HIV-1 infected group and HIV-1 uninfected
      group. Blood sample for examination of CD4+, CD4+/CD8+ and HIV-1 viral loads will be obtained
      from HIV-1 positive participants every month for a period of six month. After 6 month of
      prospective longitudinal survey, the first follow-up survey of the recruited study
      participants will be conducted with the objective of determining prevalence and intensity of
      human intestinal schistosomiasis and other helminth infections. Other infections will also be
      examined, includes malaria and viral hepatitis. Furthermore, S. mansoni induced morbidity
      will be examined using ultrasonography. A blood sample will also be obtained for all HIV-1
      positive patients, from which CD4+, CD4+/CD8+ and HIV-1 viral loads will be examined. In the
      same survey, individuals who tested HIV-1 negative at baseline will also be screened for HIV.
      After the first follow-up survey, three groups will be formed, Group A- individuals
      co-infected with HIV-1 and S. mansoni (N=270); Group B- individuals infected with HIV-1 but
      S. mansoni negative (N=180) and Group C- HIV-1 negative but S. mansoni positive (N=1320)
      (Figure 2). All individuals who will be infected with S. mansoni and other helminth detected
      in the study irrespective of HIV-1 serostatus will be treated with praziquantel (40mg/kg) and
      albendazole (400mg). At six to eight weeks after mass treatment, a second survey will be
      conducted in the recruited participants aiming at determining cure rates of S. mansoni after
      chemotherapy with praziquantel. The third survey will be conducted 12 month after the first
      follow-up survey with the aim of determining the change in CD4+, CD4+/CD8+, HIV-1 viral
      loads, HIV-1 progression and reversibility of the S. mansoni related liver morbidity after
      praziquantel
    
  