
    
      Research has shown that parent-targeted interventions are effective in ameliorating
      adolescent conduct disorders, substance abuse, HIV-risk, and related adolescent problem
      behaviors. The meteoric rise of Internet use and recent advance in multimedia technology and
      software combine to create new opportunities for disseminating evidence-based practices.
      Parenting Wisely (PW; Gordon, 2000) is a computer-based intervention designed to prevent and
      treat child disruptive behavior problems. This evidence-based approach fits easily into
      existing juvenile justice, health, education, and mental health service delivery systems,
      bypassing many of the current barriers to care. The investigators' Phase I study focused on
      revising and enhancing PW with more culturally relevant content and imagery to broaden its
      appeal to ethnically diverse populations. The findings revealed substantial improvements on
      virtually all measures of parenting and child behavior and outcomes at 6 months were highly
      significant and clinically meaningful. This Phase II study is designed to broaden the appeal
      and potential reach of PW through a formal randomized trial conducted in collaboration with
      the juvenile justice system (JJS), the primary market for such a program. Parents of 450
      delinquent receiving JJS services as usual (SAU) will be randomly assigned to: PW plus a
      social networking online discussion forum, PW alone, or SAU. PW is the first online
      skill-building parent training program to examine effectiveness across different ethnic
      cultural groups and offers a brief, low cost, accessible approach that could be easily and
      quickly implemented and sustained in JJS settings. As such, the potential impact for
      marketing PW and reducing child behavior problems is considerable. Phase II activities will
      include the development of a moderated online forum to increase parental social support and
      skill acquisition. The investigators will also determine the potential marketability of the
      PW intervention to JJS programs based on the effects of PW on parent report and direct
      observation measures of parenting behaviors, adolescent behaviors, and family functioning, as
      well as measures of recidivism and cost savings. User satisfaction, program comprehension,
      receptivity, and parent self-efficacy will also be assessed.
    
  