
    
      NOTE: As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate
      research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment has been
      placed on temporary administrative hold as of 03/16/2020. When such trial activities resume
      the clinicaltrials.gov record will be updated accordingly.

      Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is one of the most common nosocomial infections and is
      increasingly seen in non-hospitalized patients. Although more than 90% of patients have
      symptom resolution with a course of standard antimicrobial therapy, subsequent recurrence
      rates range from 15-30% (after the first CDI episode) to 40-50% (after the second and
      subsequent episodes). Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) has shown promise as an adjunct
      to standard antimicrobial therapy, reducing recurrence among FMT recipients to 15%.

      The primary study goal is to assess the efficacy of FMT for the prevention of subsequent
      recurrent CDI, when administered after successful treatment of recurrent CDI with standard
      antimicrobial therapy. Secondary goals are to evaluate, the efficacy of FMT in terms of CDI
      severity, duration, the safety of FMT, and in the event of a positive study result, establish
      a mechanism for providing FMT within the VA system.

      This study will enroll 390 participants. Participants will be randomized (1:1 ratio) to FMT
      or placebo, stratified by number of prior recurrent CDI episodes (1 versus >1). They will be
      assessed for symptoms of CDI, other study outcomes and any treatment-related adverse events
      at 2, 14, 28, 42, and 56 days, and month 3, 4, 5 and 6 after administration of the study
      treatment.

      The primary outcome is recurrent CDI (definite or possible) or death within 56 days of
      randomization.

      Definite recurrence is defined as any of the following: The new onset of more than three
      loose or watery stools in 24 hours for two consecutive days, not explained by another
      diagnosis; Other clinical symptoms including ileus, toxic megacolon, or colectomy; PLUS
      Laboratory confirmation of C. difficile from a stool specimen by EIA toxin test. Possible
      recurrence is defined as the same clinical manifestations as above, but WITHOUT laboratory
      confirmation of C. difficile (stool test not sent, negative EIA toxin test result, or
      uninterpretable result).
    
  