
    
      This project developed and implemented a sophisticated point-of-care EHR-based clinical
      decision support that (a) identified and (b) prioritized all available evidence-based
      treatment options to reduce a given patient's cardiovascular risk (CVR). The prioritized list
      of treatment options is provided in different formats to both the primary care physician
      (PCP) and patient at the time of each office visit made by a patient with moderate to high
      CVR and sub-optimally controlled and potentially reversible CVR factors. Available
      evidence-based treatment options are prioritized based on the magnitude of potential CVR
      reduction of each treatment option. This intervention strategy, referred to as Prioritized
      Clinical Decision Support (CDS), is specifically designed for widespread use in primary care
      settings and has the potential to substantially augment current efforts to control CVR in the
      35% of American adults with 10-year Framingham CVR of 10% or higher.

      To assess the ability of the CDS intervention to reduce CVR in adults, we randomized 18
      primary care clinics with 60 primary care physicians (PCPs) and approximately 18,000 eligible
      adults with baseline Framingham 10-year risk of a major CV event (either heart attack or
      stroke) of 10% or more into one of two experimental conditions: Group 1 includes 9 clinics
      (with 30 PCPs and 9,000 patients) that received prioritized clinical decision support (CDS)
      to reduce CVR at the time of each clinical encounter made by an eligible adult. Group 2
      includes 9 clinics (with 30 PCPs and 9,000 patients) that received no study intervention and
      constitute a usual care (UC) control group. The study formally tested the hypothesis that
      after control for baseline CVR, post-intervention 10-year Framingham CVR will be better in
      Group 1 than Group 2 at 12 months after start of the intervention. In addition, impact of the
      intervention on specific components of CVR (BP, lipids, glucose, aspirin use, and smoking)
      was assessed, and the cost-effectiveness of the intervention will be quantified.

      This innovative project builds upon 10 years of prior work by our research team, and extends
      prior successful EHR clinical decision support interventions by introducing prioritization,
      by providing decision support to both patients and PCPs at the time of the office visit, and
      by extending the decision support across the broad and critically important clinical terrain
      of CVR reduction. The results of this project, whether positive or negative, will extend our
      understanding of how to maximize the clinical return on massive public and private sector
      investments now being made in sophisticated outpatient EHR systems. If successful, this
      decision support tool could be broadly used to both standardize and personalize care
      delivered by case managers, pharmacists, and other providers in a wide range of care delivery
      configurations.
    
  