
    
      Ventricular Tachycardia (VT) is a common complication of ischemic heart disease that is often
      life threatening. Ventricular tachycardia is defined as three or more beats of ventricular
      origin in succession at a rate greater than 100 beats per minute. There are no normal QRS
      complexes associated with VT, and the rhythm is usually regular. Patients with VT experience
      unpleasant heart palpitations, dyspnea, and syncope, all of which decrease their overall
      quality of life. They also suffer the consequences of impaired hemodynamics, loss of cardiac
      efficiency, and are at an increased risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD), which accounts for
      approximately half of all deaths from patients with cardiovascular disease.

      Historically, antiarrhythmic medications served as the first line therapy for the treatment
      of VT, in spite of low efficacy and high recurrence rates. But in recent years, internal
      cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) have become the treatment of choice. Although, ICDs are
      effective in terminating most arrhythmias, rarely does so without some episodes requiring
      poorly tolerated shock therapy. Ablative therapy offers an important option for frequent
      control with the potential for long-term VT elimination. Radiofrequency catheter ablation
      offers the ability to provide immediate control of recurrent VT. Since the early 2000's,
      strategies, tools, and techniques have been improving to identify key ablation sites and to
      deliver effective lesions.

      Radiofrequency ablation is successful in treating some but not all arrhythmias. With non
      irrigated technology it has been difficult to ablate ischemic VT. This may be due to an
      inadequate lesion size. Irrigated electrodes were developed to create larger lesions. Open
      irrigation at the catheter tip not only produces larger lesions, but also helps reduce the
      risk of coagulum (clots) and charring due to high temperatures.
    
  