
    
      Infertility is a common problem that affects one in six couples. It is defined as the
      inability to get pregnant after a reasonable time (12 months) of sex without using birth
      control measures. The causes of the increased prevalence of infertility are difficult to
      establish. This increase could be due to several factors such as the postponement of the time
      when it is decided to have children, alterations in semen quality, changes in sexual
      behavior, etc. The study of the infertile couple has always been focussed on different
      factors: ovulatory (20%), utero-tubal (30%) , the migration of sperm (10%) and male (30%).
      About 40% of all infertile couples exhibit a combination of factors and about 15% do not
      display any objective alteration leading to a definite diagnosis.

      During the last two decades major changes occurred in the approach to infertility. With the
      introduction of new assisted reproductive technologies, the development of molecular biology
      and novel diagnostic imaging methods, there have been major advances in the evaluation and
      treatment of couples considered infertile.

      Hysterosalpingography (HSG) is the useful imaging method for evaluating the fallopian tubes
      and uterine cavity. Scanning is performed in the follicular phase of the cycle and is carried
      out in an X-ray fluoroscopy. Indications for HSG have been reduced with the introduction of
      new diagnostic methods, actually being basically an essencial technique used in the study of
      the factors responsible for infertility as well as recurrent abortions. On the downside,
      exposure to radiation and use of impingement of the cervix during the procedure, with the
      possible complications mentioned.

      Due to technological advances, a new technique based on CT studies has been developed, and it
      is called virtual Hysterosalpingography (HSG-V). It is performed with a multislice CT scanner
      with high resolution and quality of images. It is a noninvasive study and needs none pinch
      the cervix. It has the ability to assess blockages and defects or other uterine and tubal
      problems, besides appreciating for abnormalities that may cause the inability of a couple to
      achieve pregnancy. Also reveals the organs of the pelvis in its entirety and fallopian tubes,
      and inside its walls. This helps to detect the presence of polyps, adhesions, fibroids,
      narrow tubes, or occupying lesions light. Compared with conventional HSG, the advantage is
      that it is non-invasive, painless and takes only a few seconds, conditions that provide women
      with greater comfort. Moreover, it provides the doctor with more complete information than
      the conventional method, because it provides two-dimensional and three-dimensional endoscopic
      images. Additionally, the radiation received by the patient is less than that required in the
      conventional study.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the female pelvis is the largest study performance
      evaluation of pelvic pathology (endometriosis, fibroids, adenomyosis, etc.). Contributing to
      this characteristics of being non-invasive and does not use ionizing radiation. It has high
      resolving power for the assessment of ovarian and uterine pathology, being especially useful
      for cases where ultrasound is inconclusive. It also plays a dual role in the case of uterine
      malformations: It allows the extension and/or confirmation of the ultrasound diagnosis and
      evaluates the associated malformations, mainly of the urinary system. Major limitations of
      the MRI are low availability, presence of a pacemaker or metallic foreign bodies. A relative
      advantage is its lower cost compared to the HSG-V, and lower cost if making multiple
      conventional studies.

      Current assessment of the patient with infertility involves several studies to determine the
      causative factor. The virtues of the MRI position it as an integrative alternative to
      conventional multi-modal methods in the study of the female pelvis.
    
  