
    
      Traumatic brain injury occurs with alarming frequency in the United States and is associated
      with significant morbidity, mortality and economic as well as emotional consequences. Since
      the initial traumatic event produces irreparable primary brain injury, the goal in care of
      the head injured patient focuses upon the prevention of secondary brain injury. Currently,
      the only clinical strategies available to prevent secondary brain injury relate to the
      maintenance of adequate cerebral blood flow and regulation of intracranial pressures.

      Now, there is substantial laboratory evidence indicating that secondary neuronal cell death
      is reduced by the use of recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) in a time-dependent fashion.
      These data suggest that strategies utilizing EPO during the resuscitative phase of head
      injured patients could improve neurologic outcome.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single-center trial. All blunt trauma
      patients over 18 years of age with an admission GCS between 9 and 13 and evidence of
      traumatic brain injury (TBI) on CT will be eligible. After obtaining informed consent,
      patients will be randomized to receive EPO (40,000 Units IV) or placebo to be administered
      within 6 hours of injury.

      Patients will have baseline (day of injury) and daily serum S-100B and NSE levels measured
      until 5 days after injury. Demographic and clinical data to be obtained will include age,
      gender, head AIS, ISS, admission and ICU GCS, daily mean ICP and CPP (when ICP is monitored),
      number and nature of ICP lowering interventions and daily mean PaCO2. The primary outcome
      measures are S-100B and NSE levels in patients receiving EPO compared to those receiving
      placebo. Secondary outcome measures will include ICU LOS, GCS at ICU discharge, 3-month and
      6-month Glascow Outcome Score and in-hospital mortality.
    
  