
    
      Materials and methods This double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized (1:1 ratio)
      controlled trial with two parallel arms involved 48 patients with advanced adult
      periodontitis. They were recruited at the periodontology department of the Cukurova
      university, Turkey. All patients referred for periodontal treatment were screened for
      eligibility.The project was approved by the ethical committee for clinical trials of the
      Cukurova University in Turkey with number . No changes in the trial design were made after
      approval by the Ethical Committee.

      Sample size calculation and randomization Power analysis prior to the start of the study was
      difficult since no previous randomized controlled trials on this study product were
      available. The sample size was determined. Pocket probing depth was taken into account, with
      an expected difference of 0.82mm and a standard deviation of 0.61mm. It was calculated that
      10 patients were needed in each group to provide 80% power with an alpha of 0.05 . Despite
      this low number and taking into consideration studies comparing the adjunctive effect of
      antibiotics to scaling and rootplaning, it was decided to include 24 patients in each group.

      Randomization of the patients was done by block randomization . The study coordinator
      distributed the coded bottles to the examiner at baseline, 4 weeks and 8 weeks visit. Except
      for the study coordinator, all patients and study personnel were blinded to the study group
      allocation. Before sending the data to the biostatistician, the code was broken to group the
      patients to the proper groups.

      Treatment protocol Patients fulfilling the eligibility criteria were asked to participate in
      the study and after approval to sign an informed consent. Baseline examination included
      full-mouth probing pocket depth , gingival recession and bleeding on probing measured at six
      sites per tooth. Additionally the plaque en gingival indexes were noted. The full-mouth
      plaque index was recorded.After baseline periodontal examination and microbial analysis, an
      oral hygiene instruction was given (toothbrush, interdental brush). Initial periodontal
      therapy consisted of a full-mouth one-stage disinfection approach . All clinical procedures
      were performed by the same periodontist . The patient was asked to rinse for 2 minutes with a
      0.12% chlorhexidine solution without alcohol . Scaling and rootplaning were performed on 2
      consecutive days using an ultrasonic scaler under 0.12% chlorhexidine irrigation and with
      hand instruments. All mucosal surfaces were afterwards disinfected and the tongue was brushed
      for 1 minute. Besides, the participants were randomized over the 2 treatment groups: control
      or probiotic group.The participants of the probiotic group were asked to let a probiotic
      tablet dissolve on their tongue 2 times a day for 3 months. The participants in the control
      group were asked to do the same with a placebo tablet. All patients were instructed to use
      the tablets after brushing their teeth in the morning and in the evening. The probiotic and
      placebo tablets were identical in shape, texture, taste and composition except that
      Streptococcus were added for the probiotic tablet. All patients were supplied with the same
      toothpaste . It was asked not to use any probiotic containing products during the course of
      the study. Neither was it allowed to use drugs with anti-inflammatory properties,
      chlorhexidine or other mouthrinses during the study.

      At designated time points, follow-up visits were planned. 30 days and 60 days after
      initiation of the therapy clinical evaluation and microbial analysis were performed. 90 days
      and 180 days after the initial treatment all baseline parameters were recorded .

      Outcomes variables of interest Primary outcome measures The primary response variable was
      Probing pocket depth. All examinations were performed with a North Carolina periodontal probe
      .

      Secondary outcome measures The secondary response variables were recession, clinical
      attachment level , Bleeding, Gingival index, Plaque index and microbial parameters.

      Sub-analyses were performed on these outcome variables taking into account the initial
      Pocket. A pocket was considered moderate if its initial Pocket was between 4 and 6 mm and
      deep if ≥7 mm. "Risk for disease progression" was defined at patient level. The "need for
      surgery" outcome measure was calculated. A site was considered as "in need for surgery" if
      the Pocket was ≥6 mm or 5 mm and Bleeding positive. A tooth was considered in need for
      surgery if it had at least one site in need for surgery. A patient was considered in need or
      surgery if at least one tooth was in need for surgery.

      Microbiological samples were collected of supragingival and subgingival plaque, saliva and
      the tongue. Pooled supragingival plaque samples were taken with the aid of curettes at the
      four single-rooted teeth with the deepest initial pocket in each quadrant. Before sampling,
      the sites were isolated from saliva with the aid of cotton rolls and then dried with
      compressed air. All supragingival plaque from these sites was dispersed. Samples were
      dispersed using a vortex mixer and immediately frozen at -20°C until analysis. On the same
      teeth pooled subgingival plaque samples were collected per site. After 10 s, the samples were
      transferred to a sterile Eppendorf tube, as described Saliva samples were obtained by
      collecting unstimulated saliva in a sterile cup. Finally the biofilm of the tongue was
      collected with a cotton swab. These were wiped 10 times over the tongue starting from the
      tongue dorsum.

      Processing of the microbial samples After finishing the study, the frozen samples were send
      on dry ice to the department of Periodontology , these were immediately frozen at -80°C upon
      arrival. each sample was later defrosted and centrifuged at 13.000g. Bacterial DNA was
      extracted . A quantitative assay was performed to quantify certain bacteria.
    
  