
    
      This diffusion sequence has shown its usefulness in pancreatic pathology in the detection and
      characterization of focal pancreatic lesions, particularly for neuroendocrine tumors, the
      evaluation of chronic and autoimmune pancreatitis or the early detection of malignant
      transformation of certain high-risk cystic lesions. The diffusion sequence usually performed
      is called "wide field" because it covers the entire abdomen. The radiologist can thus analyse
      the neighbouring organs and in particular the liver, which makes it essential when a
      pancreatic tumour is suspected because of the risk of liver metastases.

      This wide-field sequence suffers from several limitations: difficulty in differentiating
      adenocarcinomas from chronic pseudo-mass pancreatitis due to the overlap of CDA values and
      difficulty in defining the boundaries of cephalic or corporal adenocarcinomas due to the
      hypersignal of upstream chronic obstructive pancreatitis (9)(10). Technically, it is subject
      to movement artifacts related to respiration, adjacent organs and in particular the duodenum,
      and to an average spatial resolution of the pancreas.

      Over the last 10 years, a diffusion sequence called "FOCUS" has been developed allowing a
      reduction of the field of view in the direction of phase coding and therefore a "zoomed"
      image with higher resolution. This sequence has shown interest in neuroradiology and prostate
      cancer detection in reducing artifacts and achieving better spatial resolution than the usual
      "wide field" diffusion sequence. 3 minutes and 30 seconds more are required to complete this
      sequence.

      The pancreas is a good candidate for FOCUS diffusion imaging because of its small size,
      susceptibility to movement artifacts and spatial orientation, allowing antero-posterior
      reduction of the field of view. Initial work has established the feasibility of this FOCUS
      diffusion in pancreatic imaging and shown an improvement in image quality (more accurate and
      less artefacts) in FOCUS diffusion compared to the usual "wide field".

      Due to its potential in pancreatic imaging, the FOCUS diffusion sequence has been performed
      in current practice since 2014 in the imaging department of the Groupe Hospitalier Paris
      Saint-Joseph (GHPSJ) in addition to the "wide field" diffusion sequence. The protocol thus
      created is called "combined protocol" as opposed to "standard protocol" which does not
      contain the FOCUS broadcast sequence.

      Kim H et al showed an improvement in the subjective clinical utility of readers in the
      diagnosis of benign or malignant pancreatic lesions. However, it should be noted that in this
      study the authors compared the two sequences by opposing them rather than comparing the usual
      wide-field sequence with the combination of the two sequences.
    
  