
    
      Despite the modest advances made over the past two decades with the addition of more
      intensive chemotherapy and high dose myeloablative therapy with allogeneic or autologous bone
      marrow transplantation, children with high-risk neuroblastoma continue to have an
      unsatisfactory long-term survival. The current survival for a child > 1 year of age at
      diagnosis with stage 4 neuroblastoma is only 20-35% 1,7. The overall treatment plan for
      high-risk patients with neuroblastoma will be:

      Induction Therapy Intensive induction chemotherapy with the cardioprotectant dexrazoxane
      (Zinecard), vincristine, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), and cyclophosphamide (ZVAC), alternating
      with cisplatin and etoposide (CiE). Patients who receive induction chemotherapy on an
      alternate protocol and achieve a CR, VGPR, or PR will also be eligible for entry to receive
      consolidation therapy and AlloSCT immunotherapy after discussion and approval of the
      Principal Investigators ).

      Consolidation Therapy with AutoSCT Consolidation therapy with a myeloablative preparative
      regimen of carboplatin, thiotepa, and topotecan (CaTT) followed by AutoSCT with PBSCs (CD34+
      selection optional).

      Immunotherapy with Non-myeloablative AlloSCT Immunotherapy with a non-myeloablative
      preparative regimen of busulfan and fludarabine followed by AlloSCT with either: (Arm A) a
      related donor (5/6 or 6/6 HLA matched); or (Arm B) an umbilical cord blood donor (unrelated
      4/6, 5/6, or 6/6 HLA matched, or related 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, or 6/6 HLA matched). Patients with an
      umbilical cord blood donor will also receive Thymoglobulin (ATG-rabbit) during the
      preparative regimen. GVHD prophylaxis will consist of Tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil
      (MMF).

      Maintenance Therapy Patients with a related donor who have persistent disease detected prior
      to NAT/AlloSCT will be assigned to Arm A1 and will receive two courses of DLI, followed by
      cis-RA for 6 cycles. Patients with a related donor with no persistent disease detected prior
      to NAT/AlloSCT will be assigned to Arm A2 and receive cis-RA for 6 cycles. Patients with an
      umbilical cord blood donor will receive cis-RA for 6 cycles.

      Radiation Therapy Due to the potential risk of increased GVHD following radiation therapy,
      local radiation therapy to the primary tumor site (21 Gy) and metastatic sites, will be given
      after NAT/AlloSCT for patients on Arm A2 and Arm B, and prior to cis-RA therapy. Radiation
      therapy will be given following DLI in Arm A1, and prior to cis-RA therapy.
    
  