
    
      Laparoscopy for general surgery followed and proved to be advantageous in reduction of
      postoperative pain, better cosmetic results, quicker return to normal activities, reduction
      in hospital stay resulting in overall reduction in medical cost, less intraoperative
      bleeding, less postoperative pulmonary complications, less postoperative wound infection,
      reduced metabolic derangement, and better postoperative respiratory function. In recent
      years, advanced laparoscopic surgery has targeted older and sicker patients, rendering
      anesthesia during laparoscopy more technically demanding. Robotic-assisted laparoscopic
      radical prostatectomy is rapidly becoming a part of the standard surgical repertoire for the
      treatment of prostate cancer. Robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy are
      primarily related to the use of pneumoperitoneum in the steep Trendelenburg position. This
      combination will affect cerebrovascular, respiratory and hemodynamic homeostasis. The golden
      standard method for measuring cardiac output in the clinical setting is thermodilution using
      a pulmonary artery catheter, but the risk of pulmonary artery catheter insertion can not be
      justified in routine cases. The Vigileo-FloTrac system (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA,
      USA), is a less invasive method to obtain continuous CO using pulse contour analysis. The aim
      of this study is to observe the cardiovascular effects of the degree of head-down angle and
      pneumoperitoneum during laparoscopic procedure using by the fourth version Vigileo-Flotrac
      system.

      We choose 180 ASA physical status I to III patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery are
      enrolled in this study. These surgical procedures include laparoscopic cholecystectomy,
      laparoscopic gastrectomy, laparoscopic colectomy, laparoscopic appendectomy, laparoscopic
      assisted vaginal hysterectomy, robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. These
      surgical procedures provide the information about the different degree of head-down angle and
      different intra-abdominal pressure of pneumoperitoneum. Hemodynamic data are recorded
      immediately after induction of anesthesia; 5 min after induction of pneumoperitoneum; 5, 15,
      30, 60 min, and every 30 min if duration more than 60 min after placement in the
      Trendelenburg position with pneumoperitoneum; and the end.

      After observing the cardiovascular effects of degree of head-down, insufflation pressure,
      duration of surgery, we can prevent the possible complications in advance during laparoscopic
      surgery. After completing the study, we will be familiar with the use of Vigileo-FloTrac
      system. We will have more experiences to deal with high-risk patients undergoing simple
      surgical procedure.
    
  