
    
      Background

      The fast and correct diagnosis of heart rhythm disorders is very important to reduce
      morbidity and mortality in cardiovascular patients. Atrial fibrillation is of special
      interest, because it is an important cause of devastating brain strokes. A significant number
      of strokes have a cardioembolic genesis due to paroxysmal atrial fibrillation which was not
      diagnosed early enough. Therefore, it is very important to detect atrial fibrillation as soon
      as possible. With oral anticoagulation an effective therapeutic option in available to
      prevent cardioembolisms.

      In the clinical routine, mostly 24-hour or 7-day ECGs are made to look for cardiac
      arrhythmias. The use of such devices is well established. Nevertheless, they have some side
      effects/limitations. Skin electrodes used for derivation of the ECG often cause skin
      irritation, sometimes leading to premature termination of the recording. Because of dryout of
      the contact gel (causes artifacts), small p-waves and especially also motion artifacts,
      triggered recording or semi-automatic analysis of the recording is problematic, but for
      longer recording times such a semi-automatic analysis would be helpful. As an alternative
      esophageal electrocardiography can be performed. Signal quality of the ECG recording
      (especially of the left atrium) is better than in the standard surface ECG because of the
      vicinity of the esophagus and the left atrium. The esophagus tolerates well foreign bodies as
      the investigators know from long-term nasogastric intubation. Therefore use of the esophageal
      technique for long-term rhythm monitoring is an interesting and promising alternative to
      conventional surface Holter ECGs.

      Earlier studies have already shown the improved p-wave in eECG signals, but the automatic or
      semi-automatic wave analysis algorithms were not satisfactory. By increasing the number of
      measuring channels on the esophageal catheter, new classes of algorithm can be applied in
      order to increase the detection reliability. Using multiple channels to increase the quality
      of the result is an intuitive and widely used method e.g. in 12 lead ECG or EECG, etc.

      Objective

      Primary Objective: Differentiation of electrical atrial and ventricular cardiac activity (A/V
      classification) Secondary Objective: Detection of atrial fibrillation sequences (AFib
      Detection)

      Methods

      20 subjects are included in this pilot study to verify enhanced multi-channel detection
      algorithm. In order to cover a wide variety of arrhythmias to test the algorithm with, the
      subjects are selected according to 4 categories: 1) 4 patients with intermitting or
      persisting atrial fibrillation. 2) 4 patients with atrial flutter 3) 6 patients with frequent
      atrial or ventricular extra-systoles. 4) 6 cardiac healthy subjects. In total around 50'000
      heart beats are recorded. The surface ECG signal is used as the reference (manually
      analyzed). Sensitivity and specificity of the correctly detected atrial and ventricular
      activities compared to this manual reference including the 95% confidence intervals are
      calculated (A/V Classification). Additionally the sensitivity and specificity of the detected
      of atrial fibrillation sequences including the 95% confidence intervals are calculated (AFib
      Detection).
    
  