
    
      Problem Statement: Among schizophrenia-spectrum populations, adherence to treatment is poor,
      community-based supports are limited, and efforts to foster illness self-management have had
      limited success. These challenges contribute to frequent, lengthy, and costly hospital
      readmissions and poor functional outcomes. Digital health strategies, in turn, hold
      considerable promise in the effort to address these problems. Across healthcare domains,
      digital health is a rapidly growing area due to its potential reach, accessibility, low cost,
      and implications for the use of data to customize treatments and identify risk trajectories.
      Despite this promise and for reasons that are not entirely clear, the development and study
      of digital health strategies for more severe mental health conditions such as schizophrenia
      is much less developed than other domains of healthcare.

      Objective: This feasibility trial will examine a digital health platform designed to enhance
      illness self-management and treatment engagement for individuals with schizophrenia.

      Technology: The investigators and collaborators have developed and piloted a digital
      technology called App4Independence (A4i). This platform was designed to (i) help prevent
      social isolation through behavioral activation prompts and peer-peer strategy sharing, (ii)
      enhance coping with schizophrenia symptoms through functions that draw on evidence-based
      strategies (e.g., texted tips derived from cognitive and behavioral therapies) and provide a
      novel technology that assists with the identification of auditory hallucinations, (iii)
      enhance treatment adherence through scheduling, text and reminder functions, (iv) track level
      of wellness/risk and progress on personal goals through both active (self-ratings) and
      passive (sleep monitoring proxy) metrics, and (v) facilitate communications with care
      providers through a provider dashboard summarizing platform-collected data gathered between
      appointments.

      Partners: This study builds on a partnership between the Centre for Addiction and Mental
      Health (research capability, mental health service and associated expertise, access to
      patient populations) and MEMOTEXT, a health technology company with a track record of success
      in digital health approaches across multiple health conditions and care contexts.

      Study Design: This single blind, randomized controlled trial examines the feasibility of A4i.
      Feasibility metrics include study recruitment and retention, rate of technology use, safety,
      and utility in clinical interactions. Other outcome metrics include symptomatology, treatment
      adherence, patient-provider alliance, and quality of life. In this trial, study participants
      will be randomized to either treatment or control conditions, with pre-post outcomes measured
      over a 6-month period.

      Implications: This research will provide critical information for the development of this new
      technology in the larger effort to address a key problem in the schizophrenia field - how to
      leverage technology to enhance illness self-management and care engagement in
      resource-limited service contexts. These findings will lay the groundwork for larger trials
      assessing the impacts of A4i on hospital readmission and functioning - providing essential
      evidence for commercialization and expanded access to this tool. This work is at the
      forefront of international efforts to explore and validate digital health approaches for
      schizophrenia.
    
  