
    
      The overall goal of the proposed research is to test the effectiveness of a
      theoretically-based interactive behavioral and health risk assessment system to improve the
      mental and physical health outcomes of the primary care provided for the adult multicultural
      members of a university health center-employee-based practice. The new system will include:

        1. administration of a computerized behavioral and health risk assessment,

        2. calculation of an individualized risk profile for each patient participant,

        3. individual patient computerized video training in interaction focused on the risk
           profile,

        4. physician training in patient-provider interaction, motivational interviewing and
           counseling, and in referral and triage focused on the risk profile, and

        5. development of a negotiated care plan between patient and clinician for follow-up care.

      Expected outcomes include changes in: risk category scores, utilization patterns, costs for
      health care services, and health stage of change indicators. Expected impacts (mediating
      variables) are: compliance with recommendations, health locus of control, differences in
      patient-provider interaction patterns and patient and clinician satisfaction. If successful,
      this methodology would contribute significantly to the health promotion goals of Healthy
      People 2010 and provide much needed evidence of how a behavioral and health risk assessment
      system can help to reduce ethnic health disparities of multi-cultural populations. This
      proposal is responsive to CDC's RFA for Health Promotion in the Workplace; in particular it
      responds to requests for strategy #6: Identification and evaluation of public health
      informatics and communication strategies and tools to improve health decisions, health
      alerting, health literacy, or health assessment among employees and employer.
    
  