
    
      The intervention program was composed of physical activities, nutritional and psychological
      monitoring. The same lasted 10 weeks, where the meetings took place on Tuesdays and Thursdays
      with the children, in which they participated in 50 minutes of physical activity. On
      Saturdays, children were exposed to physical activity, guidance on healthy eating, and
      behavior change. On that day, mothers also participated in gym classes (duration of 50
      minutes) and nutritional guidelines (duration of 50 minutes) and behavior change (duration of
      120 minutes). It is noteworthy that the team was composed of ten psychology students and one
      teacher from the same area, three nutritionists, two teachers and five physical education
      students and four physicians.

      Physical activities consisted of games and popular games lasting 50-60 minutes. Thus, in
      order to keep the children physically active as long as possible, timing was 2 minutes
      interval for water between each activity, resulting in a total time of 6 minutes rest
      throughout the class. Thus, there were 30 physical activity sessions with the children.

      On Saturdays, mothers also participated in physical activities. Aerobic gymnastics and
      functional training were developed, lasting 50 minutes. During the classes, mothers were
      instructed to stay physically active during the week, performing, if possible, some physical
      activity at least five days a week.

      On Saturdays, children were also submitted to guidelines on healthy eating, where they were
      encouraged to eat the right way, also learned about the importance of food, the group to
      which each food is a part, especially the foods they make Part of the context of the child,
      learned a variety of fruits and vegetables, learned how to prepare their own healthy snack
      and were motivated to take the acquired knowledge home, stimulating the whole family to
      adhere to healthier eating habits.

      Nutrition counseling was also carried out with the mothers. At the meetings the nutritional
      needs for the age group of their children were exposed, the ideal foods to be consumed at
      each moment of the day, knowledge about the group to which each food belongs, adequate food
      According to the financial conditions, and a little book of recipes was created, where the
      food, fruits and typical dishes of the local region were emphasized, but in a healthier way.

      Behavior change was stimulated by therapy with psychology trainees. The children were divided
      into 2 groups, to facilitate the process of psychological monitoring. The meetings were held
      once a week, on Saturdays, where activities and dynamics were developed with the aim of
      encouraging adherence to healthy habits, both food and physical activity. The therapies
      happened during 1 hour and they occurred in a playful way to involve all the universe of the
      child.

      Mothers also had their moments of therapy, where they were motivated to be role models for
      their children, to stimulate this change in the children's lifestyle, they were also
      challenged to engage in some healthy activity during the week, at times alone, In others in
      the company of their children. Psychological encounters with mothers occurred on Saturdays,
      and they were divided into two groups to ensure greater control over the activities
      developed, as well as for them to feel more comfortable talking about themselves and their
      children. Parental relationships were extensively worked on in this practice. The meetings
      lasted two hours.
    
  