
    
      The UK government has prioritised early recognition and treatment of dementia, with specific
      goals to prolong independence, delay nursing home and hospital admissions, and reduce
      mortality. It is recognised that this strategy in the UK health system necessitates primary
      care involvement in diagnosis and management of dementia. While advances have been made in
      identifying patients with dementia within primary care, there is little research on the
      course of the disease after diagnosis, even though information about disease course and the
      factors that alter the course are essential to patient management and wider health policy.

      One potential major resource for studying these issues in primary care are Electronic Health
      Record (EHR) databases which contain routinely recorded information from consultations with a
      GP and other healthcare professional such as illnesses and treatment provided. They are a
      useful resource for studying how illnesses progress after diagnosis in primary care and have
      been used to investigate disease course, outcomes and patient care in a wide spectrum of
      diseases. However, to date, they have not been used to research the course of dementia after
      diagnosis. Existing evidence has established important dementia outcomes (e.g. nursing home
      placement, hospital admissions, mortality) are recorded within EHR and a systematic review
      that has recently been performed suggests other illnesses and symptoms (e.g. cognitive
      status, neuropsychiatric symptoms), may be recorded within primary care EHR and could serve
      as markers of disease progression.

      To address this research gap the research will identify possible markers of disease
      progression from routinely collected in primary care medical records and compare them against
      assessments of disease progression from specialist dementia service medical records. The
      study will enable healthcare professionals to use routinely recorded information in primary
      care, without the need for intensive assessments, to identify individuals with dementia who
      are at risk of a faster disease progression. This will drive the future development and
      delivery of treatment to the individual patient with dementia based on their likely future
      course.

      The CoMed study is a retrospective cohort design linking dementia service and primary care
      medical records. Potential participants' only involvement will be a request for consent to
      access and link these medical records.

      Participants will be recruited from a secondary care dementia service.

      All patients who have a confirmed diagnosis of dementia in the dementia service medical
      records and who have been assessed by the dementia service at more than one-time point at
      least 12 months apart will be identified (a 12-month gap is the minimum necessary to
      determine disease progression). The first 1000 eligible patients will be initially identified
      (expected number required to obtain sample size required of 400 patients), however, further
      searches can be carried out if the expected response and recruitment rate is not met. The
      list of patients to be invited will be screened by the patient's clinical care team in the
      participating dementia service to exclude those who it would be inappropriate to contact as
      it may cause undue distress or harm.

      Eligible patients who have been seen by the dementia service within the previous 12 months
      will be identified by the dementia service clinical care team. These eligible patients will
      be sent by post the study information pack containing: an invitation letter, patient and
      personal consultee information leaflets, patient consent and personal consultee declaration
      forms, and a stamped addressed return envelope. If there is no reply to the initial
      invitation, then a reminder invitation and study information pack will be sent after a
      minimum of 2 weeks. A poster about the study will be displayed in the dementia service
      clinical areas and waiting areas, and a copy of the poster in leaflet form will be available
      for patients to take away and read if they wish.

      A review of the response and recruitment rate will be undertaken at regular intervals to
      assess whether more patients need to be identified (based on a 40% recruitment rate). If the
      required number of patients is not achieved additional recruitment strategy will be
      initiated. An additional search of the dementia service medical records to identify further
      eligible patients and study packs will be posted out.

      For those who are willing to take part in the study written informed consent will be obtained
      from patients with dementia (or personal consultee's advice for those not able to give
      consent) to access their dementia service medical records and their primary care medical
      records and for these to be linked and used for research purposes.

      In those consenting to take part in the study, patient data will be retrieved from the
      dementia service records including detailed clinical assessments of cognitive status,
      behavioural and function assessments, and the time points of these assessments. The patient's
      primary care medical records will be requested from their GP practice. Details on how to
      electronically download the requested medical records and securely transfer them via the
      secure NHS email system will be included with the letter to GP practices.

      Confidentiality and anonymity will be maintained for all participants. All information
      collected regarding participants will be kept confidential. Participants will be free to
      withdraw from the study and to request their medical records are not used up to a period of
      one month from the date consent is given. After this point, pseudoanonymised data will be
      used and it will not be possible to identify patients to remove their medical records from
      the analysis dataset. The presence or absence of potential markers of progression recorded in
      patients' primary care records will then be compared to change in scores from standard clinic
      assessments recorded at the specialist dementia clinic.
    
  