
    
      Clinical and subclinical thyroid disease is usually used to describe patients with mild
      symptoms correlated to hyperthyroid or hypothyroid state. Thyroid ultrasonography could
      differentiate benign or malignant nodular lesion, together with fine needle aspiration
      cytology and surgical pathology. Thyrotropin (TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone) is the
      pivotal investigation in laboratory diagnosis to define subclinical thyroid diseases. An
      elevated TSH with normal free thyroxine and triiodothyronine levels in serum is defined to be
      subclinical hypothyroidism, and a subnormal TSH with normal thyroid hormone concentrations to
      be subclinical hyperthyroidism. Generally, the prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism and
      hyperthyroidism were reported as 4% -10% & 1%-2% in general population, respectively.
      Although subclinical thyroid disease is prevalent, there is still no consensus for screening
      clinical and subclinical thyroid disease, including hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, nodular
      goiter and thyroid cancer. Under consideration of age, gender or familial history of
      autoimmune thyroid disease. However, screening for thyroid dysfunction should be considered
      in some high risk patients, including 1) elderly; 2) history of atrial fibrillation; 3)
      previous thyroid disease history; 4) other confirmed autoimmune diseases; 5) neck exposure of
      radiation (for example, nasopharyngeal cancer, post-radiation); 6) family history of probable
      autoimmune thyroid disease, and 7) pregnant state with prior thyroid disease history.
      Therapeutic decision for clinical and subclinical thyroid dysfunction should be considered
      individually. Therapeutic options will be anti-thyroid medications and/or radioactive iodine,
      and thyroidectomy could be considered with larger goiters for hyperthyroidism. For clinical
      and subclinical hypothyroidism, the therapeutic consideration should be aimed on reduction of
      progression to overt hypothyroidism, improving heart function, correction of dyslipidemia,
      and relieving senescence depressive mood. Thyroid ultrasonography will help us to keep long
      term observation of thyroid structural change. But long term outcome for treatment of such
      functional and structural thyroid diseases had not been recorded delicately in Taiwan.
      Further investigations should be observed in the future. The investigators hope to check the
      relationship between various thyroid diseases and biochemical survey/ultrasonography. The
      purpose of this study is aiming for early prevention and detection the potential risk factors
      for thyroid diseases in Taiwan.
    
  