
    
      Baseline investigations will depend on the clinical presentation of the athlete. Three groups
      are identified:

        1. Asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic: anosmia, ageusia, headache, mild fatigue, fever ≤3d,
           myalgias ≤3d , mild upper respiratory tract illness, and mild gastrointestinal illness

        2. Moderate to severe symptoms: at least 2 of: persistent fever ≥4d, chills ≥4d, myalgias
           ≥4d, lethargy impairing activities of daily life (ADL) ≥4d, dyspnea during ADL ≥4d, and
           chest tightness ≥4d. Or cardiac symptoms: dyspnea, exercise intolerance, chest
           tightness, dizziness, (pre)syncope, and (new onset) palpitations.

        3. Hospitalized: all athletes admitted for COVID-19, whether or not on the intensive care
           unit.

             -  Group 1 will undergo a thorough history, clinical examination, ECG, laboratory
                tests for hs-Troponin T (TnT) and hsCRP, echocardiography at rest, 5-day-Holter and
                CMR. These examinations will take place at least 30 days after the first symptoms
                or positive test. Follow-up will be performed as pointed out with the grey crosses
                in the table. Depending on the results further investigation may be required (as in
                group 2 and 3). This part of the study is interventional in nature (not according
                to standard of care in those individuals).

             -  Groups 2 and 3 will undergo a more extensive evaluation: a thorough history,
                clinical examination, ECG, laboratory tests for hs-TnT and hsCRP, echocardiography
                at rest, CardioPulmonary Exercise Test (CPET), 5-day-Holter, late potentials and
                CMR.

      If in any athlete the CMR shows signs of fibrosis or myocarditis, an exercise
      echocardiography will be performed additionally. Those subjects will be part of a more
      extensive follow-up schedule (both white and grey in the table) In the case of the presence
      of a non-ischemic pattern of Late Gadolinium Enhancement (LGE) or raised myocardial T2 and
      normal of only mildly contractile reserve, implantation of an Implantable Loop Recorder (ILR)
      will be performed as a part of the study. This then will be remotely followed-up through
      telemonitoring. Other athletes (and those who refuse an ILR will receive a 5d-Holter
      monitoring.
    
  