
    
      STUDY METHODOLOGY

        1. RESEARCH DESIGN: The proposed work will be characterized as a Randomized Clinical Trial,
           with evaluators outside the experimental groups (single-blind). The sample will be
           probabilistic, from individuals diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.

        2. TYPE OF STUDY: Randomized Clinical Trial.

        3. AREA OF SCOPE: Major area: Health Sciences. Area: Physiotherapy and Occupational
           Therapy.

        4. LOCATION: The place where the entire study will be carried out will be in the home
           environment of each research participant.

        5. PARTICIPANTS: Participants will be recruited from an existing pre-existing list of
           research conducted on individuals with Parkinson's Disease from the UFCSPA. Individuals
           who: - are diagnosed with Parkinson's disease; - Classified as I-III on the Hoehn & Yahr
           motor staging scale; - Are over 18 years old (above this, without age restriction). -
           Residents in the city of Porto Alegre / RS. - Have signed the informed consent form
           (Appendix A). Individuals who: - Do not show the understanding of the games on the first
           day of familiarization; - Have a cerebral pacemaker implant; - Have recent injuries or
           limitations that make the MMSS impossible. - Do not perform / abstain from two
           appointments out of the 16 proposed in the intervention protocol, regardless of the
           group that will be allocated. The study will consist of two groups: intervention group
           (IG), which will receive treatment with Leap Motion Controller; and the control group
           (CG), who will receive treatment with conventional physiotherapy.

        6. EVALUATION INSTRUMENTS: A participant identification form will be filled out, containing
           full name, date of birth, gender, address, telephone number, education, diagnosis, time
           of diagnosis, onset of symptoms (laterality), associated diseases, PD subtype and
           medicines. Individuals will be assessed for: the motor aspects of experiences and
           activities of daily living using the TEMPA test and the Unified Assessment Scale for
           Parkinson's Disease (MDS-UPDRS) part II; Motor Assessment and subtype of the disease,
           using the MDS-UPDRS scale III; motor staging of PD using the Hoehn & Yahr scale; muscle
           strength and endurance, using the handgrip dynamometer (TEMPA test); manual dexterity,
           through the Box and Block test and the Nine Hole Peg test; cognitive issues through the
           Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA); and quality of life, through the Questionnaire on
           Parkinson's Disease (PDQ-39).

        7. EXPECTED DURATION: The present research project contemplates different objectives, this
           being a study proposal to be developed during four years.

        8. PROCEDURES: The formation of each of the groups will be done through the generation of a
           random sequence through the tool available at http://www.randomize.com. Therefore,
           individuals will be divided into two groups: Intervention Group and Control Group.
           Subsequently, the initial assessment will be made,TEMPA, MDS-UPDRS-II e III, motor
           staging of the disease (H&Y), Box and Block Test, Nine Hole Peg Test), MoCA and
           PDQ-39.The IG will carry out a 2-month intervention protocol, with 16 40-minute
           interventions, twice a week. The CG will perform a conventional physiotherapy protocol
           for the same period as the IG. Therefore, all groups will receive the same evaluation
           procedures that will be performed before the intervention (PRE), after the intervention
           (POST) and, finally, 30 days after the intervention (follow-up). The researchers
           responsible for the intervention will not be aware of the evaluations carried out and
           the evaluators will not be aware of the group to which the participant will belong. Both
           groups will be able to follow their routine activities (physical and / or physical
           therapy) and all procedures will be performed in the home environment of each research
           participant.

        9. ETHICAL AND LEGAL PROCEDURES The study project in question will be submitted to the
           Research Ethics Committee of the Federal University of Health Sciences of Porto Alegre
           (UFCSPA) and will only be applied after due approval. All participants will be informed
           about the procedures, objectives, justifications, potential risks and benefits of their
           participation in the study. The research will not present risks to the participant, but
           if there is any discomfort during any activity, the treatment will be stopped
           immediately and the necessary measures taken. In addition, all participants must sign
           the informed consent form and receive a copy of it. The use of any type of image will
           not identify the participant and will only be used with written consent. The data in the
           medical record (name, telephone and address) will be used for screening in the
           identification and contact of individuals and stored in a database that will be accessed
           only by researchers.
    
  