
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of the
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) vaccine, TG4040, in outpatients with chronic hepatitis C. The study
      will be conducted in two parts at two DMID Vaccine Treatment and Evaluation Unit (VTEU)
      Centers: Saint Louis University and Cincinnati Children's Hospital. Up to 85 subjects with
      chronic hepatitis C will receive the test vaccine via subcutaneous injection into the thigh.
      In Part I of this study, 18 subjects will be randomized to 1 of 3 groups. At the initial
      dosing time point, Group One will receive 10 to the 6th power particle-forming units (PFU)
      and Groups Two & Three will receive saline placebo in 3 doses on Days 0, 7, and 14. After
      Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC) review, Group Two will receive a higher dose of TG4040 (10
      to the 7th power PFU) and Groups One & Three will receive saline placebo. After a further SMC
      review, Group Three will receive a higher dose of TG4040 (10 to the 8th power PFU) and Groups
      One & Two will receive saline placebo. (Each subject will therefore be treated with one
      course of TG4040 and receive two courses of placebo). In Part II of this study, 60 subjects
      (30 non-responders or relapse subjects-Part IIa, and 30 treatment na誰ve, Part IIb) will be
      randomized into two groups to receive either 10 to the 8th power PFU (or the highest
      tolerated dose) of TG4040 or saline placebo at two dosing time points with a crossover
      design. (Each subject will therefore be vaccinated with the same dose of TG4040 and also
      receive a course of placebo.) Subjects enrolled in either Part I or Part II of the study will
      participate for 8 months. The primary objective for Part I of the study is to assess the
      safety of escalating doses of TG4040 versus placebo administered to non-responders or relapse
      subjects with chronic hepatitis C. The secondary objective for Part I of the study is to
      assess immunogenicity of escalating doses of TG4040 versus placebo administered to
      non-responders or relapse subjects with chronic hepatitis C. The primary safety objective for
      Part II of the study is to assess the safety of the dose of TG4040 selected from Part I
      versus placebo when administered to subjects with chronic hepatitis C, either non-responders
      or relapse subjects or treatment- na誰ve subjects. The primary efficacy objective for Part II
      of the study is to assess antiviral activity against HCV of TG4040 versus placebo in subjects
      with chronic hepatitis C, non-responders or relapse subjects or treatment-na誰ve subjects,
      assessed as a 1 log reduction in serum level of HCV RNA. The secondary objective for Part II
      of the study is to assess immunogenicity of TG4040 versus placebo in subjects with chronic
      hepatitis C, non-responders or relapse subjects or treatment-na誰ve subjects, and correlate
      this with reductions in serum levels of HCV RNA. For Part I, the primary outcome measures are
      related to safety and include measures of reactogenicity, changes in blood counts and hepatic
      panel. For Part II, the primary outcome variable is a change in serum levels of HCV RNA
      compared to baseline. A decrease in more than 1 log from baseline will be considered a
      significant effect. In addition to this, other primary outcome measures will also include
      safety and include measures of reactogenicity, changes in blood counts and hepatic panel.
      Secondary outcomes measures include those tests aimed at assessing immunogenicity of the
      vaccine candidate and include, but are not limited to, development of anti-HCV using standard
      commercial assays and research assays, developed of enhanced in vitro T cell reactivity when
      stimulated with HCV antigens.
    
  