
    
      As part of the standard of care, all pregnant women are screened with a 50 gram glucose
      challenge test between 24-28 weeks gestation. Women are diagnosed with GDM when they have two
      abnormal values on the 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test. Once a diagnosis of GDM has been
      made women are referred to the diabetes in pregnancy clinic within 1-2 weeks. All women
      initially undergo a group session with a clinical nutritionist and a registered nurse
      specializing in diabetic care. During this session women receive basic information regarding
      gestational diabetes, instruction regarding dietary management of GDM and standard
      recommendations regarding physical activity. Women also routinely receive a glucometer for
      self monitoring of glucose levels and are instructed regarding its use. One week after this
      group session an intake session with an endocrinologist and Maternal-Fetal Medicine
      specialist occurs and glycemic control is reviewed. Follow up visits are scheduled every 1-4
      weeks depending on adequacy of glycemic control. Decisions regarding adequacy of dietary
      management and need for insulin therapy are made by the endocrinologist at each subsequent
      visit.

      For the purpose of our study, patients will be approached after this group teaching session.
      Eligible patients who have consented to participate in the study will undergo randomization
      into two groups:

        1. Control - routine GDM care as mentioned above.

        2. Intervention - This group will undergo all aspects of routine GDM care but will also
           receive a Nintendo Wii gaming console + Wii Fit activity platform. The games provided
           include "Wii sport" and Wii Fit Plus". Each participant will receive a 30-60 minute
           guided information session to ensure that she is able to install the console at home and
           to set up her personal login information. At this session an overview of the available
           Wii activities will be presented. Each participant will receive a telephone number to
           call in case technical difficulties are encountered at home. At 36 weeks of gestation,
           the Wii hardware and programs will be returned to the investigators. Participants will
           be instructed to note the following warning signs for termination of the exercise
           session; vaginal bleeding, dyspnea before exertion, dizziness, headache, chest pain,
           muscle weakness, calf pain or swelling, preterm labor, decreased fetal movement, and
           amniotic fluid leakage.

      As mentioned, all participants in the study will be encouraged to be physically active. In
      order to independently calculate and compare the overall level of physical activity in both
      groups all participating women will receive a pedometer (StepsCount Digi-Walker SW700) and
      will be instructed to wear it daily during waking hours.
    
  