
    
      A Phase IIa randomized double blind placebo controlled crossover trial (RCT) using six
      different herbal cannabis drug product formulations prepared by the Sponsor, Prairie Plant
      Systems Inc. An initial screening period (minimum one week) will be completed for pain
      assessment and determination of eligibility. After screening, eligible subjects will be
      randomly assigned to receive all 6 different formulations in a random order.

      The study will be conducted using six periods of 7 days duration, with each period consisting
      of one day of exposure and 6 days of washout from study drug. The study will therefore take 6
      weeks to be completed for each enrolled subject with an additional week for adverse event
      monitoring after the final study exposure. Total time in study may therefore be a maximum of
      nine weeks (including screening).

      Adult subjects (age ≥50y) will be recruited with chronic (>3 months) moderate to severe pain
      (pain score ≥40/100 on visual analogue scale) due to primary osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee
      as defined by American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. Target enrolment for this
      study is 36 (18 from each site).

      The study will be conducted at the Alan Edwards Pain Management Unit of the McGill University
      Health Centre, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and the Pain Management Unit at the Queen
      Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. A dedicated ventilated
      room is available at these sites for cannabinoid inhalation studies as used in prior
      evaluation trials on medicinal cannabis.

      All subjects meeting eligibility criteria after the screening period will be randomized to
      receive all 6 herbal cannabis drug product formulations in a randomly assigned order of
      treatment between Clinical Visit (CV) 2 and CV7.

      A washout period of 6 days is proposed between the six different treatment periods. This will
      allow the pharmacological effects of each dose to be minimized prior to each subsequent
      dosing period to avoid confounding.

      Throughout the study all subjects will remain on their stable (pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological) treatment regimen.

      Throughout the study, subjects will be blinded to the treatment they are receiving. Once a
      subject has been randomized, the investigator and the subject, as well as all staff involved
      in the conduct or management of the study will be blinded to the treatment assignment. All
      dosing will be via the Volcano® Medic vapourizer (licensed for medical administration of
      cannabis in Canada March 2010; Licence No. 82405) and both the nurse and the patient will be
      familiarized with its instruction manual.

      The study nurse will prepare the dose for the subject. After opening the vial of drug product
      formulation, its contents will be transferred to the Volcano® Medic's filling chamber
      (sample-holder) equipped top and bottom with fine wire mesh to retain the finely ground
      material. The filling chamber will be placed atop the main body of the unit and then have a,
      12.5 L, heat-resistant Medic Valve balloon affixed to it (this balloon will be housed within
      an opaque bag that is required to ensure blinding because the placebo generates little in the
      way of visible vapour). Active components (THCA and CBDA decarboxylated to THC and CBD) will
      be vapourized out of the herbal material by a stream of hot air with an exact, predefined
      temperature (190 °C). The ensuing vapour will be captured in the balloon. After filling has
      been completed (35 seconds), a mouthpiece will be attached to the balloon for inhalation of
      the vapour by the study subject. The total contents of the balloon will be inhaled over five
      minutes by using a standardized inhalation technique. Immediately after the bag has been
      removed from the Volcano® Medic, inhalation will be according to the following regimen:

        1. Inhale for 4 seconds

        2. Hold breath for 6 seconds

        3. Exhale and breathe normally for 20 seconds

        4. Repeat this inhale-hold-breathe cycle (30 seconds) until the bag has been evacuated.
    
  