
    
      The strategy for Ending the HIV Epidemic (EHE) includes four key strategies that together can
      end the HIV epidemic in the United States (US): Diagnose, Treat, Prevent, and Respond.
      Diagnosis is the gateway to all other interventions; it is the cornerstone of EHE. In 2019/20
      it was estimated that more than 160,000 Americans are unaware of living with HIV. Early
      diagnosis coupled with rapid linkage to care is critical and can lead to improved individual
      and community health outcomes. Achieving this goal will require improved, more accessible,
      and routine HIV testing; immediately connecting people with HIV to care services; and
      connecting those without HIV to appropriate HIV prevention services. Maryland was ranked 6th
      among states and territories in adult/adolescent HIV diagnosis rates (per 100,000) in 2018,
      tied with Mississippi. Among people living with HIV in Maryland in 2019, the Centers for
      Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated that 89.2% had been diagnosed and that ~3,830
      people with HIV are undiagnosed.

      Evaluation of existing and new POC HIV tests is needed to inform testing guidelines and
      provide updated information to HIV test providers. Characterizing the performance of POC
      tests can provide estimates for the window period for HIV detection (i.e., the time from HIV
      acquisition to the time that a diagnostic test becomes positive). The window period provides
      key information needed to interpret an initial positive test result and assess the risk of
      transmission to others. It may also help guide decisions about repeat testing and initiation
      of ART in those with HIV and prevention interventions, including PrEP and post-exposure
      prophylaxis (PEP) (in those without HIV).

      During the window period for an HIV Antigen/Antibody (Ag/Ab) test, infected individuals may
      have non-reactive test results, falsely reassuring patients and providers. HIV RNA [or 'viral
      load' (VL)] assays have window periods that are approximately 10 days shorter than most HIV
      Ag/Ab tests, providing greater sensitivity for detection of early HIV infection. The use of
      HIV RNA detection platforms for HIV screening facilitates earlier diagnosis and more
      effective implementation of ART and PrEP. This may be especially useful in settings where the
      infection is acquired in persons using PrEP, since PrEP agents may suppress viral replication
      and delay antibody production.

      The following hypotheses underpin the planned study:

      A. Determining the performance characteristics of HIV POC tests will inform optimal testing
      strategies in different populations and settings.

      B. Use of HIV RNA POC tests will improve linkage to HIV treatment and prevention services.

      The implications of this CDC-sponsored research are important since this research could
      improve early diagnosis of HIV, reduce the time to ART initiation, and facilitate timely and
      appropriate referral for prevention services. Additionally, if someone is infected while
      using long-acting PrEP, or initiated PrEP while infected, the risk of resistance and side
      effects can be minimized; if the infection is missed. These are critical issues for EHE
      success.
    
  