
    
      The proposed pilot study is a randomized trial to evaluate whether cooking classes produce
      greater gains in cooking skills and food agency than cooking demonstrations, as well as
      whether provision of meal delivery and recipes result in more frequent cooking than no meal
      delivery or recipes. There will be three phases to the study intervention and four study
      conditions. All conditions will receive 6 weeks of cooking classes, either active or
      demonstration, and two conditions will also receive a continued intervention including 6
      weeks of meal kit delivery service followed by another 6 weeks of recipe provision.

      Phase 1- Cooking classes. All participants will attend 1 kitchen intensive session followed
      by 1 cooking class (active or demonstration) per week for 6 weeks

      Phase 2- Meal Kits. Assigned participants will receive meal kit deliveries once per week for
      6 weeks.

      Phase 3- Recipes. Assigned participants will receive 5 healthy recipes by email once per week
      for 6 weeks.

      The investigators will randomize 64 students to one of four intervention conditions.

      Group A (n=16) - Active cooking classes followed by meal kits and recipes Group B (n=16) -
      Active cooking classes followed by no further instruction Group C (n=16) - Demonstration
      classes followed by meal kits and recipes Group D (n=16) - Demonstration classes followed by
      no further instruction

      Assessments will be conducted at baseline, and following each phase.

      Cooking Classes: The demonstration condition will serve as an "attention only" control.
      Previous research suggests that demonstrations of cooking have little to no impact on cooking
      behavior, therefore, cooking demonstrations can be used to "even out" the time and attention
      devoted to the active cooking participants without introducing bias into the study design.
      Subjects in the demonstration condition will also begin with a brief lecture on the day's
      lesson followed by a cooking demonstration that covers the same topics as the active
      intervention group. All participants will receive the same printed information and also have
      an opportunity to sample the prepared food at the end of class. The demonstrations will be
      led by the same chef as the active intervention group.

      Meal Kits: With the meal delivery service, participants will get all the ingredients they
      need to make a meal as well as a recipe for the meal which includes step-by-step photos. They
      are then responsible for doing the actual cooking of the meal. Students will all receive kits
      for 3 meals per week from the same delivery service and will have the option to select meals
      that fit their dietary needs (vegetarian, gluten free, etc.). Meal kits are designed to serve
      two individuals therefore students should have enough food for six meals, though they will
      only need to cook three times. The service used is open to the public, therefore students who
      enjoyed the meal kit service could opt to continue service and pay for it themselves.
      However, students will be instructed to wait until study completion to do so.

      Recipes: Recipes will be designed by the research team, which includes three registered
      dietitians and a trained chef. Students will receive recipes for five healthy meals per week.
      Participants will need to shop, budget, and plan on their own. Recipes will accommodate major
      dietary preferences including vegetarian and gluten-free.
    
  