
    
      HITLAB will conduct a crossover study that measures the activity levels and sleep quality of
      patients both before and during treatment with Probuphine in order to determine whether
      Probuphine offers the additional benefit of improved energy levels during treatment, further
      distinguishing it from other opioid dependency treatments.

      HITLAB researchers will meet with participating site physicians prior to study recruitment in
      order to administer the "Physician Baseline Questionnaire," a brief semi-structured baseline
      questionnaire to assess initial physician expectations for the actigraphy device.

      Per physician guidelines, patients must be in stable treatment for at least 1 month prior to
      study enrollment. If the physician determines Probuphine to be an appropriate treatment
      method for the study subject, the physician will meet with the subject and explain the
      purpose of the actigraphy.

      Upon enrollment, the physician will administer the "Participant Baseline Questionnaire,"
      assessing general well-being, physical activity level, sleep patterns, and technology usage.
      At this time, the participant will be asked to begin wearing the Actigraph continuously for
      12 weeks. The first four weeks of the study patients will continue their previously scheduled
      treatment regimen, prior to receiving the Probuphine implant.

      Following four weeks of activity and sleep baseline monitoring using the actigraph device,
      the participant will receive the Probuphine implant [day 30]. At this visit, the clinician
      will administer four clinical assessments: Assessment of Withdrawal from Opioids Scale
      (SOWS), Clinical Opiate Withdraw Scale (COWS), Visual Analog Scales (VAS), and Measures of
      Morning Desire to use/need to use tool from Braeburn Pharmaceuticals (HS-11-421), as well as
      a baseline quality of life assessment (WHOQOL-BREF).

      Observation of the participant's activity levels will continue for a total of eight weeks
      following implantation of Probuphine. Actigraphy measurements will include total time asleep,
      total time awake, sleep efficiency, and time mobile.

      At the midline 60-day visit with each participant, as part of their regular monthly treatment
      appointment, the physician will repeat administration of the four clinical assessments (The
      Assessment of Withdrawal from Opioids Scale (SOWS), Clinical Opiate Withdraw Scale (COWS),
      Visual Analog Scales (VAS), and Measures of Morning Desire to use/Need to use tool from
      Braeburn Pharmaceuticals (HS-11-421)), as well as the quality of life assessment
      (WHOQOL-BREF).

      At the participant endline visit [90 days], a physician will administer a repeat quality of
      life questionnaire (WHOQOL-BREF), and the four clinical assessments: Assessment of Withdrawal
      from Opioids Scale (SOWS), Clinical Opiate Withdraw Scale (COWS), Visual Analog Scales (VAS),
      and Measures of Morning Desire to use/need to use tool from Braeburn Pharmaceuticals
      (HS-11-421).

      In addition, five participants will be randomly selected to participate in a short
      qualitative interview at the time of the site endline visit. Participant interviews, in
      person or via telephone, will assess their experience using the actigraph device during
      treatment, and their perspectives on activity changes and sleep quality. Patient perspectives
      on activity changes and sleep quality will serve as a point of triangulation for the
      actigraphy data.

      HITLAB will conduct a baseline site visit, a site visit after 30 days, after 60 days, and
      after 90 days (the endline visit) of the study period to collect questionnaire and assessment
      data for analysis. Actigraphy data will be uploaded at days 30, 60 and 90. At the endline
      site visit, participating physicians will be asked to complete a brief, semi-structured
      "Physician Endline Questionnaire" to assess satisfaction with the actigraphy device in
      helping them improve outcomes and quality of life for patients in Probuphine treatment. A
      HITLAB researcher will also conduct a brief qualitative interview with the physicians at the
      endline site visit. The in-person physician interviews will assess whether the actigraphy
      data informed patient experience in such a way that it improves the efficacy of Probuphine
      administration and treatment.
    
  