
    
      Osteoporosis in postmenopausal women is one of the most important public health challenges of
      our time. With millions of women affected and billions of dollars being spent for its
      complications, we need to develop effective approaches to this disease. Postmenopausal women
      are at particular risk because the loss of estrogen associated with the menopause leads to
      bone loss of much greater magnitude than one would expect on the basis of age alone. Estrogen
      replacement therapy, a logical and effective therapeutic approach, has been associated with
      serious concerns about adverse events and, thus, limited use. The recent development of
      selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMS) may help if they continue to show promise.
      Interest in natural sources of estrogenic substances to prevent postmenopausal bone loss is
      an expected outgrowth of the general interest in alternative medicinals for a wide variety of
      human disorders. Concerns about the potential for adverse consequences of the conventional
      use of estrogen replacement therapy, and limited knowledge about long term use of SERMS- add
      support to this quest. No systematic investigation of the role of dietary phytoestrogens on
      bone mass and skeletal dynamics has yet been conducted. With the dramatic increase in
      interest in these sources of estrogenic activity, it is important for us to determine whether
      these agents are efficacious. Otherwise, this field will be plagued for years to come by
      incomplete, anecdotal and scientifically poorly documented actions of these agents on bone
      metabolism. It is our expectation that this study will begin to provide the documentary
      information that the field so clearly needs. The rationale for exploring the potential for
      phytoestrogens in the maintenance of skeletal health in postmenopausal women is clear and
      compelling.

      Women will be randomly assigned to one of three healthy eating plans and, over the course of
      the year-long study, will learn to choose and cook foods to help optimize health as they go
      through menopause and beyond.
    
  