
    
      Background and Rationale High-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) with melphalan and autologous stem
      cell transplantation (ASCT) remains an integral component of the myeloma treatment algorithm
      for patients considered eligible for the procedure, nowadays performed in myeloma patients up
      to the age of 75 years. Until the advent of the novel agents, the initial therapy regimens
      commonly used were vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone (VAD) or single-agent
      dexamethasone, both of which shared the advantage of having little impact on stem cell
      mobilization and collection. Previous studies had shown that alkylating agents can
      potentially affect the stem cell pool and thus interfere with the ability to collect adequate
      numbers of stem cells. However, VAD is no longer uses nowadays, whereas current
      lenalidomide-containing combinations significantly affect stem cell collection. .In
      Switzerland, the combination of non-myeloablative chemotherapy with vinorelbine or
      gemcitabine and G-CSF is the current standard procedure. With the predominant use of
      bortezomib during induction treatment more patients have pre-existing neurotoxicity.
      Vinorelbine can aggravate this problem. Recently data have shown that a mobilization with
      gemcitabine together with G-CSF is safe and effective in myeloma patients. Whether
      chemotherapy is mandatory at all to achieve the same reliable and cost-effective mobilization
      is currently unknown. The investigators therefore consider that a direct comparison between
      vinorelbine/gemcitabine and G-CSF versus G-CSF alone is justified.

      Objective:

      The primary objective is to show non-inferiority of cytokine stimulation with G-CSF compared
      to chemotherapy stimulation with vinorelbine (or gemcitabine) together with G-CSF for the
      mobilization of autologous stem cells in myeloma patients in first remission.

      Study Duration:

      The anticipated total study duration is 42 months.
    
  