
    
      Objective:

      The primary objective is to explore the clinical and biological phenotypes of post-infectious
      myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (PI-ME/CFS). The secondary objective is to
      explore the pathophysiology of fatigue and post-exertional malaise (PEM).

      Study population:

      Up to 206 persons will be enrolled as part of this protocol. Up to 150 persons aged 18-60
      will be part of 3 study groups: 50 ME/CFS patients whose fatigue began after an infection, 50
      non-fatigued participants with a documented history of a full recovery from COVID-19
      infection, and 50 healthy volunteers. The study has a target of completing all study
      procedures on 20 enrolled participants in each group. Up to an additional 36 persons
      reporting a community diagnosis of ME/CFS will be enrolled into focus groups to discuss the
      experience of post-exertional malaise. Up to an additional 10 healthy volunteers and 10
      ME/CFS patients may be enrolled to refine the protocol's electrophysiological and
      neuroimaging techniques.

      Design:

      This is a single-center, exploratory, cross-sectional study of PI-ME/CFS. Participants will
      have a phenotyping visit, which will encompass a 2-5 day long inpatient admission at the NIH
      Clinical Center. Case status for ME/CFS participants will be determined after the phenotyping
      visit by a case adjudication process utilizing an expert physician committee and published
      guidelines. Adjudicated participants meeting inclusion criteria will be invited back to
      participate in an exercise stress visit, which will encompass a 5-10 day long inpatient
      admission. Detailed subjective and objective measurements and biological specimens will be
      serially collected before and up to 96 hours after a peak exercise test capable of inducing
      post-exertional malaise during this visit. All procedures will be completed on all three
      study groups to allow for optimal inter-group comparisons.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary purpose of this protocol is to perform exploratory analysis of collected samples
      for the generation of new hypotheses regarding ME/CFS. The types of analyses to be performed
      will be wide ranging. Planned areas of focus include:

        1. Characterization of the immune system and inflammatory signaling in collected samples at
           baseline and following maximal exercise exertion.

        2. Characterization of the pattern of microbiome in collected samples at baseline and

           following maximal exercise exertion.

        3. Characterization of bioenergetics, autonomic, and metabolic function in collected

           samples at baseline and following maximal exercise exertion.

        4. Characterization of physical and cognitive fatigue using functional magnetic resonance
           imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation at baseline and following maximal exercise
           exertion.

        5. Characterization of neurocognition at baseline and following maximal exercise exertion.

        6. Characterization of brain function and connectivity at baseline and following maximal
           exercise exertion.

        7. Characterization of autonomic function at baseline and following maximal exercise
           exertion.

        8. Characterization of gene expression profiles in collected samples at baseline and
           following maximal exercise exertion.
    
  