
    
      Excessive daytime sleepiness and long sleep durations are common features of many neurologic
      disorders, including myotonic dystrophy, Parkinson's disease, and the central nervous system
      hypersomnia syndromes. These latter syndromes are a group of disorders with overlapping
      clinical phenotypes and, except in the case of narcolepsy due to hypocretin deficiency
      (narcolepsy type 1), potentially shared pathophysiology.

      Pathologic daytime sleepiness in these disorders impairs occupational performance, limits
      quality of life, and more than doubles motor vehicle and other accident risk. Because the
      underlying cause of the majority of these hypersomnia syndromes is not known, treatments are
      aimed at increasing monoaminergic signaling involved in wake promotion. Yet, at least
      one-fourth of patients with hypersomnia syndromes cannot achieve satisfactory control of
      symptoms with these treatments and disability or medical leaves of absence are often
      necessary. There is a clear need for novel treatments for excessive daytime sleepiness to
      resolve this failure of the current standard of care.

      In prior studies, clarithromycin resulted in significant, clinically meaningful improvements
      in sleepiness severity, sleepiness-related limitations in extended activities of daily
      living, and sleepiness-related quality of life. Long sleep durations and sleep inertia, both
      ancillary symptoms of hypersomnia disorders that contribute to functional impairments, were
      also improved with clarithromycin.

      Hypothesis: Clarithromycin will reduce excessive sleepiness and other symptoms of hypersomnia
      disorders, as measured by self-report and objective testing.

      Aim 1: To identify central nervous system mediators of clarithromycin's ability to promote
      wakefulness and reduce sleepiness, among patients with central hypersomnia syndromes.

      Hypothesis 1a: Changes in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A
      (GABA-A) receptor function in vitro will be associated with improvements in self-reported and
      objectively measured sleepiness.

      Hypothesis 1b: Changes in functional connectivity will be associated with improvements in
      self-reported and objectively measured sleepiness.

      Aim 2: To probe extra-neuronal mechanisms by which clarithromycin may reduce sleepiness,
      including changes in systemic inflammation and changes in gastrointestinal microbiota
      composition, in patients with central hypersomnia syndromes.

      Hypothesis 2a: Improvement in sleepiness with clarithromycin use will be positively
      associated with reductions in systemic inflammation, especially reductions in levels of tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα).

      Hypothesis 2b: Improvement in sleepiness with clarithromycin use will be positively
      correlated with modulation of gastrointestinal dysbiosis.
    
  