
    
      Obesity and its negative health consequences such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease are
      major public health concerns. Pregnancy is an ideal opportunity to intervene with young women
      both to reduce their own likelihood of long-term obesity and to potentially lessen their
      offspring's obesity risk. Interventions to reduce excessive weight gain during adolescent
      pregnancy may be particularly important. 50-70% of adolescents gain too much weight during
      pregnancy, and this excess gain significantly increases their risk of high postpartum weight
      retention and long-term obesity. Depression and stress-which are common in adolescent
      pregnancy-also may play a role. Pregnant adolescent females, as well as non-pregnant females,
      who have more frequent feelings of depression or stress are more likely to gain weight too
      rapidly or to gain too much weight as they grow. In the current project, the investigators
      seek to develop a program to prevent excess weight gain that will be feasible to administer
      in the Colorado Adolescent Maternity Program (CAMP) at Children's Hospital Colorado,
      University of Colorado Denver, Anschutz Medical Campus, and, that will be acceptable to
      pregnant teens at-risk for gaining too much weight. After a screening assessment, adolescent
      females (13-19y) will be randomly assigned to participate in either a 6-session interpersonal
      psychotherapy (IPT) program + usual care or to CAMP usual care only. The IPT program will
      involve 6 1-hour meetings with a trained facilitator and focus on improving relationships,
      mood, stress, and eating in response to negative feelings. The investigators will assess
      participants midway through the program, immediately after the program, and again at a
      3-month postpartum follow-up. The investigators will evaluate to what extent adolescent
      females attend the program, complete at-home practice assignments, and show changes in mood,
      stress, relationships, eating, and mindfulness before and after IPT participation compared to
      usual care only. The investigators also will estimate how program participation relates to
      weight gain during pregnancy and 3-month postpartum maternal weight retention, adiposity, and
      insulin sensitivity. The investigators also will study the adiposity of adolescents'
      3-month-old infants.
    
  