
    
      Obesity is an increasingly prevalent chronic condition (Ogden et al., 2006) which is
      associated with significant health consequences, including type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep
      apnea, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia (Bray, 2004). Bariatric surgery is the most effective
      treatment for patients with extreme obesity (Colquitt et al., 2005). Unfortunately, it has
      been estimated that 20 to 50% of patients begin to regain their weight within the first 1 ½
      to 2 years, and improvements in medical comorbidities dissipate with weight regain (Hsu et
      al., 1998; Shah et al., 2006). In light of the high relapse rates following bariatric
      surgery, research on non-surgical factors that influence the outcome of bariatric surgery,
      such as psychiatric comorbidity, has become increasingly important (Hsu et al., 1998). Up to
      55% of bariatric surgery candidates have an Axis I disorder at the time of the initial
      assessment, with the most common diagnoses being eating disorders (37%), affective disorders
      (32%), and anxiety disorders (15%) (Muhlhans et al., 2009). Despite accumulating evidence
      indicating that psychiatric comorbidity is associated with poorer surgical outcomes,
      psychological interventions are not routinely offered in Bariatric Surgery programs. It has
      been suggested that cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) could be helpful in maintaining
      weight loss (Kalarchian & Marcus, 2003). We have published a paper on the feasibility of the
      protocol using a small sample and producing promising eating improvements post-intervention
      (Cassin et al., 2013). A more recent study (Cassin et al., 2016) of the first phase of this
      study with Tele-CBT delivered 6 months before surgery indicated significant improvements in
      binge eating, emotional eating, and depressive symptoms, compared to a control group. These
      results are similar to other studies employing CBT for bariatric surgery patients (e.g. Gade
      et al., 2014). We have recently published on the outcomes for Tele-CBT delivered 6 months
      post-surgery (Sockalingam, Cassin, Wnuk, Du, Jackson, Hawa, & Parikh, 2016) that showed
      significant reductions in scores of binge eating, emotional eating, depression, and anxiety.
      The same measures used in the first phase of the study (Cassin et al., 2016; Sockalingam et
      al., 2016) will be used in this second phase, looking at Tele-CBT delivered to patients at
      one year after surgery. Comparisons between the efficacy of Tele-CBT based on responses to
      measures will be made for participants receiving the intervention at 6 months before surgery,
      6 months after surgery, and 1 year after surgery.
    
  