
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic (Coronavirus Disease-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory
      Syndrome Coronavirus 2) has caused more that 10 million infections worldwide, with a general
      mortality of 6%. Multiple studies have found that the hyperinflammatory immune response
      induced by SARS-CoV-2 is one of the main causes of severity and death in infected patients.
      In severe COVID-19 patients, an association was found between pneumonitis and/or ARDS (Acute
      Severe Respiratory Syndrome), increased serum levels of cytokines and chemokines, extensive
      lung damage and microthrombosis. Studies of both gene expression in lungs and blood cytokines
      and chemokines have related chemokine signaling clusters with COVID-19 severity, being CCL3,
      CCL4 and CCL7 (CC chemokine ligands 3, 4 and 7) particularly interesting. All these are CCR5
      (CC chemokine receptor 5) ligands. A strategy to modulate activation and trafficking of
      leukocytes to the lungs is by blocking CCR5 by using maraviroc (MVC), which has shown capable
      of modulating conditions of generalized inflammation. Along with a good regulation of the
      immune response, an antiviral that helps to reduce the viral load must be considered.
      Favipiravir (FPV) has shown to be capable to reduce the time of viral clearance by half.
      Hence, we propose that the conjoint use of MVC and FPV could help to reduce the progression
      of severe hospitalized COVID-19 patients to critical by decreasing the percentage of patients
      in need of mechanical respiratory support or death by at least 30%. This is a randomized,
      controlled clinical trial that besides evaluating the safety and efficacy of MVC+FPV to avoid
      progression in severe COVID-19 patients as a primary endpoint, is also aimed at other
      secondary endpoints: A) Evaluate the activation of CCR5 in peripheral blood lymphocytes,
      monocytes, and neutrophils. B) Find possible modifications in the ongoing chemokine and
      cytokine storm in serum, particularly IL-6, IL-1b, (interleukins 6 and 1 beta) TNF (tumor
      necrosis factor), IFNa, IFNg (interferons alpha and gamma), VEGF (vascular endothelial growth
      factor), CXCL10 (CXC chemokine ligand 10), CCL7, CCL3, and CCL5 (CC chemokine ligands 7, 3
      and 5), C) Search for alterations in the patterns of activation, trafficking, and exhaustion
      of peripheral blood lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils, and D) Determine if it has an
      effect in viral loads in saliva. 100 severe patients tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 will be
      randomized in 4 treatment arms:

      Arm A: Currently used therapy (CT) only, Enoxaparin, dexamethasone, and antibiotics if
      associated bacteremia is present, as per currently used at Hospital General de México "Dr.
      Eduardo Liceaga").

      Arm B: CT+MVC Arm C: CT+FPV Arm D: CT+MVC+FPV
    
  