
    
      This is a post-market, controlled, single-center study to evaluate V-Loc suture. 10 subjects
      will be included in this study. Premenopausal women ages 18-42 will undergo a laparoscopic
      myomectomy. Adhesion scoring will be done prior to the myomectomy using a modified American
      Fertility Society scoring technique. V-loc 180 suture will be utilized in all patients for
      closure of all uterine defects. All patients will then be evaluated by means of a second look
      laparoscopy (SLL) 6-12 weeks after the initial surgery and evaluated via modified American
      Fertility Society scoring techniques.

      An independent reviewer will also score adhesions utilizing video recordings made from the
      second look laparoscopic surgery , using the same scoring techniques employed by the PI..

      Patients will undergo routine preoperative blood tests in accordance with the Primary
      Investigators' usual standard of practice. All patients who meet the inclusion criteria will
      be considered. Patients will be consented prior to entry into the operating room. Surgical
      time will be measured from start of procedure, start of myomectomy, and start and finish time
      of each individual uterine closure. All investigators will provide usual and customary care
      to research subjects during the first look laparoscopy. This includes the use of all standard
      practice anti-adhesive agents and heparinized irrigation fluids

      . Physicians will be surveyed on ease of use and any problems that occur with V-Loc suture.

      All patients will be treated with post-operative antibiotics per the Primary Investigator's
      usual standard of care. Patients will be contacted both one and 4 weeks post surgery and
      evaluated for complications using a phone survey for pain and bowel functioning. The patient
      will also have a standard post operative exam with the physician 4-6 weeks post-operatively.
      A second look laparoscopy will be performed 6-12 weeks following the initial myomectomy.
      Adhesions will be evaluated using a modified American Fertility Society evaluation tool. Any
      adhesions seen at the time of SLL will be treated using the physician's preferred method of
      adhesiolysis. A recording will be obtained of the second look laparoscopy and will be
      reviewed and scored by an independent reviewer as to the level of adhesions seen .
    
  