
    
      Mindfulness and FM-Related Clinical Pain

      The lack of clinical improvement in FM patients in response to pharmacologic therapy provides
      support for the development and validation of cost-effective, narcotic free, cognitive
      approaches to treating FM.

      If the benefits of mindfulness-based interventions can be realized after brief mental
      training, then this technique could better facilitate treatment in pain patients and become
      more attractive to clinicians and health insurers. To this extent, investigators have
      previously shown that four days (20m/d) of mindfulness meditation training in healthy
      subjects significantly reduced experimental pain unpleasantness by 57% and pain intensity by
      40% when compared to rest. Additionally, investigators found that four days of
      mindfulness-based mental training significantly reduced state anxiety, and these results were
      realized even after one meditation session. However, it remains unclear if brief
      mindfulness-based mental training can reliably reduce clinical pain in FM patients. To this
      extent, investigators will test the efficacy of a brief, mindfulness meditation intervention
      on FM-related pain. Providing a short, but potentially effective intervention could offset
      the physical, temporal, and financial barriers to treatment in FM patients.

      Mindfulness and FM-Related Experimental Pain

      FM patients have been found to have lower pain thresholds across multiple noxious stimulation
      modalities and suffer from hyperalgesia, an increased sensitivity to pain. While pain
      thresholds correspond to the point at which a stimulus is experienced as painful, sensitivity
      to pain refers to an individual's subjective experience of a noxious stimulus. Unfortunately,
      no known studies have examined the effects of mindfulness meditation on FM-related heat pain
      thresholds and heat pain sensitivity. The employment of experimentally induced pain
      manipulations could provide the means to disentangle the constellation of interactions that
      affect the subjective experience of FM-related pain. To this extent, in addition to examining
      the effects of mindfulness meditation on clinical pain, investigators will also employ
      psychophysical methodologies to determine if mindfulness meditation attenuates experimentally
      induced pain in FM patients.

      Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and Fibromyalgia

      The Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) is critical for control of homeostatic measures such as
      blood pressure, body temperature, and heart rate. HRV, or the variability in the beat-to-beat
      interval, can be used to assess the systemic relative contributions of the parasympathetic
      and sympathetic branches of the ANS. Parasympathetic effects on heart rate are mediated
      through the vagus nerve relatively quickly, thus classifying high frequency changes in heart
      rate (HF HRV; 0.15-0.40 Hz) as a marker of parasympathetic activity.

      Interestingly, decreased HF HRV can provide a robust physiological correlate of the
      subjective experience of pain. In fact, decreased HF HRV is directly associated with a number
      of clinical pain conditions including fibromyalgia. Additionally, recent findings have shown
      that meditation directly increases HF HRV. Investigators therefore will employ psychophysical
      and physiological methodologies to test the hypothesis that the analgesic effects of
      mindfulness meditation in FM patients are associated with increases in HF HRV.

      Specific Aims

      To examine the effects of a brief mindfulness meditation intervention on clinical pain (the
      primary outcome) and experimental pain (the secondary outcome) in FM patients as compared to
      a wait-list control condition. Investigators will also examine if the analgesic effects of
      mindfulness meditation are correlated with increases in HF HRV.

      Hypotheses

      Investigators hypothesize that a brief mindfulness meditation intervention will decrease
      clinical and experimental pain in FM patients when compared to a wait-list control condition.
      Investigators hypothesize that the analgesic effects of meditation will be correlated with
      increases in HF HRV. Investigators also predict that meditation will decrease depression,
      state anxiety, overall disease severity, and perceived stress, while increasing quality of
      sleep, and mindfulness skills in comparison to pre-intervention scores and the wait-list
      control group.

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objective: The primary objective of this study is to determine if a brief mindfulness
      meditation intervention can improve FM-related clinical pain. Based on prior research,
      investigators' working hypothesis is that this intervention will decrease the severity of
      FM-associated pain in comparison to pre-intervention scores and a wait-list control group.

      Secondary Objective: The secondary objective of this study is to determine if a brief
      mindfulness-based meditation intervention can impact a number of factors associated with FM
      while proving to be a feasible intervention for this patient population, as measured by an
      attrition rate of less than 25%. First, investigators will test the hypothesis that
      mindfulness meditation, in comparison to the wait-list control group and pre-intervention
      experimental pain ratings, will reduce the subjective experience of experimentally induced
      pain in FM patients. Specifically, based on preliminary studies, investigators hypothesize
      that a brief mindfulness meditation intervention will decrease heat pain sensitivity and
      increase heat pain thresholds in this patient population (see Interventions and
      Interactions). Additionally, investigators will test the hypothesis that the decreases in
      clinical and/or experimental pain caused by mindfulness meditation will be associated with
      increases in HF HRV. Finally, investigators will test if a brief mindfulness-based meditation
      intervention can improve psychological disposition in FM patients. Based on prior work,
      investigators postulate that mindfulness meditation training will decrease a) depression, b)
      state anxiety, c) overall disease severity, and d) perceived stress, while increasing e)
      quality of sleep, and f) mindfulness skills in comparison to pre-intervention scores and the
      wait-list control group.
    
  