
    
      A double-blinded, placebo-controlled randomized trial will explore the effects of
      time-varying caloric vestibular stimulation (tvCVS) treatments on changes in biomarkers of
      neurovascular status (i.e. cerebral blood flow perfusion and cerebrovascular reactivity) as
      well as their relationship to clinical endpoints. Participants will be randomly allocated in
      a 1:1 ratio using block randomization by the clinical site. Participants will be trained in
      the clinic to self-administer device treatment and then will continue to self-administer the
      ~19-minute treatments twice daily for 12 weeks in the home. Individual stimulation sessions
      will be spaced a minimum of 1 hour apart. Outcome measures will be administered at the
      baseline, the end of the 12-week treatment period and at 5 weeks post-treatment. Study
      participants will continue to take their approved Parkinson's disease (PD) medications
      throughout the study and will maintain patterns of usage throughout.

      Previous evidence for efficacy demonstrated therapeutic gains as an adjuvant for standard of
      care treatment. Consistent with these observations, all outcome measures will be evaluated
      when study participants are in the on-medication state and at the same time relative to the
      last dose of anti-Parkinsonian medication across all assessments. Clinical measures will be
      captured at the baseline, at the end of treatment period, and again five weeks after
      cessation of treatment. Most of the planned clinical measures including the Movement Disorder
      Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) parts I, II, and IV, the
      Non-Motor Symptom Scale for PD (NMSS), the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), the
      Parkinson's Anxiety Scale, the Geriatric Depression Scale, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, and
      the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue are suitable for virtual
      collection. Case report forms (CRFs) for the patient reported outcomes will be provided to
      study participants via standard mail. At the end of each virtual visit, participants will be
      asked to complete these forms and bring them to the clinic the next day when they come for
      their in-clinic visit. In the case where an in-clinic visit may not be possible, participants
      will be asked to show completed forms to the coordinator via the telemedicine platform to
      confirm completeness, and forms will be collected at the next in-person visit or can be
      mailed in by the participant.

      The full MDS- UPDRS part III and the Timed Up and Go will be administered in the clinic.
      However, a modified MDS-UPDRS part III (excluding items related to rigidity or postural
      instability) will also be administered through the telemedicine platform. This measure will
      serve as backup for cases where participants may be unable to come into the clinic for
      regularly scheduled assessment (e.g. due to COVID-19 containment measures).
    
  