
    
      Empyema, a collection of pus in the pleural space has been continuously associated with
      morbidity and mortality rates of 10-20%. Increase in the incidence of empyema with change in
      pattern of disease and the causative organism has demonstrated a challenge in the diagnosis
      and treatment. In the recent years many studies and clinical trials have been done among
      adults and children regarding the optimal empyema treatment and its efficacy and some are
      still in the process of further study. Appropriate treatment according to the three stages of
      empyema (i.e. exudative stage, fibropurulent stage and organizing stage) has constantly been
      under frequent research, finding which treatment is more effective (i.e. antibiotics, chest
      tube drainage, intrapleural fibrinolytics, VATS and decortication alone in combination) and
      when is the proper time for intervention. Intrapleural instillation of urokinase was
      initially described in 1994 on pediatric population and since then lots of studies have been
      reported. Therefore, the investigators conducted a randomized controlled study with relevant
      inclusion and exclusion criteria to assess the success rate of intrapleural urokinase
      administration among the patients with Complicated Pleural Effusion (CPE) / empyema comparing
      it with drainage alone. All case patients in this study received antibiotic empirically or
      with sensitivity when microbiological tests available, chest tube drainage along with
      urokinase intrapleural therapy or drainage alone for treatment of CPE/empyema.

      Patients will be randomized into two groups: one is chest tube drainage and intrapleural
      fibrinolytic agent and another is chest tube drainage alone. The group with intrapleural
      fibrinolytic agent will receive urokinase 10ml of 1000 IU/ml in children aged less than or
      equal to 1 year or 40ml of 1000 IU/ml in children aged more than 1 year and the other group
      with drainage alone. The first instillation of the agent is done at the time of chest tube
      insertion of 12Fr or 14Fr tube, after instillation the chest tube is closed for 4 hours. The
      chest tube is then unclamped after 4 hours and connected to the suction system with pressure
      of -20cm H2O for 8 hours and the process is repeated every 12 hourly. The procedure was done
      for 3 consecutive days and was evaluated with daily chest X-ray and followed chest tube
      removal when the drainage was less than 40ml/day or according to the clinical and
      radiological response of patients with treatment.

      The trial is being done for 12 months with 80 participants taken from one center, Beijing
      children´s Hospital.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate difference among intrapleural urokinase as the initial
      treatment for children with pleural empyema against chest tube drainage alone. Length of
      hospital stay, number of days chest tube drainage, number of days of fever after tube
      insertion, complications such bleeding, chest pain will be compared between the two groups.
    
  