
    
      Cisplatin, cis-[Pt(NH3)2Cl2], is a widely used antitumor agent for the treatment of
      testicular and ovarian cancers. Carboplatin is used extensively for small cell, non small
      cell lung cancer and ovarian cancer. Oxaliplatin has recently been approved in the US for
      treatment of colorectal cancer. All of these analogues are administered by intravenous
      injection, and within one day, 65-98% of the platinum in the blood plasma is bound to
      protein. Binding of cisplatin to proteins reduces urinary excretion of platinum, and causes
      deposition of platinum in tissues. Binding of cisplatin to proteins and enzymes is generally
      believed to be the cause of several severe side effects exhibited by these drugs, especially
      ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity.

      Despite numerous studies of platinum-protein binding in the last few decades, the roles of
      platinum-protein adducts in drug action, and in toxicity of these drugs are not known.
      Although cisplatin-protein adducts are widely believed to cause the drug's side effects,
      there are also claims that platinum-protein adducts are important for the drug's activity.
      Therefore, a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of platinum-protein interactions
      may have an impact on the optimization of strategies for platinum treatment. It is important
      to understand basic principles that govern formation and reactivity of platinum-protein
      adducts because these adducts may be important in defining the therapeutic profile of these
      drugs. In this quest, the first goal is to develop a reliable technique for these studies. To
      date, ultraviolet/visible (UV-Vis), fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), and nuclear magnetic
      resonance (NMR) studies of cisplatin-protein interactions have provided only low-resolution
      information on the mechanism of the binding or on the nature of the adducts. The researchers
      propose to investigate the role of platinum-protein adducts in the mechanisms of the drug
      action and their contributions towards the toxicity of these drug. The short-term objective
      is to investigate platinum interaction with serum proteins using both nanoelectrospray mass
      spectrometry (nanoESI-MS) and a combination of size exclusion high performance liquid
      chromatography with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC/ICP-MS). The long-term
      objective of this research is to develop biomarkers based on platinum-protein adducts for
      clinical monitoring.

      Initially, metallothionein and human hemoglobin were used as model proteins to develop
      nESI/MS and HPLC/ICP-MS techniques for studying cisplatin-protein interactions in vitro. The
      researchers have demonstrated that the combination of size exclusion HPLC/ICP-MS and
      nanoESI/MS provided new information on the adduct formation and potential reaction mechanism.
      The size exclusion HPLC with ICP-MS enables monitoring of cisplatin-protein binding under
      physiological conditions. Nanospray tandem MS offers information on formation of specific
      complexes and on characteristics of binding. This information is useful for a better
      understanding of drug toxicity and treatment resistance. The information on platinum-protein
      interactions allows us to evaluate the utility of both nanoESI/MS and size exclusion
      HPLC/ICP-MS techniques in providing mechanistic, kinetic and structural information on the
      binding of platinum to other proteins. The methodology will be further validated by studying
      the platinum-blood protein adducts in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapeutic treatments.
      The correlation between the levels of platinum-protein adducts and clinical outcomes will be
      studied.

      The successful completion of this research program should provide the researchers with a
      better understanding of mechanisms of the drug action and toxicity. This knowledge will be of
      great importance in clinical monitoring of cancer patients to assist doctors to improve
      cancer chemotherapy.
    
  