
    
      Testing Plan: Study participants will be enrolled sequentially in one of three study groups:

      • Group 1 - the first 25 patients will be consented to participate by a member of the
      research team. These study patients will receive a study information/authorization sheet
      about the study prior to surgery during their pre-operative clinic visit. This subgroup will
      be provided postoperatively with an incentive spirometer connected to a tablet interface.
      This tablet device uses a digital interface to mimic the look and function of the standard
      issue incentive spirometer. Subjects in this group will receive current standard of care with
      routine surgical and RN encouragement to use the spirometer. The tablet will monitor and
      record spirometer device utilization. Demographic data (age ( or >89), gender, ethnicity) and
      body mass index (BMI) will be collected. No patient identifiers will be collected. At 72
      hours or at discharge, the devices will be exchanged for standard issue incentive spirometer.
      Research staff will extract the demographic data described above as well as BMI.

      Randomized Study Subgroups:

      • Groups 2 and 3 are active study groups. -Patients will be randomized via a random number
      generator post-operatively to group 2 or 3, stratified by surgery type (laparoscopic or open)
      . Each subgroup will include a total of 72 randomized participants

      Group 2 : These study patients will be consented by members of the research team prior to
      surgery at their pre-operative clinic visit. The patient will receive RT or RN education
      preoperatively as to the importance of incentive spirometry in prevention of post-operative
      respiratory complications. This subgroup will be provided with an incentive spirometer
      connected to a tablet interface. This tablet device uses a digital interface to mimic the
      look and function of the standard issue incentive spirometer, and will set a spirometry goal
      while collecting usage and pulmonary function data. Subjects in this group will also receive
      daily intensive education from a study team member during the postoperative time up until 72
      hours or until discharge. This education will be done to reinforce the standard instruction
      provided by the hospital staff.

      Research staff will collect data on pain, utilization of incentive spirometry, and room air
      oximetry. The oximetry measurements will be collected after patients have been off of oxygen
      for between 3.5 to 4 minutes. For patients requiring high levels of supplemental oxygen
      (pulse oximetry measurement (<90%), oxygen will not be removed for pulse oximetry
      measurements. The additional education and oximetry measure will be collected by a
      respiratory therapist three times a day at the preferred times of 0600, 1200 and 1800 post
      operatively. Patients will remain on study for 72 hours post-surgery, return to the OR, SICU
      admission or medical prescription of directed chest physiotherapy.

      A Chest x-ray will be obtained at 48 hours post-surgery. Demographic data (age ( or >89),
      gender, ethnicity), pulmonary function data and body mass index (BMI) will be collected. No
      patient identifiers will be collected. At 72 hours or at discharge, the devices will be
      exchanged for standard issue incentive spirometer.

      Group 3: These study patients will be consented by a member of the research team prior to
      surgery at their pre-operative clinic visit. The patients will receive RT or RN education
      preoperatively as to the importance of incentive spirometry in prevention of post-operative
      respiratory complications. This subgroup will be provided with both intensive education
      reinforcement and a spirometry tablet device that also includes multiple gaming programs. The
      games are meant to encourage incentive spirometry and are programmed to progress in
      accordance with the patient's personal increasing capacity.

      This tablet device uses a digital interface to mimic the look and function of the standard
      issue incentive spirometer, and will set a spirometry goal while collecting usage and
      pulmonary function data. Subjects in this group will also receive daily intensive education
      from a study team member during the postoperative time up until 72 hours or until discharge.
      This education will be done to reinforce the standard instruction provided by the hospital
      staff.

      Research staff will collect data on pain, utilization of incentive spirometry, and room air
      oximetry. The oximetry measurements will be collected after patients have been off of oxygen
      for between 3.5 to 4 minutes. For patients requiring high levels of supplemental oxygen
      (pulse oximetry measurement <90%),oxygen will not be removed for pulse oximetry measurements.
      The additional education and oximetry measure will be collected by a respiratory therapist
      three times a day at the preferred times of 0600, 1200 and 1800 post operatively. Patients
      will remain on study for 72 hours post-surgery, return to the OR, SICU admission or medical
      prescription of directed chest physiotherapy.

      A Chest x-ray will be obtained at 48 hours post-surgery. Demographic data (age ( or >89),
      gender, ethnicity), pulmonary function data and body mass index (BMI) will be collected. No
      patient identifiers will be collected. At 72 hours or at discharge, the devices will be
      exchanged for standard issue incentive spirometer.
    
  