
    
      There is a bimodal distribution to the new onset seizures with one peak occurring in the very
      young and the second peak occurring in persons over age 65 years. The presentation of
      seizures in the elderly may vary from that of younger patients and the diagnosis may be
      confused with other conditions such as transient ischemic attacks. However, the consequences
      of epilepsy in the elderly can be severe leading to impaired cognition, increased falls, and
      a decreased quality of life. The treatment of epilepsy may be complicated by pharmacokinetic
      and pharmacodynamic changes occurring in the elderly.

      Three Veterans Cooperative trials evaluating antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy in the elderly
      demonstrated that the ability to tolerate the AED is a more determining factor for long term
      success than the ability to suppress seizure activity. In general, elderly patients appear
      more intolerable to medications. This may stem from co-morbid conditions, concurrent
      medications, pharmacokinetic changes, and/or pharmacodynamic changes. Therefore, it is
      important to study the efficacy and tolerability of AEDs in the elderly.

      Valproic acid has been available for the treatment of partial and generalized seizures since
      1978. Sodium divalproex is metabolized in the gut to valproic acid. Depakote and Depakote-ER
      (extended release)are among the dosage forms of sodium divalproex. Depakote is an enteric
      coated tablet that is designed to dissolve in the more alkaline milieu of the small intestine
      rather than the more acidic milieu of the stomach. This helps the drug to bypass the stomach
      and reduces gastrointestinal distress. Once the enteric coating dissolves, the sodium
      divalproex is metabolized to valproic acid and rapidly absorbed. Depakote is administered
      twice a day. Depakote-ER is a controlled release drug delivery system designed to release
      drug over a 22 hour period which allows for once a day dosing. The efficacy and tolerability
      of Depakote-ER has not been described in elderly patients with epilepsy.
    
  