
    
      Objective:

      To evaluate pexacerfont, an orally available, brain-penetrant selective CRF1 antagonist, for
      its ability to modulate emotional and motivational processes in daily smokers who are seeking
      to quit smoking.

      Study population:

      We will collect evaluable data from up to 60 adult, greater than or equal to 10 cigarettes
      per day smokers who smoke their first cigarette within one hour of waking as reported on the
      Fagerstrom Test of Nicotine Dependence (FTND) and wish to quit smoking.

      Design:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups to receive 30 days of oral
      pexacerfont (300 mg/day loading dose for 7 days, followed by 100 mg/day maintenance dose for
      23 days) or matching placebo under double-blind conditions. On Day 15 and 16, subjects will
      have two days of testing to evaluate reactivity to stressful/neutral stimuli with and without
      the presence of smoking cues. Reactivity will be tested in terms of physiological parameters,
      subjective reports, nicotine reinforcemen, smoking resistance paradigms and functional
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) signal at rest and in
      response to stress/cue-related tasks. In addition, during the last 14 days of study drug
      administration, subjects will attempt to stop smoking. Daily assessments of smoking behavior
      will be obtained. Finally, on days 26 and 27, participants will again have two days of
      testing to evaluate reactivity to stressful/neutral stimuli. Reactivity will be tested in
      terms of physiological parameters, subjective reports, cue reactivity paradigms and
      functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) signal at
      rest and in response to stress/cue-related tasks.

      Outcome measures:

      Outcome measures in laboratory sessions will include nicotine reinforcement, latency to lapse
      in a smoking resistance paradigm, subjective ratings of stress, mood, and tobacco craving,
      autonomic responses (galvanic skin response, heart rate, and blood pressure), endocrine
      responses (salivary cortisol and salivary (alpha) amylase, a measure of endogenous adrenergic
      activity during stress), and fMRI BOLD signal at rest and in response to stress/cue-related
      tasks. Outcome measures during the quit attempt will include, change in consumption, number
      of lapses, and latency to lapse.
    
  