
    
      Medicines such as analgesics, opioids substitution drugs, sedatives, hypnotics are
      increasingly being misuse to induce psychoactive effects or to alter the effects of other
      consumed drugs, potentially resulting in abuse and dependence (24). Awareness of medicine
      misuse, especially prescription drugs misuse has been increasing in the past few years and
      organizations such as the United Nation's International Narcotics Control Board predict that
      worldwide misuse of prescription drugs will exceed illicit drug use. A major potential part
      of psychoactive drug misuse is related to drug abuse. Assessment of misuse, abuse and
      diversion of prescription drugs must address its occult nature and involves fundamentally
      different monitoring methods compared to other pharmaceutical products. Current best practice
      is to use multiple detection systems to assess misuse, abuse, and diversion of CNS active
      drugs by various populations in a timely, sensitive and specific manner (20). In order to
      detect earlier the prescription drug abuse related to misuse, the investigators have
      developed a specific method, the doctor shopping method, at the regional level. Doctor
      shopping is a well-known behavior defined as obtaining prescriptions from several physicians
      for the same medication at the same time. By cumulating the prescriptions of different
      physicians during the same period of time, doctor shopping enables patients to be delivered a
      daily dose superior to that prescribed by each physician on an individual basis. Doctor
      shopping behavior is regarded as not only a means of obtaining high-dose prescriptions but as
      the principal method of diversion of prescription medications to street markets.

      Using health Insurance Database, the investigators have developed and validated a specific
      method "the doctor shopping method" providing two indicators: the DSI (Doctor Shopping
      Indicator expressed in %) and the DSQ (Doctor Shopping Quantity expressed in DDD), reflecting
      respectively the risk of abuse and the extent of abuse. This previous large work, based along
      ten years of development and validation through several different studies, has i) been always
      performed at the regional level on SNIIR-AM (several French areas - Paca Corse, Rhône Alpes,
      Midi Pyrenées), ii) focused on one product (buprenorphine, clonazepam, methylphenidate) or on
      one pharmacological class (opioids, benzodiazepines) iii) measured the impact of national
      prescription monitoring programme (buprenorphine). More recently the investigators have
      performed a global overview of the extent and risk of abuse of more than 100 psychoactive
      medications among 11.7 million inhabitants according the doctor shopping method, used as a
      proxy of drug abuse. Based on this experience, and because there is a need to measure
      prescription drug abuse, to understand trends over the time and to compare abuse of one
      product to another, the aim of this project is to provide an up-to-date and nationally
      consolidated estimation of the risk and the extent of abuse associated with more of 100
      psychoactive drugs in the French population, using doctor shopping method on National
      SNIIR-AM, covering the entire French population (65 million inhabitants). To increase the
      accuracy of its estimation and its description, the study will take into account relevant
      factors and determinants of drugs abuse such as i) formulation (dosage, extended or immediate
      release, route of administration) ii) geographical level iii) time factor (trends analysis
      between 2010 and 2015).

      Prescription drug abuse is a major challenge in public health, in particular in countries
      such as France, one of the main consumers of psychoactive medications in Europe. A single
      source of information is rarely sufficient to measure such a complex phenomenon. This project
      entitled MEGADOSE (Monitoring prEscriptiondruG Abuse using DOctor Shopping bEhavior) may
      complete efficiently the available data from the addictovigilance centres allowing the health
      authorities (French Drug Agency) to answer to the main general questions (What are the main
      prescription drug abused in France? What are the national trends in prescription drug abuse?
      What is the impact of a public health measures on prescription drug abuse).
    
  