
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of investigational
      drugs and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for
      further studies. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved gefitinib and osimertinib as
      separate treatment options for this disease. The FDA has not approved the combination of
      these study drugs as a treatment option for this disease.Recently, the FDA approved
      osimertinib as a first-line treatment for patients that have NSCLC with an EGFR mutation,
      that have not received prior treatment for their disease.

      In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the combination of gefitinib and
      osimertinib in patients who have just been diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer
      containing a mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene.

      Normally, cells in the body divide in an orderly way. However, in cancer cells, this normal
      process of cell division becomes abnormal and allows the cancer cells to grow in a rapid,
      unregulated way. In some patients with lung cancer, this abnormal and rapid growth in the
      cancer cells is drive by a specific change in a gene called the Epidermal Growth Factor
      Receptor (EGFR). This change in the EGFR gene in cancer cells is called a mutation. Patients
      with lung cancer harboring a mutation in EGFR can be treated with specific drugs called EGFR
      inhibitors. However, even though these drugs can be very effective, after a period of time,
      most EGFR tumors will develop resistance to this treatment, most often because of a second
      mutation in EGFR called T790M.

      Right now, patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer with an EGFR mutation would be treated
      with a single EGFR inhibitor. A drug like gefitinib is a standard first treatment for
      patients with this kind of lung cancer. Osimertinib is currently approved only to treat
      patients whose cancers develop resistance to gefitinib (or other similar EGFR inhibitors)
      because of the T790M mutation.

      However, ongoing clinical trials have shown that osimertinib is also effective when used as
      the first treatment in newly diagnosed patients with lung cancer containing an EGFR mutation.
      In addition, laboratory studies have shown that combining EGFR inhibitors may help prevent
      the development of drug resistance.

      The goal of this particular study is to evaluate two different methods of combining gefitinib
      and osimertinib in newly diagnosed patients with EGFR mutations: either with both drugs given
      together on the same day OR an alternating schedule where participants will alternate taking
      one drug at a time every 4 weeks.

      This study will help determine the optimal dosing strategy for combining these two drugs in
      lung cancer patients with EGFR mutations. The study will also follow the clinical response of
      participants treated with the drug combination to monitor how well and how long this strategy
      controls the disease.
    
  