
    
      Cancer patients are given drug combinations that promote cancer cell elimination. The final
      drug concentration in the body must fall within a narrow range that maximises cancer
      elimination while minimizing toxic side effects. The complexity of this task increases
      significantly with the number of drugs given in combination due to increasing parameters and
      stochastic behaviour of a biological system. Currently, the established approach is to select
      maximum tolerated doses (MTD) - the highest drug doses that do not cause unacceptable side
      effects. Treatment efficacy does not guide dose selection. Combined with limited
      personalisation, this dosing strategy often results in suboptimal outcomes of the treatment.

      CURATE.AI is an AI-derived, mechanism-independent, small data technology platform for
      personalised, dynamic dosing. CURATE.AI uses a quadratic equation to generate individualised
      CURATE.AI profile and dosing recommendation based on only that individual's medical data:
      drug doses and the corresponding response marker (e.g. blood tumour markers). Profile
      recalibration via CURATE.AI facilitates dynamic dosing and personalised care throughout the
      treatment duration, aimed at achieving the highest efficacy within pre-specified safe dose
      ranges.

      CURATE.AI is an indication-agnostic platform that has already been applied clinically for a
      range of indications including in oncology. CURATE.AI can be applied to indications that
      demonstrate regularly measured dose-dependent relationship between the treatment dose and the
      treatment response (i.e. biomarker level). Currently, the gold standard of monitoring
      treatment response in solid tumour is via radiology (using criteria such as RECIST), which is
      usually done at the end of a few cycles of systemic therapy and therefore not suitable to be
      used as a CURATE.AI input signal for drug dose adjustment between cycles.. Additionally,
      haematological neoplasms often cannot be monitored with imaging. Waldenström
      macroglobulinaemia treatment response is assessed using an adaptation of the response
      criteria from the Eighth International Workshop on Waldenström macroglobulinaemia (IWWM-8)
      that includes blood markers. Blood-based tumour markers, e.g. carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)
      and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and immunoglobulin M (IgM) markers, are more suitable
      to be implemented into CURATE.AI. Apart from these traditional tumour markers, recent
      advances in genomic sequencing have led to the application of plasma circulating tumour DNA
      (ctDNA) level as a novel marker of tumour burden. In addition, the serum free light chain
      (sFLC) has been widely used to assess treatment response for patients with multiple myeloma
      and other plasma cell dyscrasias, and has shown potential as a novel marker for disease
      burden in Waldenström macroglobulinaemia. Therefore, serial ctDNA and sFLC measurements, may
      be an appropriate input for CURATE.AI.

      This Pilot Clinical Trial aims to set foundation to investigate the applicability and
      feasibility of the CURATE.AI platform within the current clinical setting for guided dosing
      of various systemic therapies commonly used for solid and haematological neoplasms

      Individualised CURATE.AI profiles will be generated based on each participant's response to a
      set of drug doses. Subsequently, the personalised CURATE.AI profile will be used to recommend
      the efficacy-driven dose. CURATE.AI will operate only within the safety range for each drug
      prespecified for each participant.

      This Pilot Clinical Trial and feasibility study will inform the investigators on the
      logistical and practical aspects of performing a large-scale randomised study and on the
      suitability of CURATE.AI for guided dosing of a wider range of chemotherapy regimens. An
      additional objective is to explore the utility of CEA, CA19-9, Ig M, ctDNA and sFLC as tumour
      markers in serial measurements at weekly frequency of probing, with modulated doses. ctDNA
      and sFLC will be also explored as an input for CURATE.AI to generate dose recommendations,
      however this analysis will not be used to prospectively guide dosing.
    
  