
    
      All tissue and cells are made of tiny particles that give off small amounts of light. This
      light is called fluorescence. Researchers have learned that cancerous cells and normal cells
      give off different amounts and different types of fluorescence. Cancerous cells and normal
      cells also reflect (bounce back) light differently. Researchers want to better understand if
      light fluorescence and reflectance (a measure of the ability of a material to reflect
      sunlight) from the skin can be used to tell which cells may be cancerous.

      Researchers have developed the MDM system in order to better understand how cancer changes
      the light fluorescence and reflectance in skin. The MDM system shines different colors of
      light on the skin and takes pictures of fluorescence and reflectance on the skin area through
      a microscope. The pictures will then be studied to better understand the differences in
      fluorescence and reflectance in abnormal and normal cells.

      If you agree to take part in this study, an area of your skin will first be examined under
      standard white light. A researcher will then use the MDM imaging instrument to take pictures
      of abnormal-looking and normal skin areas. The researcher will mark 2-4 areas of your skin
      with a marker. During your surgery, you will have a small sample from a normal-looking area
      collected and 1 or 2 samples collected, from abnormal-looking areas of the skin. Each sample
      from abnormal-looking tissue will be about 3-4 millimeters wide (about the size of a small
      pencil eraser).

      After the skin lesion has been removed, but before it is needed for review by the pathologist
      or surgeon, the removed tissue will be examined using the MDM imaging instrument and standard
      white light. The edges of the removed lesion will then be examined with another type of
      microscope, a confocal microscope, which allows researchers to see the very small cells in
      the tissue. The exact location that was imaged with this microscope will be marked on the
      tissue, and the findings will be recorded. The tissue will then be checked by the pathologist
      according to standard procedures.

      You will not be told of any of the experimental findings. Information about the diagnosis
      will be available to your treating doctor.

      Your name and any personal identifying information (such as your name, social security
      number, or medical record number) will be coded to protect your privacy.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 55 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  