
    
      Preoperative: Routine examinations, including pulse, blood pressure, electrocardiogram,
      hematological and biochemical tests from blood and urine. Anesthetist paid visit to patient
      and made judgement whether patient could be included or not based on rating of cognition.
      Anesthetist also introduced the research plan in detail and patient or guardian signed
      consent out of participants' own free will.

      Intraoperative:

        1. After admission, the investigators recorded regular vital signs and measured basic
           cerebral oxygen saturation, then inducted anesthesia.

        2. After induction the investigators recorded anesthetic dose, vital signs and measured
           cerebral blood flow and oxygen saturation changes.

        3. Using BIS to monitor we controlled the anesthesia depth at BIS value of 40 to 60.

        4. Assuring patient's vital signs to be stable and safe, the investigators gave propofol (3
           mg/kg, from Fresenius Kabi) intravenously when BIS was greater than 60 and observed
           while recorded any changes in BIS value, cerebral blood flow and oxygen saturation.

      Postoperative: Patient was transferred to chest surgery ICU and vital signs were recorded.

      Clinical data record:

      General information: including name, gender, age, height, weight, education, name of disease,
      surgery method, admission number, ID number, address, contact information and so on;

      Preoperative: cardiovascular medicine, vasoactive drugs, lab test results, result reviews,
      cognition rating and cerebral blood oxygen saturation basic value;

      Intraoperative: circulatory parameters, medicine, temperature, BIS value, cerebral blood
      oxygen saturation and blood flow parameters;

      Postoperative: extubation time, time of vasoactive drug administration, cognition rating
      (postoperative day 3 and day 7), postoperative complications (sudden cardiac death,
      disturbance of consciousness, pulmonary infection, acute lung injury, acute pulmonary
      embolism, cerebral infarction and so on);

      Postoperative stay in hospital, ICU stay time, hospitalization cost, readmission, mortality
      (one, three and six months) and so on.

      Cognition rating chart: based on "Direction of Chinese Binet Tests (third edition)".
    
  