
    
      Abdominal wall transplantation surgery, the transfer of the abdominal wall tissues from a
      deceased human donor to a patient with a large abdominal wall defect, is an experimental
      reconstructive procedure that has the potential to significantly improve the lives of
      patients.

      In abdominal wall transplantation, the tissues transplanted include skin, tendons, muscles,
      ligaments, bones and blood vessels. The transplant team at Brigham and Women's Hospital
      includes a wide variety of medical and surgical specialties.

      The team BWH is actively seeking qualified candidates for the abdominal wall transplantation
      research study. We will be studying a small group of people to learn more about:

        -  How to advance the science of abdominal wall transplantation

        -  How to support and limit transplant rejection issues

        -  How people do after abdominal wall transplantation We describe abdominal wall transplant
           surgery as a life-giving procedure because it has the potential to dramatically improve,
           that is to restore, both a patient's mental and physical health and his/her ability to
           function and integrate in society. However, as with any other type of organ
           transplantation, this improvement will require the patient to make a lifetime commitment
           to taking medications that suppress the body's immune system.

      Conventional reconstruction methods are always considered first, but they may provide less
      than optimal results for certain patients. There are other methods available to reconstruct
      the abdominal wall. However, they may yield unsatisfactory outcomes in some patients.
      Abdominal wall transplantation surgery, however, has the potential to deliver these desired
      functional and aesthetic benefits. Functionally, abdominal wall transplant surgery can
      provide a patient with a new abdominal wall that, after extensive rehabilitation, will
      provide mobility and a more natural aesthetic appearance.

      From the time we begin our search for a qualified abdominal wall transplant recipient to the
      continuing care we provide following surgery, a significant amount of time, expertise and
      attentiveness is contributed toward making the procedure a progressive success. Abdominal
      wall transplant candidates go through an extensive screening process that is likely to last
      several months. This screening includes a psychiatric and social support evaluation and a
      series of imaging tests to help determine a patient's physical and mental readiness for the
      procedure. If, upon completion of the screening process, it is determined that a patient is a
      suitable candidate, we will place the patient on a transplant waiting list. We will then
      begin working with the United Network for Organ Sharing to find a donor who matches the
      recipient's tissue requirements - for example similar age and correct blood type. This search
      could take many months, and, if a suitable donor is not found within one year, we will speak
      with the patient to determine whether he/she is willing to continue waiting.
    
  