
    
      Background:

      Comorbid depression has been consistently linked to worse outcomes for patients in substance
      abuse treatment programs. Practice guidelines recommend pharmacotherapy for comorbid
      depression if symptoms persist after a 4-week "wash-out" period for detoxification (e.g.,
      Veterans Health Administration; American Psychiatric Association). Medications may be
      considered earlier if a patient has current symptoms and a history of major depressive
      disorder (MDD) during periods of sobriety. Current efficacy data suggest that antidepressant
      medication can improve both depression and substance use outcomes among comorbid patients
      Guideline-concordant use of antidepressant medication for persons with comorbid substance use
      and depressive disorders, however, is not routine in many VA substance abuse treatment
      settings.

      Objectives:

      This study seeks to develop, implement, and test an organizational intervention in VA
      substance abuse treatment settings to establish guideline-concordant treatment of comorbid
      depression. The intervention will assist "intervention" programs in their own implementation
      of a guidelines-based treatment algorithm to improve the recognition of depression and
      initiation of pharmacotherapy.

      Methods:

      Substance abuse treatment programs in the South Central VISN were matched on program
      characteristics and current depression management practices (n = 4), and "intervention" sites
      were randomly chosen from each pair. Phase 1 (now completed) of the study analyzed the
      barriers and facilitators to translation of depression management in participating
      facilities, and used these data to inform the development of the translation intervention,
      its implementation tools, and the depression algorithm. The translation intervention adopted
      in this plan was based on the PRECEDE model of organizational behavior change and included
      provider education, use of local champions, feedback of screening data, and patient
      education/activation. The depression management algorithm and intervention was developed with
      input from programs staff and an Advisory Panel of depression management and translation
      experts. Phase 2 of the study implemented and tested the intervention. The evaluation in
      examining program- and provider-level outcomes. Program-level outcomes include feasibility,
      extent of adoption of the algorithm, and provider/organizational attitudes and beliefs about
      the intervention's design and effectiveness. Patient-level outcomes include depressive
      symptoms, substance use outcomes, medication adherence, quality of life, and services use.

      Status:

      Phase 1 of the study is complete. Phase 2 is near complete.
    
  