
    
      Despite recent advances in neuroimaging, approximately 2/3 of intractable epilepsy patients
      that undergo surgical evaluation continue to require intracranial EEG (IEEG), arguably the
      most invasive diagnostic test in medicine. Clinicians currently lack methods to
      quantitatively map noninvasive imaging measures of structure and function to IEEG.
      Specifically, there is a critical need to validate whole-brain noninvasive neuroimaging
      network- based biomarkers to guide precise placement of electrodes and translate noninvasive
      network neuroimaging to change the paradigms of clinical care. The long-term goal of this
      study is to predict IEEG functional dynamics and surgical outcomes using noninvasive
      MRI-based measures of structure and function. The investigators' overall objective, which is
      the next step toward attaining the study's long-term goal, is to develop open-source
      noninvasive imaging tools that map epileptic networks by integrating MRI and IEEG data. The
      central hypothesis is that noninvasive measures of structure and function relate to and can
      predict the intricate functional dynamics captured on IEEG. The central hypothesis will be
      tested in patients undergoing IEEG targeting the temporal lobe network by pursuing three
      specific aims: 1) To map the patient specific structural connectome to IEEG seizure onset and
      propagation, 2) To correlate seizure onset and propagation on IEEG with network measures
      derived from resting state functional MRI (rsfMRI), and 3) To integrate the structural (Aim
      1) and functional (Aim 2) connectome with standard qualitative clinical data to predict IEEG
      network dynamics and surgical outcomes. Under the first aim patients will undergo diffusion
      tensor imaging (DTI) prior to stereotactic IEEG, an IEEG method that inherently samples long
      range networks. The functional IEEG network will be mapped to DTI thus defining how seizures
      are constrained by the underlying structural connectome as they propagate. Under the second
      aim patients with temporal lobe epilepsy will undergo rsfMRI on 7T MRI prior to stereotactic
      IEEG. Functional network measures from rsfMRI and IEEG will be coregistered and rsfMRI will
      be used to predict functional EEG ictal and interictal networks. In the third aim two models
      predicting IEEG network dynamics and epilepsy surgical outcomes will be created building off
      of methods developed in Aims 1 and 2. This research is innovative because it represents a
      substantive departure from the status quo by directly connecting noninvasive multimodal
      imaging with measures of functional network dynamics in IEEG. This research is also
      significant because it is expected that successful completion of these aims will yield
      personalized strategies for IEEG targeting based on noninvasive neuroimaging.
    
  