
    
      Objective: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are linked
      with functional impairments, poor outcomes compared to matched controls or people without
      brain dysfunction, and greater healthcare utilization. TBI can be diagnosed at the point of
      injury, but post-concussive syndrome (PCS) and PTSD are diagnosed after the initial exposure.
      Current treatments are often ineffective, and many affected military service members (SMs)
      never return to active duty. Upon return from deployment, many SMs experience an initial
      honeymoon period during which symptoms are limited in number and scope, but this may be
      followed by a sharp increase in symptoms within months. Identification of independent
      predictors of PTSD and PCS upon return from deployment could facilitate early intervention to
      prevent disability. The main purpose of this protocol is to determine whether structural and
      functional neuroimaging in SMs who are ostensibly healthy upon return can differentiate those
      who will go on to have persistent neurocognitive difficulties from those who will not.

      Study population: The study population will be returning SMs at risk for PCS or PTSD. It
      involves a prospective cohort study of 128 healthy active duty military SMs, recruited by the
      Walter Reed National Military Medical Center (WRNMMC) from National Capital Area military
      units within 8 weeks after return from Iraq or Afghanistan, with serial evaluations to
      identify both those who develop PTSD or PCS, as well as factors obtained at the time of the
      initial evaluation that prove to be most strongly associated with subsequent PTSD and PCS. A
      comprehensive baseline assessment will be performed at WRNMMC under protocol 351030 (already
      approved at both the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences [USUHS] and WRNMMC),
      which will include demographics, neuropsychological assessment, genetic and neuroendocrine
      assays, brain imaging and synchronization, vestibular, olfactory, and psychophysiologic
      measures. Neuroimaging and fMRI activation tasks will be performed under this imaging
      protocol at NIH. The study is funded by the USUHS Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative
      Medicine (CNRM) and NIH. See the attached WRNMMC protocol 351030.

      Design: Neuroimaging including structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI),
      and diffusion tension imaging (DTI) will be performed under this imaging protocol at NIH.
      Follow-up visits at 3, 6, and 12 months will allow repeated MRIs and fMRI activation tasks.
      Data analysis will include serial univariate and multivariate analyses to identify the
      baseline measures (including not only the results from this imaging study at NIH but also the
      results from a variety of studies to be performed at WRNMMC) that are most strongly
      associated with the subsequent development of PTSD and PCS.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome of interest is the development of neurocognitive
      difficulties (PCS, PTSD, or depression). Multivariate analyses will assess what baseline
      measures are most strongly associated with this outcome.
    
  