
    
      Evaluation procedures The consolidated standards of reporting trials (CONSORT) will be used
      for the proposed randomized clinical trial.

      Personal data will be collected using a chart designed by the authors. This chart will
      contain the following information: name, date of birth, dominant limb, weight and height.
      Weight and height will be determined using a digital scale (Worker®) and stadiometer
      (Sanny®), respectively. The dominant limb will be recorded based on the volunteer's answer to
      a question regarding which leg he would use for a penalty kick. The BMI will be calculated
      based on weight and height. Individuals with a BMI greater than 25 Kg/m2 or less than 20
      Kg/m² will be excluded to standardize the sample.

      All volunteers will then undergo the following evaluations:

      • Unilateral vertical jump:

      The unilateral vertical jump will be used to measure performance, as this movement requires
      triceps surae strength [9]. The vertical jump will be evaluated using a pressure plate
      (BIOMEC 400 v1.1® EMG Systems do Brasil) connected to computer (Inter Core 2 Dual®) with 2
      GHz and 250 Giga bytes. This system quantifies the distribution of vertical ground reaction
      force in a static or dynamic position with a sampling frequency of 40 Hz using four force
      sensors (two anterior and two posterior) capable of supporting 150 Kg. Each sensor stores
      analog data, which are amplified and converted to digital data interpreted using the Biomec
      400® software program (EMG Systems do Brasil). This system records the distribution of force
      among the four points and changes in body sway in the anteroposterior (Y axis) and
      mediolateral (X axis) directions. The force plate will be positioned on an even surface.
      Levelness will be determined by two levels attached to the extremities of the force plate.
      The volunteer will be instructed to stand on the dominant leg with hands on the hips and jump
      as high as possible, landing on the same leg. Initially, three jumps will be performed to
      familiarize the volunteer with the procedure, with a one-minute rest interval between jumps.
      After a two-minute rest interval, three additional jumps will be performed with a one-minute
      rest interval between jumps, which will be considered for evaluation. Jump time will be
      determined using the following formula:

      in which h = jump height in meters, t = jump time in seconds and g = acceleration of gravity
      (9.81 m/s2).

        -  Single Leg Hop Test Test commonly used to measure functional performance and progression
           during lower limb rehabilitation programs [10,11,12], with the distance achieved during
           a single, one-foot hop recorded [11]. For such, the athlete will stand only on the
           dominant leg behind a line marked on the floor and will hop as far as possible without
           using the contralateral leg and without losing balance. The distance will be measured
           with a metric tape from the line marked on the floor to the most proximal point of the
           heel landing on the floor at the end of the hop . The volunteers will be instructed to
           keep their hands on their hips throughout the test to reduce the influence of the upper
           limbs on the performance of the hop test. Initially, three hops will be performed to
           familiarize the volunteer with the procedure, with a one-minute rest interval between
           hops. After a two-minute rest interval, three additional hops will be performed with a
           one-minute rest interval between hops, which will be considered for evaluation.

        -  Single Leg Triple Hop Test The volunteer will also be positioned on the dominant leg
           behind the line marked on the floor and will perform three consecutive hops as far as
           possible without using the contralateral leg and without losing balance. The final
           distance will be measured with a metric tape from the line marked on the floor to the
           most proximal point of the heel landing on the floor at the end of the third hop. The
           volunteers will be instructed to keep their hands on their hips throughout the test to
           reduce the influence of the upper limbs on the performance of the hop test.

      On both hop tests, landing must be made in a stable fashion without touching the
      contralateral leg or upper limbs to the floor for a hop to be considered valid.
    
  