
    
      - Iron Deficiency and Cancer The literature review therefore presents uncertainties do not
      allow the routine application of intravenous iron associated with ESAs. The SOR also conclude
      that IV iron is "consider" if iron deficiency.

      These uncertainties are the heterogeneity of the study populations, contradictory results and
      the use of patterns intravenous iron binding and non-standardized.

      The investigators focus in this study in patients with chemotherapy-induced anemia with
      functional iron deficiency is a cause of lack of response to ESA. Indeed, patients with true
      iron deficiency seems to justify a routine iron supplementation. In contrast, patients
      without iron deficiency do not warrant formal way of initiating such treatment (although the
      literature is contradictory).

      This study aims to evaluate, in patients with chemotherapy-induced anemia and functional iron
      deficiency, the efficacy and safety of the combination epoietin zeta + Iron in concomitant
      intravenous or sequential.

      Because data RCP (Summary of Product Characteristics), ease of use, its safety profile, the
      ability to achieve higher doses of iron with a lower frequency and with better adherence, the
      ferric carboxymaltose was chosen as an intravenous iron. One specialty is available, the
      Ferinject ® (Laboratoires VIFOR Pharma).

      The erythropoiesis-stimulating agent chosen in this study is epoietin zeta.

      - Hepcidin and iron Hepcidin is a peptide hormone of 25 amino acids produced by the liver and
      considered as the central regulator of iron homeostasis in the body.

      It works by controlling intestinal iron absorption and iron reuse by the reticuloendothelial
      system. Hepcidin acts by preventing the export of iron enterocytes, intestinal site of
      absorption of dietary iron, and macrophages, iron recycling site of hemoglobin, by binding to
      ferroportin present at the membrane these cells and by inducing its internalization and
      degradation.

      Accordingly, hepcidin can be considered a hyposidérémiante hormone. The hepcidin rate is
      increased by the iron thereby limiting its accumulation and tissue damage associated with
      iron overload. Inversely, the rate is reduced hepcidin during increased iron as anemia needs,
      hypoxia, pregnancy or other situations of iron deficiency.

      Moreover, hepcidin is strongly induced by inflammation. Thus, in pathological situations such
      as cancer, high levels of hepcidin explain well enough inflammatory anemia characterized by
      anemia, iron retention at storage proteins such as ferritin but also at the level of the
      reticuloendothelial system endothelial and a decrease in intestinal iron absorption.

      Despite its importance in the pathophysiology of anemia of inflammation and a fortiori with
      iron deficiency anemia functional hepcidin is not measured in clinical routine. There is not,
      to the investigators knowledge, prospective data on its blood levels in situations of iron
      deficiency anemia in cancer patients functional and data on changes in hepcidin levels
      induced by treatment with intravenous iron or with erythropoietin.
    
  