
    
      Ultrasound energy to enhance intravenous rt-PA thrombolysis is a promising novel treatment
      modality for ischemic stroke. Despite encouraging safety data utilizing diagnostic
      frequencies of transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasound, lack of widespread availability of
      trained personnel has limited its application.

      - The primary specific aim for this pilot phase I/II study is to assess the safety of a
      novel, external Hands-Free TCD ultrasound system. Safety of the new Hands-Free TCD system
      will first be assessed in healthy volunteers. Safety in these participants will be determined
      by detailed neurological and dermatological exams and MRI imaging of the brain. Next, safety
      of the device will be evaluated in two distinct sets of acute ischemic stroke patients: 0-3
      hour patients treated with standard IV rt-PA and 3-6 hour non-lytic, image-selected patients
      treated with sonolysis (with or without intravenous microbubbles). Among the healthy
      volunteers the primary measures of safety will be to have no detectable changes in a detailed
      neurological exam nor any blood- brain barrier (BBB) disruption or changes in permeability.
      Among both the 0-3 hour and 3-6 hour groups the primary measure of safety will be to not
      tolerate greater than a 10% rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH) within 24
      hours.

      * The primary hypothesis is that replacing conventional TCD ultrasound hand-held TCD
      technology with a Hands-Free system will be safe in healthy volunteers as well as acute
      ischemic stroke patients.

      If the device is found to be safe in either the 0-3 hour or 3-6 hour groups,

      - the secondary aims for this study will explore the rates of arterial recanalization in the
      0-3 hour and/or 3-6 hour groups, favorable outcomes, and clinical recovery. The secondary
      aims will assess the hypothesis is that Hands-Free TCD will display similar recanalization
      and early clinical recovery rates compared to available historical diagnostic TCD ultrasound
      controls exposed to conventional FDA-approved TCD technology.

      Data generated during this phase I/II trial will evaluate the safety of replacing an
      operator-dependent TCD device with an operator-independent unit. In turn, this will allow
      extensive availability of therapeutic ultrasound and improve enrollment into
      ultrasound-enhanced thrombolysis stroke trials.
    
  