
    
      Depressive symptoms and disorders are among the most common adult health conditions and are a
      leading cause of disability /morbidity worldwide. Although evidence-based approaches such as
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), antidepressant medications, and depression collaborative
      care and quality improvement (QI) programs integrating depression care into primary health
      care can improve depression outcomes and disparities, racial / ethnic disparities continue to
      persist. Concurrently, according to a 2011 Institute of Medicine (IOM) report notes little
      information exists on how to address the high rates of depression among sexual and gender
      minorities, largely composed of lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGBTQ) individuals. Limited
      comparative effectiveness data exists to know what treatments and services options improve
      health disparities due to patient characteristics such as race / ethnicity, and sexual
      orientation.

      "Resilience Against Depression Disparities (RADD)" randomizes enrolled depressed, LGBTQ,
      racial / ethnic minority adults (n=320) to an agency-level, evidence-based depression quality
      improvement (QI) intervention [Resources for Services (RS)] training and technical support
      and then randomizes individuals to Resources for Services alone or to Resiliency Class+, a
      7-session resiliency, depression cognitive behavioral therapy class + automated mobile text
      reminders about basic reminders and care follow-up impact on improving adult patients'
      depressive symptoms over 6- and 12-months. RS training will be offered to three clusters of
      four to five LGBTQ-focused programs: two clusters in LA (Hollywood and South LA) and one
      cluster in NO. Clusters are comprised of one primary care, one mental health, and two to
      three community agencies (e.g., faith-based, social services/support, advocacy). All programs
      will receive RS (depression QI training). All enrolled adult depressed patients will be
      within programs participating in RS (depression QI) trainings. Half of enrolled participants
      will be randomized to the Resilience Class +.
    
  