
    
      This study aims to (1) determine the feasibility and usability of immersive leisure-based VR
      cognitive training; (2) identify the intervention effects of immersive leisure-based VR
      cognitive training on cognitive function, daily function, and quality of life for elderly
      with MCI and SCD; (3) compare the intervention effects between elderly with MCI and SCD on
      outcome measures.

      We will recruit 30 elderly with MCI, 30 elderly with SCD, and 15 specialists for the
      feasibility and usability study. They will receive one immersive leisure-based VR cognitive
      training for 30 minutes. VR cognitive training receives four gardening activities. The
      cognitive elements including attention, working memory, processing speed, and executive
      function incorporated training. We will use the Acceptance of the Virtual Reality (VR)
      Experience Questionnaire and System Usability Scales. For effectiveness study, we will
      recruit 60 elderly with MCI and 70 elderly with SCD. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to VR group and control group. All participants will receive trainings for 60 minutes per
      day, two days per week for 16 sessions. The content of VR training is the same as before. The
      control group is performing traditional cognitive training program. The primary cognitive
      outcome measurements will include the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Wechsler Memory Scale,
      Stroop test, and color trials test. Other outcomes will include measurements that evaluate
      the cognitive, daily functions, and quality of life of elderly with MCI and SCD. Participants
      will be assessed at baseline, after the intervention, and at 3-month follow-up. Repeated
      measures of analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to evaluate the changes in outcome
      measures at three different time points.

      We anticipate the VR training can facilitate cognitive function, daily function, and quality
      of life. The significance of this study is identifying the effect of immersive VR cognitive
      training based on leisure activities, and it is appropriate to provide this training for
      elderly with MCI and SCD. It could delay and prevent the progression to dementia and lead the
      field of technological assistance to new opportunities for training.
    
  