
    
      The term Guarding Reflex refers to a progressive, involuntary increase in the external
      urethral sphincter (EUS) activity during bladder filling. Situations increasing
      intra-abdominal pressure, as cough, or Valsalva effort, increases this EUS activity. This is
      a mechanism of continence, preventing from unwanted urine leakage in situation of stress.

      Anal continence is essential, and any impairment of this function can have a severe impact on
      quality of life. The anal canal is composed of the internal anal sphincter (IAS) at the top,
      with smooth musculature and the external anal sphincter (EAS) at the bottom, with striated
      musculature. The activity of the external anal sphincter is controlled by sympathetic and
      somatic innervation. Anal continence at rest is mainly insured by the tone of the internal
      anal sphincter. The external anal sphincter activity during gradually rectal filling is
      continuous and varies according to the volume of rectal distension.

      During an effort, or a cough, the increasing intra-abdominal pressure is transmitted to the
      rectum. Increased intra-abdominal pressure during an expiratory against resistance effort
      proportionally increases the response of the external anal sphincter. The reflex contraction
      of the EAS is an active mechanism under spinal control, and result in a stronger contraction
      than a voluntary one. This reflex contraction is the equivalent of "Guarding Reflex" and
      provides part of the continence in situation of stress.

      Previous studies focused on the search of segmental or supra segmental control of this
      reflex. Few studies have examined factors affecting the modulation of the EAS response during
      stress.

      The main purpose of this study is to research a correlation between the ano rectal distension
      volume and the external anal sphincter response to a stress.

      Patient over eighteen years old, consulting for anorectal manometry examination in order to
      explore anorectal disorders are included.

      Age, sex, ano rectal symptoms, treatments, past history, manometrics data, area under the
      curve for electromyography activity of the EAS and intercostal muscles during cough with a
      Valsalva effort are recorded. Slope curve representing the EAS response to stress according
      to the intercostal activity reflecting cough (intensity response curve) effort are
      calculated.

      The protocol consists in distending the rectum at four different volumes : empty rectum,
      volume for first sensation of filling, volume for desire to defecate and maximal tolerable
      volume. For each volume, the patient is asked to cough three times gradually, and perform a
      Valsalva effort three times gradually.

      Primary outcome is the difference in curve slope (intensity response curves) between empty
      rectum and maximal tolerable volume at cough

      Secondary outcomes are the differences in curve slope between each volume of distension at
      cough, and the differences in curve slope between each volume of distension at Valsalva type
      effort.
    
  