
    
      NeuroFeedback can be described as a form of Biofeedback that is based on recordings of brain
      act ivity reflected by imaging techniques such as real-time fMRI (Johnston at al, 2010) but
      mainly using scalp EEG recordings (Angelakis et al., 2007). This method based on classical
      and operant learning paradigm and has been applied for the last 40 years as a therapeutic
      method to a range of clinical conditions such as epilepsy, attention deficit hyperactivity
      disorder and the locked-in syndrome (Kübler et al., 2009; Vernon, Frick, & Gruzelier, 2004) ,
      and to optimise performance in healthy subjects (Egner & Gruzelier, 2003). Participants can
      experience their real time brain activity in the form of animated visual or auditory stimuli
      (the feedback) co-vary with a specific property of the recorded activity. By being reinforced
      for obtaining goals, participants learn to volitionally modulate their brain activity. The
      feedback continuously represents brain activity with a minimum delay, which in modern
      equipment is on the order of a few tens of millisecond.

      sLORETA is a widespread linear, discrete, instantaneous, full-volume inverse solution
      proximity for brain electromagnetic measurements (Pascual-Marqui, Esslen, Kochi, & Lehmann,
      2002; Pascual-Marqui, 2002). Whereas EEG is a measure of electric potential variations on a
      two dimensional surface, sLORETA estimates the current density in a three dimensional space
      that results in the potential divergence on the scalp.

      EEG Tomography directed bio-feedback correlates the physiological signal with a continuous
      feedback signal; however, the physiological signal is deﬁned as the current density in a
      speciﬁed region of interest (ROI) calculated by means of sLORETA algorithm. This allows the
      continuous feedback signal to become a function of the intracranial current density and to
      co-vary with it.

      In the first LORETA neuro-feedback study designed to assess the possibility of using this
      protocol on a healthy subjects, Condego (2004) et al recorded current density from their
      subjects' anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and feedback it to the subject as the size of a
      disk presented on a computer screen. Larger size of a disk represented higher current density
      recorded from the subject's ACC. The subjects were instructed to make the circle size as
      larger they can, therefore reinforced for higher ACC activity. The results of this study
      supported the effect of LORETA neuro-feedback protocol on the subject's performance on a
      sustained attention task.

      This supports the 'LORETA neurofeedback' effect on cognitive performance yet there is still
      no direct evidence for the effect of LORETA neurofeedback on the excitability of the neural
      tissue itself. One such direct evidence can be achieved by single pulse TMS measure of the
      motor cortex plasticity.

      Ros et al (2010) demonstrated the effect of unipolar neurofeedback protocol on the
      exitability of the motor cortex. In their study, the recording electrode had been positioned
      in C3 (10-20 system) above the motor cortex and the subjects participated in a neurofeedback
      protocol. Motor cortex plasticity was measured on both hemispheres before and after the
      train. The results indicated higher plasticity under the training electrode compared to both
      before train and compared to the homologue location on the opposite hemisphere.

      Study goal

      In this study we will investigate the specific effect of M1 training using sLORETA
      neurofeedback to the excitability of the motor cortex on both hemispheres before and after
      training, compared to the effect of superior parietal gyrus (SPG) training.

      Design A double blind active controlled, mixed design. The differential protocol effect will
      be investigated both before and after application. Furthermore, Comparison will be held
      between the trained hemisphere and the untrained hemisphere.

      Statistical analysis Depicted in figure 1, our design will be analyzed as a 2×2×2, with
      target for train (M1, SPG) as one between subject factor and further, side of motor
      excitability assessment ( Left / Right) and before/after NBF training as two within subject
      factors. ANOVA will be calculated for the triple interaction effect.

      Method Protocol Participants will be randomly assigned to either rM1 (right primary motor
      cortex) active treatment group or rSPG (right superior parietal gyrus) active treatment group
      (see figure 1). The experimenter will program train protocol for every subject separately.
      The neurofeedback therapist will select the protocol by its associated subject number.
      Therefore the participant and the therapist will be both blind to the experimental condition.

      Before the first session, the underlying principles of EEG bio-feedback will be explained to
      the participants and they will be kindly asked to sign informed consent version that can be
      found on the ethics committee application form.

      All recordings and sessions will be carried out in a comfortably dimmed light, sound
      attenuated room in the Beer-Sheva Psychiatric Center. Lighting and temperature will be held
      constant for the duration of the experiment. Participants will be invited to the lab for one
      session for the completion of all the research protocol.

      The timeline of the session depicted in figure 2. Initially, before neurofeedback training
      (T0) the subjects will complete the MRT task (Shepard & Metzler, 1971) thereafter, we will
      test for both hemispheres motor cortex excitability (MEP) using single pulse TMS paradigm
      (described below). After MEP, three-minute eyes-opened and three-minute eyes-closed EEG
      baselines will be recorded. Following, the subject will participate in a
      sLORETA-neurofeedback protocol (described below). Immediately (T1) after neurofeedback
      session, we will repeat the assessments conducted at T0 according to reversed timeline.

      Electrophysiology data acquisition EEG recordings will take place at both the initiation and
      at the end of the research protocol. We will place a 19 electrode EEG hat on the participants
      sculpt attached to an EEG amplifier. All equipment and materials that will be used are
      approved for clinical and research use and are been routinely used in the hospital in
      variable treatments protocols and therefore can be considered safe.

      Participants will be prepared for EEG recording using a measure of the distance between the
      nasion and inion to determine the appropriate cap size for recording (Electrocap, Inc; Blom &
      Anneveldt, 1982). The head will be measured and marked prior to each session to maintain
      consistency. The ears and forehead will be cleaned for recording with a mild abrasive gel to
      remove any oil and dirt from the skin. After ﬁtting the caps, each electrode site will be
      injected with electrogel and prepared so that impedances between individual electrodes and
      each ear will be less than 5KΩ. Training will be conducted using the 19-leads standard
      international 10/20 system. Preparation process should take no more than 20 minutes and will
      cause no distress to the participant.

      TMS, motor cortex plasticity assessment All measurements will be carried out with monophasic
      Magstim 2000 magnetic stimulator (Magstim, Whitland, UK).

      We will evaluate the TMS parameters of both hemispheres, first right (trained) and then left
      (untrained) hemisphere, to investigate hemispheric effects of NFB.

      Resting motor threshold (RMT) intensity will be defined as the lowest stimulator output
      intensity capable of inducing MEPs of at least 50 µV peak-to-peak amplitude in the FDI muscle
      in at least half of 10 trials.

      Active motor threshold will be defined as the intensity needed to evoke an MEP of about 200
      µV during a 5-10% maximum voluntary contraction.

      CSE will be quantified by the amplitude of the MEP elicited by a single test TMS pulse. The
      test pulse intensity will be set to yield average MEP amplitude of 1 mV at baseline (T0), and
      will be kept constant throughout the experiment.

      EEG Biofeedback protocols

      Parameters:

      Recording amplifier: Mitsar-EEG 201© Electrode positioning: 19 electrodes positioning
      according to the standard 10/20 system using EEG cap with gel electrodes routinely used in
      the hospital for EEG evaluation and EEG-biofeedback therapy.

      ROI: right M1 (fixed Talairach coordinates : 34,-18, 35) right SPG (fixed Talairach
      coordinates : 24, -55, 50) Frequency goals: Elevating hi-alpha frequency, threshold will be
      set for each subject individually to the first quartile of hi-alpha current density
      distribution over the first 120 seconds of the training session.

      Visual stimuli: An emotionally neutral movie (nature scenes). Reinforcement method: The
      current source density in the ROI will be co varied with the picture quality by means of
      white visual noise that will be added to the picture. As the participant will get closer to
      the pre-defined threshold (see above), vision will become more clear. According to the
      neurofeedback hypothesis a clearer image in a video presentation will reinforce the last
      change in brain activity in the trained region.

      All procedures are considered safe and are standard and routinely used for treatment and
      research with minimal side effect symptoms reported over the last 40 years of applying this
      therapeutic method.
    
  