
    
      Preparative regimen using total body irradiation (TBI) and cyclophosphamide:

        1. on day -6 and -5: cyclophosphamide is given,

        2. on day -4, -3, -2, and -1: TBI is given,

        3. on day 0: stem cell or bone marrow is infused.

      Alternate preparative therapy for patients not able to receive TBI

      The chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide and busulfan) is given with the intent of destroying the
      bone marrow, eliminating any cancerous and preparing for the transplant of the donor's blood
      stem cells by suppressing the immune system.

      l. Ten days before the transplant (Day 10), subjects will be admitted to the bone marrow
      transplant unit and placed in isolation to reduce exposure to infections. Isolation will be
      continued until adequate numbers of cells are present in the blood to fight infection.

      2. On day -9, -8, -7, -6 busulfan is given.

      3. On day -5, -4, -3, -2 cyclophosphamide is given.

      4. On day -1 no therapy is given (day of rest).

      5. On day 0 the donor stem cells are given intravenously. Additional cells may be given on
      day +1 or 2 as needed.

      Transplant:

      Subjects will be admitted to the bone marrow transplant unit and put in isolation to reduce
      exposure to infectious agents. During this time, they will receive the preparative treatment
      outlined above. Once they have received the preparative regimen, stem cells will be obtained
      from the donor and given intravenously.

      The new stem cells will replace the bone marrow that was damaged by the treatment for the
      cancer.

      Isolation will be continued until adequate numbers of cells are present in the blood to fight
      infection. Subjects will then be transferred from the bone marrow transplant unit and
      discharged from the hospital when medically ready. Subjects will be expected to return for
      follow-up to the bone marrow transplant clinic at specific dates as determined by their
      physician.
    
  