
    
      Rationale: Frequency of transcatheter and other structural heart procedures increased
      dramatically from 2012 to 2014 and is trending even higher for 2015. Procedures increased
      from 15 in 2012 to 50 cases in 2013 (233% increase) and to 70 cases in 2014 (40% increase
      from 2013 to 2014.) -- PT and OT identified a gap in consults and need for specific education
      targeted for a new surgery population (tAVR) without sternotomy. Often consults were placed
      on day of discharge to rehab facility or not at all. -- Structural Heart division of CV
      institute identified increased length of stay (LOS) and decreased activity of their patients
      in the hospital. -- No literature on this subject found via Henry Ford Hospital Sladen
      Library PubMed literature review

      Aim: • Create a standardized pathway for new transcatheter aortic valve replacement patients
      in the Structural Heart Division (SHD)

        -  Improve patient outcomes including increasing the percentage of patients returning to
           home rather than a rehab facility destination at discharge

        -  Decrease length of stay

      Implementation:

        -  Plan: PT and OT identified a gap in consults and need for specific education targeted at
           a new surgeries population (tAVR); Structural Heart division of CV institute identified
           an increase LOS and decreased activity of their patients in the hospital. In October
           2014 planning began to introduce a SHD tAVR pathway that would include post procedure
           day number 0 nursing requirements and training, post procedure day number 1-3 PT and OT
           assessment and interventions.

        -  Do: Implemented pathway in November 2014.

        -  Check: Order set revision; Patient handouts ; Cardiac Rehab; Weekend criteria; staff
           training

        -  Act: February 2015, order sets in place, patient handouts finalized and full pathway
           finalized for post op tAVR patients.

        -  Continued checks identified additional SHD procedures and team determined that Mitral
           Clips and LARIATs were not criteria for tAVR pathway but would receive routine PT and OT
           consults.

      Intervention: • Added PT and OT to Structural Heart Order Set.

        -  PT and OT assessments completed on post procedure day number day 1.

        -  PT and OT follow up treatments post procedure day number 2, 3 and beyond as appropriate.

        -  Patient education handouts individualized for patient population

        -  Pre-op education handouts individualized for patient population

      Outcome measures: Hospital Length of stay, discharge disposition. Data Analysis: Chi-square
      tests are used to compare proportions between groups, while Wilcoxon two-sample tests are
      used to compare distributions of continuous variables between groups. This nonparametric test
      was chosen due to non-Gaussian distribution of the continuous outcomes within groups.
      Statistical significance was set at p<0.05. All analyses were performed using SAS 9.4 (SAS
      Institute Inc, Cary, North Carolina, USA).
    
  