
    
      The recreational use of psychotropic drugs has been increasing over the past 2 decades in
      Hong Kong. Ketamine hydrochloride is currently one of the most popular recreational drugs in
      Hong Kong, and its recreational use is also increasing in the United Kingdom and Europe.
      Inhalation of ketamine could result in hallucinations, out-of-the-body experiences and
      psychological dissociation, making it popular among young adults. One of the well-known side
      effects of ketamine is bladder dysfunction, which is seen in one-quarter of chronic ketamine
      users .

      Ketamine has also been known to be associated with gastrointestinal symptoms. Colicky
      epigastric / abdominal discomfort in ketamine users, known as "K-cramps", has been reported
      in 33.3% of frequent ketamine users, and is the second-most common symptom of presentation
      (21%) among ketamine users in the emergency department . Nonetheless, the underlying etiology
      resulting in this abdominal discomfort remains poorly defined. A possible etiology is
      intestinal motility disorders, since ketamine interferes with gastric motility. Another
      possible cause could be ketamine-related cholangiopathy, which has been described in both
      Asia and Western countries. Another possible cause could be ketamine-related liver
      dysfunction, which is seen in 16% of ketamine users. Chronic ketamine hepatotoxicity is
      associated with mitochondrial liver injury , and could result in bridging liver fibrosis.

      We plan to recruit subjects from ketamine users seeking medical attention at substance abuse
      clinics in different psychiatric clusters in Hong Kong. A screening log will be kept on the
      total number of ketamine users attending different substance abuse clinics and the number of
      potential subjects referred to our center.

      Baseline sociodemographic information will be obtained. A standardized method will be used to
      assess and quantify the degree of ketamine use, as well as the recreational use of other
      psychotropic drugs (e.g. ecstasy, methamphetamine, marijuana etc.) and alcohol intake.
      Subjects will then be assessed for the presence or absence of dyspepsia, biliary-type
      abdominal pain， gastroparesis or other abdominal symptoms following standard criteria.
    
  