
    
      This is a prospective cohort study of adult inpatients at University of Chile Clinical
      Hospital, located in Santiago, Chile. We enrolled all patients aged over 18 years detected
      with COVID-19 admitted to the emergency department between March 1-June 11, 2020 through
      prospective identification using daily admission records. Briefly, COVID-19 diagnosis was
      made when patients had clinical findings of acute respiratory illness together with i) a
      positive result on reverse transcriptase chain reaction polymerase (RT-PCR) assay performed
      on a nasopharyngeal swab; and/or ii) chest computed tomography (CT) with typical findings of
      COVID-19 and absence of an alternative diagnosis. We intended to include all admitted
      patients during the first 100 days of the pandemic; therefore, no sample size calculation was
      performed. We excluded patients with length of stay less than 24 hours, nosocomial SARS-CoV-2
      infection, and asymptomatic patients admitted for causes unrelated to SARS-CoV-2 infection
      regardless of their admission RT-PCR result.

      All data were prospectively recorded for each included patient at admission and then daily
      until the end of the follow-up. Records were consulted by trained physicians, using a
      standardized data collection form, and then checked by a team of four physicians. Data
      discrepancy was agreed between the same clinicians.

      Recorded data included demographic characteristics, comorbidities, disease onset time,
      associated symptoms, vital signs at the emergency department, laboratory test performed
      within 24 hours after admission, characteristics of the first chest CT, medication and
      supportive care provided, and length of stay at the hospital.

      The use of antibiotics, antiviral therapy, corticosteroids, advanced oxygen delivery
      techniques, need for invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV), awake and ventilated prone
      position, use of vasopressor drugs, and need for renal replacement therapy (RRT) were
      explicitly recorded. Clinical management and use of these therapies were based on national
      recommendations from scientific societies and local protocols. Outcome collection and
      assignment are explained below.

      Laboratory confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection was made using RT-PCR of nasopharyngeal
      swabs. All laboratory, microbiologic, and radiologic assessments were performed at the
      discretion of the treating physicians who were encouraged to follow local clinical
      guidelines. Film-array on the nasopharyngeal swab was performed for viral co-infection
      assessment, and urinary antigens. (pneumococcal and legionella) and blood cultures were
      performed for bacterial co-infection assessment. Chest radiographs and CT were also performed
      for all inpatients by experienced radiologists and classified as COVID-19-unrelated, typical
      or atypical pattern, and unspecified.
    
  