
    
      Group antenatal care is developed in collaboration with Somali women, midwives and a
      reference group; to suit Somali born women's needs. The intervention is now evaluated for
      feasibility, acceptability and sustainability, by means of a historically controlled trial.
      The study is a non-randomized feasibility study in which the intervention and material has
      been developed parallel to the data collection for the control group; i.e. the historical
      controls receiving standard care.

      Specific objectives for the study are;

        1. To establish with Somali-born women and antenatal caregivers the acceptability and
           feasibility of group antenatal care and to develop an appropriate model in order to
           improve outcomes for Somali-born women;

        2. To establish appropriate recruitment and data collection procedures and outcome measures
           in consultation with the Somali community and with care providers in order to evaluate
           the new model; and

        3. To implement and evaluate an agreed model of group antenatal care in partnership with
           the Somali community and antenatal caregivers.

      Methods:

      Step I was the preparation phase, including needs assessment, the development of contextual
      understanding and building a logic model for the project. A project steering group comprised
      of research team members, antenatal care midwives and representatives of the Somali community
      in Borlänge and North Stockholm was formed, to inform the intervention and the study. Somali
      born women in local community settings were encountered to develop a fuller understanding of
      issues and concerns about pregnancy and birth in a new country. The idea of group antenatal
      care was also discussed with women antenatal care midwives for its relevance, attractiveness
      and feasibility, and further how to best evaluate such a model. Focus group discussions were
      conducted with the following groups: 1) Somali born mothers 2) Somali born fathers; all with
      recent birth giving experience in Sweden, and 3) antenatal care midwives in multi-cultural
      settings in Sweden. The discussions were tape recorded and analysed by means of thematic
      analyses.

      Step II was the intervention development and evaluation tool development phase. The knowledge
      gained in the first step, was used to develop an appropriate Group Antenatal Care model in
      dialogue with the project steering group and midwives. The participating midwives
      participated in a two days education about group antenatal care facilitation of group
      discussions, with input from the Steering Group representatives and findings in the focus
      groups discussions to enhance their understanding. Participating interpreters were oriented
      in the Swedish antenatal care system and the concept of group antenatal care. During this
      phase information material regarding the study and the intervention, a manual for midwives
      and tools for data collection were developed, and data collection for the historical controls
      receiving standard care commenced.

      Step III is the intervention phase, which has commenced. In this phase the implementation and
      evaluation of the intervention is taking place.

      The intervention and intervention group: Group antenatal care

      The intervention is a developed group antenatal care to suit Somali women. Group antenatal
      care follows the same guidelines as for individual care but with content tailored according
      to findings in phase 1; i.e. based on person centred principles and dialogue by the use of
      motivational interviewing in group. The main-part of the care is provided in group sessions
      in a dialogue sensitive to language and cultural issues. Group numbers are around 8; the
      woman and if she wishes, her partner and/or other chosen companion. The sessions is led by a
      midwife, assisted by the trained female Somali interpreter/advocate. Two midwives takes turns
      leading the sessions for continuity and back-up. Sessions will be held in the antenatal
      clinic. Information and discussions include for instance sharing of information about being
      pregnant and giving birth in Somalia and Sweden, differences in health care, role of and
      trust in midwives and doctors, complications during pregnancy, labour and birth, and healthy
      diet during pregnancy. One hour will be allocated for individual meetings with one of the
      midwives (the same every time) in the clinic while the group members can chat and socialise.
      The midwife will document attendance and compile a summary of the discussions in a checklist.

      Primary outcomes: Women's overall rating of antenatal care and views about specific aspects
      of care are captured by a core question in the Migrant Friendly Maternity Care Questionnaire
      (MFMCQ) developed by the Reproductive Outcomes And Migration international research
      collaboration (team members Small and Essen involved), now also translated and culturally
      validated in Somali (by Essen) and available for use in this study. Women's emotional
      wellbeing is measured by the EPDS, available in a Somali translation, but not yet fully
      validated requiring further cultural validation as part of the development work for this
      study.

      Secondary outcomes: Adequate number of visits are measured by the The Adequacy of Prenatal
      Care Utilization Index (APCUI), i.e. expected number of visits in relation to actual number
      adjusted for gestational week at booking visit and delivery). Social support during
      pregnancy, worries about the upcoming birth and knowledge about different aspects of
      maternity care are assessed in interviews with women. Information about birth events and
      infant health will be retrieved from patient records.

      Data collection: The baseline measurement is conducted at recruitment, around gestational
      week 20. A research assistant contacts women for a face-to-face interview in a place of their
      choice. The interview follows the first questionnaire (Q1) including questions on background
      (education, occupation), migration (time in country, reason for migration, migration status,
      language) and social support, knowledge of the health system, pregnancy and birth and
      expectations about the up-coming birth.

      Follow-up interviews will take place around gestational week 36 and at two months postpartum
      using a second and third questionnaire (Q2, Q3) with questions from the MFMCQ about
      experiences of care received during the pregnancy and birth and attendance at parent
      education classes. Maternal and infant data will be retrieved from the patient record and
      include the following: gestational age at the first visit, Hemoglobin, S-Ferritin, weight
      gain, relevant health conditions, total number of antenatal care visits, attendance at parent
      education, mode of birth, interventions (induction of labour, pain relief including epidural,
      oxytocin), blood loss, diagnoses (mother) and gestational age, birth weight, small for
      gestational age, large for gestational age, head circumference, Apgar score, umbilical cord
      pH, and the need for neonatal intensive care (infant). Midwives' experiences of different
      aspects of the intervention will be collected by means of individual interviews.

      Control group: Historical controls: Individual care

      Individual care follow the present model of care according to the national Swedish program
      for antenatal care, i.e.8-9 appointments with a midwife during a normal pregnancy. The visits
      are scheduled for 30 minutes and include information and regular pregnancy check-ups. Women
      are offered classes that provide preparation for birth and parenthood according to the same
      guidelines and the present routine at the clinic. Midwives are the primary caregivers and
      they meet the same women throughout pregnancy. Obstetricians and general practitioners will
      have a consultant role.

      Recruitment for both intervention and control groups:

      In line with the actual birth rates and recruitment of one third of the Somali women at both
      sites, 80 women have been recruited as historical controls (2017-2018) and 80 will
      participate in the new model (2018-2019). Inclusion criteria are Somali born women 18 years
      of age or beyond, both nulliparous and multiparous, <25 gestational weeks giving consent to
      access their patient record data. The only exclusion criterion is severe medical problem(s)
      requiring individual care only, as determined by the participating clinical practice.Women
      are invited to participate with the help of bilingual research assistants and receive verbal
      and written information in Somali about the study. A small gift will be offered for their
      baby in appreciation for taking part.

      Analyses:

      Differences will be described as odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals after estimation by
      means of logistic regression analyses. Comparison of means will be undertaken using t-tests
      where data are normally distributed, or medians compared using Mann-Whitney U tests if not.

      Step IV consists of a process evaluation using a mixed methods approach with data collection
      conducted throughout the study. The process evaluation will address whether the intervention
      was carried out according to plan, what was achieved, if and what adaptations were needed,
      who was reached by the intervention, any unexpected events and to understand the mechanisms
      of impact and what mediated these mechanisms. The process evaluation will also address
      contextual factors.
    
  