
    
      Study objectives are: 1. Compare image quality between the Optima and Intevo as primary
      objective and 2.Does one device produce images that are more impactful on clinical management
      as a secondary objective.

      The investigators have used both the Optima and Bold in their clinical practice for the
      evaluation of back pain in patients referred from sports medicine physicians and orthopedic
      spine surgeons. The two scanners and respective reconstruction algorithm software create
      distinctly different image sets. The investigators would like to do side by side comparison
      to determine if one device produces images of greater clinical value than the other.When
      patient is referred for a SPECT-CT scan for back pain, a standard injection of approximately
      25mCi of MDP will be given. The patient will be then be randomly assigned to be scanned to
      either the Optima or the Intevo to be followed by scan on the other of the 2 scanners.
      Patients will be randomized as to the sequence of which scanner is used first or second so as
      to eliminate any potential bias that might occur due to variable uptake time of the
      radioisotope.

      When scans are completed, images will be reviewed on PACS display and comparison will be
      made. Input as to the clinical impact of the images will also be assessed by the referring
      physicians to determine if one of the two scanners has superiority.

      From the time of injection to the completion of both scans will be approximately 5 hours
      including a standard 3 hour uptake time after injection of the radioisotope. The scans will
      all be done on the same day with no return visits necessary. The interpreting radiologist
      will be blinded as to which scanner produced the images. Similarly, the referring physician
      will also be blinded when reviewing the images and determining patient management.The ordered
      exam is the standard of care and no ongoing treatments/therapies will be interrupted.

      Study does not involve administering a therapy that would or would not be ultimately
      prescribed by the referring physician. Only exclusion criteria would be a known allergy to
      MDP used as the injected isotope. Pregnancy and claustrophobia that would prevent the patient
      from tolerating the SPECT-CT device would also be contraindications. The device is not
      experimental; it is an ongoing part of patient evaluation for back pain. The study wants to
      compare the impact of images using two separate reconstruction algorithms to determine
      superiority if present in the setting of clinical practice.

      There is a very low risk of additional radiation exposure from the second low dose CT as part
      of the second SPECT-CT scan. Estimated additional exposure beyond dose administered for
      standard prescribed imaging protocol is approximately 1mSv or less. ALARA principles will be
      used as with all patients to use only as much dose as necessary to generate images.
    
  