
    
      Specific Aim 1: To determine whether aromatase activity is measurable in adipose tissue using
      the 'compound' (see appendix) as a precursor and whether aromatase is decreased in the
      adipose tissue of obese women, and whether this varies by regional fat location. The
      investigators will accomplish this by examining precursor/product ratios of hormones infused
      through microdialysis using the 'compound' as a substrate.

      Hypothesis for specific aim 1: Aromatase activity will be measurable in adipose tissue using
      testosterone as a precursor. Estradiol, but not estrone production from androgen precursors
      will be decreased in obese women relative to those of normal weight.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether nonspecific, systemic suppression of inflammation will
      lead to improved reproductive hormonal profiles of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle
      stimulating hormone(FSH), Estrone conjugates (E1c) and pregnandiol glucuronide (Pdg) in obese
      women who undergo two menstrual cycles of study: one off treatment and one on treatment. This
      aim shall be accomplished by performing daily urinary hormone monitoring of two menstrual
      cycles, one prior to and one during treatment with low-dose aspirin and polyunsaturated fatty
      acids (PUFAs).

      Hypothesis for specific aim 2: A nonspecific, systemic inflammatory suppression therapy will
      result in improved urinary profiles of LH, FSH, E1c and Pdg.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine whether 4 weeks of reduction of circulating insulin will result
      in improved reproductive hormonal profiles of LH, FSH, Estrone conjugates (E1c) and
      pregnandiol glucuronide (Pdg) in obese women who undergo two menstrual cycles of study: one
      off treatment and one on treatment. This aim shall be accomplished by performing daily
      urinary hormone monitoring of two menstrual cycles, one prior to and one during treatment
      with pioglitazone.

      Hypothesis for specific aim 3: Chronic lowering of insulin with pioglitazone treatment of
      obese women will result in improved urinary profiles of LH, FSH, E1c and Pdg.
    
  