
    
      Temporomandibular/orofacial pain disorders (TMD) are a group of painful conditions with
      multiple determinants. A number of psychosocial treatments for TMD have been developed, but
      overall effectiveness has been limited, and the mechanisms of treatment are unknown. This
      proposal has two main goals: 1) to test a highly individualized, adaptive treatment for TMD
      that has potential to be more effective than other psychosocial treatments; and 2) to
      discover the mechanisms by which psychosocial treatments work in chronic pain. Patients with
      TMD-related pain of at least 3 months duration (N=160) will be randomly assigned to either a
      Standard Conservative Treatment +Cognitive Behavioral coping skills treatment (STD+CBT), or
      to an Individualized Assessment and cognitive-behavioral Treatment Program (IATP) for
      patients with TMD pain. Treatment in IATP will be based on a very detailed functional
      analysis of the patient's pain experience, in context, as derived from Experience Sampling
      (ES). The ES procedure will be conducted via smartphone app at a rate of 4 records per day,
      and will be used to gather information on patients' pain, momentary cognitions, affects, and
      coping behaviors, for a 2-week monitoring period prior to the beginning of treatment.
      Therapists will use this information to develop an individual functional analysis of pain and
      non-pain episodes, and determine what thoughts, feelings and actions are effective for that
      patient at managing pain and which are not. The information will be used to help develop
      adaptive coping tactics in a 6-session treatment program, offering skills training tailored
      to specific patient needs. During-treatment ES will allow adjustment of the treatment goals
      and procedures, making the treatment adaptive and able to change with changing circumstances
      and patient needs. This experimental treatment (IATP) will be added to a standard
      conservative splint-based treatment for TMD pain (STD). The combination (STD+IATP) will be
      compared to a STD treatment supplemented with a 6 session conventional cognitive-behavioral
      program not based on in-vivo assessment of pain and coping. In the STD+CBT condition ES data
      will be collected but will not be used to inform treatment, but will control for measurement
      reactivity. ES data collected prior to, during, and following both treatments (out to 12
      months) will allow very precise measurement of cognitions, affects, and coping skills, as
      they occur in patients' home environments, and how they change over time. Outcomes will
      include measures of pain, interference, and depressive symptoms. It is expected that the
      STD+IATP treatment will yield lower pain, depression and interference scores over time than
      STD+CBT, and that changes in coping ability will mediate the treatment effects on outcomes.
      The study will be able to tailor treatment based on patient experiences measured in near-real
      time at pain episodes, allow for adaptation of treatment as it progresses, and measure the
      impact on outcomes of coping changes over the long-term. The results will shed light on
      active mechanisms of treatment for TMD and may have implications for the management of other
      chronic pain conditions.
    
  