
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate the maximum tolerated dose of carboplatin plus topotecan given as a 5-day
           continuous infusion in patients with recurrent acute lymphocytic or myeloid leukemia or
           accelerated or blastic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia.

        -  Assess the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Gather preliminary information on the activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Examine the pharmacokinetics of topotecan when administered concurrently with
           carboplatin.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of topotecan. Patients are stratified according to
      prior bone marrow transplant (BMT) (yes vs no).

        -  Induction: Patients receive carboplatin and topotecan IV 3 times a day on days 1-5.
           Patients may also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) beginning on day 7 or 14. Retreatment is
           based on results of marrow exam on day 10-14. Patients with less than 5% blasts undergo
           a second marrow exam upon blood count recovery or on day 26-30, whichever is earlier.
           Patients with at least 5% blasts after day 21 receive one more course, in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity and at the discretion of the investigator. Patients with no
           greater than 5% blasts begin G-CSF if blood counts are not recovered, then proceed to
           consolidation.

      Cohorts of 1-6 patients receive escalating doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of up to 6
      patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Patients with prior BMT will not be entered at
      any level until 3-6 patients with no prior BMT tolerate that level.

        -  Consolidation (begins around day 42 of last Induction course): Patients with ALL/AML in
           complete remission (CR) or CML in chronic phase receive 2 additional courses (same
           doses) 6-8 weeks apart.

      Patients experiencing a relapse after CR lasting at least 6 months may receive additional
      treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-20 patients without and 2-20 patients with prior bone marrow
      transfer will be accrued for this study over 2-2.5 years.
    
  