
    
      The rising rate of caesarean section is a global phenomenon. Rate of caesarean section in
      Malaysia were 23.41% in 2011 and 25.08% in 2012. Subarachnoid block is the preferred
      anaesthetic technique for most lower segment caesarean section as compared to general
      anaesthesia. This is because general anaesthesia is associated with higher risk of failed
      endotracheal intubation and aspiration of gastric contents in parturients. Moreover, usage of
      pencil-point spinal needle had reduced the risk of postdural puncture headache frequency and
      severity.

      Effective surgical anaesthesia is the main objective of subarachnoid block. Therefore,
      adequate sensory blockade with minimal maternal and neonate side effects are warranted. The
      suitable level of sensory blockade post subarachnoid block for lower segment caesarean
      section is bilateral block up to T6 dermatome level to pinprick. This will block the somatic
      sensation and eliminate the visceral pain from peritoneal manipulation during caesarean
      section.

      However, the spread of subarachnoid block may be variable. Various patient variables such as
      age, height, weight, body mass index, vertebral column length and abdominal girth influence
      the spread of subarachnoid block. Inadequate sensory blockade will cause parturient suffer
      from pain while excessive blockade will lead to unwanted sympathetic inhibition causing
      hypotension and bradycardia. Ability of an anaesthetist to determine optimal dose to achieve
      adequate level of sensory blockade yet with minimal unwanted side effects is crucial.

      Incidence of maternal hypotension is related to the level of sensory blockade after
      subarachnoid block.And maternal hypotension is associated with maternal discomfort during
      caesarean section and poorer fetal outcomes. Therefore, this study is carried out to
      investigate whether vertebral column length and abdominal circumference affecting the spread
      of intrathecal hyperbaric bupivacaine in term parturient.

      Previous studies showed conflicting results on the factors that influence the effect of
      spinal anaesthesia. One of the studies was carried out in China which might not reflect the
      investigator's local multiracial population characteristics. Previous studies also did not
      investigate the outcome of baby related to maternal hypotension which is known complication.
    
  