
    
      People with diabetes often experience a type of pain called Painful Diabetic Neuropathy
      (PDN). PDN is described as a stabbing, burning, pricking, or aching sensation affecting the
      toes, feet, and legs. This type of pain can interfere with walking, sleep, mood and overall
      quality of life. Although medication may offer some short-term improvement in this pain, this
      is a chronic condition for the majority of the patients and the pain typically remains a
      problem. Our research team aims to assess the acceptability and potential benefits of a
      psychological treatment for people with PDN.

      The intervention is a tailored ACT-based self-management intervention which will be delivered
      online. The purpose of this intervention is to improve participant daily functioning via
      increased psychological flexibility. The development of the PDN ACT-based intervention
      involved a multidisciplinary team of psychologists, health professionals and diabetes
      specialists.

      The ACT treatment package will embrace the core treatment processes of acceptance, cognitive
      defusion, mindfulness, and values-based action. Methods will include practice in contacting
      painful experiences, experiential cognitive methods to promote awareness, exercises similar
      to mindfulness, methods to increase one's the role of goals and values in patient choice, and
      to help people flexibly stick to commitments.

      The process will involve, two brief direct one-to-one contact sessions, one at the beginning
      and one at the end of the intervention, with convenient means according to each participant,
      as for example Skype, phone or face to face. Following the first one-to-one session there
      will be 8 short online sessions, with a duration of 20-30 minutes each. In accordance with
      ACT principles, participants will be encouraged to complete tasks between the online
      sessions. Particularly, they will be asked to write on a diary weekly, which will include
      ratings for openness, awareness and engagement. Within the diary we will also ask
      participants to note changes, in medication, if any, and if the data is sufficient and
      relevant we will include them in the final analysis. The completion of these tasks has been
      found to be predictive of CBT outcomes.
    
  