
    
      Cardiac pump function depends on physiological electrical activation of the ventricles. This
      normal activation is disturbed during artificial electrical stimulation (pacing) of the right
      ventricle (RV), the common therapy to treat symptomatic slow heart rate ("rate control"), as
      well as during electrical dyssynchrony such as left bundle branch block (LBBB). As a
      consequence, RV pacing and LBBB reduce cardiac pump function and increase cardiac morbidity
      and mortality. During the last two decades cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has
      emerged as treatment to "resynchronize" ventricular electrical activation by pacing the RV
      apical septum and left ventricular (LV) postero-lateral wall simultaneously ("biventricular"
      (BiV) pacing).

      Since initial approval of the therapy over 10 years ago, there have been hundreds of
      thousands of implants performed worldwide. In the Netherlands currently more than 2000 CRT
      devices are implanted each year. Large clinical trials have shown that CRT improves LV
      systolic pump function, reverses structural remodelling, improves quality of life and
      exercise tolerance, and decrease mortality. However, a significant proportion of apparently
      suitable patients fail to benefit. Depending on the definition used, the response to CRT is
      positive in 50-70% of treated patients, leaving 30-50% without significant effect. One of the
      problems of CRT is proper positioning and fixation of the LV pacing lead in the coronary
      vein.

      Research in the laboratory of the the investigators revealed that in dogs with AV-block and
      in patients with sinus node disease, pacing at the LV endocardial side of the
      interventricular septum (LV septal pacing) provides near physiological ventricular
      activation, near uniform distribution of workload, and near normal pump function.
      Furthermore, pump function during LV septal pacing was at least as good as during BiV pacing.
      A recent study, with acute hemodynamic data in dogs with LBBB and in a small group of
      patients with LBBB, further indicates that LV septal pacing may be used for CRT. A weakness
      of the patient data is that these patients were either non-responders to conventional CRT or
      patients where no access to the coronary sinus was obtained. Therefore, this group may not be
      representative for the entire CRT candidate population.

      Two factors appear to determine the positive effect of LV septal pacing: the slow impulse
      conduction across the interventricular septum and the fast impulse conduction along the inner
      layers of the LV wall through superficial, non-Purkinje fibers. Following this reasoning, the
      investigators expect that the exact pacing site at the septum is not critical. This would be
      of great advantage for future applications in patients, since proper implantation of an LV
      lead in the coronary sinus requires attention in order to position the lead in the latest
      activated region.

      The aim of the present study is to compare the electrophysiological and hemodynamic effects
      of several modes and sites of LV septal pacing with those of BiV pacing in patients
      undergoing CRT device implantation. The results may have a large impact on future pacing
      therapy. The LV septum may become an alternative for BiV pacing, but easier to apply, less
      invasive, and more cost-effective.
    
  