
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate gene and micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) expression levels in patients with
      esophageal adenocarcinoma prior to receiving chemotherapy and identify relative expression
      differences between patients responding and not responding to treatment with carboplatin and
      paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil (fluorouracil) and oxaliplatin as measured by fluorodeoxyglucose
      F-18 ([18F] FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of treatment on expression patterns of both genes and miRNAs in
      patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma following treatment with either carboplatin and
      paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin, and identify expression patterns associated
      with treatment response and resistance as assessed by (18F) FDG-PET.

      II. To evaluate the expression patterns of genes and miRNAs in patients with esophageal
      adenocarcinoma prior to and following a full neoadjuvant combined-modality treatment program
      with either carboplatin and paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin chemotherapy plus
      radiation, and identify relative expression differences between patients achieving a
      pathologic complete response and patients not achieving a pathologic complete response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive carboplatin (IV) and paclitaxel intravenously (IV) on days 1 and
      8 of a 21 day cycle for two cycles (total of 6 weeks).

      CHEMORADIATION THERAPY: Patients receive carboplatin (AUC=2) and paclitaxel (50 mg/m2)
      intravenously once weekly for five weeks throughout the duration of their radiation which is
      daily (Monday through Friday). This will be given in combination with radiation therapy to a
      total of 50.4Gy using 180cGy fractions.

      ARM II:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive mFOLFOX6 where they get oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 intravenously on day
      1, leucovorin 400 mg/m2 IV on day 1, 5-FU 400 mg/m2 IV on day 1 and then 5FU at 2400 mg/m2 IV
      to be administered over a 46 hour period. This is repeated every 2 weeks for 3 cycles (total
      of 6 weeks).

      CHEMORADIATION THERAPY: Patients receive chemoradiation with oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 IV on day 1
      every 2 weeks for a total of 3 cycles (6 weeks) as well as 5FU 300 mg/m2/day over 96 hours
      via continuous infusion each week of radiation for a total of 6 weeks. This will be given in
      combination with radiation therapy to a total of 50.4Gy using 180cGy fractions.

      SURGERY: In both arms, approximately 4-10 weeks after completion of chemoradiation therapy,
      patients undergo esophagectomy at the discretion of the treating team.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then
      periodically thereafter.
    
  