
    
      Background

        1. In the early 1990s Genervon hypothesized that Central Nervous System / Peripheral
           Nervous systme (CNS/PNS) and rare motoneuron diseases and disorders involve the
           interplay of a highly complex, multifactorial process of many non-dominant effectors in
           an interactive dynamic network. Therefore Genervon decided for its drug development
           strategy the classic single target drug development paradigm is not likely leading to a
           cure.

        2. Genervon also hypothesized that aging is likely the initial multifactorial triggers that
           lead to multiple defective or degraded gene products accumulating with advancing years.
           However the key to a cure for many human neurological disorders is in the subsequent
           common terminal cascade coinciding with the onset of neurological deficits. The terminal
           cascade involves the shared pathways of interactive multifactorial pathogenic mechanisms
           that lead to the ultimate demise of neurons. Therefore Genervon's strategy is not to
           find the triggers or the residue debris of neuron death in discrete areas of the central
           nervous system.

        3. Genervon recognized the limited human capacity to design a drug that can dynamically and
           interactively modulate multiple pathways and genes. Therefore one possible drug
           development strategy is to find the endogenous early stage regulatory molecule(s) that
           controls the development, monitoring and correction of the human nervous system.

        4. Genervon developed a novel proprietary technology platform named Protein Bands Selection
           by Function to find the fetal signal regulators. One of the discoveries is a 33 amino
           acid peptide we named human Motoneuronotrophic Factor (MNTF), its gene sequence and its
           chromosome location.

        5. Genervon developed another novel platform named In Silico Analysis to find active sites
           within bigger proteins. Within the MNTF peptide, Genervon identified a family of nine
           embryonic stage human multifactorial master regulators which govern nervous system
           development, protection and correction. These master regulators are highly expressed in
           week 9 of embryonic/fetal development, a time of incredible intricacies, but truly
           remarkable consistency as well.

        6. Genervon has developed one of the nine master regulators named GM6 for disease
           modification of CNS/PNS and neurodegenerative diseases and disorders with shared or
           common pathways of interactive multifactorial pathogenic mechanisms. GM6 binds to
           Insulin Receptor beta sub-unit and Insulin Growth Factor Receptor 1 and Receptor 2
           (IGF1R/IGF2R) which also have the identical sub-unit. GM6 penetrates the Blood Brain
           Barrier (BBB) and activates many appropriate genes through multiple pathways to induce
           anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, anti-oxidative and regenerative effects in response
           to the dynamic distress signals from the nervous system.

        7. GM6 is also known as GM604, GM602 and GM608. Drug name GM604 is assigned to ALS
           indication. GM602 is assigned to stroke indication. GM608 is assigned to Parkinson
           Disease indication.

        8. The investigational drug GM604 is a regulatory/signaling peptide with a sequence
           identical to one of the nine active sites of human Motoneuronotrophic factor (MNTF),
           also referred to as GM6 in studies. MNTF is a novel human endogenous developmental stage
           neurotrophin for the nervous system with a specific human chromosome location.

        9. Pre-clinical efficacy studies: The investigators' preclinical animal study has shown
           that intravenously injected GM604 is able to penetrate the blood-brain barrier and enter
           the brain. GM604 has shown neuroprotection in a variety of in vitro and animal models of
           numerous CNS diseases including ALS, ischemic stroke, spinal cord injuries, Parkinson's
           disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer Disease (AD) and Huntington Disease
           (HD).

       10. GM6 provided neuroprotection for neurons in vitro against soluble inflammatory factors
           in human CSF from patients with various CNS diseases. It increased neurons survival by
           175% after exposure to ALS patients' CSF, by 191% in AD patients' CSF, by 198% in PD
           patients' CSF, by 205% in Stroke patients' CSF, by 246% in MS patients' CSF and by 273%
           in HD patients' CSF.

       11. Preclinical research in animal models indicates GM604 to be a neuroprotective agent in
           animal models of ALS, motoneuron disease, Parkinson's disease and stroke. In ALS model,
           SOD1 mice from Jackson Lab stock #G93A were treated with GM604 at 0, 1 and 5 mg/kg. SOD1
           mice were examined for age of disease onset, age of death, and behavioral expression of
           the disease (CS=Clinical score). GM604 prolonged life span in ALS mice SOD1 by 30%
           [(163.5-126)/126 = 30%], delayed median clinical score by 53%, delayed symptoms onset by
           27% [(145.5-114.5)/114.5 = 27%] at 5 mg/kg dose. The conclusion is that GM6
           significantly showed a dose dependent effect in delaying age of onset of the disease,
           age of death, increasing grip strength and rota-rod performance, and improving clinical
           score of the treated animals.

       12. The investigators found out later in the study of Wobbler Mouse model that the optimal
           dose for SOD1 mice model should probably be 20 mg/kg and will probably see even more
           significant effects if 20 mg/kg were used in the SOD1 mice study.

       13. GM604 20mg/kg dramatically increased the survival life span by 500% (6 fold from 7-14
           weeks to 55-65 weeks) and the control animals and animals treated with low doses of GM6
           showed a continual decrease in grip strength. Wobbler mice treated with GM6 at 10-20
           mg/kg showed an improvement in grip strength out to 4 weeks (3 fold). GM604 10 and 20
           mg/kg treatment showed a significant increase in body weight out to 8 weeks following
           treatment.GM604 10 and 20 mg/kg treatment increased of preservation of motor neurons by
           160% (2.6 fold).

      The conclusion is that GM604 was found to be efficacious in an in vivo mouse model of
      neurological disease. The effectiveness of GM604 was dose-dependent and indicates that GM604
      may be beneficial in treating various neurological disorders.

      Rationales

        1. This pilot trial is designed to test proof of principle, i.e. determine if a 2-week IV
           bolus treatment with this agent can (1) change ALS protein expression (target biomarkers
           and efficacy biomarkers) after treatment (2) have preliminary effects measures of ALS
           disease clinical progression.

        2. Previous human experience: A Phase 1 Clinical Trial Study has been completed. The Phase
           1 Trial primary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability and to establish
           the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of GM602 at 0.5, 1.5, and 5.0 mg/kg
           administered as a single bolus intravenous dose in human subjects and after 3
           consecutive daily doses of GM602 at the highest safe and tolerated dose of 5.0 mg/kg.
           The Phase 1 study established that 3 consecutive daily doses of 5.0 mg/kg of GM602 are
           safe and tolerated.

        3. Concurrently, other Investigational New Drug (IND) and on-going clinical trials with GM6
           are:

      IND 77,789: "A Phase 2 double blinded, randomized, placebo controlled dose escalation Study
      to Evaluate the Efficacy and the Safety of GM602 in Patients with Acute Middle Cerebral
      Artery Ischemic Stroke within an 18 h-hour treatment window. Acronym/Title is GMAIS. GM602
      received fast track designation for ischemic stroke in 2007. The stroke trial has not
      completed enrollment and has not unblinded the treatment randomization to generate drug
      related safety report.

      IND 109,441: "GM602 in A Phase IIA Pilot double-blinded, randomized, placebo controlled trial
      in mild to moderate Parkinson Disease (PD). Acronym/Title is GAP-PD. The PD trial is
      recruiting patients.

      Possible GM604 Mechanisms of Action (MOA) in ALS

        1. More and more scientists are publishing papers advocating that ALS is a multifactorial
           disease. Other rare diseases including CNS/PNS diseases and disorders are multifactorial
           and multisystem diseases as well, i.e. multiple interactive biologic systems and genes
           are compromised and failing like domino.

        2. One of the major reasons for CNS clinical trials that have uniformly failed is that the
           classic drug development paradigm of designing single target drug for CNS/PNS and rare
           diseases' pathogenesis simply would not be able to handle the multifactorial nature of
           the complex diseases.

        3. An initial trigger(s) which is likely to be multifactorial and cumulative is followed by
           a terminal cascade which also involves interactive multifactorial pathogenic mechanisms,
           coinciding with the onset of neurological deficits, genes mutation and or expression of
           misfolded proteins. That is simply why a single target drug is not able to do the job.
           Most neurological diseases and disorders have common underlying pathogenic mechanisms
           that lead to neural death. Our drug development strategy is to find an endogenous
           regulator to interactively and dynamically modulate these common underlying pathogenic
           mechanisms.

        4. Genervon changed the drug development paradigm from hitting a single gene/pathway to a
           comprehensive and dynamic, multifactorial approach to treat complex rare and
           neurodegenerative diseases with a multi-factorial drug GM604. GM604 is one of the
           embryonic/fetal stage MNTF master regulators that is an endogenous signaling peptide for
           the development and regulations of the nervous system development. GM604 is
           multifactorial and corrects inadvertent errors in embryonic/fetal development and this
           neuroprotection and correction property may be applied to neurodegenerative disease
           therapy in adults.

        5. Genervon studied the mechanisms of action of GM6 by DNA microarray technique. GM604
           controls and modulates many known and significant ALS genes with positive effects,
           through multiple pathways interactively, systemically and dynamically. Our master
           regulator peptide drug modulates not just one but many ALS related genes. It is not a
           cocktail of drugs, but one master regulator peptide drug.

        6. Mechanisms that have been postulated in ALS are a complex interplay between multiple
           pathogenic processes including oxidative stress, protein aggregation, mitochondrial
           dysfunction excitotoxicity, and impaired axonal transport. GM604 modulates genes
           involved in these pathways and others. Genervon has also identified some genes to be
           tested as targets.

        7. ALS is notoriously fatal and has many alternate forms with different pathogenesis.
           Therefore all the previous single target drug trials have to restrict the enrollment to
           very small selective segment of ALS patients. With the potential that GM604 functions
           through multiple pathways and modulate multiple ALS related genes, Genervon believes
           GM604 can potentially treat ALS patients from a variety of segments instead of
           restricting to small selective segment of ALS patients. Genervon is proposing an ALS
           Phase 2 clinical trial that is broadly inclusive.

      Use of Biomarkers for ALS

      Most late-phase clinical trials across all diseases fail to demonstrate drug efficacy between
      case and controls. The incorporation of biomarkers within clinical trials may reduce this
      'drug attrition' rate. The biomarkers to be incorporated into clinical trials can be
      subdivided into:

        1. 'Target' biomarkers (the drug hits its target and, therefore, provide benefit),

        2. 'Efficacy' biomarkers (indicators of positive drug effect (result) via the mechanism of
           drug action).

        3. 'Efficacy/Target biomarkers.

      Genervon hypothesized that modulating disease causing genes may modulate ALS disease
      progression.
    
  