
    
      The purpose of this research study is that the study investigators want to find out if there
      is a way of reducing patients' postoperative emotional stress from having a separate
      procedure to test their urinary function after "sling" surgery. Women with stress urinary
      incontinence (leakage of urine with physical activities like coughing, jumping, running,
      laughing, etc) may need "sling" surgery to help their urinary leakage problems. "Sling"
      surgeries in our hospital are mainly done using a retropubic midurethral sling (sling is
      passed to the space in front of your bladder). It is well known that having a sling surgery
      dramatically helps women with stress urinary incontinence. However, any surgical managements
      can have complications. One of the common complications from having a sling is "postoperative
      voiding dysfunction". In other words, some women may have a problem with urinating normally
      after the sling surgery. The most common problem is that some women (up to 4 out of 10 women)
      may not be able to urinate right after the surgery for the brief period of the time. The
      study team calls this condition "urinary retention". Postoperative urinary retention after
      the sling surgery can occur mainly due to pain, anesthesia effect, underlying tissue
      swelling; and rarely secondary to bleeding or nerve damage. Not being able to urinate for
      long time (>6-8 hours) can damage the bladder muscle and nerves to the bladder. Therefore,
      most surgeons like to perform a "bladder testing" in the recovery unit before you are ready
      to go home to make sure you would be able to urinate at home once discharged. Traditionally,
      the bladder testing is involved with back-filling the bladder with sterile water (about
      300cc) and checking if the patients are able to urinate within 30 minutes. The patients
      should be able to urinate about two thirds of amount that has been placed in the bladder.
      This "bladder testing" can create a lot of emotional stress to the patients; consequently,
      some of the patients may not be able to urinate within the given time although there is
      nothing wrong with their bladder function. Those patients, who did not pass this testing, are
      sent home with an indwelling urinary catheter with legbag until they come back to clinic for
      another "bladder testing" in 3-7 days. It is well known that the indwelling catheters are a
      leading cause of urinary tract infection and a source of patients' discomfort, embarrassment,
      and inconvenience. Therefore, this study is designed to find out if having a bladder test
      after the sling surgery is a really-must thing to perform to test the bladder function. The
      study team would like to investigate if allowing the patients to have enough time to urinate
      their own, without making them to go through the bladder testing, would be a sufficient way
      of testing the bladder function after sling surgery.
    
  