
    
      1. Current knowledge on the problem

           The increase in bacterial resistance and the overuse of antibiotics have led health
           authorities to propose incentives for the proper use of antibiotics. Among these
           measures are public awareness campaigns, the establishment of antibiotic reference
           materials and the development of indicators of appropriate use in health facilities.

           In response to these issues, the infectiology teams have developed cross-cutting
           activities to improve antibiotic prescribing in their healthcare institutions: drafting
           and implementing clinical practice recommendations; initial and continuing training of
           prescribers in the proper use of antibiotics; evaluation of practices for the management
           of infectious diseases; organization of collaborations with the CLIN, microbiology
           laboratories and pharmacy; monitoring and analysis of antibiotic dispensing, monitoring
           and analysis of bacterial resistance.

           Some teams have set up prescription support systems to meet the growing demand from
           non-infectious disease clinicians and to satisfy the criteria of the Composite Indicator
           of Antibiotic Use (ICATB 2), which relates to "access to antibiotic therapy advice". In
           2000, the cross-disciplinary infectiology team at Grenoble Alpes University Hospital set
           up a "Mobile Infectiology Consultation (MIC)" based on a cell phone medical service
           available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This team carried out an analysis of all the
           informal consultations treated by this "hotline" during 2008. 7863 advice was given
           during the study period; 37.3% of them within the University Hospital Center to adapt or
           start antibiotic therapy. This activity has developed significantly and is now well
           established in France in the hospital environment. The Grenoble team conducted a new
           evaluation in 2016 and recorded nearly 16,000 calls per year (publication in progress).

           Studies of intra-hospital infectious disease teleadvisory services have shown that
           compliance with infectious disease advice reduces the consumption of anti-infectives and
           improves the prognosis of hospitalized patients. Thus Sellier et al reported the results
           of a prospective study carried out on 621 patients benefiting from infectious disease
           counseling. Adherence to the advice given was good 88.2% (548/621). When counseling was
           followed clinical improvement at D3 was more frequent (60.7% versus 43.9%, p=0.01) and
           the median duration of hospitalization was 3 days shorter (20 days versus 23, p=0.03).
           Adherence to telephone advice was comparable to that of formal advice given during a
           consultation, out of a series of 627 consecutive advice sessions reported by the same
           team. These results are supported by other studies that highlight the positive impact of
           informal consultation with infectious disease specialists on the management of
           inpatients, particularly in intensive care units.

           Between 2000 and 2004, the consumption of antibiotics decreased in France by 18.4%. Then
           it went up and down between 2005 and 2008. Since 2010 there has been a recovery trend
           that is confirmed every year (+5.9%). The growth in consumption appears to be much
           higher for outpatient prescriptions than for hospital prescriptions (90% versus 10%).

           A more recent decree (2015), specifying the role of referring physicians as well as axis
           3 of the report "Saving antibiotics" recommended developing infectious disease advice
           for primary care physicians (general practitioners).

           Experiences concerning tele-advice to general practitioners are, however, rarer than
           intra-hospital experiences and have been little studied. In Grenoble, the hotline was
           opened from the outset to general practitioners and practitioners outside the university
           hospital. More than half of the advice provided (56%) by this team concerned them.
           Requests were more often handled by telephone when they came from general practitioners
           (89% versus 46% for intra-hospital requests). The reasons for calling the hotline from
           GPs were significantly different from those of hospital phisicians. Indeed, in this
           study, intra-hospital requests concerned the management of osteoarticular (14%), skin
           and soft tissue (9%), or pulmonary (11%) infections; whereas GPs were more often
           concerned about long-term fevers or unexplained inflammatory syndromes (11%).

           Marquet et al. recently described the activity of Medqual, a network of 20 infectious
           diseases specialists in the Pays de Loire region. During the 5 days studied, this
           network had received 386 telephone calls, most of which (81%) came from physicians in
           the same hospital. Of these, 7.7% were from other hospitals and 11.3% from private
           practice. 6% of the calls resulted in formal consultations and 5.5% in hospitalizations.
           68.7% of responses could be given by telephone.

           Bal et al questioned 284 general practitioners using an infectiology hotline. 97.9% of
           them were satisfied with the hotline. They said they used this service to improve
           patient care (96.5%) and appreciated the speed of access (86.3%). Their questions mainly
           concerned antibiotic treatments (66.2%) but also diagnostic aids (46.5%) and requests
           for consultations or hospitalizations (29.6%). The latter requests are particularly
           important to optimize the patient's journey.

           Teleconsulting in infectious diseases therefore seems to meet a need by allowing rapid
           recourse to a physician specialized in infectious diseases.

           The objective of our project is to extend the teleconsulting activities for general
           practitioners to new territories by teams of volunteer infectious disease specialists.
           The investigators wish to evaluate the effects of this activity on the evolution of
           antibiotic dispensing and on the prescribing practices of general practitioners.

           Outpatient dispensing of antibiotics will be analyzed from the dispensing of drugs
           registered by the Assurance Maladie, through the study of the general sample of
           beneficiaries (EGB) at the 100th of the protected population.

           Advice for general medicine will be recorded on an ad hoc database, the AIRBUS database.
           This system, which is independent of hospital information systems, should enable
           referring infectious diseases specialists to record in real time their out-of-hospital
           tele-advice activity.

           The originality of the project lies first of all in the target of the intervention. Up
           to now, the devices to assist in the prescription of antibiotics have been intended for
           hospital services within the framework of referring physicians in antibiotic therapy and
           mobile infectiology consultations. The deployment of tele-advisory devices in infectious
           diseases to primary care medicine is an innovation whose usefulness has yet to be
           demonstrated.

           The other element of originality lies in the choice of an objective judgment criterion:
           the consumption of antibiotics on an outpatient basis. The investigators are aware that
           the number of treatments for which specialized advice will be provided will be minimal
           compared to the mass of antibiotic prescriptions in ambulatory medicine. However, the
           investigators believe that the advice given by infectious diseases specialists will have
           an educational effect likely to induce changes in practices and changes in dispensing by
           halo effect. This is why the investigators suggest to collect the judgement criteria
           over a long period (3 years) and to collect it in the same way in territories not
           covered by a tele-advice system.

           This work will also make it possible to better understand the needs of general
           practitioners in terms of assistance in the management of infectious pathologies and to
           adapt the offer of continuing education in this specialty.

           In addition, the implementation of teleconsulting devices by hospital specialists
           constitutes a new model of relationship between professionals that could contribute to
           improving collaboration between primary care medicine and hospital specialist medicine.

        2. Research hypotheses

           It can be hypothesized that an infectious advice hotline for general practitioners could
           have the same type of effects on the consumption of anti-infectives and the clinical
           evolution of patients as intra-hospital advice. This is suggested, for example, by a
           recent study by Meeker's team which describes the importance of behavioural
           interventions on the quality of antibiotic prescriptions in general medicine. In
           addition to the positive impact on patient care through real-time response and thus
           immediate action on therapeutic decisions, this advice would allow additional 'hands-on'
           training of the doctors involved in city infectiology and the correct use of
           antibiotics, through advice given in concrete situations (halo effect). Its impact would
           also be measurable on care trajectories (e.g. saving on medical consultations, avoiding
           emergency visits).

           If our hypotheses are confirmed, the infectious diseases tele-advice system could be
           deployed in other French healthcare territories. In the long term, it is hoped that this
           system will have a beneficial impact on the consumption of antibiotics and on the
           development of bacterial resistance.

        3. Research objectives and endpoints

           3.1. Main objective

           To determine the effects of the deployment of an infectious disease tele-advice system
           for general practitioners on the overall and class dispensing of antibiotics in
           ambulatory medicine compared to the absence of specific intervention.

           3.2 Secondary objectives

             -  To qualify the needs of general practitioners in infectiology for advice.

             -  To study the responses provided by the infectious disease referents (type of
                response, time spent).

             -  To study the compliance of general practitioners with this advice.

             -  To study the impact of advice on the patient's care pathway.

             -  To study the opinion of requesting GPs on the device.

        4. Study description

           4.1 Study design

           This is a prospective, multi-center, population-based, interrupted time-series
           observational study with a control group with 12 points before and 24 points after the
           deployment of the intervention in voluntary territories.

           4.2 Intervention

           The intervention consists of setting up in each voluntary center an infectious disease
           tele-advice system available to general practitioners via a dedicated cell phone line.
           GPs will receive information when the telecounseling system is set up in their practice
           health territory.

           4.3 Population

           The primary study population will consist of health insurance-registered systemic
           antibiotic dispenses for patients present in the EGB for 36 months: 12 months prior to
           deployment of the telecounseling devices and 24 months post-deployment.

             -  The experimental group will be made up of all metropolitan departments covered by
                an infectious disease tele-advice system open to general practitioners; 13
                metropolitan departments will be concerned.

             -  The control group will be made up of all the metropolitan departments not covered
                by an infectious disease tele-advice system open to general practitioners; 82
                departments will be involved. Few centers have set up a response system accessible
                to general practitioners. For those centers that are available, the number of
                notices is very low.

           Number of planned observations to be recruited:

           A study of ambulatory dispensing of systemic antibiotics recorded in the SNIIRAM
           database in 2015 in the Rhône-Alpes region found a consumption of 64,165,140 Defined
           Daily Doses (DDD) for 6,510,561 inhabitants, i.e. 27 DDD/1000 inhabitants per day.

           By extrapolating these data to the Simplified General Sample of Beneficiaries (1/97th of
           the SNIIRAM database) for metropolitan France, it can be estimated that the analysis
           will cover 70 to 80 million DJD per year, i.e. 210 to 240 million DJD over 3 years. The
           unit of analysis will be the consumption per month and per territory, i.e. 96x36 = 3456
           units month-department.

           The secondary population of the study will be constituted by the opinions requested by a
           general practitioner from an infectiological tele-advice system. The opinions requested
           during 12 months, from September 2018 to August 2019 will be recorded in the AIRBUS
           database.

           Number of planned observations to be recruited

           Based on a study carried out in 2016 in 5 departments of the Rhône Alpes region, it can
           be estimated that each center should give about 30 pieces of advice per month to the
           general practitioners of their department. Therapeutic advice represents 40% of the
           advice given to GPs. The investigators can estimate the total number of counsels
           expected for the study at 4100 in one year, of which about 1500 will be followed up on
           D7.

           4.4 Data collection

           Infectiological warnings

           All requests for infectiological opinions made by general practitioners will be recorded
           in the AIRBUS database, a computer application developed on the Voozanoo platform
           (Epiconcept) by the SPILF. The platform is accessible via the Internet and is authorized
           to host medical data.

           Each participating antibiotic referent will have an identifier and a personal code
           allowing him/her to record his/her opinions and to access his/her own database. For each
           request, the referring physician will record, with the agreement of the requesting
           physician :

             -  the name of the requesting general practitioner and his or her telephone number,

             -  the reason for the appeal (advice for a patient, general question) ;

             -  the characteristics of the patient (age, sex, diagnosis)

             -  the date and time of the call ;

             -  the identity of the sponsoring physician;

             -  the modalities of the response (consultation, telephone, e-mail, other);

             -  the notion of hospitalization following the notification (yes, no, in infectiology,
                emergency, in another department);

             -  the notion of carrying a multi-resistant bacterium (BMR);

             -  the time spent for counseling (in minutes, including application filling);

             -  the response given by the infectiologist (starting an anti-infectious treatment, no
                modification of the current treatment, optimization of the treatment by oral relay
                or de-escalation or shortening the duration or changing the dose, stopping the
                antibiotic treatment, no treatment necessary, diagnostic assistance).

           The recording of opinions may be carried out by the participating physician or by a
           clinical research assistant. The application will also be available on a tablet or
           smartphone.

           Follow-up of notifications at D7

           For opinions involving therapeutic advice (initiation or modification of antibiotic
           therapy) an ARC will contact the requesting GP 7 days (± 2 days) after the opinion.
           During a telephone interview, he will collect the following information:

             -  the prescriptions made by the physician, in order to assess compliance with the
                advice.

             -  the evolution of the patient if the doctor has this information. This evolution
                will be coded according to previously defined criteria (cure, decrease in fever,
                decrease in the intensity of symptoms, decrease in a possible inflammatory
                syndrome) ;

             -  basic information on the doctor's mode of activity

             -  the GP's opinion on the device (usefulness, satisfaction, influence on practices,
                proposal(s) for improving the system) Responses will be collected on a 4-way Likert
                scale. These follow-up data will be recorded in a computer application developed
                for this purpose on the Voozanoo platform.

           Antibiotic dispensing

           Antibiotic dispenses will be tracked using monthly extractions from the SNIIRAM's
           simplified EGB database (EGBs) provided by the National Institute of Health Data (INDS).
           The extraction will concern 1/97th of all systemic antibiotic dispensations (oral or
           injectable) registered by the health insurance (EGBs database) for 3 years. For each
           dispensation the International Nonproprietary Name (INN) of the antibiotic, the quantity
           dispensed, the date and place of dispensing and the identity of the prescriber will be
           collected. These dispensations will be classified by month, department and therapeutic
           class. The dispensations will be expressed in defined daily doses (DDD) in relation to
           the number of inhabitants per department present in the EGB.

           Follow-up of the dispensations will begin in the year preceding the intervention and
           will continue during the study year and one year after, for a total of 36 months.

           4.5 Statistical analysis

           Analysis plan

           A Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) will be developed before the database is frozen,
           reviewed by the coordinating investigator and an independent statistician. This plan
           will outline the principles guiding the analysis, including :

             -  The analysis sample and any subgroups ;

             -  the frequentist approach to the analysis

             -  The statistical significance level and the level of confidence intervals ;

             -  The possible adjustment of the p-value to take into account the multiplicity of
                tests;

             -  The descriptive statistics used for the qualitative and quantitative variables; and

             -  The possible transformations of the variables ;

             -  Variables created or recoded;

             -  The association measures used;

             -  The univariate and multivariate analysis strategy. The SAP will include an explicit
                detailed description of the univariate and multivariate analyses presented in the
                final statistical report (FSR). Unplanned analyses in the SAP, either exploratory
                or confirmatory, are possible. They will appear as such in the FSR and manuscripts
                submitted for publication.

           Analysis of the main judgment criterion.

           Antibiotic consumptions extracted from the SNIIRAM database will be analyzed with the
           SAS software. They will be expressed in Defined Daily Doses (DDD) per 1000 inhabitants
           per day.

           Antibiotic dispensations extracted from the EGBs database will be analyzed with SAS
           software. They will be expressed in Defined Daily Doses (DDD) per 1000 inhabitants per
           day. The data will be analyzed using interrupted time series [25]. The secular trend of
           dispensing will be modeled before the intervention and then the modifications of this
           trend will be compared between territories covered and not covered by the intervention
           by a test of the first-order interaction between time and type of territory. Seasonality
           will also be modelled using a 12-order moving average and the autocorrelation of
           residuals using the ARIMA model. The investigators will use the Box jenkins approach and
           in particular the autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation functions to develop the
           ARIMA model. The analysis will cover all antibiotic dispensing and dispensing of the
           major classes of antibiotics.

           Analysis of notices

           The statistical unit is the advice given by the infectiologist. The test sample will
           consist of all the opinions included. A flow chart in accordance with the CONSORT/STROBE
           transparency recommendations will present the number of test specimens.

           The characteristics of the opinions will be summarized by the usual descriptive
           statistics: number and percentage for qualitative variables and mean and standard
           deviation (or median and 25th-75th percentiles, in case of asymmetric distribution) for
           continuous quantitative variables.

           In univariate analysis, the characteristics of the opinions associated with compliance
           will be analyzed using the Chi-square test, replaced by Fisher's exact probability in
           case of expected numbers below 5, for the qualitative variables, and the Student test,
           replaced by the non-parametric Wilcoxon test, in case of deviation from normality, for
           the continuous quantitative variables. The investigators will identify characteristics
           independently associated with compliance using a multivariate logistic regression model.
           To prevent over-fitting of the model to the data, the covariates introduced in the
           multivariate model will be selected a priori based on the literature and the team's
           previous publications in the field. Because of the non-independence of opinions from the
           same infectiologist, the investigators will use a two-level randomized model
           (opinion/infectiologist). In a further analysis, the investigators will develop a
           three-level model (opinion/infectiologist/institution). The adherence analysis will
           include the complete observations for the dependent variable and the independent
           covariates (casewise analysis). To ensure the robustness of the results, the
           investigators will repeat this analysis using a multiple imputation method for missing
           data.

           The analysis of the other criteria will be exploratory. As such, no adjustments to the
           degree of statistical significance will be made. Statistical comparisons will be
           performed using the Student t test or the non-parametric Wilcoxon test for continuous
           quantitative variables and using the Chi-square test or the Fischer's exact probability
           for qualitative variables.

           Point estimates will be framed by a 95% confidence interval. The statistical
           significance level will be set at 5%, in bilateral situations. The analyses will be
           performed with Stata SE software (version 15.0 or later, StataCorp, College Station, TX,
           USA).

        5. Ethical considerations

           The study does not involve direct action on patients; no nominative information will be
           collected. The study involves prospective collection of data from healthcare
           professionals: infectious disease physicians and general practitioners who are
           applicants. It therefore complies with type 3 of the Jardé law: "non-interventional
           research that does not involve any risk or constraint, in which all acts are performed
           and products are used in a usual manner".

           An information sheet will be distributed to each physician who is a member of a
           participating infectiology team and the physician's consent will be obtained in writing
           at the opening of the center. Information will be given by telephone to each requesting
           physician and his/her consent will be collected orally for the recording of the
           notification data and for the follow-up of the notification at D7.

           The protocol and the information documents of the doctors will be submitted for opinion
           to a committee for the protection of persons drawn by lot.

        6. Auditing

      Monitoring of study processes and documents will be conducted by personnel designated by the
      Direction de la Recherche Clinique et de l'Innovation (DRCI) at Grenoble university hospital.
    
  