
    
      This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), single arm,
      multicenter (when more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical research
      study) study to evaluate the anti-tumor activities and safety of abiraterone acetate in
      participants with cancer who have failed taxane (docetaxel)-based chemotherapy. Abiraterone
      acetate 1000 milligram (mg) tablet or capsule will be administered orally (by mouth), once
      daily after an overnight fast until disease progression, lack of disease response after six
      28-day cycles of treatment, or when unacceptable toxicity is encountered. Participants will
      be treated for up to 12 cycles. All participants will receive a concurrent low-dose
      glucocorticoid (such as prednisone 5 mg tablet twice daily/prednisolone 0.5 mg tablet once
      daily). Treatment will be continued in responding participants until death, or disease
      progression, or end of the study (which is Week 148). Efficacy will primarily be assessed
      through prostate specific antigen response according to Prostate Specific Antigen Working
      Group (PSAWG) criteria. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.
      Participants who have completed 12 cycles of abiraterone acetate treatment, and continue to
      receive clinical benefit from such treatment, will be eligible to enter the extension study.
      Participants who enter the extension study will continue taking abiraterone acetate at the
      dose they were receiving at the end of the main study together with low-dose glucocorticoid.
      Efficacy and safety will be monitored throughout the extension study. Study treatment will
      end when the patient dies, is lost to follow-up, withdraws informed consent, experiences
      sustained side-effects, has disease progression, or the sponsor discontinues the extension
      study. After the end of study visit is completed for the extension study, participants will
      be followed every 12 weeks for survival for up to 3 years following entry into the extension
      study.
    
  