
    
      Patient: 135 female patients in child bearing period (20-39 yrs) will undergo trans-perineal
      ultrasound and dynamic pelvic MRI:

      40 days after vaginal delivery or cesarean section for asymptomatic and symptomatic cases.

      revision after six months for cases with sonongraphic or MRI findings. after obtaining an
      informed written consent and approval of the ethical committee of faculty of medicine of
      Assiut University.

      Inclusion criteria: asymptomatic and symptomatic female Patients in child bearing period 40
      days after vaginal delivery and cesarean section.

      Exclusion criteria: patients with previous pelvic floor surgery.

      Patient preparation

      For trans-perineal US:

      - Patient is positioned in dorsal lithotomy position, with the hips flexed and slightly
      abducted and after bladder and bowel emptying. The pelvic tilt can be improved by asking the
      patient to place their heels as close as possible to the buttocks and move hips towards the
      heels.

      For MRI:

      - Patient is positioned in supine position and using pelvic coil after bladder and bowel
      emptying.

      Method:

        1. trans-perineal US: B mode capable 2D ultrasound system with cine loop function, a
           3.5-6.0 MHz curved array transducer. At women health hospital. A mid-sagittal and axial
           views is obtained by placing a transducer on the perineum (Parting of the labia can
           improve image quality).

           The following measures will be obtained:

           Hiatus diameter, bladder neck descent, and descent of other pelvic organs in relation to
           reference line (parallel to lower part of public bone).

        2. Dynamic MRI:

      Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the pelvic floor is a two-step process that includes:

      analysis of anatomic damage on axial fast spin-echo (FSE) T2-weighted images. then sagittal
      and coronal (FSE) T2-weighted are obtained.

      functional evaluation using sagittal dynamic single-shot T2-weighted sequences during
      straining and defecation to show descent of pelvic organs and pelvic floor relaxation or
      weakness.
    
  