
    
      A double blind randomised trial of 2 strengths of GV solution and nystatin oral drops in the
      treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis in children.

      Children with oral thrush were enrolled from the paediatric wards of the Queen Elizabeth
      Central Hospital after permission and full information was given to the guardians.

      Children of any age up to 14 years were included.

      Mothers or guardians gave permission after pre counselling for HIV testing, and a saliva
      sample collection on enrollment. A full history and examination was carried out. The extent
      and severity of the candidal infection recorded on oral pictorial graphs and graded.

      The child was then prescribed a treatment of A, B or C solution which was introduced into the
      mouth with a pipette. One ml of the solution was prescribed 3 times a day for 10 days.

      The children were reviewed on day 3 to ensure no worsening of the condition and on day 12
      when another saliva sample was taken.

      A further review was carried out on day 21 of a limited number of children to repeat the
      saliva test.

      Exclusions to the study were children who were already on an antifungal agent or those who
      had evidence of infection beyond the pharynx into the peritonsillar bed, suggesting the
      presence of oesophageal infection. These children were prescribed ketoconazole tabs.

      If the oral infection was worse on day 3 miconazole gel was prescribed and the study
      medication stopped.

      Sample size to achieve 80% power to detect a difference in failure rates of 20% and 10% (20%
      in the nystatin group and 10% in the GV groups) is 155 in each group.This assumes an HIV
      positivity of 50%. As a drop out rate of 20% is expected from death (in some HIV infected
      patients) or failure to attend for follow up, a sample size of 186 per group is to be
      recruited. This gives an overall number to be enrolled of 558 patients.

      Recruitment has been completed - analysis is in progress.
    
  