
    
      During antibiotic treatments with the indicated antibiotics the susceptible bacteria are
      subjected to metabolic changes of the Krebs cycles leading to intrabacterial accumulation of
      toxic hydroxyl oxygen radicals. The intrabacterial toxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) can
      subsequently react with DNA, lipids or proteins resulting in damages of those bacterial
      components adding to the killing of the bacteria. A consequence is that bactericidal
      antibiotics have reduced activity in infectious foci with poor oxygen supply like in
      abscesses or in biofilm infections as in IE and/or rapid consumption of oxygen due to PMN
      influx. The bacterial damages may, if killing is not obtained, result in mutations and
      selection of antibiotic resistant mutants.

      However, these discoveries also provide a possibility for improving the antibacterial effect
      by increasing the oxygen pressure in the infectious focus. This can be obtained by increasing
      oxygen tension in the tissues by treating the patients with HBOT - and have been shown in
      vitro and in vivo pre-clinical experiments. Exposing Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm models in
      vitro to HBOT has proved effective by significantly increasing the bactericidal effect of
      ciprofloxacin.

      More important, in an animal (rats) model of left-sided S. aureus IE on the aortic valves,
      tobramycin killing effect was significantly improved by adding HBOT as adjunctive therapy.
      Moreover, the rats revealed a reduced inflammatory response and improved clinical scores. No
      side effects were recorded during that study.

      In addition, the HBOT is also believed to improve the antibacterial effect of the PMNs, and
      thereby add to an enhanced elimination of infectious focus. This is being estimated by
      measurements of the respiratory burst of the PMNs, as well as their phagocytic capacity right
      before and right after the HBOT.
    
  