
    
      The proposal is a one center, open label, randomized pilot study to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability and compliance of a Whole Food Intervention with Standard of Care for patients
      with non-small cell lung cancer. The primary objectives are:

        1. To determine whether patients will use a Whole Food Intervention 4-6 times daily, and

        2. To determine whether the Whole Food Intervention will reduce the incidence of grade 2 or
           greater esophagitis from 75% historically seen to 25% .

        3. To determine whether Whole Food Intervention will reduce the incidence of treatment
           breaks from >19% to < 10% (see section 9 for comments)

      This Whole Food Intervention will be taken by mouth before the start of radiation therapy,
      with or without chemotherapy and for the entire treatment therapy.

      Esophagitis-related pain and reduction of oral intake will be quantified by using validated
      assessment tools. Weight loss or gain, diarrhea, constipation or no change in bowel function
      and the use of conventional medication for radiation-induced esophagitis will be recorded.
      Chart review and patient questionnaires will be used to establish whether a treatment break
      or dose reduction for radiation of chemotherapy was required due to radiation
      esophagitis-related symptoms. Complete Chemistry Profile and Complete Blood Count will be
      extracted from the patients' medical oncologist's or radiation oncologist's records. The
      patient will continue to use standard esophagitis therapies if desired as prescribed by the
      treating oncology physician.

      The Whole Food Intervention consists of yogurt, butter, honey, vanilla, and glutamine with 3
      portioning cups, equal to approximately 12 ounces, taken daily before starting radiation
      therapy. A questionnaire will be used to record symptoms and doses taken. The patient will
      continue to use standard esophagitis therapies as prescribed by the treating oncology
      physician.
    
  