
    
      BACKGROUND: Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a condition that is highly prevalent in the
      senior citizen population. LSS is the most frequent indication for spinal surgery in patients
      over the age of 65 years. The fastest growth in lumbar surgery in the U.S. this past decade
      has occurred in older adults with LSS and the rate of complex fusion procedures has increased
      15-fold. These surgical procedures are associated with significant health care costs, risks,
      complications, and re-hospitalization rates. Yet, evidence is lacking for the effectiveness
      of the various non-surgical treatments offered to patients with LSS. This knowledge gap has
      greatly hindered the development of clinical practice guidelines relevant to the non-surgical
      treatment approaches for LSS.

      OBJECTIVES: This study will perform a comparison of three common approaches to the
      non-surgical management and treatment of patients with LSS. The specific research questions
      associated with this study are: (1) How do group exercise and manual therapy with
      rehabilitative exercise compare with medical care? (2) How do group exercise and manual
      therapy with rehabilitative exercise compare with each other? (3) Are there any baseline
      predictors associated with clinical improvement in any of these non-surgical treatment
      approaches? The long term objective of this study is to produce research evidence relevant to
      community stakeholders and to inform better decision making about non-surgical treatment
      options available to LSS patients.

      METHODS: This will be a comparative effectiveness study utilizing the research design of a
      randomized controlled clinical trial (RCT). It will be a 3-group RCT that allows for
      pragmatic treatment approaches in each of the three study arms. The study sample will consist
      of 259 older adults (>60 years) who have symptoms consistent with a diagnosis of LSS, which
      will be confirmed by clinical examination and diagnostic imaging. Eligible subjects will be
      randomized into one of three pragmatic treatment approaches: 1) medical care; 2) group
      exercise; or 3) manual therapy with rehabilitative exercise.

      All subjects will be treated for a 6-week course of care. Primary outcome measures are two
      validated research measurement tools; the Swiss Spinal Stenosis Questionnaire (self-reported
      pain/function) and the Self Paced Walking Test (performance-based measure). We will also
      employ a novel secondary outcome measure; the Sense Wear Armband which provides a real-time
      measure of physical activity during normal daily living.
    
  