
    
      Participants will be recruited from diabetes education sessions at selected locations and at
      FHMG physician practices. For the diabetes education setting, ta research team member will
      introduce this study to a group of patients before educational sessions, during "break" of
      the educational sessions, and after sessions. If the patient is interested, an envelope with
      the Invitation to Participant letter attached to it and the survey enclosed will be given to
      them. Also, a NOTE will be attached to the envelope with the instructions: "Please drop your
      completed survey in the drop-box at ___." The drop-box location will be identified within
      each setting and provided to the participants in the note or indicated verbally.

      For patients at physician practices, an envelope with the Invitation to Participant letter
      attached to it and survey enclosed will be given by a staff member. Invitation to Participant
      letter contains all portions of the consent process. A NOTE will be attached to the envelope
      with the instructions: "Please drop your completed survey in the drop box at____." The
      drop-box location will be identified within each setting and provided to the participants in
      the note or indicated verbally. If patient does not meet the inclusion criteria, they will be
      asked to return the envelope to the staff member who provided it.

      Patients will be provided with Invitation to Participate letter along with survey. The
      Invitation to Participate letter provides patients with study details including
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, duration of participation, procedures to ensure
      confidentiality, and an overview of voluntary participation conditions. Implied consent will
      be used. In addition to the Invitation to Participate letter, there is a statement at the top
      of the survey "return of completed surveys implies consent to participate in the study"
    
  