
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a common chronic inflammatory condition of the intestines that
      results in bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, and extraintestinal manifestations of disease.
      The disease course is typically chronic, characterized by periodic exacerbations followed by
      symptom- free intervals; less commonly symptoms are continuous and unrelenting. The symptoms
      and disease course have a profound, detrimental impact on the quality of life in patients
      with UC.

      The initial therapeutic approach depends upon both the extent of colonic involvement and the
      severity of the disease process at presentation. Typically, patients are treated based on a
      pyramid or "Step up" approach. If patients have mild symptoms, they receive less powerful
      therapies lower in the pyramid with fewer side effects. Patients with disease confined to
      distal colon are typically treated with topical therapies including either 5-ASA or steroid
      enemas. However, as symptoms worsen or if severe at the time of diagnosis, patients receive
      more aggressive therapies higher in the pyramid including steroids. Despite medical therapy,
      50% will have colectomy or become steroid dependent one year after receiving steroids.

      Steroids are associated with significant side effects. Adverse consequences of steroids are
      related to dose and duration of exposure, and include but are not limited to cosmetic side
      effects, ocular disease (glaucoma, cataracts), diabetes, hypertension, vascular disease,
      osteoporosis, neuropsychiatric complications, and increased risk of infection.

      Newer "designer" corticosteroids including budesonide have reduced systemic bioavailability
      and high local anti-inflammatory activity; as a result it is associated with fewer and less
      severe side effects. Studies have proven the efficacy of budesonide in inducing remission in
      active Crohn's disease. However, the data for the use of oral budesonide in patients with UC
      is less extensive. However, the data regarding the efficacy of topical therapy for left-sided
      UC is extensive. Randomized controlled trials of budesonide enemas have demonstrated similar
      efficacy and safety profile to hydrocortisone enemas in the induction of remission of left
      sided UC. We have chosen to utilize hydrocortisone enemas in our study as it is widely
      available in the United States.

      A 52-week open-label pilot study will be performed at the University of Maryland Medical
      Center. Subjects will include patients with previously or newly diagnosed extensive
      ulcerative colitis. Patients will be treated with oral budesonide and rectal hydrocortisone
      for 8 weeks followed by a predetermined taper. All patients will undergo research clinic
      visits at enrollment and week 8. During these visits, patients will complete a series of
      questionnaires that measure the patient's disease activity, quality of life, side effects,
      medical compliance, and other parameters. Blood draws and stool studies are required at each
      study visit to monitor blood counts, electrolytes, liver function, inflammatory markers, and
      adrenal function. Additionally, at week 16, an ACTH (cosyntropin) stimulation test will be
      performed. After obtaining a basal cortisol level, 250 ug of cosyntropin is given
      intravenously. Plasma samples of cortisol will then be drawn at 30 minutes to assess for
      adrenal insufficiency. Close follow-up with eight 30-min telephone sessions (every 2-3 weeks)
      will also be conducted to assess disease activity and adverse events.

      The goal of this study is to determine whether combination therapy using oral budesonide and
      topical hydrocortisone will result in the induction of remission in patients with active
      extensive ulcerative colitis. Further, we aim to show that combination therapy is better
      tolerated and has less severe side effects compared to conventional therapy with prednisone.
    
  