
    
      This is a prospective trial that will use fMRI to identify brain regions critical to the
      generation of PLP, examine the role of mirror therapy and the visual system in the
      de-activation of pain pathways, and observe how changes in the brain may be correlated with
      the level of PLP. Subjects must have PLP and have sustained a unilateral lower extremity
      amputation prior to enrollment. All subjects will be screened initially by a neurologist,
      physiatrist, or research coordinator according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. A
      detailed medical history will be taken and documented, and a neurologist will conduct a
      documented physical examination. Subjects who do not meet the study inclusion criteria will
      not be eligible to participate in this research study, but will continue to receive current
      best practice of care. If a subject's pain becomes severe during the course of the study,
      pain medication will be available to them.

      All subjects willing to participate in the study will be required to sign a DA 5303-R (see
      appendix for Voluntary Agreement Affidavit) prior to enrollment in the study. Once enrolled,
      all subjects will undergo baseline entry evaluations quantifying their current pain
      perception using the following evaluation tools: the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and the
      short version of the McGill Pain Questionnaire (Appendix 1) along with a short questionnaire
      on phantom limb pain frequency and duration (Appendix 5). Subjects will also be queried about
      their use of current pain medications along with the dosages on a weekly basis. Although
      helpful tools in the standard of care, the questionnaires completed by the subjects and the
      list of medications reported by the subjects in this study are for research data collection
      purposes only. In order to maintain subject confidentiality, only the subject's
      identification code-and not the subject's name-will appear on the questionnaires and
      evaluation forms. Subjects will be identified only through the use of coded identifiers. For
      instance, amputees would be coded as RLE1, RLE2, LLE1, LLE2, etc.

      Dr. Jack Tsao, Katie Hughes, and Lindsay Hussey-Andersen will administer both the treatments
      and the questionnaires. They will train all research subjects on the appropriate technique
      for using a 2' X 4' mirror and perform the cognitive tests. Unilateral limb amputee subjects
      will be asked to place their intact foot in front of a mirror and then to view the mirror
      image of the intact foot moving while performing a series of foot movements with the
      amputated, or phantom, foot. The sequence of foot movements include: abduction of the great
      toe, adduction of the great toe, flexion of the foot, extension of the foot, inversion of the
      foot, eversion of the foot, rotation of the foot, flexion of the toes, and extension of the
      toes. These sessions will be supervised by a clinician or research coordinator and will occur
      5 times a week for 4 weeks (20 days), with each session lasting 15 minutes. Prior to each
      daily treatment period, subjects will be asked to report PLP using the VAS and McGill forms
      and also to report the number and duration of PLP in the previous 24 hours. All subjects will
      also participate in rehabilitation therapy (muscle-strengthening exercises, use of
      prosthesis, and range of motion exercises) per standard medical care for limb amputation.

      Concurrent use of pain medications and muscle relaxants is permitted and will be recorded by
      the research assistant in a medication diary (Appendix 2). Scores on the VAS and McGill pain
      questionnaire will be used to assess the subject's level of disability and to evaluate
      outcomes. Subjects will be evaluated weekly in the hospital for quantification of the amount
      of analgesic medications used (NSAIDs, muscle relaxants, opioids), and VAS and McGill scores
      will be quantified daily for 4 weeks. The primary outcome will be changes in brain areas
      which are activated at weeks 2 and 4 compared to areas activated prior to starting mirror
      therapy. Secondary outcomes will be pain relief on the VAS, with responders defined as
      subjects with a significant decrease in the VAS score. All respondents will be released from
      the study after the final pain evaluation at 4 weeks.

      A research assistant will provide transportation to and from the National Institutes of
      Health (NIH) where the fMRI scans will take place. Amputee subjects will be asked to first
      use mental visualization to move their phantom foot and report their pain level, followed by
      viewing of their intact foot moving in a mirror while moving their phantom foot. fMRI
      scanning will be performed during both types of phantom foot movements to determine which
      additional brain regions are activated with visual observation. A fMRI will be done at the
      beginning of the study to establish a baseline and follow-up scanning will occur 2 and 4
      weeks after daily mirror therapy begins to assess changes in brain activation. Fourteen (14)
      control subjects will be recruited and asked to perform the same tasks during the fMRI scans
      but will not undergo mirror therapy. Control subjects will complete the McGill pain
      questionnaire as well as the VAS during each of their 3 visits to NIH for fMRI scanning. All
      subjects will be queried about their current medication use on a weekly basis. Both amputee
      and control subjects will be a part of this study for one month; both will undergo 3 fMRI
      scanning sessions, interspersed by the same 2 week period. fMRI evaluations will take up to
      two (2) hours per session and mirror therapy will last fifteen (15) minutes, totaling six (6)
      hours of fMRI and five (5) hours and fifteen (15) minutes of mirror therapy.
    
  