
    
      Diverticular disease of the colon is common in industrial countries and has significant
      impact on patient health as well as health care cost. It is common in both Western countries
      and some Asian countries. For example, in the past, colonic diverticulosis was rare in Japan;
      with detection rates as low as approximately 2% in 1960. The detection rate increased to
      approximately 20% in the 1980s and 1990s. Studies have reported that increasing rates of
      diverticulosis are caused by westernization of the diet in Asian countries and are becoming a
      medical concern. Diverticular disease-associated hospital admissions have risen steeply in
      the recent past, which are not completely accounted for by the increasingly aging population
      of western countries. Approximately 130,000 hospitalizations occurring every year in the
      United States are attributable to diverticular disease. An analysis of the age-adjusted
      hospitalization rate of diverticulitis in the United States showed an increase from 62 per
      100,000 in 1998 to 76 per 100,000 in 2005. These admission rates increased most in younger
      patients (< 45 years old) and have remained unchanged in patients older than 65 years. In
      spite of low mortality rate in patients with acute diverticulitis, moderate to severe
      comorbidities occur in specific patient group.

      Painter and Burkitt hypothesized it in their article in 1960s and 1970s. They based their
      hypothesis on the observation that individuals in different geographic locations such as
      western industrialized countries versus those in developing countries were noted to have
      different rates of prevalence. They postulated that those in industrialized nations tended to
      eat processed food that was low in fiber compared with individuals in Africa and Asia, where
      the disease was previously unknown.

      The USA Health Professional study showed a higher risk of diverticulitis in men with higher
      body mass index (BMI), waist-to-hip ratio and waist circumference [8]. Obesity also
      significantly increases costs associated with management of the disease and its complications
      [9]. The effect of obesity on the risk of recurrent diverticulitis is unknown.

      In the Emergency Department (ED), patients with acute diverticulitis usually present with
      acute abdominal pain. Sometimes, or mostly, it is an exclusive diagnosis, meaning that the
      diagnosis would be made after other emergent and acute abdomens are excluded. The recurrent
      diverticulitis cost medical burden. The studies focusing on potential risk factors of
      recurrent diverticulitis, especially for those after an episode of acute diverticulitis, are
      limited.

      This is a retrospective cohort study conduct from March, 2012 to September, 2018. The
      patients were recruited from National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH), NTUH Hsin-Chu Branch
      (HCH), and NTUH Yun-Lin Branch. The expected case number in these three hospital is 1000,
      400, and 300, respectively. We apply for waive of informed consent due to nature of
      retrospective medical record and minimal intervention onto patients.
    
  