
    
      In the event of a smallpox outbreak, or threat of one, mass immunization of all vulnerable
      individuals would take place. This would include persons with immunodeficiency as seen post
      Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT). The current Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved smallpox vaccine (Dryvax速) is a live replicating virus (vaccinia) and is
      contraindicated in both immunocompromised persons and those in close physical contact with
      them. The Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA), specifically IMVAMUNE速 has been developed as a
      safer, less reactogenic vaccine against smallpox. Study participants will include 24 male or
      female participants, from 18 to 60 years of age. This study assesses the safety,
      reactogenicity and immunogenicity of 2 doses of MVA-BN (IMVAMUNE速) given to persons who have
      undergone an HSCT more than 2 years prior to study participation. There are 2 arms in the
      study, each receiving 2 doses 28 days apart of either 1 x 10^7 or 1 x 10^8 tissue culture
      infectious dose 50 (TCID50). Each arm will be comprised of 12 subjects, 10 of whom will
      receive IMVAMUNE速 and 2 of whom will receive placebo under a double blind, randomized
      allocation. Subjects will be followed for safety and reactogenicity. Clinical assessments
      will be performed and blood samples will be obtained sequentially for safety and
      immunogenicity determinations. All subjects will complete a memory aid for 15 days after each
      vaccination to record oral temperature and note the occurrence of solicited and unsolicited
      adverse events as well as any medication use. Adverse events will be collected for 56 days
      after each vaccination. Serious adverse events and concomitant medications will be collected
      throughout the entire study period. Study staff will assess subjects clinically at days 14
      and 28 after each vaccination and on days 42, 56, 84, and 180. Hematology and blood chemistry
      studies including hemoglobin, white blood cell and platelet counts and kidney and liver
      function tests will be obtained. Electrocardiogram and Troponin I or T will be obtained prior
      to first vaccination and on days 14 and 28 after each immunization and at day 180. Clinical
      laboratory assays will be conducted in the clinical laboratory at both the Brigham and
      Women's Hospital or the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. The primary objective of this study is
      to determine the safety and reactogenicity of MVA in persons who have undergone allogeneic
      HSCT more than 2 years prior to study participation. The secondary objective of this study is
      to determine the immunogenicity of MVA in persons who have undergone HSCT more than 2 years
      prior to study participation. Immunogenicity will be determined by humoral immune responses
      and cell mediated immune responses.
    
  