
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized (the study drug is assigned by chance), open-label (all
      people know the identity of the intervention), parallel-group (each group of patients will be
      initiated simultaneously) study in 4 panels (A, B, C and D). Each panel will comprise 2
      single-dose treatment periods. In Period 1, all patients from the 4 panels will receive an
      intramuscular (i.m.) injection with 1 mg paliperidone as an immediate release (IR) solution
      to assess tolerability and allergic or hypersensitivity reactions potentially related to
      paliperidone, and to establish the relative bioavailability (the extent to which a drug or
      other substance becomes available to the body) of paliperidone palmitate versus paliperidone
      IR. Patients in Panels A and C will receive an i.m. injection with 1 mg paliperidone IR
      solution in the gluteal muscle, and patients in Panel B and D will receive an i.m. injection
      with 1 mg paliperidone IR solution in the deltoid or gluteal muscle. Patients who tolerate
      this injection and have completed all assessments on Day 5 of Period 1 will be enrolled in
      Period 2. In Period 2, patients will receive a single dose of 3-month paliperidone palmitate
      i.m. injection at the dosages defined for each panel. The study drug injection will be
      followed by a 96-hour observation period in Period 1, and a 364-day or 544-day observation
      period in Period 2. Successive study drug administrations will be separated by a washout
      period (period when receiving no treatment) of at least 7 and no more than 21 days. The total
      study length for all patients is from 53 weeks to a maximum of 58 weeks. Patients in Panel B,
      if consented, and Panel D will participate in the extension period of approximately 26 weeks
      in order to obtain additional assessments to be able to characterize the pharmacokinetics
      (PK) profile. Pharmacokinetics explores how the drug is absorbed in the body, distributed
      within the body, and how it is removed from the body over time. Therefore, for those who
      participate in the extension period, the total study duration will be approximately 84 weeks.
    
  