
    
      The research is designed as a prospective multi-site, randomized, blinded trial.

      Participants will fill out an initial questionnaire 72 hours (time 0) after completing the
      inclusion/exclusion questionnaire and consent documents. An email will be sent sixty (60)
      hours after participants who agreed to the online consent and HIPAA articles. Subjects who
      have consented to participate in the trial will not be considered as enrolled until after
      they have completed their time 0 data forms and completed the education module.

      The subjects will be randomly assigned to either the minimum or maximum treatment group. Both
      groups will be sent an email reminder 7 days prior to their "follow-up" date. They will then
      be sent an email reminder 24 hours prior to their "follow-up" date. Subjects will receive an
      email reminder every 48 hours until 336 hours (14 days) post visit date. Reminder emails will
      also state that those subjects not completing their "follow-up" visit within the visit window
      will be withdrawn from the study. Subjects will be not be blinded as to how frequently they
      will be required to make "follow-up" visits to the site.

      Group A: Minimum Intervention Group A will fill out data forms at zero (0), two (2), four
      (4), and six (6) months.

      Group B: Maximum Intervention Group B will fill out data forms at zero (0), one (1), two (2),
      three (3), four (4), five (5), and six (6) months.

      A short online education module will be given after the initial surveys (time 0) have been
      completed by the study subject. They will receive their initial "feedback" letter after
      completing the education module. It will also tell them the date of their "follow-up" visit,
      and that they will be periodically prompted to return to the site and complete a
      questionnaire.

      Both groups will receive a "feedback" letter upon completion of each online "follow-up"
      visit. This letter will give them "feedback" based off of how they answered their data forms.
      All "feedback" given will be based off of established recommended physical activity and the
      USDA food pyramid guidelines. The BMI will be calculated; BMI = weight (kg)/height2 (m2).

      Subjects in both groups who have not completed their "follow-up" visits after 336 hours (14
      days) post visit date will be sent an email notifying them that they have been dropped from
      the study.
    
  