
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Newborns and infants with severe bronchiolitis admitted in PICU (Pediatric Intensive Care
      Unit) are patients at high risk for invasive mechanical ventilation support. In current
      literature, there is lack of multicenter, prospective and randomized studies to assess and
      describe the impact of non invasive ventilation support among severe bronchiolitis admitted
      in PICU, notwithstanding the actual improvement of non invasive ventilation technique on
      intubation rate reduction.

      Recently, we can find studies on bronchiolitis management in pediatric ward and supported
      with high flow nasal cannula (HFNC).

      The studies on severe bronchiolitis admitted in PICU do not evaluate positive end expiratory
      pressure (Peep) level applied during Helmet continous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
      support.

      According to Italian PICU Network (TIPNET) data, severe bronchiolitis admitted in PICU
      intubation rate is close to 10% (report 2010-2016), whatever non invasive ventilation support
      has been used.

      Principal investigators have performed a retrospective and cohort chart review among severe
      bronchiolitis (82) admitted in PICU from 2011 to 2015. Early Helmet CPAP was applied to
      patients, but peep level has been provided according to clinician experience, because of lack
      of indication on this issue. Patients were admitted in PICU from Emergency department,
      pediatric ward and up to 72 hours of ineffective HFNC support. The investigators have studied
      intubation rate, length of stay, bronchiolitis severity score, virus infection, peep level
      and gas flow applied on Helmet CPAP.

      According to preliminary results, 10 cmH2O peep level results 50 time more protective than
      lower (5-7.5 cmH2O) peep among flow rate of 50 L/min.

      Intubation rate with peep level 10 cmH2O was 3%, while it rose over 15% among 7.5-5 cmH2O
      peep level. Statistically significant difference were found on length of PICU stay.

      Scientific literature on Helmet CPAP noising exposure is poor. Such noising was proved to be
      reduced with filter application on Helmet CPAP respiratory circuit. There are not report, and
      we have never experienced acoustic system impairment in patients undergone Helmet CPAP.

      AIMS Primary aim: to evaluate escalation therapy (higher peep, non invasive ventilation in
      pressure support mode, or intubation and mechanical ventilation) rate on severe bronchiolitis
      admitted in PICU and supported with Helmet CPAP non invasive ventilation with 10 cmH2O peep
      level in group 1, and 5 cmH2O peep level in group 0.

      Secondary aim: to evaluate, among two study groups, length of PICU stay, pneumothorax
      incidence on Helmet CPAP, sedation effect during Helmet CPAP, early enteral feeding
      tolerance, syncytial and other respiratory virus incidence, bacterial infection and 30 days
      outcome.

      DESIGN Prospective, randomized, cohort, controlled and multicentric study.

      Population: sample size The study requires 488 patients, enrolled among 20 national and
      international PICU. Sample size have been calculated on preliminary results of our
      retrospective chart review; we hypothesize that intubation rate with 5 cmH2O peep level is
      15% and application of 10 cmH2O peep level may reduce it to 50%. According to these
      hypothesis, we need 244 patients for each group to have 5% of significativity level and 80%
      of study power.

      Length of study 24 months

      Procedure and methods

      Selection and patient enrollment Severe bronchiolitis admitted in PICU and requiring
      respiratory support.

      Intervention

      Binary randomized peep level of Helmet CPAP (1-0). The first patient enrolled will be assign
      to treatment 1 (10 cmH2O peep level), independently from its BSS. The following patients
      enrolled will be assign to treatment 0 (5 cmH2O peep level), and consecutively up to 25
      patients at least.

        -  10 cmH2O peep, 50 L/min gas flow, FiO2 0.5 on PICU admission (random 1)

        -  5 cmH2O peep, 50 L/min gas flow, FiO2 0.5 on PICU admission (random 0) If clinical and
           respiratory worsening, reduction of pH or PaO2/FiO2 occurs in the following first hour
           after Helmet CPAP treatment start, patients enrolled will receive endotracheal
           intubation, full face mask non invasive ventilation or higher peep level treatment
           (7.5-10 cmH2O) according to clinical evaluation, if necessary.

      In investigators' experience, early worsening of severe bronchiolitis in PICU in the first
      hour of Helmet CPAP treatment with 10 cmH2O peep level leads to endotracheal intubation.

      STUDY PLAN Application of a standard treatment protocol for all patients enrolled. It is the
      same standard of care applied to treat these patients in our PICU in the last 2 years. Of
      course, patients who will not be enrolled in the study will be supported and treated with the
      best feasible care.

        -  Registration of the modified Wood's Clinical Asthma score (mWCAS) for severe
           bronchiolitis admitted in PICU (Bronchiolitis Severity Score-BSS)

        -  clarithromycin prophylaxis for newborns (up to 30 days old), or I generation
           cephalosporine for older infants, if high fever, lung opacities or high inflammation
           markers occurs (PCR, procalcitonin, White body cells)

        -  volume replacement (20 ml/kg of sodium chloride solution or albumine 5%) in 60 min

        -  morphine ev bolus: 20 mcg/kg in 2 min and following 5 mcg/kg/h infusion (or other
           sedatives according to local PICU investigator)

        -  nasogastric tube placement and early enteral feeding 4-6 hours after admission (5-10
           ml/h)

        -  desamethasone 0.2 mg/kg x3/die ev (according to local PICU investigator ).

        -  proton pump inhibitors or H2 receptor antagonist (according to local PICU investigator).

        -  aerosol therapy 4 time/die: sodium chloride hypertonic solution 3% (or sodium chloride
           0.9%) 2 ml with ipratropium bromide .

        -  Arterial blood gas exam (ABE) before Helmet CPAP application and in the following 1,12
           24, and 48 hours; arterial catheter positioning is preferred (or arterial blood sampling
           by direct arterial puncture according to local PICU practice).

        -  Pharyngeal swab for molecular analysis to detect viral DNA will be performed on PICU
           admission, if not yet performed.

        -  occipital and neck skin protection will be used to avoid Helmet CPAP pressure sores.

        -  each Helmet will be provided of a filter to reduce noise inside it.

        -  Helmet gas will flow through heat-moisture device switched on 5 min/hour

      Only patients whose parents have signed written informed consent will be enrolled in this
      study. Any direct follow up is supposed after PICU discharge. Monitoring of hospital
      discharge will be followed by intranet database of the participant hospital.
    
  