
    
      The study is designed as a cross sectional study and will be conducted at three Emergency
      Departments (ED) within the Region of Southern Denmark; Hospital of Southern Jutland,
      Hospital of Southwest Jutland and Hospital Lillebaelt. The study method is based on a QoL
      questionnaire preformed as a structured interview with elderly who are acutely admitted in an
      ED.

      Elderly persons who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate during their
      admission. Written information about this study will be handed from the nurse in the ED. If
      the elderly accept she/he will get further oral information from the researcher. Written
      consent will be obtained if the elderly wish to participate.

      Including patients from three different EDs will presumably provide a broad selection, with
      elderly persons who live both in the city and in rural areas and thereby representing a
      general sample of the Danish population.There may be a variation in cause of hospitalization
      related to seasonal changes. To present a broad selection, the inclusion period will involve
      summer, fall, and winter. Inclusion and all structured interviews will be performed during
      admission by two persons: the responsible researcher and a research assistant.

      Primary Outcome:

      The primary outcome QoL will be accessed and evaluated by the Schedule for the Evaluation of
      Individual Quality of Life - direct weighting (SEIQoL-DW).

      Exposure:

      Homecare: Receiving "personal" homecare for more than 2 hours per week. Furthermore numbers
      of hours of homecare a week will be registered for each participant to see if there is any
      difference in QoL connected to number of hours.

      Readmission: Readmissions 30 days after discharge from the primary index admission (yes/no).
      Readmission is defined as; an unscheduled hospitalization for any reason and where the
      patient has stayed at the hospital overnight within 30 days after discharge from the index
      admission.

      The outcomes and variables will be collected through;

      At a structured interview during hospitalization; The Ph.D student and the research assistant
      are responsible for conducting the interviews. The patients will at the interview be asked
      about; Aspect and index score of QoL, cognitive functioning (OMC score), marital status,
      length of education and social support.

      In the patients' records during hospitalization; The Ph.D student is responsibility for
      collecting following information in the patients' record; Last admission, hours of homecare,
      use of home nursing, primary reason for hospitalization and comorbidities. Patients will be
      asked specific for permission to access journal data. Variables from the patients' record
      will be extracted after the informed consent for participation is obtained. The information
      from the journal will be handled from health professionals in the ED.

      In the patients' record 30 days after discharge; Variables after 30 days will be counted from
      the discharge form the index admission. The Ph.D student is responsibility for collecting the
      information in the patient record about readmission and length of hospital stay under the
      same terms as described above.

      Instrument

      The primary outcome QoL are accessed and evaluated by SEIQoL-DW which are assessed in a
      structured interview. First the interviewer elicits five areas of life considered most
      important by the participant. Secondly, the participant rates the level each of these areas
      from worst possible to best possible on a visual analogue scale (SEIQoL - VAS) and thirdly
      the participant is asked for the relative importance of each area by a direct weighting (DW)
      procedure. The DW procedure uses a pie chart consisting of five coloured segments. Each
      colour represents an area chosen by the respondent. The areas can be adjusted in size to
      reflect the relative importance of each area (greatest importance is the largest pie area).
      The total value of all five segments equals 100. To calculate the participants QoL at the
      moment, each area will be divided by 100. By multiplying the level of the area by the weight
      for each area and adding up the values for each area, a SEIQoL-DW index score will be
      calculated.
    
  