
    
      Upon IRB approval, 50 patients with complex soft tissue wounds, with or without an associated
      fracture that cannot be closed primarily will have the Dermaclose device applied and will be
      prospectively followed for 1 year. The Dermaclose device will be applied according to the
      manufacturer's guidelines. This device may be combined with the use of Negative Pressure
      Wound Therapy. Primary and secondary end points that were initially intended to be included
      are listed below. However, on SF12 and pain outcome measures were collected and reported.

      Initially Intended Primary end points (only SF12 collected and reported):

      SF12

        1. Initial and final wound dimensions

        2. Secondary soft tissue coverage procedures

        3. Dimensions and type of secondary soft tissue coverage procedures required compared to
           initial wound dimensions

        4. Method of wound closure

        5. Days to wound closure

        6. Number and types of procedures required for wound closure

        7. Infection requiring reoperation

        8. Wound dehiscence requiring reoperation

      Initially intended Secondary end points (only #3 collected and reported):

        1. Superficial wound dehiscence not requiring reoperation

        2. Superficial wound infection not requiring reoperation

        3. Visual Analog Pain Scale (VAS) with Dermaclose use

        4. Use of negative pressure wound therapy

        5. Cost-to-benefit ratio of Dermaclose use - hospital days, number of procedures,
           procedural and hospital costs including device, negative pressure wound therapy costs,
           and operating room time and associated costs

      Patients will be evaluated daily during their inpatient hospital stays for VAS related to the
      wound for which the Dermaclose device is used. If the Dermaclose device is used on an
      outpatient basis, the patient will be asked to complete a daily VAS at the same time to
      monitor pain associated with device use. After hospital discharge, the patients will be
      evaluated at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months. They will complete an SF-12
      as part of the above evaluations. Patients may be evaluated at more frequent intervals if the
      need arises. Primary and secondary endpoints will be evaluated at each time point.
    
  