
    
      Background In 2012, around 14.1 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed worldwide and
      another 8.2 million died from cancer. It is estimated that by 2030, these figures could
      increase to an alarming 26.4 million new cases and 17 million cancer-related deaths. Nearly
      56% of the new cancer cases and 64% of the cancer-related deaths occur in low and middle
      income countries (LMICs), where there is a lack of universally available, affordable, and
      sustainable health care. Head and neck cancers are among the most common cancers worldwide
      with nearly 600,000 new cases and 300,000 deaths occurring globally every year. Brain tumors
      are responsible for approximately 2% of all cancer deaths. The overall incidence of brain
      tumors is 4-5/100,000 population per year. Cancer's diagnosis considerably affects patient's
      emotional and psychological status. The cancer survivors encounter various challenges, as
      they battle to maintain an optimistic outlook towards life. Resilience enables individuals to
      thrive in the face of adversity and it is believed that resilience plays an important role in
      a cancer survivor's life to cope with their illness, to overcome depression and improve their
      Health- related quality of life (HR-QoL). HR-QoL and its assessment have become increasingly
      important in health care, especially in the field of chronic diseases recently. HR-QoL
      generally refers to patients' perceptions of the effects of disease on life. It has two
      fundamental premises; first, a multi-dimensional concept incorporating physical,
      psychological, social, and emotional functional domains. Second is subjective and must be
      self-reported, according to the patients' own experiences. Conventionally, the endpoints of
      medical care for cancer patients had focused on survival rate, local control rate, or
      complication rate. However, assessments have lacked knowledge and understanding of the
      patient's mental and emotional wellbeing. Recently, resilience in the course of cancer
      treatment has been given immense attention. Several studies from different parts of the world
      on cancer survivors suggest that resilience is a protective factor for distress. A study
      reported resilience was likely to mediate the adverse relationship between cancer symptoms,
      distress and QoL for cancer survivors, indicating, resilience might play an essential role in
      protecting against adverse effects of cancer symptoms on QoL. It is identified, that
      resilience as an important changeable path can improve hope and QoL. Therefore, it is
      important that before initiating treatment, patients should be referred to a mental health
      professional for psychological/psychiatric evaluation. Resilience and QoL is a critical
      component during diagnosis, treatment, survivorship, and at the end of life. Hence, these are
      important traits for promoting positive psycho-social well-being. Resilience and QoL changes
      over time and may be modifiable towards increased well-being. To the best of the
      investigators knowledge, this will be the first in-depth study to evaluate resilience and
      quality of life among head & neck cancer and brain tumor patients in Pakistan. Moreover,
      through this study the investigators will be able to identify problems faced by such patients
      in their setting, enabling the investigators in the future to design interventions to improve
      resilience and QoL.
    
  