
    
      Study Participation:

      If you are eligible and choose to take part in this study, you can choose to visit the clinic
      2 times or have research staff visit you in your home or a community setting (such as a
      church or community center) 2 times.

      At the first visit (this is the same visit where you complete the in-person screening test):

        -  You will have your height, weight, and waistline measured.

        -  You will be given a smart phone to take home with you. You will answer questions on the
           smart phone up to 5 times a day for 7 days. The phone will beep at random times (4 times
           per day) and set times (in the evening) to prompt you to answer questions about what you
           are doing and your current thoughts and feelings. These questions should take about 5-7
           minutes to complete each time.

        -  You will be given an accelerometer (a movement meter). The accelerometer is a small
           device worn on your hip that measures the amount of physical activity you do. You will
           wear the accelerometer for 7 days in a row.

        -  You will receive training on how to use the smart phone and the accelerometer.

      At the second visit, you will return the smart phone and the accelerometer.

      At both study visits, you will be asked to complete questionnaires that ask about your
      feelings, moods, and behaviors. You will complete 36 questionnaires at the first visit (a
      total of 474 questions) and 25 questionnaires at the second visit (a total of 278 questions).
      These questionnaires should take about 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

      Throughout the study, you will be contacted by mail, email, or telephone for reminders of
      visits. You will be reminded before each visit. You will be asked to provide the names and
      contact information for family and/or friends should the study staff have trouble reaching
      you.

      Confidentiality:

      Each time you complete a survey on the smart phone, your answers will be saved on the phone.
      When you return the phone, all of your answers will be downloaded from the phone to a secure
      server, where they will be stored. Then, all of your information will be deleted from the
      phone. Your name or other personal information will not be stored on the phone.

      Your name and other identifying information will not be stored together in the same files as
      other information you provide during your participation in the study. The link between your
      identifying information and other data will be kept in a separate file and securely
      protected. The link between you and the study data will be destroyed 5 years after the study
      ends.

      Length of Study:

      You will be considered off study when you complete the second visit.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 225 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  