
    
      This study is a prospective cohort study establishing a TRUE-NATEM reference value using
      Rotational Thromboelastometry (ROTEM®) in patients undergoing liver transplantation.

      The study population will include 20 adults (age range of 18 - 75 years) who are undergoing
      liver transplantation. Inclusion criteria are patients undergoing liver transplantation with
      English as their native language.

      Exclusion criteria include patient's refusal, or on medical anticoagulation therapy. Informed
      consents will be obtained from the patients who agree to participate in this clinical study.

      Currently, all patients undergoing liver transplantation will have hourly ROTEM analysis as
      standard of care. An additional TRUE-NATEM test will be performed after induction if
      anesthesia. 5 mL of whole blood will be obtained via a preexisting peripheral IV catheter or
      arterial line using a sterile technique. The blood will be transferred into a plastic reagent
      cup that has no additives. Test will be performed within 4 minutes of blood draw.3 All
      patients will undergo the standard anesthesia care and intraoperative coagulation monitoring
      and blood transfusion will be carried out using the standard practice guideline of the TJUH.

      The control population will include 20 adult volunteers (age 18-65 years) who meet the in the
      American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Physical Status (PS) Classes 1 criteria.
      Exclusion criteria will be refusal, volunteers on any medication or significant history of
      bleeding.

      In the control group 5 mL of whole blood will be obtained after placing a peripheral IV
      catheter using a sterile technique. Blood draw from steel needle will be avoided because
      steel will activate coagulation. The blood will be transferred into a plastic reagent cup
      that has no additives. Test will be performed within 4 minutes of blood draw.

      For each patient and control group four channels of ROTEM (TRUE-NATEM, NATEM, INTEM, EXTEM,)
      will be performed following the standard guideline at the Anesthesiology Coagulation
      Laboratory by a certified ROTEM specialists. Primary outcome measure will be clotting time
      (CT), clot formation time (CFT) and maximum clot firmness (MCF). The following demographic
      information will be collected; ASA physical status, age, height, weight, gender, home
      medication use, past medical history, and past surgical history.
    
  