
    
      Over 56% of the 120,000 critically ill Americans waiting on transplant waiting lists are
      ethnic minorities. The proportion of ethnic minorities, including Asian, Native Hawaiian,
      Pacific Islanders (ANHPI), on waiting lists exceeds their representation in the general
      population. However, few ANHPI adults are designated organ donors (DOD) on their driver's
      licenses or in a donor registry. ANHPI college students (aged 18-29) also have low DOD rates,
      particularly Filipinos. Individuals are typically asked about becoming a DOD when they renew
      their driver's license; but most never think about OD outside of the short-lived Department
      of Motor Vehicles (DMV) transaction. Knowing someone's status as a DOD on their license can
      be an influential factor in solidifying a family's feelings about donating a relative's
      organs after his/her death, if their consent is necessary. Of those who choose DOD status on
      a license, most will remain one for life. Intervening with drivers before the date of their
      license renewal can be difficult to arrange; however, opportunities arise when college
      students turn 21 and want to renew their license in order to remove formatting / colors
      signifying that the license belongs to an underage minor (< 21 years old).

      Taking advantage of college students' frequent use of online technology, including social
      networking sites (e.g., Instagram a social media site /Facebook a social networking site) and
      social media sites (e.g., YouTube), we will create an online intervention that leverages this
      technology to engage and educate ANHPI students about a range of topics related to organ
      donation (OD). It will also provide culturally sensitive messages tailored to their interest
      in or wariness of organ donation and reframe students' attitudes about OD and becoming a DOD.
      Previous internet interventions to encourage college students to become DODs have not
      included culturally sensitive approaches for ANHPI, who have unique barriers to OD. This
      project will test the impact of introducing, sequentially, an online intervention tailored to
      college students at three universities (UH-Manoa, UH-Hilo, and Hawaii Pacific University).
      The goals are to increase DOD rates in college students, particularly ANHPI and encouraging
      peer discussions/ interactions/advocacy about OD.

      Effectiveness will be measured by a change over time in the percentage of students who become
      a DOD on their license/donor registry (250 students per university measured across 6 time
      points; thus, the total sample = 4,500). We anticipate a 12% increase in DOD rate in students
      who are exposed to the intervention. Increases in DOD status will also be tracked via an
      increase (over normal rates) in the number of new donors aged 18-29 who register as a donor
      on Hawaii's online donor registry. To make the study website relevant to college students we
      will include resources useful for assignments in courses (e.g., both in required "general
      education" courses- including one on "writing skills", and courses on ethics, religion,
      sociology, and culture/ ethnic studies, etc.) Students and student organizations will
      participate in contests to win prizes (e.g., for the best 1-minute DOD focused-YouTube video/
      Instagram picture, creating a "caption" for a photo on Instagram, and student organizations
      who compete for group awards). A goal of the intervention will be to reframe OD by engaging
      altruistic attitudes based on college students' commitment to "green" sustainability efforts
      (e.g., "go green, recycle yourself"). Innovative culturally sensitive strategies that can
      engage, educate, and reframe DOD for college students, including those who find it
      unappealing (i.e., the "ick factor") are clearly needed. Our online intervention will
      saturate online venues (i.e., YouTube, Instagram) visited frequently by college students, and
      we will use the new concept of "gamification" to turn college students' learning and advocacy
      ideas surrounding OD/DOD into a game or contest with their peers. This project builds upon
      Drs. Albright and Feeley's (consultant - Univ. of Buffalo, Dept. of Communications) previous
      work to encourage adolescents and young adults to become a DOD; thus, we feel we are
      well-suited to design, implement, and evaluate the proposed project. Our intervention will
      increase DOD rates in ANHPI students, and thus, increase the number of ethnic minorities who
      become deceased organ donors now and for years to come.
    
  