
    
      Lung cancer may cause severe distress not only in patients but also in their family
      caregivers (FCs), with a direct impact on quality of life (QoL). Distress can be higher in
      FCs than in patients. Results from a recent study on continuity of cancer care conducted by
      the investigators support these findings, as a significantly larger proportion of FCs than
      patients reported high levels of anxiety and distress early after the diagnosis of lung
      cancer and this difference remained after 6 and 12 months. Several cancer centers have
      implemented systematic distress screening program during the care trajectory, but they target
      only patients without extending it to FCs. This study aims to implement and assess the
      effectiveness of a multi-faceted intervention to improve supportive care for FCs of patients
      with lung cancer.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To assess the effectiveness of the intervention on:

           1.1 Caregivers' outcomes: distress (primary outcome), anxiety, depression, QoL, needs,
           burden, perception of health, preparedness in caregiving, perceived social support 1.2
           Patients' outcomes: distress, anxiety, depression, QoL, pain and other symptom relief
           1.3 Care process outcomes: FCs and patients' utilization of services

        2. To further document and describe:

      2.1 In the experimental group: FCs perceived usefulness of the intervention and perceived
      effect on distress/QoL 2.2 In the oncology team: perceived usefulness of the intervention and
      perceived effect on their practice/organization of care Methods: An experimental design is
      used to test the intervention during 9 months in a pulmonary oncology clinic in Quebec City
      where a distress screening tool is implemented for cancer patients (but not for FCs). A total
      of 120 FCs of patients newly diagnosed with a non-surgical lung cancer, followed at the
      clinic have been randomly assigned to either the intervention (experimental group N=60) or to
      usual care (control group N=60). Considering a 20% withdrawal rate (due to death or severe
      deterioration of patients' condition), this sample size allows to detect a 33% difference in
      distress scores between the two groups, with an estimated baseline distress score (with the
      HADS) of 13.7±7 (range 0-42), a 5% alpha error and a power of 80%. The intervention comprises
      3 components: 1) systematic distress screening and problems assessment of FCs at their
      relative's cancer diagnosis and then, every 2 months for a maximum of 9 months; 2) privileged
      contact with an oncology nurse away from the patient to further identify and address FCs'
      problems; 3) liaison by the oncology nurse with the family physician of FCs who have reported
      a high level of distress (score ≥ 4 on the distress thermometer, which indicates a need for
      intervention), or who have mentioned needing help. In both groups, outcomes related to FCs
      and to care processes are measured with validated tools at baseline and every 3 months, for a
      maximum of 9 months. Measures are taken at the same intervals with patients since their
      physical and mental health may influence FCs' distress. Individual interviews with 12 FCs are
      planned to assess the usefulness of the intervention and its effect on their QoL. Interviews
      with the pivot nurses in oncology will document their satisfaction regarding the intervention
      and its effect on their practice.

      Relevance. This translational study aims to assess the effectiveness of an intervention that
      transfers into practice the main recommendations of governmental authorities and experts
      regarding integrated care to globally improve cancer supportive care. It has the potential to
      make a significant impact on the burden of disease for FCs and to improve their quality of
      care. If proven effective, the conditions of success of this intervention could be replicated
      in other settings and for other types of cancer.
    
  