
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is comprised of two major disorders: ulcerative colitis and
      Crohn disease. Ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease have distinct pathologic and clinical
      characteristics but their pathogenesis remains poorly understood.

      In 2015, an estimated 1.3% of US adults (3 million) reported being diagnosed with IBD (either
      Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis). This was a large increase from 1999 (0.9% or 2
      million adults).The incidence and prevalence of Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis (UC)
      appear to be lower in Asia and the Middle East , however, in some newly industrialized
      countries in Africa, Asia, and South America, the incidence of IBD has been rising.

      Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory condition characterized by relapsing and
      remitting episodes of inflammation limited to the mucosal layer of the colon. It almost
      invariably involves the rectum and typically extends in a proximal and continuous fashion to
      involve other portions of the colon.

      Crohn disease is characterized by transmural inflammation and by skip lesions. The transmural
      inflammatory nature of Crohn disease may lead to fibrosis and strictures, and to obstructive
      clinical presentations that are not typically seen in ulcerative colitis. The transmural
      inflammation more commonly results in sinus tracts, giving rise to microperforations and
      fistulae.

      Food antigens are thought to trigger an immunologic response resulting in the development of
      IBD. However, specific pathogenic antigens have not been identified. While studies attempting
      to associate specific diets with the development of IBD have had inconsistent results, the
      data suggest that a "Western" style diet (processed, fried, and sugary foods) is associated
      with an increased risk of developing Crohn disease, and possibly ulcerative colitis.

      To date, studies concerning food intolerance in IBD have largely focused on classic food
      allergies based on IgE mediated antibody responses. The levels of total or food-specific IgEs
      have been observed to be increased in the sera of IBD patients, and IgE-mediated food
      allergies are more frequent in IBD patients than in those without IBDs. Nevertheless,
      reactions mediated by food specific IgGs, featuring a more delayed response following
      exposure to a particular antigen, are also expected to contribute to adverse reactions in
      IBD, and food-specific IgGs help physicians identify the candidate food for elimination in
      IBD patients. Furthermore, IgG-mediated adverse reactions have also been reported to be
      involved in some cases of food hypersensitivity.

      Elimination diet can help in the remission of the disease. An elimination diet involves
      removing a food from the diet for a period of time and seeing whether symptoms resolve during
      that time. In patients receiving enteral nutrition, it involves introducing one new food at a
      time to identify foods that precipitate IBD symptoms. Many patients can identify foods that
      they believe may precipitate or worsen their disease and it is reasonable for them to avoid
      such foods. Using an elimination diet to identify at-risk foods may decrease the possibility
      of a "flare" of IBD.
    
  