
    
      Investigational Device:

      Artificial Pancreas System with Fault Detection Algorithms: Roche Accu-Check Spirit Combo
      Insulin Pump, Dexcom G4P System with Share, Diabetes Assistant (DiAs) on Android phone, DiAs
      Web Monitoring (DWM)

      - referred to as Remote Monitoring Server, MPC control algorithm, Health Monitoring System
      (HMS) algorithm. Sensor and infusion set fault detection algorithms will be applied offline
      with data obtained from server and notifications will be sent to the clinician.

      Control Arm:

      Sensor-augmented insulin pump therapy: Subject will use their personal insulin pump and
      Dexcom G4P System with Share.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine the efficacy of the fault detection algorithm. The primary outcome is based on
      the amount of time the sensor glucose is >250 mg/dL in the 4 hours preceding detection of the
      infusion set failure during sensor augmented pump therapy vs. closed-loop control with fault
      detection alerts.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To determine the effectiveness of the sensor fault detection algorithm. To determine the
      efficacy of the Zone MPC controller by evaluating glycemic outcomes

      Number of Subjects:

      There will be 20 subjects recruited: 10 at Stanford and 10 at Denver (up to 36 subjects will
      be enrolled to reach 20 subjects completing the study)

      Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria:

      Adult subjects between 18 and 55 years of age inclusive, diagnosed with type 1 diabetes.

      Trial Design:

      This outpatient study will be conducted over 6 weeks as shown in the figure below. The 6-week
      period will consist of two 2-week blocks of prolonged infusion set wear with a 1-week sensor
      run-in period preceding each block. In each block, subjects will wear an infusion set for up
      to 7 days. A new infusion set will be inserted at the start of each week in the block.
      Following enrollment procedures, subjects will be randomized at a ratio of 1:1 to either use
      the AP system with fault detection algorithms (intervention) or sensor-augmented pump therapy
      (control) in the first block.
    
  