
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy, in terms of overall survival and disease-free survival, and
           toxicity of cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation in patients with acute myeloid
           leukemia beyond first remission receiving HLA-matched related or unrelated hematopoietic
           stem cell transplantation.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 (I131
           MOAB BC8) in these patients.

        -  Estimate the MTD of radiation delivered by I 131 MOAB BC8 to marrow of these patients
           and assess the effects on growth of marrow stroma in vitro.

      OUTLINE: This is radiation dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to
      available donor (related vs unrelated).

      Patients receive a biodistribution dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 (I131 MOAB
      BC8) IV, then a therapeutic dose of I131 MOAB BC8 IV 6-14 days later (day -12). Patients
      undergo total body irradiation twice daily on days -6 to -4. Patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2. Bone marrow cells (or peripheral blood stem cells) are
      infused on day 0.

      Patients with CNS leukemic involvement receive intrathecal methotrexate twice before the
      transplantation then every other week for 8 weeks beginning on day 32. These patients also
      receive cranial irradiation beginning on day 32.

      Cohorts of 4 patients each receive escalating doses of iodine I 131 attached to a standard
      dose of monoclonal antibody BC8 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD
      is defined as the radiation dose preceding that at which 2 of up to 6 patients experience
      graft failure.

      Patients are followed at 6, 9, and 12 months, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients (20 per stratum) will be accrued for this study
      within 4 years.
    
  