
    
      Loneliness among older adults has become an issue of public concern. There seems to be a high
      and stable prevalence of reported loneliness, with as many as 50% of older adults reporting
      serious or moderate loneliness. There is also growing evidence on the significant harmful
      effects of loneliness in older adults . Although the situation is urgent, no specific type of
      intervention has demonstrated a robust evidence base for reducing loneliness. There are,
      however, promising initiatives that manage to take the wider context in which the individual
      lives into account. Initiatives such as Social Prescribing in the United Kingdom identify the
      individual's needs, and guide them in getting involved with their community, by linking
      people with local supportive social activities and opportunities. However, such initiatives
      are sensitive to context, and may not be easily transferred between national contexts. The
      focus of this project is to develop and implement Social Prescribing in a Swedish context, as
      this has not yet been done. Our novel contribution to this field is: a) developing a Swedish
      version of a social prescribing method together with potential end-users and stakeholders;
      and b) evaluating the first test and implementation of this method. Thus, this project has
      the potential to develop important knowledge regarding how to prevent and/or reduce an urgent
      public health issue, loneliness among older adults, in a non-medical way via social
      prescribing in a Swedish context.

      Background and point of departure

      Systematic reviews show that social isolation and loneliness among older people is a
      substantial problem (affecting 7-17% and 40% respectively), and that lack of social inclusion
      and a feeling of loneliness negatively affects physical and mental health. These issues are
      especially prevalent in older people with health problems, and are associated with
      socio-demographic factors (gender) and social factors (e.g., civil status and meaningful
      social contacts). The research findings call for attention to be given to the provision of
      services for meeting societal ideals in caring for the older generation, confronting the
      rising isolation and subjective loneliness which harms individual health and burdens national
      and global economies.

      There might though be protective factors addressing loneliness as research demonstrates the
      importance of social relations and social engagement in older people's health, well-being,
      and cognitive health. Strong mortality effects also exist,148 longitudinal studies revealed a
      50% mortality reduction in persons with strong social relationships.

      Societal services need to be developed that prevent loneliness and support social
      participation. A social equivalent to the physical activity on prescription is the United
      Kingdom initiative started in 2002 called social prescribing, which serves as a way of
      linking patients in primary care with sources of support within their local community. Social
      prescribing concerns expanding the options available to General Practitioners (GP) by
      allowing them to forward a client with psychosocial issues to existing meaningful activities
      in the community that meet these needs. There are no set standards in the procedures of
      social prescribing, but it gives a GP the option of using a non-medical referral, either as a
      stand-alone, or together with existing treatments. The sources of support in the community
      can be either in the volunteer or community sectors. Challenges that have been described
      include the multiplicity of options and the logistical difficulties although the idea is
      simple, the implementation is complex. What is essential is that there is a direct referral
      from primary care, and an identified coordinator who connects the person to local activities
      that meet their needs and aspirations.

      Although no robust evidence, findings report that social prescribing is broadly supportive to
      reducing demand on primary and secondary care, and has the potential to deliver cost savings,
      improvements in wellbeing, reduction of mental and physical symptoms, as well as a reduction
      in social isolation and loneliness. There is, in particular, a need to highlight research
      questions such as; When, for whom, and how well does social prescribing work, and in
      addition, what effect does it have?

      Social prescribing has not yet been tested in a Swedish context. There are reasons to believe
      that perceptions will differ somewhat between the two countries, partly as a consequence of
      their different ways of understanding relations between the citizen and the "proper" provider
      of healthcare. With a high number of older adults reporting loneliness, and knowing the
      harmful effects of this situation, initiatives need to be taken. Social prescribing developed
      and implemented into a Swedish context is such an initiative.

      In the first phase, the researchers will develop and design a social prescribing intervention
      for a Swedish context (SPiS) and in the second phase, the theory will then be tested while
      the intervention is implemented in a regular primary healthcare center to assess how the
      program works. Finally, in a third phase, the program theory will be refined based on the
      prior developed knowledge.

      An ethnographic approach will together with realist evaluation be used in order to understand
      and reflect design and development of program for social prescribing.

      Both quantitative as well as qualitative data will be collected using different methods.

      Group interviews

      Group interviews will be performed with representatives from our collaborating partners; a)
      the health care center, b) the involved community-based activity initiative, and c) local and
      societal representatives for older adults (65 years old or older) in order to gain knowledge
      about factors important to address loneliness, health and well-being. Discussions about the
      theoretical underpinnings of the model, the practical implementation of the model in the
      regular day to day practice as well as the fidelity to the prescription will be important
      topics to address. Social prescribing per se and its potential effective mechanisms,
      moderating factors, as well as barriers in the procedure will also be discussed with the
      profession and stakeholders.

      Individual interviews

      In order to enable the identification of important contextual factors and potentially
      effective mechanisms in order to understand how the model works, for whom, and why,
      qualitative interviews will be conducted with the participants who have received social
      prescribing as well as the professionals who deliver the intervention.

      Quantitative measures

      Quantitative demographic data of the participants (older adults receiving the SPiS), age,
      gender, education level, diagnosis affecting activity performance and interests, will be
      collected at baseline and follow-up followed by measurement of loneliness, self-rated health,
      mapping of social networks and social support.

      Data analysis

      The quantitative data will generate evidence regarding the expected outcomes of loneliness,
      health and activity engagement to address the issue of for whom, under which circumstances,
      and in what respect the intervention is working. Descriptive statistics, as well as
      parametric and non-parametric statistical analysis will be used to detect changes between
      groups of older adults in the outcome variables.

      Evidence generated through the qualitative work focusing particularly on contextual factors
      and potential mechanisms will address the issue of what in the intervention is working and
      why. Data will be analyzed thematically, with grounded theory approaches and/or other
      relevant qualitative measures.

      After the two phases, where in, the first phase, the theory is developed and in a second
      phase tested, the researchers will according to the knowledge gained, in the third phase,
      refine the theory and draw conclusions how a social prescribing program can be implemented in
      a Swedish context.
    
  