
    
      This study aims to develop an intervention based on interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) and
      behavioral activation (BA) techniques to treat depression in people with congestive heart
      failure. By addressing how participants' loss of functioning has changed their personal
      relationships, the psychotherapy will help participants to discuss how they are coping with
      their illness and loss of functioning. It will also help participants with heart failure to
      develop new recreational activities in keeping with their new level of functioning. The study
      will first develop the methods for the intervention and then pilot the study in a small
      randomized, controlled trial.

      Access to care has been a major barrier to treatment in prior psychosocial studies in cardiac
      patients. Because many people with advanced heart failure are homebound, the treatment in
      this study will be administered primarily by telephone, which will greatly enhance
      dissemination of the intervention. The treatment techniques developed will be applicable to a
      range of homebound patients and frail elderly, not just patients with heart failure. The
      long-term goal of the study is to develop pragmatic interventions to reduce depression in
      people coping with irreversible functional decline.

      Specific Aim #1 - Treatment Standardization: The purpose of this phase will be to develop an
      intervention that addresses the emotional and behavioral consequences of heart failure by 1)
      integrating IPT and BA techniques to address both interpersonal and functional issues related
      to disability, 2) applying IPT theory of "role transition" and "grief and loss" to coping
      with functional decline, 3) applying BA interventions to maximize functioning in patients
      with severe impairment due to medical illness, 4) developing the techniques needed to
      implement both IPT and BA successfully over the telephone, 5) developing the methods to
      implement an appropriate attention control (AC) group, 6) generating complementary visual
      materials for patients to enhance understanding of the therapeutic model, and 7) evaluating a
      range of functional assessments to be used as alternative outcomes. Two therapists will
      conduct the treatment by telephone with 15 depressed heart failure patients. Participants'
      baseline 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) total score will be compared
      with the HRSD total score from Weeks 6 and 12.

      Specific Aim #2 - Treatment Evaluation: The purpose of this phase will be to pilot the new
      treatment in a randomized, controlled trial of people suffering major or minor depression.
      This phase will include the application of therapist training techniques, assessment of
      treatment fidelity, and selection of optimal outcome, adherence, process, and treatment
      quality measures. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive IPT or an attention
      control condition (AC). Both groups will attend 12 sessions, 9 of which will be 30-minute to
      1-hour sessions over the phone. The remaining 3 will be in-home visits lasting 1 to 2 hours.
      The IPT group will receive IPT designed for people with heart failure. The AC group will not
      receive therapy. Instead, a clinician will ask them questions about their depression and
      heart failure. Depressive symptoms will be measured for all participants using the HRSD at
      baseline and Weeks 6 and 12.

      Specific Aim #3 - Treatment Feasibility: In both the standardization and evaluation phases,
      specific treatment feasibility issues will be addressed. The main feasibility issue will be
      the acceptability and effectiveness of a telephone administered intervention with severely
      impaired older people. In addition, recruitment and retention issues will be addressed in all
      stages of treatment development. The main outcome of this aim will be adequate recruitment
      sources, including adequate representation of minorities, to conduct a large scale R01
      intervention.
    
  