
    
      Sudden occlusion of an intracranial artery by a thrombus represents the initial and pivotal
      event of large vessel occlusion acute ischemic stroke (AIS). The primary goal of AIS
      treatment is to re-open this artery with intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator
      infusion (IV t-PA) and/or endovascular therapy (EVT). Thrombus characterization could be
      useful to predict AIS etiology, IV t-PA response and to adapt the device or technique for
      EVT. Especially, approaching the red blood cell (RBC) content of the thrombus would be
      helpful to plan a treatment strategy or identify specific EVT approaches in order to maximize
      the rate of early successful reperfusion .

      The susceptibility vessel sign (SVS) on T2*-MRI sequence is defined as a hypo-intense signal
      exceeding the diameter of the contralateral artery located at the site of the thrombus.
      Several studies have demonstrated SVS to be a negative predictor of early reperfusion after
      IV t-PA and an incentive to EVT . Two studies identified a correlation between the SVS and
      the thrombus composition (specifically the RBC composition). In the ASTER trial, the presence
      of SVS impacted the success rate of the EVT strategy. In the SVS (+) sub-population of this
      study, compared to contact aspiration (CA), patients treated with stent retrievers achieved
      higher rates of complete reperfusion within fewer passes, which translated into a better
      functional outcome. In the absence of SVS, no differences were observed between the two
      techniques. Furthermore; based on the ASTER and THRACE trial populations treated with stent
      retriever as a first line strategy, a higher rate of favorable clinical outcome at 3 months
      in SVS (+) patients was recently found . Hence, that differences in terms of reperfusion
      results are thought to be related to different clot compositions between SVS + and SVS -
      occlusions.

      In the VECTOR trial, the aim is to analyze, in case of SVS+ occlusions, a first line Embotrap
      II added to CA combined strategy compare to CA alone strategy.

      Many practitioners are convinced that a first line strategy with CA alone is easy, safe,
      rapid and efficient. Maybe, after two, three, four passes and with the secondary help of a
      combined strategy, a high rate of eTICI 2b/3 could be reached with a CA first line strategy.
      But this could go with a higher number of passes, a waste of time and a suboptimal
      angiographic results (eTICI 2b) due to distal emboli, especially in case of friable, non-well
      organized, red blood cell rich (RBC) i.e. SVS + thrombi. This could, be related to worst
      clinical outcome at 3 months.

      VECTOR asks a relevant question: Do the investigators have to add the use of an Embotrap II
      to the CA, from the first passes, in case of SVS+ clots? The hypothesis in the VECTOR trial
      is that the Embotrap II, thanks to its dedicated design will help to the stabilization of
      friable clots and allow better retrieving of SVS + thrombi in a lower number of passes.
    
  