
    
      The Ebola and Marburg viruses are both filoviruses known to induce hemorrhagic fever-a set of
      symptoms characterized by sudden onset, aching, fever, and bleeding in the internal organs.
      Both filoviruses are associated with high mortality rates, and the Centers for Disease
      Control (CDC) lists them as Category A bioterrorism agents because of their potential for a
      major public health impact. Vaccines for both viruses are under development using a
      prime-boost strategy that involves multiple injections over a period of time to confer
      long-lasting immunity. Preliminary research supports the vaccines' safety. This study will
      test these experimental vaccines for the Ebola and Marburg viruses, first administered
      separately and then together, to ensure they are safe and do not have side effects.

      Participation in this study will entail 11 study visits over 2 years. The study will have two
      parts, to be completed sequentially, and three groups. In part one, participants will be
      randomly assigned to the first group, which will receive the experimental Ebola DNA vaccine,
      or the second group, which will receive the experimental Marburg DNA vaccine. In part two,
      the third group will receive both the Ebola and the Marburg vaccines, one shot in each arm.
      One fifth of the participants in each group will be controls and receive placebo injections.
      All vaccines and placebos will be delivered via an intramuscular injection at three time
      points: at study entry, after 4 weeks, and after 8 weeks.

      Participants will complete study assessments at 12 points in time: at baseline and at Weeks
      2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 32, 52, 78, and 104. At each assessment, changes in health and
      medications will be recorded and blood will be drawn. Participants will also complete a diary
      card daily for 5 days after receiving each injection. In it, they will record their
      temperature and any skin changes at the injection site.
    
  