
    
      Systemic administration of intravenous lidocaine has a number of observed and theoretical
      advantages in the perioperative period. Systematic review of perioperative lidocaine
      infusions has shown a reduction in early post-operative pain scores in patients undergoing
      abdominal surgery, positive effects for GI recovery, reduction in post-operative opioid
      requirements, reduction in the incidence of post-operative nausea and vomiting, and decreased
      length of hospital stay. They have been shown to modulate the surgery-induced stress response
      in colorectal surgery and abdominal hysterectomy. Thoracic epidural analgesia was better as
      compared to intravenous lidocaine in a RCT of patients undergoing laparoscopic colorectal
      surgery as part of an enhanced recovery program, though there was similar impact on recovery
      of bowel function.

      Truncal regional anesthesia has been utilized in open and closed abdominal operations with
      various levels of efficacy. A statistically significant, though marginal clinical analgesic
      benefit, by recorded opioid consumption, has been concluded by meta-analysis in patients
      undergoing abdominal laparotomy, laparoscopy, or cesarean delivery after US-guided TAP block.
      There was not found to be any additional benefit of TAP block in patients who received a
      spinal anesthetic that included a long-acting opioid. The interpretation of results was noted
      to be limited by the heterogeneity of the included studies and analysis, though. The
      conclusions of one study of open prostatectomy, as part of an ERP, was that neither systemic
      lidocaine nor TAP block improved post-operative analgesia. Both IV lidocaine and TAP block
      groups showed a reduction in post-operative opioid consumption, though to an insignificant
      degree. It was noted as a possibility that the other interventions as part of the ERP, such
      as scheduled administration of IV acetaminophen, could have resulted in the non-significant
      decrease in post-operative opioid requirement. A recent review of the use of TAP blocks in
      major gynecological, non-obstetric, surgery, including total abdominal hysterectomy,
      concluded that TAP blocks may contribute to early post-operative analgesia, with marginal
      additional benefit if multimodal analgesic regimens including NSAIDs and acetaminophen are
      added. It was hypothesized by the authors that some of the limited benefit might be due to
      the fact that US-guided TAP blocks are primarily useful for somatic pain, but that major
      gynecologic surgery has a large visceral pain component. There are limited randomized studies
      involving Quadratus Lumborum block (QL) at this time. QL block has shown improved analgesia
      in abdominal operations as compared to TAP block and is thought to have potentially greater
      relief of visceral pain. There is a case report of motor weakness following anterior, lateral
      QL block for gynecologic laparoscopy, thought to be related to spread of the block to affect
      the L2 dermatome on one side. It has not been determined if this is a common occurrence or
      may be affected by the type of QL block performed.

      Prior to this study, truncal regional anesthesia was used in the UAB Gynecology-Oncology
      Surgery Enhanced Recovery Program as an analgesic alternative for those who were not good
      candidates for intrathecal opioid injection. A comparison of QL block versus systemic
      lidocaine infusion or whether either of these interventions has utility over intrathecal
      opioid administration alone has yet to be described.
    
  