
    
      Perinatal stroke is the leading cause of the most common term-born cerebral palsy: hemiplegic
      CP (HCP). With morbidity spanning all aspects of a child's life and lasting for decades,
      global impact is large. Mechanisms are poorly understood and prevention strategies remain
      elusive. Treatments are limited, leading to loss of hope in children and families that merits
      exploration of new interventions. Constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) may benefit but
      proper clinical trials are required. The investigators clinical-radiographic classifications
      have established perinatal stroke syndromes correlating with neurological outcome. Most
      common are: (1) arterial ischemic stroke of the middle cerebral artery (AIS-MCA) featuring
      cortical and subcortical damage acquired at birth and (2) periventricular venous infarction
      (PVI), a novel subcortical injury acquired in utero. These syndromes differ in the essential
      variables for plastic organization after perinatal injury: location and timing. In addition,
      recent animal and human studies suggest they may share a similar maladaptive plasticity
      whereby motor control of the weak side is "installed" in the non-lesioned hemisphere during
      development. Despite the ideal plasticity model such focal injury in a young brain provides,
      studies have been limited and suffer from small numbers of older patients with heterogeneous
      lesions. The value of studying plastic organization will be realized upon translation into
      meaningful patient benefits.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) offers non-invasive measurement of the
      neurophysiological brain properties underlying neuroplasticity. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) may
      modulate such systems with therapeutic effect. the investigators recently demonstrated the
      ability of rTMS to improve motor function in children with chronic stroke. Advances in
      perinatal brain injury and neurodevelopment are, for the first time, affording novel windows
      of opportunity for interventions to direct plastic organization toward better outcomes. Via
      the Alberta Perinatal Stroke Project (APSP), the investigators propose a clinical trial of
      two interventions to improve function in HCP while measuring the fundamental
      neurophysiological properties at play.

      Aim 1. Determine if rTMS and CIMT can improve motor function in HCP. Hypothesis: Two weeks of
      daily rTMS improves motor function at 30 days.

      Aim 2. Define the neurophysiology of motor organization in stroke-induced HCP at baseline and
      following rTMS and CIMT.

      Hypothesis: rTMS and CIMT reduce excitability of the non-lesioned motor cortex.

      Population-based studies through the Alberta Perinatal Stroke Project (APSP) are establishing
      the largest perinatal stroke cohort to date. The investigators will complete a factorial 2 x
      2 randomized clinical trial to determine the ability of daily rTMS and CIMT to improve motor
      function in children with HCP. Families will attend a child-centered, custom-designed
      intensive motor learning rehabilitation program (KidsCan Power Camp) for 2 weeks. Outcomes
      include validated measures of motor function and CP quality of life. The investigators will
      simultaneously measure the neurophysiology of plastic organization using TMS including
      cortical excitability, interhemispheric inhibition, and short interval intracortical
      inhibition. Baseline measures will define organization patterns while post-interventional
      measurement will evaluate the neurophysiological effects of rTMS and CIMT. Four groups of 16
      children each (n=64) will be studied over 24 months with interim safety analysis after 10 and
      32 patients.

      Successful completion is assured by principle investigator experience in perinatal stroke and
      TMS and the collaborative support of world leaders in pediatric and adult stroke, TMS, basic
      neuroscience, and physiatry/rehabilitation. Understanding perinatal stroke plasticity and
      discovering methods to modulate it toward better outcomes carries a large impact, greatest
      for children with CP and their families.
    
  