
    
      Evidence suggests that exposure to cockroach allergen might be the most important risk factor
      for asthma in inner-city households. Contrary to other students in the literature, we
      recently reported that cockroach extermination alone-without professional cleaning or
      occupant education-reduced cockroach allergen levels in inner-city homes. This was an
      important finding because extermination alone would be much less expensive and easier to
      implement than a more comprehensive intervention. The primary objective of this study is to
      validate our previous finding that cockroach extermination alone can significantly reduce
      cockroach allergen levels in inner-city homes. The secondary objective is to determine the
      level of expertise and effort in extermination that would be required to achieve significant
      allergen reductions. The study design will be a 3-arm, randomized control trial. Sixty
      cockroach-infested, multi-unit rental homes will be randomly assigned to either a control
      group or one of two treatment groups. The Treatment-1 group, which will test the efficacy of
      extermination, will receive insecticide bait placement by staff from the Urban Entomology
      Department at North Carolina State University (the gold standard for this study). The
      Treatment-2 group, which will test the effectiveness of extermination, will receive
      extermination from 1 to 5 commercial pest control companies randomly assigned to the homes.
      Study staff will assist home occupants in obtaining a 12-month, prepaid contract.
      Periodically in all homes, study staff will administer a questionnaire, set cockroach traps
      to monitor cockroach numbers, and sample dust to monitor cockroach allergen levels.
      Treatment-1 homes will receive exterminations by NCSU staff at baseline and then as needed,
      as determined by cockroach trap counts. Treatment-2 homes will receive extermination by
      commercial applicators according to the terms of the contract. In the NIEHS laboratory of Dr.
      Zeldin, dust samples will be analyzed for concentrations of cockroach allergens Bla g 1 and
      Bla g 2. Statistical analyses will compare cockroach allergen concentration changes in each
      of the treatment groups relative to changes in the control group. The percentage of homes for
      which concentrations are reduced below 8.0 and 2.0 units of allergen per gram of dust-the
      proposed thresholds for asthma morbidity and allergic sensitization, respectively-will also
      be compared between groups. The results from this study, if they prove to be consistent with
      our previous work, will be used by NIEHS to plan future primary and secondary asthma
      prevention trials. With the exception of NCSU staff, the field and laboratory work will be
      carried out by staff from Dr. Zeldin's clinical program.
    
  