
    
      The efficacy of current seasonal influenza vaccines is limited in the face of antigenic
      mismatch between circulating viral strains and those in the given vaccine. Additionally
      vaccination in older adults, a major target group for vaccination, prevents
      laboratory-confirmed influenza in only 30-40% compared to 70-90% in young adults. The
      hypothesis in this Phase IIb efficacy study is that a new vaccine MVA-NP+M1 with licensed
      inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV) in the older age group will be able to induce immune
      responses that protect individuals against influenza illness, severity of symptoms and reduce
      viral shedding, thereby increasing the protection conferred by seasonal influenza vaccine
      alone. A total of 2030 participants who are 65 years of age or over and eligible for annual
      seasonal influenza vaccination and provide informed consent will be recruited to the study.
      Potential volunteers will be mailed an invitation to take part by their GPs or recruited by
      local advertisements. Participants will be randomised to receive either MVA- NP+M1 with
      licensed IIV or saline placebo with licensed IIV. In the first 28 days after vaccination,
      participants will record adverse events using an electronic or paper diary. The participants
      will be contacted by telephone 1 day and 7 days post-vaccination to enquire about any serious
      adverse events and support follow up. During influenza season participants will record weekly
      whether or not they have had an influenza like illness (ILI). For every ILI episode
      experienced, the participants will record the severity of their symptoms daily. Among the
      participants, a total of 100 volunteers (50 in each group) will be recruited into an
      immunology sub-cohort. They will have blood samples collected on the day of vaccination, 1
      week, 3 weeks and 26 weeks post-vaccination for monitoring of laboratory adverse events and
      immunogenicity purposes.
    
  