
    
      It will be an observational study, with no randomization. To evaluate the influence of
      Dexmedetomidine on the time course of ARDS in patients admitted to the ICU unit because of
      severe respiratory disease triggered by the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection. Patients will be
      informed and asked to sign an Informed Consent Form.

      Dexmedetomidine will be used as a sedative which is its admitted therapeutic indication in
      our country. Dosing will be according to its sedative properties as recommended by the
      manufacturer and regulation agencies. The only change is that we will study outcomes that
      have nothing to do with sedation but with a possible positive effect on the
      hyper-inflammatory state.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the "Orden SAS/3470/2009, of December 16,
      2009. Government of Spain

      Recruiting and Sample Size calculation We chose mortality as an endpoint to calculate sample
      size although our primary outcome is to minimize the requirements of mechanical ventilation.
      Mortality of patients admitted to the ICU because of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) induced ARDS is
      48%. Assuming a p value<0.05 and a power of 80%, to demonstrate a 10% decrease in mortality
      due to the effects of Dexmedetomidine 156 patients should be studied so there will two groups
      of 80 patients (cases vs historical controls).

      However, due to the specific characteristics and the unknown duration of the pandemic, these
      numbers might not be definitive

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria (see section)

      Drug administrations Dexmedetomidine continuous intravenous infusion will be administered at
      0.15 mcg/kg/h as a start and titrating according to sedative responses up to 1.5 mcg/kg/h
      (max admitted infusion rate)

      Other sedatives (usually propofol and remifentanil) may be administered as per ICU protocol

      Monitoring

        -  Ventilation parameters

        -  Invasive /non-invasive monitoring according to protocols

        -  The parasympathetic component of HRV will be estimated online by means of the Anesthesia
           Nociception Index (ANI, MDoloris Medical Systems, Lille, France).

      Patient Management Patient management will be performed according to the clinical protocols
      of the Critical Care Units of Hospital CLINIC de Barcelona regarding the management of
      patients admitted to ICU because of the consequences of SARS-CoV-2 virus infection

      Data Collection Demographic data including age, weight, gender, height, medical conditions,
      ICU severity score, SOFA score, medications, hemodynamic support, O2 fraction.

      Besides regular protocolized monitoring measures for the purposes of the study it will be
      required:

        -  Routine Acid-Base equilibrium

        -  Routine hemogram

        -  Daily Citokine levels IL1b, IL6, TNFa, IL8, IL4, IL10

        -  Monocyte profiling Patient data will be kept anonymous except for the IP.

      Outcomes to be measured are reported in their respective section

      Data Analysis Analysis of the data collected includes the comparison of "primary and
      secondary outcomes data" acquired to a matched "historical control" with the same severity of
      ARDS from another COVID-19 + ICU patient with no administration of Dexmedetomidine. A "p"
      value less than 0.05 will be considered significant in the comparisons with the values of the
      "historical cohort".

      Parametric or non-parametric statistical tests will be used to compare data from the control
      and study groups, depending on the distribution of such data.

      Analysis of the time course of the mediators of inflammation sampled in the first 25 patients
      will be studied as changes from baseline. Mathematical models of the probability of each one
      or many of them to be associated with the outcomes of the study will be generated if possible
    
  