
    
      The purpose of this research project is to further develop and test the effectiveness of a
      novel exercise system for wheelchair users, the GAMECycle. People in wheelchairs who have a
      desire to exercise are faced with barriers with respect to access to exercise equipment and
      to availability of exercise equipment that is specifically suitable for use with a
      wheelchair. The GAMECycle exercise system removes these barriers and offers the wheelchair
      user an entertaining, motivational environment in which to exercise. The long-term goal is to
      improve the overall activity level of individuals who use wheelchairs as their primary means
      of mobility and increase their general well being.

      The GAMECycle Exercise System is a modified arm-ergometer that sits on a turnstile to allow
      steering in much the same way as an arm-cycle. More specifically, it is a crank and pedal set
      that is turned using the arms, similar to a bicycle that is turned with the feet. When using
      the system, subjects will be seated in their own wheelchair in front of the system
      comfortably positioned to be able to grasp the handles and use the arm crank. The GAMECycle
      is designed to provide upper body aerobic exercise in an environment (computer game play)
      that will help to make exercise more enjoyable by, among other things, distracting people
      from some of the less pleasant aspects of exercising. Although upper-body exercise systems
      for wheelchair users do exist, the GAMECycle is unique in its ability to combine
      arm-ergometry with playing computer videogames. And, in contrast to wheelchair roller
      systems, the arm-ergometry provided by the GAMECycle affords the user an exercise option that
      uses a motion that differs significantly from the motion of wheelchair propulsion.

      This research consists of two phases: a Training Phase and an In Home Trial Phase. The
      training phase will last a maximum of two hours and the In Home Phase will last 4 months.
      Subjects who complete the Training Phase will be asked to participate in the In Home Trial.

      Training Phase The purpose of the training sessions are to determine the users ability to
      reach and maintain target aerobic training zones during 15 minute exercise trials, teach new
      users how to use the GAMECycle Exercise System, and to obtain feedback from new users
      regarding perceived comfort, fit, and ease of use.

      A GAMECycle exercise system will be set up in participating local rehab and research
      facilities. A clinician will ensure that the GAMECycle is adjusted to fit each user. The
      amount of resistance from the arm-ergometer will be adjusted to a level that feels
      comfortable during exercise. Heart rate and breathing rate will be monitored during a
      15-minute exercise session. Subjects will rate their level of exertion every 2 minutes during
      the 15-minute exercise phase and will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their
      opinion of the GAMECycle System.

      In Home Phase This phase involves a 4-month trial period divided into 2 two-month sessions.
      For two months, subjects will be asked to use the GAMECycle and for the other two months,
      subjects will be asked to use an arm-ergometer. It will randomly be determined whether the
      GAMECycle or the arm-ergometer is used first. Subjects will be required to record their
      exercise sessions and will be followed by a member of the research team by telephone. In
      addition, once a month for four months, a member of our research staff will visit each
      participant with a portable metabolic cart and heart rate monitor in order to collect heart
      rate date, metabolic date (VO2, VCO2), and ratings of perceived exertion using the Borg
      scale. This data will be collected during exercise with or without game play, depending on
      the condition of that session.
    
  