
    
      Hamstring is the common muscle which undergoes adaptive shortening when compared with other
      group of muscles. Hamstrings refer to the three posterior thigh muscles and its action
      includes hip extension and knee flexion. Limited muscle extensibility is a common problem
      that affects various patient populations as well as healthy individuals. The ability of an
      individual to move smoothly depends on his flexibility, an attribute that enhances both
      safety and optimal physical activities. Flexibility is an important physiological component
      of physical fitness, and reduced flexibility can cause inefficiency in the workplace and is
      also a risk factor for low back pain. Muscle extensibility is an essential element of
      biomechanical function. Flexibility has been defined as the ability of a muscle to lengthen
      and allows one joint (or more than one joint in a series) to move through a range of motion
      and is an essential component of normal biomechanical functioning.

      The flexibility of hamstring muscle is important for general and athletic population and of
      almost importance for health care professionals, to achieve this goal one needs to know the
      most effective and efficient technique to gain hamstring flexibility. Lack of hamstring
      muscles extensibility conditions decrease the pelvic mobility. This invariably leads to
      biomechanical changes in the pressure distribution of the spine and consequent spinal
      disorders. Therefore, poor hamstring extensibility has been associated with thoracic hyper
      kyphosis , spondylolysis , disc herniation changes in lumbopelvic rhythm and low back pain.
      Hamstring tightness is also associated with low back and lower extremity musculoskeletal
      disorders leading to biomechanical changes of the pelvis and low back. The literature reports
      a number of associated benefits of flexibility including improved athletic performance,
      reduced injury risk, prevention or reduction of post-exercise soreness, and improved
      coordination.

      Stretching techniques are the treatments used to improve muscular extensibility to improve
      range of motion (ROM), and can help prevent damage in daily life or sports, reduce muscle
      pain, and improve muscle capability. There are various treatment for the hamstring stretching
      like active release technique, passive stretching, static stretching, Proprioceptive
      neuromuscular facilitation Stretching Techniques, eccentric stretching exercises for
      improving hamstring flexibility.

      Mulligan performs mobilization procedures while patients were moving, either actively or
      passively, or while they were performing a resisted muscle contraction .Indications for use
      of Mulligan's Traction Straight Leg Raise (TSLR) technique are limited range of motion of hip
      flexion together with low back pain with or without referred leg pain. The intention of this
      technique is to restore normal mobility. It stretches the lower extremity muscles in
      combination of hamstring, adductors and rotators. The Traction Straight Leg Raise technique
      is painless intervention that is said to have immediate benefits.

      Muscle energy technique (MET) is a procedure that involves voluntary contraction of a
      patient's muscle in a precisely controlled direction, at varying levels of intensity. It is
      unique in its application as the patient provides the initial effort while the practitioner
      facilitates the process. The benefits of muscle energy techniques (MET) include: Restoring
      normal tone in hypertonic muscles, strengthening weak muscles, preparing the muscle for
      subsequent stretching, improved joint mobility. It includes two techniques post isometric
      relaxation technique and reciprocal inhibition.

      According to a study muscle energy technique (post isometric relaxation technique - PIR) is
      more effective than ultrasound therapy with active static stretching and passive static
      stretching in improving the hamstring flexibility in individuals with hamstring tightness.A
      study compared two muscle energy techniques (MET with 30-s post isometric stretch phase vs
      MET with 3-s post-isometric stretch phase) for increasing flexibility of the hamstring muscle
      group and concluded that both techniques appeared to be equally effective in increasing
      hamstring extensibility. The findings suggest that altering the duration of the passive
      stretch component does not have a significant impact on the efficacy of MET for short-term
      increase in muscle extensibility.

      According to a study Mulligan traction straight leg raise technique is significantly
      effective in increasing straight leg raise (SLR) range of movement .A study demonstrated that
      both Mulligan traction straight leg raise (TSLR) and MET are effective in improving Knee
      range of motion (ROM) in subject with tight hamstring. The study showed that MET is
      significantly better then Mulligan traction straight leg raise (TSLR).The Effects of
      Hold-Relax Technique and Mulligan's Straight Leg Raise with Traction Technique on Flexibility
      of Shortened Hamstring was studied and concluded that both Mulligan's straight leg raise with
      traction technique and hold-relax technique show immediately. Although Mulligan's straight
      leg raise with traction technique was more increased average extension angle of knee joint at
      90-90 straight leg raise test than the hold-relax technique.A study compared immediate
      effects of traction straight leg and bent leg raise on hamstring muscle flexibility in normal
      individuals and concluded that Mulligan's traction straight leg raise technique was more
      effective in improving hamstring flexibility.
    
  