
    
      In December 2019, the Wuhan Municipal Health Committee identified an outbreak of viral
      pneumonia cases of unknown cause. Coronavirus RNA was quickly identified in these patients.
      This novel coronavirus has been designated SARS-CoV-2, and the disease caused by this virus
      has been designated COVID-19 and has infected hundreds of thousands of confirmed individuals
      in more than 200 countries. Currently there are no approved therapeutic agents available for
      coronaviruses. There is an urgent need for an effective treatment to treat symptomatic
      patients but also to decrease the duration of virus transmission in the community. Among
      candidate drugs to treat COVID-19, repurposing of FDA-approved drugs for use as antiviral
      treatments is proposed because knowledge on safety profile, side effects, and drug
      interactions are well known.

      In silico screening of FDA licensed compound libraries against the SARS CoV 2 protease Plpro
      catalytic site was performed using solved crystal structures of the protein. Plpro
      (Papain-like protease) is an early acting protease responsible for initial processing of the
      SARS CoV2 polyprotein into active subunits. Plpro also has ubiquitinase activity, and is
      implicated in early infection phase inhibition of innate (interferon) immune responses which
      otherwise would suppress viral replication. A ranked list of licensed compounds with
      predicted binding activity in the Plpro catalytic site was computationally generated, and the
      Plpro catalytic site binding pose of each of the top compounds was examined and ranked by a
      team of pharmaceutical chemists. Package inserts or product monographs for the licensed
      compounds which generated high computational binding scores and passed inspection were then
      reviewed and used to rank compounds based on adverse events, warnings, drug interactions
      on-target mechanisms, pharmacokinetic and absorption, metabolism, excretion and toxicity
      (ADMET), protein binding and available therapeutic window considerations. Famotidine
      (Pepcid), a histamine H2 antagonist widely available over-the-counter, was repeatedly
      computationally scored among the highest of the compounds tested, and was associated with the
      most favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profile. A series of analogs of famotidine were
      generated using PubChem, and many of these scored even higher as potential candidates. This
      control compound set further confirmed the predicted binding of the molecular backbone
      chemotype at the Plpro protease/ubiquitinase site. Currently available as oral and IV
      products, famotidine has a very attractive proven safety, drug interaction, and therapeutic
      window profile. Samples of famotidine have been submitted at Southern Research and IITRI for
      in vitro testing in COVID-19 cultures. Unpublished anecdotal case studies suggest clinical
      benefits associated with administration of famotidine 40 mg PO TID in mild COVID-19
      infection.

      On 29 April 2020, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) announced
      that Remdesivir was better than placebo in reducing time to recovery for people hospitalized
      with advanced COVID-19 and lung involvement. In an earlier study of adult patients admitted
      to a hospital for severe COVID-19, Remdesivir was not associated with statistically
      significant clinical benefits. In that study, Remdesivir was not associated with a difference
      in time to clinical improvement. Although not statistically significant, patients receiving
      Remdesivir had a numerically faster time to clinical improvement than those receiving placebo
      among patients with symptom duration of 10 days or less. Remdesivir was stopped early because
      of higher numbers of adverse events compared to placebo. Because of these studies the FDA
      stated on 1 May 2020, that it is "reasonable to believe" that known and potential benefits of
      Remdesivir outweigh its known and potential risks, in some specific populations hospitalized
      with severe COVID-19.

      Given the refinement of standard of care to include Remdesivir and no longer
      hydroxychloroquine, we have edited the study protocol to reflect this new standard of care.
    
  