
    
      Long head of the biceps brachii tendon (LHBT) lesions are a common pathology and can be a
      significant source of pain in the shoulder due to the large number of free nerve endings
      around the tendon. There are 3 main subtypes of LHBT lesions 1) LHBT degeneration, 2) LHBT
      anchor disorders, and 3) LHBT instability. These lesions can occur both in isolation or in
      conjunction with rotator cuff disease. Treatment options include tenotomy and tenodesis, and
      while both are utilized there exists a lack of consensus treatment choice.

      The optimal management of LHBT lesions remains controversial, with surgeons typically
      treating younger patients with tenodesis and older patients with tenotomy. Previous RCTs have
      failed to discern a clinical difference between tenodesis and tenotomy, apart from the
      reduced incidence of Popeye deformity in the tenodesis cohorts. However, all previous
      literature has utilized the traditional biceps tenotomy technique of transecting the tendon
      just lateral to its insertion on the superior labrum. This results in a narrow tendon stump
      that usually slips through the transverse humeral ligament and retracts down the arm,
      resulting in the aforementioned deformity. A newer tenotomy technique, termed the
      self-locking tenotomy, consists of preserving the attachment of the LHBT on the superior
      labrum and instead releasing the superior labrum off the glenoid from the 11 o'clock to 1
      o'clock positions. As a result, the residual LHBT stump is broad and "T-shaped", which has a
      lower incidence of retracting down the arm. Using this technique, LHBT tenotomy has been
      shown to result in similar rates of Popeye deformity as the tenodesis in a number of recent
      case series.

      This will be a single-center randomized controlled trial. The study is comparing biceps
      tenodesis and self-locking tenotomy in patients undergoing arthroscopic shoulder surgery for
      lesions involving the LHBT.
    
  