
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients age 60 and over with
           previously untreated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with rituximab,
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) combined with
           yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan.

        -  Determine the incidence of adverse experiences, hematologic toxicity (WBC, hemoglobin,
           and platelet nadirs; and transfusion requirements), cardiac toxicity (incidence of left
           ventricular dysfunction and cardiomyopathy by echocardiography), and the development of
           human antimouse antibody/human anti-chimeric antibody in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the predictive value of detecting minimal residual disease by molecular
           techniques for future relapse/recurrence in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the response rate of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the red blood cell transfusion requirements, change in hemoglobin from
           baseline, and incidence of anemia with prophylactic darbepoetin alfa support in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the conversion rate to complete remission in patients treated with ibritumomab
           tiuxetan who achieve a partial remission post-R-CHOP.

        -  Determine the effect of darbepoetin alfa on the quality of life of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive rituximab IV over 2-5 hours, cyclophosphamide IV,
           doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1; oral prednisone on days 1-5 or 2-6; and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 7-15. Patients also receive darbepoetin
           alfa SC on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Patients receive rituximab IV over 3-5 hours and indium In 111
           ibritumomab tiuxetan (IDEC-In2B8) IV over 10 minutes on day 0.

      Patients undergo gamma camera imaging at 2-24 hours and 48-72 hours after the injection of
      IDEC-In2B8 to observe the flow of ibritumomab tiuxetan. If the flow is deemed safe, then
      patients receive yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 7.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before course 5 of chemotherapy, before
      radioimmunotherapy, and at 3 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 65 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  