
    
      Specific Aims:

      The aim of the current study is to compare TACE and RFA combination therapies with RFA
      mono-therapy by using simultaneous multiple electrodes and switching RF controller in the
      treatment of uni-lobar HCC of 3.1 to 7cm. The rate of complete necrosis (CN), technique
      success, sessions to achieve CN, local tumor progression, survival rate and major
      complications will be analyzed.

      Background:

      HCC is 4th mostly common malignancy worldwide and the leading cause of cancer-death in
      Taiwan.

      Surveillance programs can detect HCC at early stage. Surgical resection, liver
      transplantation and local ablation are currently considered as curative treatment modalities
      for early stage HCC. However, only 10-30% of early stage HCC is suitable for resection due to
      poor liver reserve, co-morbidity and shortage of liver donor. Therefore, local ablation plays
      an important role in the treatment of unresectable or resectable early-stage HCC. Among the
      various local ablative modalities, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been proved to be a
      curative treatment with minimal invasiveness and high efficacy for small HCC that is
      generally defined as maximal diameter no larger than 3cm. RFA can achieve a rate of complete
      necrosis as 80-100% in small HCC. However, the rate will drop to 71% in HCC of 3.1-5cm and
      25% for HCC > 5cm。 The difference is due to the relative hypervascularity for the bigger
      tumor and it will induce heat sink that leading to less effect of ablation. Therefore,
      transcatheter chemoembolization (TACE) before RFA may reduce the vascularity and enhance the
      effect of subsequent RFA. Moreover, pre-RF TACE will reduce the tumor size and the subsequent
      RFA to unembolized viable tumor will be more effective than RFA alone. In retrospective
      studies, Kitamoto M et al showed that tumor necrosis diameter was larger in combine TACE and
      RFA compared to RFA monotherapy; Yamakado K et al showed that combine TACE and RFA in HCC
      (maximal diameter up to 12 cm) achieved 100% complete necrosis, 0% local recurrence rate and
      93% of 2-year survival rate. Nevertheless, only one randomized trial in intermediate size HCC
      (3-5cm in diameter) showed that combine TACE and RFA achieved a significant higher rate of
      technique success, fewer treatment sessions and lower local recurrence but non-significant in
      3-year survival rate. Therefore, based on the limited studies, combine TACE and RFA may
      achieve better effects than RFA mono-therapy in HCC larger than 3cm. However, repeat TACE may
      induce some complications such as HBV reactivation, hepatitis or even liver decompensation.
      Moreover, novel RFA using simultaneous multiple RFA probes with switching RF controller may
      achieve a better effects and shorter ablation time than sequential RFA with single electrode.
      Thus, is it still necessary using TACE and RFA combination therapies for HCC > 3cm when
      application of novel switching RF controller? aim of the current study is to conduct a RCT
      comparing combine TACE and RFA compared to RFA mono-therapy by using simultaneous multiple
      electrodes and switching RF controller in uni-lobar HCC of 3.1-7cm. The rate of complete
      necrosis, sessions to achieve CN, primary technique effectiveness (i.e. achievement of
      complete necrosis after maximum of 3 treatment sessions), local tumor progression, survival
      rate and major complications will be analyzed.
    
  