
    
      This is an international, multicenter, open-label, randomized phase II study in the
      neoadjuvant setting.

      Approximately 200 premenopausal and postmenopausal women with Hormone Receptor
      (HR)-positive/Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2) negative Breast Cancer (BC) of
      intermediate/high risk determined by Ki67 index ≥ 20% on untreated breast tissue and
      centrally assessed, with indication of neoadjuvant treatment, will be included. Patients with
      Early Breast Cancer (EBC) on stages II-III (tumor size (T) > 2cm - T3, T4b, and lymph node
      involvement (N) N0-2) according to the 8th edition of the Union for International Cancer
      Control (UICC) TNM Classification. The subgroup with tumors T2 N0 will include high risk
      patients based on Ki67 index > 30% or Ki67 index between 20% and 30% and Progesterone
      Receptor (PgR) negative and/or histological grade 3.

      Patients will be stratified according to the disease stage (II vs. III), menopausal status
      (premenopausal vs. postmenopausal) and Ki67 index (Ki67 < 30% vs. Ki67 ≥ 30%).

      Once the screening process (locally at site and at the central laboratory) is completed,
      fully eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to the control arm with standard
      Chemotherapy (CT) based on anthracyclines and taxanes or to the experimental arm with
      letrozole + abemaciclib.

      All patients will be treated according to the stipulations below, unless any of the following
      occur: unacceptable toxicity, progressive disease, or withdrawal of informed consent,
      whatever occurs first.

      After the last dose of any of the drugs in the neoadjuvant combinations, in both treatment
      arms definitive surgery will be performed. For Arm A not earlier than 21 days and not later
      than 42 days after the last dose of chemotherapy, and for Arm B within 7 days from the last
      dose of abemaciclib and/or letrozole, unless toxicities are not recovered completely in any
      treatment arm.
    
  