
    
      The proposed study will expand upon the pilot trial in order to further develop, implement,
      and test the impact of an innovative collaborative care approach tailored to the needs of a
      patient population who currently have no evidence-based options. The investigators propose a
      broad reach intervention strategy that is designed to be readily implemented in acute,
      specialty and primary care medical settings, as well as over the telephone. The investigators
      will conduct a randomized comparative effectiveness trial with 200 youth, ages 11-18,
      suffering from ≥ 3 post-concussive symptoms at least 1 month after their sports-related
      injury. Athletes will be randomized to collaborative care (intervention) or post-sports
      injury care as usual (control group) conditions. The study is designed with the following
      aims:

      Aim 1. To determine the effectiveness of a stepped-collaborative care intervention model in
      reducing post-concussive and co-occurring psychological symptoms in youth with persistent
      post-concussive symptoms after sports-related concussion H1: Youth receiving a collaborative
      care intervention will demonstrate clinically and statistically significant reductions in
      post-concussive symptoms, depressive and anxiety symptoms over the course of the 12-month
      study, compared to usual care control group athletes Aim 2. To examine the effectiveness of
      the intervention in improving function and health-related quality of life amongst youth with
      persistent symptoms after sports-related concussion H2: Adolescents who receive a
      collaborative care intervention will exhibit a clinically meaningful improvement in function
      and health-related quality life Exploratory Aim 3. To explore differences in school
      performance between groups H3: Adolescents who receive the collaborative care intervention
      will receive individualized treatment and community resource linkages which will improve
      their school performance as compared to adolescents receiving treatment as usual Aim 4. To
      explore the heterogeneity of treatment effects in the primary and secondary outcomes by
      examining the interaction of the treatment effect with group membership in distinct subgroups
      of the population. H4: Three distinct subgroups are expected to emerge from the study
      population: adolescents who recover from symptoms, adolescents with chronic psychosocial
      problems, and adolescents whose symptoms wax and wane over time. A greater proportion of
      adolescents who recover from symptoms will emerge in the treatment group, compared to
      controls.

      IMPACT: By broadly targeting the constellation of post-concussive physical and psychological
      symptoms and integrating care amongst primary care, pediatric sub-specialist, and behavioral
      health providers, the collaborative care health services intervention could accelerate the
      rate of recovery from persistent post-concussive symptoms and attenuate the degree and
      duration of disability during adolescence, a critical period for healthy development.
      Validation of this treatment through a scaled up clinical trial will serve as a foundation
      for broader dissemination of this collaborative care treatment model. The multidisciplinary
      sports concussion research team will simultaneously work nationally and internationally to
      ensure study results are expediently translated into effective policy for youth athletes
      suffering from enduring symptoms and functional impairments in the wake of sports-related
      concussions.
    
  