
    
      The maintenance of arterial blood pressure is essential for organ perfusion pressure.
      Intraoperative hypotension is a frequent complication both after induction and during
      maintenance of anaesthesia, ranging from 5% to 75% depending on the chosen definition. Tissue
      hypoperfusion exposes to the occurrence of a systemic inflammatory response syndrome and is a
      key determinant of postoperative complications. Persistent intraoperative hypotension has
      been reported as an important prognostic factor of postoperative morbidity and mortality.
      Adequate treatment of arterial hypotension is therefore of particular importance during
      surgery, but optimal strategy of intraoperative blood pressure management remains
      undetermined, especially in high-risk patients. Target ranges for arterial pressure are not
      clearly defined, and hypotension is usually defined as a systolic pressure of less than 80
      mmHg or a decrease of more than 40% from baseline.

      Traditionally, management of intraoperative hypotension consisted primarily of fluid
      administration whereas vasoconstrictors, such as Ephedrine chlorhydrate, are often used as a
      second line therapy. This may, however, expose patients to prolonged hypotension and to
      excessive fluid administration, and each of them may alter tissue oxygenation.

      Recent experimental data have shown that noradrenaline, which has - and -adrenergic effects,
      has no detrimental effects on microcirculatory blood flow and tissue oxygenation in the
      intestinal tract. Because of anaesthesia-induced vasodilatation, the use of a continuous
      infusion of noradrenaline to increase systemic vascular resistance could be useful to prevent
      detrimental effects of compromised tissue perfusion, especially in high-risk surgical
      patients.

      The primary objective of the study is to compare two strategies of intraoperative blood
      pressure management in high-risk surgical patients: 1- Continuous infusion of noradrenaline
      to maintain arterial blood pressure of no more than 10% below its baseline value; 2-
      Conventional treatment of hypotension (defined as a blood pressure of below 80 mmHg or a
      decrease of more than 40% from baseline) using intravenous bolus of Ephedrine chorhydrate.

      The investigators hypothesis is that maintenance of arterial blood pressure with
      noradrenaline could reduce postoperative organ dysfunction in high-risk surgical patients.
    
  