
    
      Orthostatic intolerance is defined by debilitating upright symptoms that are relieved by
      sitting or lying. Symptoms include upright lightheadedness, fatigue, confusion, and decreased
      memory called 'Brain Fog' by patients. The most common chronic form is Postural Tachycardia
      Syndrome (POTS), characterized by excessive upright tachycardia without hypotension. Of note,
      >85% of POTS patients are female. The proposal that Brain Fog was caused by reduced cerebral
      blood flow (CBF) has been disproven, because graded incremental upright tilt failed to
      demonstrate difference in mean CBF compared to healthy volunteers. Nevertheless, memory task
      performance deteriorates with angle of tilt as does task-related neurovascular coupling
      (NVC), which links neural activity to an increase in CBF known as "functional hyperemia". The
      investigators have previously observed that large low frequency (0.07-0.13 Hz) oscillations
      in BP (OBP), which entrained and amplified oscillations in CBF (OCBF), increased with tilt
      angle and were associated with impaired working memory and reduced functional hyperemia.

      The sympathetic baroreflex remains intact and HR is excessively increased in the absence of
      parasympathetic counterregulation. The cardiovagal baroreflex couples BP to HR to buffer BP
      changes. Large low frequency BP oscillations, representing a resonance within the sympathetic
      baroreflex loop, occur if there is central hypovolemia, an intact sympathetic baroreflex, and
      reduced parasympathetic buffering of BP by HR; conditions found in upright POTS. This leads
      to the following hypothetical paradigm:

      ↓Cardiovagal Baroreflex → ↑OBP → ↑↑OCBF → ↓NVC → ↓working memory. Therefore, in this
      application, the investigators hypothesize that the cardiovagal baroreflex is impaired in
      POTS while supine, becomes further impaired with orthostasis, and accounts for OBP, OCBF, and
      loss of NVC. Further, the investigators propose that improving the cardiovagal baroreflex
      improves hemodynamics and Brain Fog in POTS patients.
    
  