
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common and debilitating respiratory
      illness, that kills around 30,000 people annually in the UK. The primary risk factor is
      cigarette smoking, which causes inflammation in the air passages of the lungs. This
      inflammation is irreversible and results in progressive lung destruction. Currently, there
      are no effective anti-inflammatory medications available for COPD.

      Inhalers remain the mainstay of regular treatment for COPD. Macrolide antibiotics however,
      are occasionally used as a supplementary treatment for some patients. They have been shown to
      be anti-inflammatory. However, concerns exist over the development of bacterial resistance to
      such antibiotics. Consequently they are not widely prescribed for COPD. Solithromycin is a
      new macrolide antibiotic, which has been shown to possess superior anti-inflammatory
      properties. Importantly, bacteria are far less likely to develop resistance to this new
      medication.

      The current study will assess the effect of solithromycin as an anti-inflammatory treatment
      for COPD. 30 patients will be recruited to receive 28 days of treatment with solithromycin or
      placebo, followed by a 28 day wash out period (no study medication), before taking a further
      28 days of treatment (the medication not taken first time around, i.e. either solithromycin
      or placebo). This study is a single-centre (Harefield Hospital), double-blind (study team and
      patient are not told what treatment they are taking), randomised (order in which
      solithromycin and placebo are taken), placebo-controlled and has a crossover design (subjects
      take both solithromycin and placebo separately). Sputum, blood and fluid from the nasal
      lining will be periodically sampled to examine any effect on the levels of inflammatory cells
      and proteins during the study. Any changes in lung function parameters or symptoms (COPD
      Assessment Test) will also be assessed.
    
  