
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the proportion of patients with undetectable circulating tumor cells (CTCs)
      at 6 months in patients with stage IIB/III triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) who did not
      achieve a pathologic complete response a (pCR) or Residual Cancer Burden-I (RCB-I) after
      receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) with and without atorvastatin therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if baseline fasting lipid profile level (low density lipoprotein cholesterol
      [LDL-C]) and/or change in serum lipid levels are a predictive biomarker of change in the
      proportion of patients with CTCs.

      II. To assess effect of biomarkers on atorvastatin treatment response, defined as CTCs,
      circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
      C-reactive protein (CRP), serum Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and other inflammatory cytokines, for
      the purpose of identifying the optimal patient population for future larger scale adjuvant
      studies.

      III. To determine if baseline fasting lipid profile level (LDL-C) and/or change in serum
      lipid levels are associated with 2-year relapse free survival (RFS) rate.

      IV. To determine if baseline CRP and/or change in serum lipid levels are a predictive
      biomarker of change in the proportion of patients with CTCs.

      V. To determine if baseline C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or change in CRP are associated with
      2-year RFS rate.

      VI. To determine if baseline absolute number of CTCs and/or CTC change are associated with
      2-year RFS rate.

      VII. To estimate the 2-year RFS rate of patients with TNBC who did not achieve pCR with and
      without atorvastatin therapy.

      VIII. To describe the toxicity and adverse events profile of atorvastatin treatment when
      given concurrently with standard doses of radiotherapy to the chest wall and regional nodes.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the correlation between multiplexed imaging biomarkers in the normal or tumor
      tissue taken at the time of surgery, and response to atorvastatin-induced CTC changes or with
      measured outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care atorvastatin orally (PO) once daily (QD) for up to
      24 months. A physical exam is performed, and blood drawn at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after
      starting standard of care treatment or at any time the disease appears to get worse.

      GROUP II: Patients not eligible to receive atorvastatin, will be enrolled into non-statin
      observation group with/without capecitabine treatment.
    
  