
    
      Objective: The purpose of this proposed study, is the development and validation of EISA, a
      Self-report outcome measurement tool, for assessing satisfaction of everyday functional
      needs, for consumers using EADs as the primary means to complete IADLs. The EISA outcome
      measure is proposed to be designed as a questionnaire that can be self or interview
      administered to users of EADs. Development of EISA shall be modeled along the lines of
      development of the self-report outcome measure, FMA (Kumar et al., 2013). The proposed tool
      EISA would serve as a dynamic gauge, for assessing perceived user function, related to using
      EADs for completing IADLs.

      Specific Aims:

      The instrument is proposed to undergo systematic development in three phases. In Phase 1, an
      initial pool of potential EISA items shall be generated, based on literature review data.

      In Phase 2, content experts (clinician and EADs user) review panels, shall assess the initial
      pool of potential EISA items for further content validity. The objective of phase 3, would be
      validation of the first iteration of EISA, by establishing reliability for test-retest
      administration and internal consistency, at acceptable levels, by 25-100 EADs users.

      Statistical analysis for test-retest reliability and internal consistency estimation shall be
      carried out using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 24 software, in
      Phase 3 of the study.

      Background: Briefly describe previous findings or observations that provide the background
      leading to this proposal. It cannot be stressed enough, that for both able-bodied individuals
      and PWD, having access to ICT, is no longer a luxury, but rather, a basic necessity, to cope
      with the current technology based lifestyle. Furthermore, having equal and timely access to
      IT for PWD is imperative to enable them to live independently and have a high Quality of
      Life. Moreover, this equal and timely access not only provides increased life options for PWD
      but also, wider economic benefits for the society at large. However, currently, several
      factors are impeding this equal and timely access to ICT for PWD. These factors include (1)
      lack of an outcome measure specifically designed and validated to assess the satisfaction of
      everyday functional needs related to EAD; (2) inappropriateness, impracticality, apart from
      lack of clinical utility and psychometric validation of existing outcome measures to assess
      the satisfaction of everyday functional needs of PWD, related to EADs; (3) continual and
      fast-paced, disruptive innovations very often rendering essential services inaccessible for
      PWD. Therefore, to fill this unmet need, as well as, to enable PWD to have equal opportunity
      with able-bodied individuals to tap their optimal potential, this study proposes the
      development and validation of a self-report outcome measure, EISA, specifically designed to
      assess satisfaction of everyday functional needs of PWD, related to EADs.

      Significance: In this day and age of IT, it is crucial for PWD to have access to EAD that
      matches their individualized needs and enables them to achieve their optimal potential.
      Nevertheless, as can be gleaned from the aforementioned analysis, currently there is no good
      outcome tool for the assessment of user-satisfaction in performing functional needs with
      EADs.
    
  