
    
      Isolated systolic hypertonia is an autonomous form of the hypertonia, which in 73% of cases
      develops from a normal blood pressure (BP) situation. A strict BP control is especially
      important in older people, since the incidence of the ISH also increases with increasing age.
      This can be attributed to the elasticity of the vessels reducing with the age. Systolic
      Hypertension in Elderly Program (SHEP) study has shown ISH to be an independent
      cardiovascular risk factor.

      Eneas is a combination of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril maleate (10
      mg) and the calcium antagonist nitrendipine (20 mg). Irrespective of the fact as shown in
      different studies, that calcium-antagonists as also ACE inhibitors have an especially
      distinctive potential for the degeneration of a left-ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
      Examinations like the SYST-EUR-study has demonstrated the high therapeutic potential of the
      combination of nitrendipine and enalapril in older hypertonia subjects. It was proven in this
      multicentric, double-blind, randomised and placebo controlled study, that when the additional
      dose of enalapril (and if necessary diuretics was administered) in subjects with ISH above 60
      years under treatment with nitrendipine and in case of not sufficient lowering of BP, the
      total incidence of cardiac events (heart failure, ischaemic heart disease and sudden heart
      fall) was reduced by 26% within two years of treatment. As part of the SYST-EUR study, a
      reduction of the incidence of vascular dementia by 50% was documented in the so-called
      "Vascular Dementia Project" with standardised psychometric measuring system. This effect was
      probably attributed not alone to the lowering of BP, but also to the additive ZNS-protective
      effects of nitrendipine and enalapril.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To observe the course of disease in subjects with ISH, who were treated with Eneas. In
           this case, particular attention was given to achievement of target value in the lowering
           of the systolic BP value (< 140 mmHg) within a 6 month treatment time period.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To examine the systolic as well as diastolic BP situation and the total medication,
           especially medication for the therapy of the ISH across the treatment duration

        -  To collect the drug security data in the examined subject group under practical
           conditions

      The examination plan of this study included approximately the examinations given below,
      whereby the time of the individual examinations were subjected exclusively to the clinical
      requirements and the usual conventions in the centre:

        -  Examination at the beginning of the treatment (Visit 1)

        -  Control examination after approximately 3 months (Visit 2)

        -  Control examination after approximately 6 months (Visit 3)
    
  