
    
      Weight loss is mainly a result of reduction in daily caloric intake. Hence many people are
      interested in counting and tracking their daily caloric intake but In fact only 9% of people
      in the USA can accurately estimate the number of calories they eat (International Food
      Information Council Foundation, May 2011)

      According to the well-known method the investigators need to know the caloric value of each
      and every component our dish or meal. For example: a Breakfast that contains a glass of
      orange juice, a small bagel, spread with cream cheese shall be calculated as : orange juice
      90 kcal + bagel 192 kcal +cream cheese 98 kcal=total 380 kcal.

      This method is very complicated, especially when the investigators need to calculate a dish
      that its ingredients are not straightforward such as: Cob salad or Shepherd's pie, Even a
      slice of pizza, it is very difficult to estimate the fat, carbohydrate or protein a piece of
      pie contains let alone the caloric volume.

      The investigators proposed a new method called "The categories method": a single categorical
      estimation per meal based on a set of five categories:

      Category 1 less than 200 kcal, Category 2 200-500 kcal, Category 3 501-800 kcal, Category 4
      801-1200 kcal, Category 5 above 1200 kcal

      After choosing the category the investigators use an average of the category (e.g., category
      3: 500-800 Avg = 650 kcal). Using the same Breakfast description as above: this meal will be
      considered as category No. 2 (200-500 Kcal), and chicken and rice at the restaurant will
      considered as a category 4 (800-1200 Kcal).

      This method simplifies the process of counting calories, especially with assembled or cooked
      meal, it makes it easier to track any given meal even to those how are not so familiar with
      the caloric value of a product.

      Research protocol:Participates will interviewed face to face on 1 occasion to obtain 24 hours
      recall using 4 pass method include 1. Quick review of the meals. 2. Food items that may be
      forgotten 3. Time and place of each meal 4. Assessment of food quantities and dimensions
      using a photograph published by the Israeli Ministry

      This method is implemented with U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as part of nutritional
      surveys and is used for "MBT" Survey of the Israeli Ministry of Health

      Using "Tzameret" software system (food composition program of the Israeli Ministry of Health)
      The investigators will input the 24HR recall food list and quantity to calculate caloric
      values for every meal and the total calorie intake.

      Using the "Categories Method" the investigators will calculate the caloric value of a meal by
      giving the average value of each category (record in parentheses).

      Finally, reliability of the "categories method" compare with the 24HR recall will
      statistically calculated.
    
  