
    
      HIV-1 infected adults with newly-diagnosed TBM (n = 100) will be recruited from four
      public-sector hospitals in Cape Town and Port Elizebeth, South Africa. Participants will be
      randomised across two experimental (n = 30 each) and one standard of care (n = 40) arms.
      Treatment will be provided in all arms for 56 days, after which participants will be referred
      back to public sector facilities to complete standard therapy for HIV-associated TBM.

      The primary objective of the study is to investigate the safety of enhanced antimicrobial
      therapy including increased dose RIF and LZD with or without adjunctive aspirin added to
      standard therapy for TBM in HIV-1 infected adults.

      Secondary objectives are;

        1. To determine cerebrospinal fluid M.tb culture positivity and Gene Xpert® Ultra
           positivity at baseline and at 3 and 28 days post treatment by allocation.

        2. To evaluate the effect of aspirin and enhanced tuberculosis treatment on the incidence
           of immune reconstitution syndrome in participants starting antiretroviral therapy.

        3. To evaluate the effect of high dose rifampicin and linezolid, with and without aspirin
           on the transcriptional signature derived from whole blood and cerebrospinal fluid RNA
           sequencing, as well as the metabolomic and proteomic profiles, in tuberculous
           meningitis.

        4. To evaluate the effect of high dose rifampicin and linezolid with and without aspirin on
           central nervous system imaging in conjunction with clinical, immunological and
           transcriptional profiling.

        5. To store biological samples for future analysis of potential biomarkers of treatment
           efficacy and/or novel diagnostic assays.

        6. To determine i) whether host genotype, including LTA4H genotype, influences therapeutic
           effect of aspirin in HIV-TBM and ii) the pharmacogenetic influence on rifampicin and
           linezolid exposures and toxicity.

      All participants will receive antitubercular chemotherapy and corticosteroids as standard of
      care as per national South African guidelines. Participants allocated to experimental arms 2
      and 3 will receive additional rifampicin (total oral dose 35 mg/kg/day) plus oral linezolid
      1200mg daily for the first 28 days, reduced to 600 mg daily for the next 28 days. Those
      randomized to experimental arm 3 will also receive oral aspirin 1000 mg daily.

      All consenting LASER-TBM participants in experimental arms (n = 60) will undergo a second
      randomisation to receive either oral (35mg/kg) or IV (20mg/kg) rifampicin at the time of
      study entry. This sub-study is powered to demonstrate bioequivalence at day 3 of
      administration, after which all participants will be continued on oral rifampicin dosed at
      35mg/kg.

      Trial participation will be for 180 days post-randomization: primary safety endpoints and
      secondary efficacy endpoints will be evaluated at day 56; additional secondary endpoints will
      be evaluated at day 180.

      There are seven scheduled study visits. The first six of thee will occur within the first 56
      days, with an additional structured interview at 6 months. All visits will involve a clinical
      assessment including specified clinical outcome measures to assess functional and cognitive
      disability. Phlebotomy will be performed at study visits within the first 56 days to monitor
      for pre-specified parameters of drug safety (haematology, biochemistry) as well as to collect
      blood for downstream transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic analysis. Lumbar puncture will
      take place at day 3 and day 28. Cerebrospinal fluid will be analysed for Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis culture and Gene Xpert® Ultra cycle threshold values. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      will be stored for downstream transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic analysis. Baseline
      and day 56 brain imaging will be performed in all study participants.

      All enrolled participants will undergo sparse plasma PK sampling at the Day 28 and Day 56
      visits.

      Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will be collected from all participants for determination of
      linezolid and rifampicin concentrations on Days 3 and 28. The timing of the Day 3 lumbar
      puncture will be randomised to intervals of 1 - 3, 3 - 6, 6 - 10, and 24 hours after observed
      antitubercular drug dosing in order to construct a concentration-time profile for the
      population. A single sample will be collected at each time interval. A second lumbar puncture
      will take place at the Day 28 visit, to coincide with the 4-hour plasma PK sample.

      All participants (n=100) will be offered participation in the intensive sampling component of
      the PK sub-study at the time of randomization to the main study. Intensive plasma sampling
      will take place at the Day 3 study visit. Serial venous blood samples will be collected
      through a peripheral intravenous catheter pre-dose, and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8 - 10, and 24
      hours after witnessed drug intake and an overnight fast. Sparse sampling will be performed at
      Day 3 for participants who decline intensive sampling or in whom this fails.
    
  