
    
      Primary objective: To determine the clinical efficacy of in-home decluttering augmentation of
      group CBT for reducing hoarding severity in adults with HD.

      Secondary objectives: To assess the cost-effectiveness of in-home decluttering, from a social
      services provider perspective. Type of trial: Single-blind parallel-group randomized
      controlled superiority trial.

      Methods:

      Participants who are eligible and have consented to participate in the trial will receive
      protocol-driven group CBT for HD for 12 weeks. After group CBT, participants are immediately
      randomized to one of two trial arms. In the experimental arm, participants receive 10 weeks
      of in-home decluttering. In the waitlist arm, participants receive no intervention but fill
      out questionnaires with identical procedures as in the intervention group.

      Participants will complete outcome measures at pre-CBT, mid-CBT (week 6), baseline (i.e.
      immediately after receiving CBT and before inhome decluttering), twice during in-home
      decluttering (week 4 and 7), post-treatment (week 10 of in-home decluttering), and 3-, 6-,
      and 12- months post-treatment. Two primary outcome variables will be used in this study; the
      total score on the Saving Inventory- Revised (SI-R) and the total score on the
      clinician-reported Clutter Image Rating (CIR). The primary endpoint is post-treatment (i.e.
      week 10 of in-home decluttering or waitlist).

      Secondary outcomes include participants' cognitions about discarding (SCI), relationship
      between self and items (RSI), measures of clutter (CIR), squalor (HEI), impairment of daily
      functioning (ADL-H), severity and improvement (CGI), adverse events, and treatment
      satisfaction (CSQ8). Relatives of trial participants will rate levels burden and
      accommodation with the Family Impact Scale for Hoarding Disorder (FISH) and the Caregiver
      Burden Inventory (CBI), respectively. The Trimbos Questionnaire for Costs associated with
      Psychiatric Illness will be used to assess healthcare and societal resource use. Follow-up
      assessments will be conducted at the clinic or via videoconferencing.
    
  