
    
      Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a group of clonal haematopoietic stem cell disorders
      characterized by ineffective haematopoiesis leading to cytopenia, with a significant risk of
      progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Conventional prognostic scoring of MDS is based
      on the degree of cytopenia, the percentage of bone marrow blast infiltration and karyotypic
      abnormalities. Risk categories based on prognostic scoring determine the therapeutic
      approaches. Treatment of high-risk MDS involves the use of hypomethylating agents (HMA), and
      allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in younger patients. Clinical
      studies with HMAs including azacitidine and decitabine have shown a response rate of about
      40% in high-risk patients, and median duration of response of merely 9 to 15 months. HMA
      failure is associated with a dismal outcome and a median survival of less than 5 months.
      Therefore, progression to AML and resistance to HMA are important unmet clinical needs.

      The pathophysiology of MDS and its progression to AML involve cytogenetic, genetic and
      epigenetic aberrations. Genome-wide and targeted analyses from next-generation sequencing
      have identified mutations that may have prognostic and therapeutic significance. Recurrent
      mutations in more than 45 genes are found in over 85% of cases. Theses mutations are found in
      genes involved in DNA methylation (DNMT3A, TET2, IDH1/2), post-translational chromatin
      modification (EZH2, ASXL1), transcription regulation (TP53, RUNX1, GATA2), the RNA
      spliceosome machinery (SF3B1, U2AF1, SRSF2, ZRSR2), cohesion complexes (STAG2), and signal
      transduction (JAK2, KRAS, CBL). Mutations in TP53, EZH2, ETV6, RUNX1, SRSF2 and ASXL1 portend
      inferior survivals. Specific mutations, such as internal tandem duplications of FLT3
      (FLT3-ITD), have been observed during disease progression and are potential therapeutic
      targets. Data arising from whole-genome sequencing (WGS) have shown that the clonal evolution
      of MDS to AML is dynamic and complex. The selection of clones during transformation is shaped
      by acquisition of genetic alterations during clonal expansion, as well as exposure to
      genotoxic chemotherapy.

      Better understanding of the molecular landscape of MDS has important clinical implications.
      Firstly, prognosticating MDS based on molecular aberrations will supplement current models in
      stratifying patients for treatment. Secondly, molecular markers may better predict response
      and resistance to treatment with HMAs. Thirdly, detection of targetable molecular markers
      during treatment resistance or leukaemic transformation may provide an opportunity for
      specific therapy, as exemplified by the use of FLT3 inhibitors in FLT3-ITD positive secondary
      AML. Hence, future treatment strategies for MDS may involve exploitation of genetic
      information in designing more effective therapy encompassing single agents or combinatorial
      approaches. There are important gaps in knowledge in the field of MDS. First, there is
      currently no well-established model integrating molecular with clinicopathologic features in
      prognostic stratification. There is lack of large registry clinicopathologic and molecular
      information in Asian patients with MDS. To-date, there is paucity of data focusing on the
      impact of molecular aberrations on prognosis and treatment response.

      The proposed cohort study aims to establish a registry of clinical and genomic registry of
      MDS and secondary AML in Asian patients, which allows the establishment of the mutational
      profile of patients and prognostic model for survival, as well as exploration of treatment
      strategies and prediction for treatment response.
    
  