
    
      All patients enrolled in this study will receive SOMATULINE DEPOT 120 mg immediately prior to
      planned pancreatic resection. The pharmacist will dispense loaded syringes of the study drug.
      The single preoperative dose will be given in the pre-surgical center at the University of
      Washington by a trained health care professional. The study drug will be injected via the
      deep subcutaneous route in the superior external quadrant of the buttock.

      Safety and efficacy will be assessed throughout the study period. Assessment for pancreatic
      and non-pancreatic complications will be made at the time of discharge and in follow-up by
      the attending surgeon. Patients will be evaluated in clinic postoperatively within 21 days of
      discharge for evaluation of the primary endpoint. The research team will perform long term
      follow-up by phone or in person with patients at 30 and 60 days (+/- 10 days at each time
      point).

      SCREENING AND ENROLLMENT

      Subjects undergoing planned elective pancreaticoduodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy for
      malignancy or suspected malignancy will be identified and screened for eligibility. Eligible
      patients who agree to participate will sign a written consent form at this time. At the
      initial visit, eligibility will be confirmed and documented in the study record. Informed
      consent will be obtained prior to enrollment utilizing the consent form.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

        1. Screening Visit (Day -60 to -1) Eligible patients will be identified at the Seattle
           Cancer Care Alliance (SCCA) and the University of Washington Medical Center (UWMC)
           surgical oncology clinics. At the screening visit, the Research Coordinator (RC) or one
           of the investigators will obtain signed informed consent. This will take place prior to
           any procedures being performed. Subjects will not receive any compensation for
           participation in the study. In addition, subjects will not incur any additional costs as
           a result of participation in the study.

           • Obtain and document consent from potential subject on study consent form

           • Review medical history to determine eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion criteria

           • Review medications history to determine eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion
           criteria

           • Perform physical examination: vital signs, weight, height

           • Collect, or obtain from routine care records, the following laboratory studies within
           30 days prior to treatment:

           o Complete blood count with white blood cell differential and platelet counts;

           o Comprehensive profile; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time
           (PT&PTT)

           o Female subject of childbearing potential should have a negative urine or serum
           pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to study drug administration. If the urine test is
           positive or cannot be confirmed as negative, a serum pregnancy test will be required

        2. Preoperative Baseline (Day 0) The baseline visit will take place on the day of surgery,
           prior to the patient's operation and administration of the study drug. Some subjects
           initially consented into the study may be deemed ineligible on the day of surgery prior
           to drug administration. The study team will assess inclusion/exclusion criteria prior to
           drug administration.

           • Verify inclusion/exclusion criteria

           • Obtain demographic information, medical history/current condition, medication list

           • Collect serum pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential prior to drug
           administration, unless testing negative within prior 72 hours (for example, if testing
           was performed at Screening Visit within the previous 3 days), or testing has been
           performed for routine clinical care

           • Draw blood for correlative research (2 light green top tubes (10 ml)) prior to study
           drug administration (optional)

        3. Preoperative Drug Administration (Day 0) The study drug will be administered and other
           study procedures performed after baseline procedures are conducted; prior to the
           surgery.

           • Administer the study drug

             -  Administer Symptoms Questionnaire

             -  Assess vital signs

             -  Record results of pain on visual analog scale from chart

        4. Intraoperative

           • Draw blood for correlative research (2 light green top tubes (10 ml)) intraoperatively
           immediately following resection (optional)

        5. Postoperative Follow-up

      5.a Hospital Stay (Postoperative Days 0-7) Subjects who receive the study drug but do not
      have a clinical resection performed during their surgery, will have no additional study
      procedures performed. The study team will review adverse events related to the study drug
      during the immediate postoperative hospital stay only.

      Subjects who receive the study drug and have a clinical resection will be followed
      postoperatively for 60 days. The initial postoperative assessment will occur during the
      subject's hospital stay. Hospital stays will vary widely by patient, but are expected to
      range from 3-7 days. The study team will periodically review the patient chart for safety and
      outcomes as available for individual subjects during this timeframe.

        -  Record adverse events as reported by subject or observed by clinical team and/or
           investigator. See section 10.2 for list of information to be reviewed for adverse event
           monitoring

        -  Obtain medical history/current condition, medication list on the day of discharge

        -  Record results of physical examination on the day of discharge

        -  Collect the following laboratory studies, as available from routine care records:

             -  Complete blood count with white blood cell differential and platelet counts;

             -  Comprehensive profile; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time
                (PT&PTT)

        -  Assess vital signs

        -  Record results of pain on visual analog scale from chart

        -  Administer Symptoms Questionnaire on the day of discharge

        -  Record drain amylase levels from chart, as available

        -  Record drain output in ml from chart, as available

        -  Evaluate for day of drain removal from chart, as available

           5.b Clinic Follow-up Visit (Post discharge Days 1-21) Subjects will typically have a
           clinical follow-up appointment with their University of Washington (UW) Medicine
           surgical provider or an external provider within 1 - 21 days following discharge. There
           may be more than one clinical appointment during this timeframe. The study team will
           review patient charts and collect information on individual subjects as available from
           their clinical care. Subjects who are seen at UW Medicine will receive an in-person
           symptoms questionnaire to complete. Subjects who have their follow-up care performed
           external to UW Medicine will receive a phone call from the research coordinator (RC)
           between 1 and 21 after discharge to complete the symptoms questionnaire by phone.
           Records from external institutions will be obtained and reviewed for the time frame.

        -  Record adverse events as reported by subject or observed by clinical team and/or
           investigator

        -  Obtain medical history/current condition, medication list

        -  Record results of physical examination

        -  Collect from routine care records the following laboratory studies, as available:

           o Complete blood count with white blood cell differential and platelet counts;

           o Comprehensive profile; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time
           (PT&PTT)

        -  Assess vital signs

        -  Record results of pain on visual analog scale from chart

        -  Administer Symptoms Questionnaire

           6. Long Term Follow-up

           6.a Follow-up Phone Call (Postoperative Days 30 & 60) The RC will follow-up with all
           subjects by phone at approximately 30 and 60 days postoperative to identify missed
           complications. If the RC identifies a missed complication by phone, the investigator or
           co-investigator will then contact the subject with a second phone call to discuss the
           reported complications in more detail.

      Patient charts will be reviewed throughout 60 days postoperative. Some subjects may receive
      their follow-up care outside of UW Medicine. In this case, records from external institutions
      will be obtained and reviewed for the timeframe.

        -  Record adverse events as reported by subject or observed by investigator.

        -  Obtain medical history/current condition, medication list

        -  Administer Symptoms Questionnaire

        -  Review clinical charts for complications, as available

      SUBJECT WITHDRAWAL

      Patients may voluntarily withdraw from the study or be dropped from it at the discretion of
      the investigator at any time. Patients may be withdrawn from the study if any of the
      following occur:

        -  Pregnancy discovered after enrollment, but prior to study drug treatment

        -  Protocol violation

        -  Subject withdrawal of consent

        -  Lost to follow-up

        -  Do not have clinical resection performed post drug administration

        -  Death

             1. Replacement of Subjects Subjects withdrawn from the study prior to administration
                of the study drug will be replaced. Subjects withdrawn from the study after
                administration of the study drug and who do not have a clinical resection performed
                will not be replaced. Other subjects withdrawn prior to complete 60-day follow up
                will not be replaced. If subjects do not respond to phone follow-up at 30 or 60
                days, three repeated attempts will be made over the 10 days following each of these
                time points. Subjects who have incomplete follow up will be included with limited
                follow up.

      BIOSTATISTICS

        1. Sample Size and Power

           We estimate the final target sample size will be 98 patients. We aim to screen 154
           patients and enroll n=123 patients into this single-arm study to test whether treatment
           with lanreotide reduces the risk of postoperative pancreatic fistula. Based upon a 20%
           probability of not proceeding with surgical resection after drug treatment due to
           findings of metastatic or unresectable disease at surgery, we anticipate that 123
           treated patients will yield 98 evaluable patients.

        2. Analysis Plan

      As a primary method analysis, we will use a one-sample t-test to compare the rate of
      postoperative pancreatic fistula among the n=98 patients who were treated with lanreotide and
      underwent surgical resection against a published rate of 21% for patients treated with a
      placebo in another study, while 9% of patients treated with pasireotide experienced
      postoperative pancreatic fistula. The present study has 80% power (one-sided alpha = 0.05) to
      detect pancreatic fistula rates smaller than 11.5%, the approximate upper estimate of an 80%
      confidence interval of the pancreatic fistula rate of 9% in the study of pasireotide.

      As a secondary exploratory analysis, we will use McNemar's test to compare the pancreatic
      fistula rate in the present study to that of historical controls at the same institution
      matched on pancreatic firmness and duct size.
    
  