
    
      Determination of cardiovascular risk

      If the assessment of cardiovascular risk remains incomplete, can identify indicators that
      measure risk:

        1. Framingham Risk Score: Includes age, sex, total and HDL-CHOL, and levels of blood
           pressure (can underestimate the risk in some patients).

        2. PROCAM Risk Score: also includes triglycerides, fasting glucose tolerance and family
           history.

        3. Reynolds Risk Score: Includes family history and levels of hsCRP.

        4. Greek Score (www.hearts.org / greece). People with low risk The Framingham Risk Score
           shows <10% chance of cardiovascular disease over the next 10 years. Dealing mainly with
           healthy dietary intervention or drugs when the levels of LDL-CHOL> 190 mg / dL or
           atherogenic index (T-CHOL/HDL-CHOL)> 6.

      Medication is necessary in individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia to reduce the LDL
      CHOL <100 mg / dL. For this reason, a careful family history taking physical examination. The
      Reynolds Risk Score may reclassify their low-risk patients at higher risk individuals.

      Persons moderate risk This group includes mostly middle-aged people. The Framingham Risk
      Score shows 10-19% chance of cardiovascular disease over the next 10 years. However, a
      positive family history and high hsCRP (if available) can modify the level of risk. These
      people need to change my lifestyle for 3 months, but may then be necessary pharmacological
      lipid-lowering therapy in people with at least two major risk factors and levels of LDL-CHOL>
      130 mg / dL. The administration of lipid-lowering therapy in people with levels of LDL-CHOL
      100-129 mg / dL is recommended for people with multiple cardiometabolic risk factors
      (visceral obesity, prediabetes, hypertension, etc.). The increase of atheromatic index (> 5)
      and the presence of high (> 2 mg / L) levels of CRP (if available) are also indications for
      lipid lowering regardless of the levels of LDL-CHOL.

      Major risk factors: age> 45 years (men),> 55 years (women), positive family history of
      premature cardiovascular disease [in the presence of major vascular events in first degree
      relatives <55 years (men), <65 years (women)], hypertension , HDL-CHOL <40 mg / dL, smoking.

      Individuals at high risk The Framingham Risk Score shows> 20% chance of cardiovascular
      disease over the next 10 years. At-risk individuals include:

      A. Individuals with documented atherosclerotic disease (coronary artery disease, stroke, a
      significant degree of carotid stenosis, peripheral arterial disease, intermittent
      claudication, or aneurysm of the abdominal aorta).

      B. All type II diabetic patients and patients with type I diabetes individuals older than 40
      years.

      C. People with chronic kidney disease with glomerular filtration (GFR) <60 mL/min/1, 73 m2.

      In these individuals need intensive lifestyle modification and direct administration lipid
      lowering medication such as statins.

      According to the above that one epidemiological study nature that has the purpose of
      observing and recording the progress of patients after their exit from a cardiology clinic or
      hospital unit because the acid after a cardiovascular event has clinical relevance.
      Compliance with medical instructions, achieving treatment goals for lipids by the addition of
      atorvastatin and personalized medicine practice are open field study. So this will be the
      subject of this study in order to highlight the clinical significance of atorvastatin in
      achieving the objectives of lipids (mainly LDL-CHOL) in blood plasma of "sensitive" of this
      group of patients in the Greek population, as possible representative (qualitatively and
      quantitatively)sample.

      Dyslipidemia

      The lipids of the human body is cholesterol (useful for the synthesis of cell membranes,
      hormones adrenal and gonads, and is a component of bile, the liver secretes) and
      triglycerides (serve as fuel and energy storage in adipose tissue ). The dyslipidemias are
      disorders (quantitative or qualitative) of the metabolism of lipoprotein particles (LDL,
      chylomicrons, HDL, VLDL) that transport lipids in the body.

      Categories dyslipidemias - Primary dyslipidemias

      The most significant primary lipid disorders are:

        1. Chylomicronemia (congenital or acquired): ↑ TRG → risk of acute pancreatitis.

        2. Familial Hypercholesterolemia a Homozygous (1/1.000.000 people): ↑ LDL CHOL b
           heterozygous (1/500 people): ↑ LDL CHOL.

        3. Mixed hyperlipidaemia Familial mixed (1/300 people): ↑ LDL-CHOL, ↑ TRG, ↓ HDL-CHOL.

        4. Familial hypertriglyceridemia (1/2.000 people): ↑ TRG.

        5. Familial decrease in HDL CHOL: ↓ HDL CHOL. Typically in patients with primary
           dyslipidemia needed medication. - Secondary dyslipidemias

      In patients with abnormal lipid parameters of must exclude secondary dyslipidemias, ie
      disorders of lipid metabolism caused by diseases or drugs:

        1. Diabetes

        2. Hypothyroidism

        3. Obstructive liver disease

        4. Chronic kidney disease nephrotic syndrome-

        5. Obesity

        6. Alcohol abuse

        7. Medications that cause dyslipidemia a progestin b Anabolic Steroids c Corticosteroids D.
           Diuretics in large doses e b-blockers f Antiretroviral Drugs Interferon g h. Retinoids
           Estrogen i tamoxifen. In patients with secondary dyslipidemia required treatment of
           primary disease. Determination cohort for screening (Table 1)

             -  Men over 40 and post-menopausal women

             -  People with atherosclerotic disease regardless of age or clinical findings
                suggestive of dyslipidemia

             -  Patients with diabetes regardless of age

             -  Patients with chronic kidney disease (eGFR <60 mL/min/1, 73 m2 or the presence of
                albuminuria)

             -  People with a family history of premature coronary heart disease

             -  People with hypertension

             -  People with chronic inflammatory diseases (lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid
                arthritis, psoriasis or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome)

             -  Adults who smoke

             -  adult with sexual dysfunction

             -  Overweight and obese subjects with BMI> 27 kg/m2

             -  Relatives of people with inherited lipid disorders

             -  Children with a family history of hyperlipidemia or cardiovascular disease or other
                risk factors.

      Statins - Atorvastatin

      The cornerstone of treatment of dyslipidemia are statins.

      Before initiation of lipid lowering requires the identification of lipid parameters {total
      cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol and calculated LDL cholesterol [from the equation
      LDL-CHOL = total cholesterol - (triglycerides / 5 + HDL cholesterol)]} after fasting 12 - 14
      hours, while the determination of glucose levels of TSH (to exclude underlying
      hypothyroidism) and transaminases (AST / ALT) and CPK to control the undesirable effects.
      Repeat determination of these parameters in patients who achieved their goals of treatment 2
      times a year or when changing the therapeutic regimen. Repeat laboratory tests (lipid control
      effectiveness and liver enzymes and CPK for security control) after 12 weeks: a reason to
      discontinue treatment if ALT> 3 times the upper normal range or CPK> 5 times the upper normal
      range or in patients with myalgias. It should be noted that not necessitate interruption of
      treatment with statins or deferral of treatment in individuals with small increases in
      transaminases or CPK, while in these patients should be seeking other underlying causes of
      elevated liver and muscle enzymes. The choice of drug and dosage depend on the percentage
      change in HDL-CHOL necessary to achieve the objectives. Statins are usually the evening
      before bedtime the night. The lipid-lowering therapy is therapy for life, and most
      importantly, the patient adherence to treatment. It should be noted that doubling the dose of
      a statin results in additional reduction of HDL-CHOL (LDL) cholesterol by 6%.

      The main goal of treatment is to reduce HDL-CHOL

      The non HDL-CHOL (= T-CHOL - HDL-CHOL), proposed as a secondary target of lipid lowering
      mainly in people with high triglycerides. The target for the non HDL-CHOL is 30 mg / dL
      higher than the target for the HDL-CHOL. The decrease in triglycerides (<150 mg / dL) and
      increased HDL-CHOL (> 40 mg / dL for men and> 50 mg / dL for women) is considered desirable
      targets mainly lipid lowering in diabetic patients and in patients with cardiometabolic risk
      factors. Has also been suggested as a target of treatment to reduce the atheromatous index
      (T-CHOL/HDL-CHOL <4).

      Atorvastatin is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total cholesterol,
      LDL-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and triglycerides in adults, adolescents and children aged
      10 years and older with primary hypercholesterolaemia, including heterozygous familial
      hypercholesterolaemia combined (mixed) hyperlipidemia (type IIa and IIv by Fredrickson), when
      response to diet and other nonpharmacological measures is inadequate.

      Atorvastatin is also indicated to reduce total cholesterol and LDL - cholesterol in adults
      with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering
      treatments (eg LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable.

      Is also used to prevent cardiovascular events in adult patients who are thought to have a
      high risk for a first cardiovascular event, as an adjunct to correction of other risk
      factors.

      Atorvastatin is a selective, competitive inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, the enzyme
      responsible for the conversion of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A to mevalonate, a
      precursor of sterols, including cholesterol. The triglycerides and cholesterol in the liver
      are incorporated into very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and released into the plasma for
      delivery to peripheral tissues. The low density lipoprotein (LDL) is formed from VLDL and is
      catabolized primarily through receptor high affinity to LDL (LDL receptor).

      Atorvastatin lowers cholesterol levels and lipoprotein plasma inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase
      and then the biosynthesis of cholesterol in the liver and increase the number of LDL
      receptors on the surface of liver cells which uptake and catabolism of LDL. Atorvastatin
      reduces LDL production and the number of particles of LDL. H atorvastatin causes profound and
      sustained increase of LDL receptor activity, in combination with a beneficial change in the
      quality of the circulating particles of LDL. Atorvastatin effectively reduces LDL-C in
      patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a group of patients who do not
      usually respond to lipid-lowering medicines.

      Atorvastatin in a dose-response study, was shown to reduce the concentration of T-CHOL (30% -
      46%), the LDL-CHOL (41% - 61%), apolipoprotein B (34% - 50%) and triglycerides (14% - 33%)
      while producing variable increases HDL-CHOL and apolipoprotein A1. These results are so
      consistent in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia, non-familial forms
      of hypercholesterolemia and mixed hyperlipidemia, including patients with
      noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

      It has been found that the decrease of the values of total cholesterol, LDL-CHOL and
      apolipoprotein B reduces the risk of cardiovascular events and mortality thereof.
    
  