
    
      This is an observational trial, with an interventional arm, in patients with moderate to
      severe anemia and control subjects. The main purpose of this study is to understand whether
      normal brain blood flow, oxygen extraction reserve, white matter volumes, and brain
      functional connectivity are affected by acquired anemia. We will perform baseline MRI
      monitoring for all subjects. Subjects with confirmed iron defiency will be offered
      intravenous iron therapy. Repeat MRI will be performed twice following iron replacement
      therapy. All eligible subjects will be asked to provide informed consent before participating
      in the study.

      Treatment:

      All subjects, anemic and control, will undergo baseline phlebotomy, brain MRI, and
      neurocognitive testing. All patients with hemoglobin less than 11 g/dl will undergo
      carboxymaltose iron replacement according to package insert guidelines. This consists of two
      doses of 15 mg/kg given (max individual dose 750 mg) at least 7 days apart. The drug is
      administered as an infusion over 30 minutes. Patients will undergo symptom and vital sign
      monitoring for 30 minutes per guidelines. Repeat MRI and blood work will be performed at 3
      months and 12 months following iron replacement, and repeat neurocognitive testing will be
      performed 12 months following iron replacement.

      Safety Assessment:

      All MRI experiments will be monitored by a trained technician or physician. Ferric
      carboxymaltose preparation will be diluted with 250 ml of normal saline and infused at half
      the manufacturer's suggested infusion rate (over 30 minutes). Vital signs and symptoms will
      be assessed at baseline, 5', 15', and 30' post infusion completion. Infusions will be
      performed in an environment with full resuscitation capability by trained nursing personnel,
      supervised by a physician or nurse practitioner trained in managing hypersensitivity
      reactions. Subjects who receive ferric carboxymaltose will have study visits at 3 months and
      12 months with monitoring of complete blood count, hemoglobin, and vital signs. Adverse
      events will be assessed at every study visit after the first dose through to the last subject
      visit.

      Efficacy Assessment:

      Comprehensive cerebrovascular MRI, baseline bloodwork, and neurocognitive testing will be
      collected from all subjects. Anemic patients receiving intervention will have repeated MRI
      and bloodwork at 3 months and 12 months following the intervention, and repeat neurocognitive
      testing will be performed at study termination.
    
  