
    
      The increasing prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD), advances in coronary artery
      bypass grafting (CABG), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and concomitant medical
      therapy, and the costs of revascularization have resulted in rising interest regarding the
      appropriate indications and alternatives for coronary revascularization.

      Hybrid coronary revascularization is the intended combination of CABG and PCI. The HCR
      strategy combines grafting of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) coronary artery using
      the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) and PCI of non-LAD coronary stenoses. Essentially,
      stents are substituted for saphenous vein grafts (SVG) for non-LAD lesions, and the surgical
      LIMA to LAD bypass is performed, ideally through a limited access, minimally traumatic
      approach.

      Unfortunately, the published data to date on HCR must be considered limited and hypothesis
      generating. Clinicians, payers, and patients are interested in the specific benefits of
      revascularization alternatives. HCR as a scientifically validated approach would have a major
      healthcare impact. The ability to deliver a new therapy for CAD that provides durability, but
      without the obligatory trauma and prolonged recovery time characteristic of conventional CABG
      would be a major advance in the field of cardiovascular medicine. The NHLBI-funded Hybrid
      Observational Study demonstrated that equipoise exists between the two coronary
      revascularization paradigms; however, a rigorously designed randomized clinical trial is now
      needed to provide sufficient evidence to guide clinical decision making for this important
      patient population.

      This trial is a prospective, multi-center randomized comparative effectiveness trial of HCR
      compared to multi-vessel PCI in patients with multi-vessel CAD involving the LAD or LM
      territories. The trial is designed as a "large, simple" trial, and some baseline,
      procedure-related and short-term outcomes data collection will be extracted from existing
      registry data (Society of Thoracic Surgeons [STS] Data Registry). The overall objective of
      this trial is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of Hybrid Coronary Revascularization
      (HCR) compared to multi-vessel PCI with drug-eluting stents (DES) in patients with
      multi-vessel coronary artery disease involving the Left Main and/or Left Anterior Descending
      arteries.

      The primary objective the trial is to determine whether hybrid coronary revascularization is
      associated with a reduction in Major Adverse Cardiac and Cerebrovascular Events [MACCE]
      compared to PCI with DES.

      The secondary objectives are to determine the impact of HCR compared to PCI on health status
      and quality of life.
    
  