
    
      Radical abdominal hysterectomy (RAH) with pelvic lymphadenectomy is the standard surgical
      treatment for early stage cervical carcinoma FIGO stages IA2-IB1-IIA<2cm. Since the early
      90's laparoscopic radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy (LRH) has been suggested
      as surgical approach for the treatment of cervical cancer. In the recent years, many
      institutions have begun to consider it an attractive technique and to study its feasibility
      and safety. Most of these studies have shown that LRH is relatively more time-consuming than
      standard laparotomy and ranges from 90 to 420 minutes according to surgeons' experience and
      different techniques adopted to achieve hemostasis, resect the parametrium and uterosacrals.
      Spirtos et al. demonstrated that staplers could reduce mean operation time from 253 to 205
      minutes if compared to argon beam coagulator. Moreover, the pulsed bipolar system was
      associated with significant reduction in operative time in comparison with the conventional
      bipolar system (mean, 172 minutes vs 229 minutes; P < 0.001). The largest series of LRH
      reported from a single institution by Puntambekar et al included 248 patients and described
      the "Pune technique" (anterior and posterior peritoneal U cuts, early dissection of the
      rectovaginal space, fully mobilization of the uterus, resection of the cardinal and
      uterosacral ligaments with Ligasure system (Ligasure Vessel Sealing System; Valleylab, Tyco
      Healthcare, Boulder, CO)), obtaining a very short mean operative time (mean, 92 minutes;
      range 6-120 minutes).

      A recent review on laparoscopic and robot-assisted radical hysterectomy with pelvic
      lymphadenectomy including 17 studies reported a mean operating time of 202 minutes [range,
      184-221 minutes] in the group of LRH, which matches with our experience of 210 min (range
      180-240), using conventional bipolar electrosurgery.

      This prospective randomized pilot study is aimed to verify if the operative time of a LRH
      with pelvic lymphadenectomy for early stage cervical cancer (FIGO stages IA2-IB1-IIA<2cm) and
      for advanced stage cervical cancer (FIGO stages IB2-IIA>2cm-IIB) submitted to neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (NACT) with complete clinical response could be further reduced using 3D
      Laparoscopy (Olympus Medical Systems Corp) vs. standard laparoscopy.

      Saving operative time would mean shorter anesthesia and faster recovery, further improving
      the safety profile of the laparoscopic approach in the treatment of cervical cancer.

      Secondary endopoints of this comparison are incidence of intra- or postoperative
      complications (Cardiac, Respiratory, Neurological, Gastrointestinal, Renal, Fever, Wound or
      other Infection, Lymphocele), estimated blood loss, days of hospitalization and costs for the
      health care system.
    
  