
    
      Palliative patients frequently experience constipation due to multiple factors - structural
      abnormalities, medications, metabolic disturbances, neurological disorders, and other general
      conditions. Docusate is a stool softener that has been widely used, in combination with other
      stimulating laxatives, to prevent and treat constipation in palliative care patients. In the
      past decade there has been controversy about its effectiveness in these populations, but no
      controlled trials have been conducted on the use of docusate in palliative patients. The
      purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of docusate in preventing and treating
      constipation in palliative care patients. The study design is a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial to compare the current standard treatment (docusate in combination
      with a laxative, sennoside) to that of a sennoside laxative alone. A total of 70 patients (35
      in each group) will be recruited from the Palliative Care Unit at St. Joseph's Auxiliary Care
      Hospital, the Mel Miller Hospice at the Edmonton General Continuing Care Hospital, and
      CapitalCare Norwood in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Patients must be ≥ 18 years of age, able to
      take oral medication, without difficulty swallowing, have a palliative performance ≥ 20%, and
      do not have a stoma. The duration of treatment will be for 10 days. The main outcome measures
      will include bowel frequency, stool consistency, other interventions (suppositories, enemas),
      difficulty defecating, and sense of inability to evacuate completely. This study will provide
      insight into the effectiveness of docusate in preventing and treating constipation in
      palliative patients who are cared for by family physicians and specialized palliative care
      providers. If docusate is found to have no added benefit,it has the potential to enhance the
      quality of life for palliative care patients by reducing the number of medications taken and
      reducing the palliative care team's (e.g. nursing) workload and cost.
    
  