
    
      -  Health-care professionals diagnose elbow pain mainly by a patient's history and physical
           exam. Radiologic techniques such as X-ray ,US,CT and MRI are often used to delineate the
           elbow structures involved. Conventional radiography remains an essential initial test in
           the evaluation of the elbow and its disorders. One must be familiar with the pertinent
           anatomy, early developmental changes, and the biomechanics of this complex joint to
           appreciate subtle injury patterns and articular disorders. In some cases, radiographic
           imaging will point to the need for further evaluation with CT, MR, or sonographic
           imaging High-resolution ultrasound is well suited for evaluating the elbow. Ultrasound
           is growing in popularity and fast becoming another modality that the radiologist can use
           to help diagnose elbow pathology. ultrasound offers focused and real-time
           high-resolution imaging of tendons, ligaments, and nerve structures. Its advantages
           include the use of safe nonionizing radiation, accessibility, and cost effectiveness.
           Ultrasound is also useful in therapeutic guided injections for its multiplanar
           capability and clear visualization of major vessels and nerves.

        -  MR imaging provides clinically useful information in assessing the elbow joint. Superior
           depiction of muscles, ligaments, and tendons as well as the ability to visualize nerves,
           bone marrow, and hyaline cartilage directly are advantages of MR imaging relative to
           conventional imaging techniques. These features of MR imaging may help to establish the
           cause of elbow pain by accurately depicting the presence and extent of bone and
           soft-tissue pathology. Ongoing improvements in surface coil design and newer pulse
           sequences have resulted in higher quality MR images of the elbow that can be obtained
           more rapidly. This is especially important in MR as the imaging tool that shows a
           highest soft tissue resolution among other imaging techniques. Recent clinical
           experience has shown the utility of MR imaging in detecting and characterizing disorders
           of the elbow in a a noninvasive fashion.
    
  