
    
      The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy on disease-free survival of a formula
      enriched with L-arginine, omega-3 fatty acids, and ribonucleic acids, taken for 5 days before
      each cycle of chemotherapy, in patients with high-risk locally-advanced HNSCC treated with
      postoperative concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CRT).

      This study is a national, multicentric double blinded, randomised phase III trial. A total of
      306 patients (102 patients in group control vs 204 patients in group Oral Impact速) will be
      required including 10% of lost-to-follow-up patients.

      An immunomodulating oral supplementation compound (Oral Impact速) is compared to an isocaloric
      isonitrogenous control. The compound to be assessed contains 334kcal/bag and 18.1g of
      proteins, as well as immunomodulatory nutrients such as L-Arginine, RNA and omega-3. The
      control has the same formula to that of the Oral Impact速, but not enriched with specific
      nutrients. Each patient has to take Oral Impact速 or a sip feed control during 5 days before
      each cycle of chemotherapy.

      DFS will be measured from the time of randomization to the time of the first evidence of
      progression (local, regional, metastatic, or second primary) or death from any cause.
      Patients alive without carcinologic event were censored at last follow-up date.

      Patients treated with postoperative CRT are expected to have a 2-year DFS rate of 60% without
      specific diet (pControl).

      Including a ratio 1:2, an expected recruitment of 90 patients per year, the current study
      will require 131 events to detect an absolute improvement of 15% (HR=0.56, pExperimental=75%)
      with 0.90 statistical power using a two-sided test and a significance level of 0.05.

      A total of 306 patients (102 vs 204) will be required including 10% of lost of follow-up
      patients.

      The inclusion period would be 4 years, for an expected total duration of study about 8 years.
    
  