
    
      Since the original description in the 1970's, the laparoscopic approach to management of
      surgical diseases has gained widespread acceptance. It has been shown to be associated with
      decreased wound pain, analgesic requirements, hospital stay and allows improved cosmesis and
      quality of life without significantly increasing the risks of morbidities and mortalities.
      With continued improvements in technology, however, efforts to reduce the number of abdomen
      wounds in an attempt to further decrease pain, improve cosmesis and outcomes are underway.
      Natural Orifices Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) has received widespread attention in
      both the medical field as well as the general public. However, there are still a multitude of
      problems that needs to be solved before the technique can be broadly applied to human
      subjects [7]. On the other hand, a renewed interest in single incision laparoscopic surgeries
      is emerging. The approach has been shown to be safe and feasible in our experience as well as
      the others. It also has the potential to further decrease the surgical trauma induced to the
      patient and to improve cosmesis.

      Since laparoscopic appendicectomy is one of the most basic procedures in laparoscopic
      surgery, it is an appropriate model for initial evaluation of single incision laparoscopic
      surgery. Our unit has already performed 20 cases of single site access laparoscopic
      appendicectomy (SSALA) and so far, the results have been encouraging (data pending
      publication). All the patients in the series had their procedures completed with a single
      incision. None of the patients suffered from adverse events and all had resumption of oral
      diet by day 1 and were discharged on day 2 post-operatively. However, whether the approach is
      more beneficial as compared to conventional three-port laparoscopic appendicectomy is still
      uncertain.

      Hence, the aim of the current study is to compare the approach of SSALA to conventional
      three-port laparoscopic appendicectomy in reducing surgical trauma and improving cosmesis to
      the patient.
    
  