
    
      Malnutrition may be caused by decreased nutrient intake or absorption, inflammation, or other
      disease-related mechanisms. Malnutrition resulting from disease or injury may be caused by
      decreased food intake or varying degrees of acute or chronic inflammation, which alters body
      composit ion and prompts a decline in biological functions. The effects of decreased food
      intake induced by an inflammatory reaction are related to the malnourishment resulted from
      anorexia, changes in metabolism, increased resting energy expenditure, and increased muscle
      catabolism. Changes in body composition are characterized by a decrease in any muscle mass
      marker (excluding fat mass, muscle mass index, or body cell mass). Therefore, malnutrition is
      associated with clinical results of clinical malfunction.

      The primary objectives of heart failure treatment include preventing the need for
      hospitalization, increasing the survival rate, and improving health status. Patient symptoms,
      bodily functions, and health status are also referred to as health-related quality of life
      (HRQoL). The EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) is used to assess the quality of life of patients undergoing
      cardiac rehabilitation. This assessment uses 5 aspects, namely mobility, self-care, usual
      activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, to assess patient health status.

      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is the gold standard method for evaluating the motor
      ability of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), yet is not extensively used. A more
      commonly used and simpler method is the 6-minute walk test, which measures the distance
      traveled by walking for 6 minutes. Changes in this value correlate to quality of life. This
      test is used to investigate the ability to perform daily activities and intensity of exercise
      in patients with mild to moderate CHF.

      Muscle strength is a key indicator for assessing patients with sarcopenia because decreased
      muscle strength is considered a crucial element in diagnosing muscle reduction. For
      circumstances in which muscle mass is difficult to assess, muscle strength, such as handgrip
      strength, can serve as a standard assessment of muscle functions.

      Exercise training is considered a valid method for stabilizing patients with heart failure.
      One study reported that the self-management intervention of a patient with heart failure
      notably decreased the occurrence of hospitalization and hospital readmission related to heart
      failure as well as all-cause mortality.

      The present study determines the effectiveness of nutrition intervention in routine medical
      treatment for improving the nutrition and quality of care among patients with heart failure.

      This study does not involve drugs, medical technology, or medical equipment.
    
  