
    
      Epidemiological data show that there is a decline in death from cardiovascular disease (CVD)
      in the state of Rio de Janeiro, but this did not happen in the cities of Itaperuna, Niterói
      and Volta Redonda, in spite of presenting different epidemiological characteristics, still
      have high rates of death CVD. What led to our interest in investigating these municipalities.
      Our goal is to evaluate the effect of supplementation with flaxseed oil combined with
      nutritional counseling in reducing cardiovascular risk factors in homocysteine, biomarkers of
      inflammation, oxidative stress, improving quality of life and cognitive decline in
      hypertensive individuals dyslipidemic and genotyped for polymorphisms C677T and A1298C
      methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTFHR). This is a clinical trial, double blind,
      placebo-controlled, randomized block, lasting three months. Study participants will be
      recruited from August 2011 to August 2013. Will be recruited at least 200 individuals in each
      city, considering possible losses and ensuring consistent results. Subjects will be
      randomized in blocks of 10, five patients in the group supplemented with linseed oil and five
      patients in the control group with placebo supplementation, ensuring proper distribution of
      the number of participants in the study groups. Will be collecting information on the
      socio-economic status of study participants through a structured questionnaire will be
      carried out assessment of food consumption - frequency of consumption and 24 hours, clinic -
      blood pressure, anthropometric - height, weight, waist circumference and BMI, body
      composition - bioelectrical impedance analysis, biochemical tests - lipid profile, blood
      glucose, insulin, homocysteine, serum folate concentrations in erythrocytes and, cobalamin,
      vitamin C, E and A, minerals - zinc, iron, copper and selenium, markers of oxidative stress
      and inflammatory response and molecular analysis - C677T and A1298C polymorphisms of
      methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene. It will also be diagnosed with depression and
      evaluation of physical activity and quality of life using questionnaires were previously
      validated. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of supplementation with flaxseed oil, in
      reinforcing the results of nutritional counseling in reducing cardiovascular risk factors and
      biomarkers studied, besides adding to the knowledge about the interactions between markers of
      inflammation, oxidative stress with oil supplementation flaxseed and polymorphisms C677T and
      A1298C MTHFR gene, on which there are no reports in the literature.
    
  