
    
      Introduction Elastography was first proposed by Ophir of Texas State University in the United
      States in 1991 ，which can objectively reflect the elastic information of the tissue through
      the deformation of the external force. Then, the elastic information is converted to RGB
      (red,green,blue) mode image, where hard tissue is shown in blue, medium tissue in green and
      soft tissue in red, overlaid on the B-mode image. Different image colors reflect the
      difference of tissue hardness, and then help identify the difference between benign and
      malignant tissue hardness. UE has become a hot spot in medical ultrasound imaging shortly
      after it was proposed. Now UE is widely used in the diagnosis of diseases in the breast,
      thyroid, prostate and other related tissues. The common clinical UE includes quasi-static
      elasiticity imaging, acoustic radiation force pulse (ARFI) and shear wave elastography (SWE).

      Lung cancer is one of the most common malignancies with high morbidity and mortality，the
      5-year survival rate being only 16%. Lymphatic metastasis, the most common mode of
      metastasis, is of great significance for staging of lung cancer. Therefore, the correct
      diagnosis of benign and malignant intrathoracic lymph nodes becomes the key to definite
      diagnosis and accurate treatment. EBUS-TBNA has shown its certain diagnostic value in lung
      cancer, lymphoma, sarcoidosis and lymph node tuberculosis. However, researches related to
      real-time endobronchial UE (EBUS-RTE) are scarce, EBUS-RTE combined with EBUS B-mode
      ultrasound and enhanced CT is even fewer.

      This study aimed to evaluate the value of endobronchial UE in differentiating benign and
      malignant intrathoracic lymph nodes qualitatively and quantitatively, and the combined
      features were evaluated as well. Here we show that endobronchial UE has significant value in
      the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant intrathoracic lymph nodes.

      Materials and Methods Patients Patients undergoing EBUS-TBNA examination in the Department of
      Respiratory Diseases, Nanjing Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing Medical University from June
      2016 to April 2017 were recruited in this study. All patients were evaluated by chest
      enhanced CT and/or 18-FDG PET-CT. Those who had enlarged intrathoracic lymph nodes(≥1cm)
      and/or 18-FDG high uptake (SUV Max > 2.5) without bleeding tendency, abnormal coagulation
      function and serious cardiac dysfunction were finally selected. The study was approved by the
      Ethics Committee of Nanjing Hospital (YL 20160713-020) and supported by Nanjing Science and
      Technology Commission (201505002). All the patients gave written informed consent.

      EBUS B-Mode ultrasound The patients were sedated by local anesthesia (lidocaine, China Otsuka
      Pharmaceutical Incorporated Company) and conscious sedation (midazolam, Jiangsu Nhwa
      Pharmaceutical incorporated company; fentanyl, Yichang Humanwell Pharmaceutical Incorporated
      Company; and propyl chloride, Xi'an Libang Pharmacertical Company) .The patients received an
      ultrasonic bronchoscopy (the Olympus 290 electronic bronchoscopy system of Japanese Olympus
      Company) from the mouth, the glottis, through the trachea. The locations of the lymph nodes
      were initially determined according to preoperative imaging examination. The B-mode
      ultrasound was started and the image focus and depth of observation was adjusted after the
      ultrasonic water sac was filled, so that the whole target lymph nodes and the surrounding
      normal tissues were clearly displayed on the screen. the investigators observed multi
      sections, selected the largest layer of the target lymph node, and retained pictures.The
      ultrasound image characteristics were independently recorded by three skilled respiratory
      physicians. The results were discussed and judged until consensus was reached.

      EBUS UE The B-mode was switched to the elastography mode. When the image was stable, it would
      be frozen and photographed. The observer judged the image type according to the color ratio
      of the image. Type 1: mainly non-blue (green and red); type 2: partly blue, partly non-blue
      (green and red); and type 3: mainly blue. Then, the strain rate ratios of normal tissue
      (green and red) and the hardest region (the deepest blue) in the target lymph node region
      were measured and recorded. In contrast to B-mode ultrasound lymph node images, the
      elastography images were taken out as region of interest (ROI) in Image J software. The ROI
      was converted into RGB encoding mode, and the blue part was extracted from the Metlab
      software by setting the difference between the B component and the R and G components. After
      that, the blue area to ROI area ratio was calculated. According to the blue area ratio, the
      following grading standard was used to evaluate each lymph node as follows. 1 point: over 80%
      of the section was non blue (green, yellow and red); 2 point: more than 50%, but less than
      80% of the section was non-blue (green, yellow and red); 3 point: more than 50%, but less
      than 80% of the section was blue; and 4 point: over 80% of the section was blue.

      EBUS-TBNA and Final Diagnosis After elastography, switch to the blood flow pattern, avoid the
      blood vessels, confirm the safe needle path to the target node and adjust the depth of the
      needle (Cook Ireland Limited Liability Company, Ireland). EBUS-TBNA was performed under the
      guidance of real-time ultrasound. Each target lymph node was punctured 3~4 times. All the
      histological and cytological specimens were analyzed by pathologists who were blinded to the
      elastography values. A positive diagnosis was confirmed by pathology and/or cytology, and all
      patients with negative results underwent thoracoscopic or open chest surgery and follow-up to
      confirm the benign and malignant lymph nodes.

      Statistical Analysis All data statistics were analyzed by SPSS 22 (IBM, New York, USA)
      statistical software. The normal distribution data were described by mean and standard
      deviation, and the quantitative data were described by median (maximum and minimum), and the
      qualitative data were described by percentage. All the numerical variables were analyzed by
      one-way ANOVA, and the chi-square test was used for categorical variables. The difference was
      statistically significant when P<0.05. If the benign and malignant group values conformed to
      normal distribution and the variance was homogeneous, the independent sample t test was used,
      otherwise the nonparametric test (Mann-Whitney test) was utilized. ROC analysis was conducted
      to evaluate the diagnostic value of single characteristics and combined characteristics. The
      maximum Youden index was calculated to determine the optimal cut-off point of differential
      diagnosis of benign and malignant lymph nodes. The diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity,
      specificity, PPV and NPV of each meaningful characteristic and combined characteristics were
      calculated respectively.
    
  