
    
      Background: Ankle injuries are the most common musculoskeletal injuries in the military and
      civilian populations, creating a substantial time loss that equates to a $5.5 billion annual
      financial burden. Up to 70% who sustain a lateral ankle sprain (LAS) will develop chronic
      ankle instability (CAI), with persistent functional disability and injury recurrence. Over
      70% of CAI cases will develop early onset post-traumatic ankle joint osteoarthritis (PTOA),
      with consequent deteriorations in physical activity and health-related quality of life. Given
      the rate of injuries and discharge rates in the military, the need to deliver improved care
      to disrupt the path to PTOA is warranted. Our preliminary data demonstrates deficits in
      central nervous system (CNS) function in patients with CAI, which supports the inclusion of
      sensorimotor tasks into rehabilitation as an effective means to improve lingering dysfunction
      and decrease disability in patients with CAI. However, to our knowledge, no investigation has
      employed these sensorimotor techniques in rehabilitation for acute LAS patients. Therefore,
      the purpose of this study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of a sensorimotor ankle
      rehabilitation training (SMART) protocol compared to a standard of care (SOC) protocol at
      improving clinical and novel outcomes, which will associate with lower rates of LAS re-injury
      and development of CAI during a 12-month follow-up period. The proposed project is aligned
      with multiple FY17-18 JPC-8/CRMRP NMSIRRA Focus Areas (i.e. Limited understanding of the
      management of patient rehabilitation strategies throughout the rehabilitation process
      following neuromusculoskeletal injury) and Identified Areas of Emphasis (i.e. Develop and
      evaluate innovative rehabilitation techniques for Service members with neuromusculoskeletal
      injuries).

      Hypotheses: Hypothesis 1.1: Compared to the SOC, LAS patients participating in the SMART
      program will have improved clinical outcomes at the time of return to full activity.
      Hypothesis 1.2: Compared to the SOC, LAS patients participating in the SMART program will
      have improved clinical outcomes and lower LAS re-injury rates at the 6-month follow-up.
      Hypothesis 1.3: Compared to the SOC, LAS patients participating in the SMART program will
      have improved clinical outcomes, lower LAS re-injury rates, and less ankle joint cartilage
      turnover at the 12-month follow-up. Hypothesis 2.1: Compared to the SOC, LAS patients
      participating in the SMART program will have improved central nervous system function at the
      time of return to activity, and at the 6-month and 12-month follow-ups. Hypothesis 3.1:
      Improved mechanistic measures in these innovative outcomes will help explain the success from
      SMART on the clinical outcomes and ankle joint integrity at the 12-month follow-up.

      Specific Aims and Objectives: Our primary purpose is to compare a novel SMART protocol
      against a SOC protocol to determine if it is more successful at producing successful one-year
      outcomes and lower rates of re-injury after acute LAS. Specific Aim #1: Determine if SMART
      improves clinical outcomes (patient-reported function and quality of life, LAS re-injury
      rates, postural control, ankle ROM) and ankle joint integrity (articular cartilage turnover)
      in LAS patients. Specific Aim #2: Determine if SMART improves innovative measures of CNS
      function (corticospinal excitability and brain white matter integrity) in LAS patients.
      Specific Aim #3: Delineate the association between explanatory mechanistic measures
      (corticospinal excitability and brain white matter integrity) and the hypothesized
      improvements in clinical and ankle joint integrity in LAS patients receiving SMART.

      Research Strategy: Using a prospective cohort study design, we will compare clinical and CNS
      outcome measures between cohorts that do or do not develop CAI during the 12 months following
      an acute LAS from University of Kentucky, University of North Carolina, and Fort
      Bliss/William Beaumont Army Medical Center. Patients initiating rehabilitation for acute LAS
      will be randomly assigned to either a SOC or a SMART protocol. Testing will be performed when
      patients are cleared to return to full duty/activity, and 6 and 12 months after return to
      duty/activity to determine success in clinical and innovative outcomes.

      Military Benefit and Impact: The proposed research study will directly translate to improved
      clinical outcomes following LAS and prevention of CAI and ankle PTOA. Our work will confirm
      the need for more comprehensive physical therapy for LAS that addresses sensorimotor deficits
      that persist commonly after completion of a SOC treatment, bringing a significant clinical
      impact. This will alleviate financial burdens and time-loss from the common injuries
      sustained to the ankle, translating into more LAS patients experiencing optimal short-term
      re-integration and long-term sustained performance, achieving the ultimate goal of "Total
      Readiness".
    
  