
    
      We are studying whether water-soluble cinnamon extract (Cinnulin PF) plus standard of care
      aggressive lifestyle therapy is effective in lowering blood glucose when compared to placebo
      plus standard of care aggressive life style therapy. Eligible subjects will be recruited from
      any form and any stage of "standard" lifestyle intervention for pre-diabetes at an individual
      base. "Standard" lifestyle intervention for pre-diabetes could include Group Lifestyle
      Balance (GLB), nutrition classes, Better Body/Better Life, or anything an investigator
      certifies as standard practice at that base. Subjects will take either 1 gram (2-500
      milligram (mg) capsules) of water-soluble cinnamon extract (Cinnulin PF) or 2 placebo pills
      (gelatin capsule filled with wheat bran) once a day for 1 year plus 1 additional year of
      follow-up. This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled study which
      will enroll subjects at the Mike O'Callaghan Federal Medical Center (MOFMC), Wilford Hall
      Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC), David Grant Medical Center (DGMC), Eglin Air Force Base
      (Eglin), and Offutt Air Force Base (Offutt). All subjects will be MOFMC, WHASC, DGMC, Eglin,
      and Offutt DoD beneficiaries. Informed Consent and HIPAA Authorization will be obtained.
      After randomization, subjects will receive either 1 gram (2-500 mg capsules) of water-soluble
      cinnamon extract or placebo from the pharmacy--thus investigators and subjects will be
      blinded as to if they are taking Cinnulin PF or 2 placebo pills. Subjects will be permitted
      to have usual medical care for other co-morbid, preventive, and acute conditions. Analysis
      will be performed using intention-to-treat principles for missing data (the carry-forward
      method to impute missing data will be used). Subjects will bring in any remaining
      water-soluble cinnamon extract or placebo to determine adherence rates to the study protocol.
    
  