
    
      Medically stable stroke subjects will be recruited in the first few days following their
      stroke. All participants will complete clinical and robotic assessments of neurologic
      function at 7 time points. Therapy will occur daily (Monday through Friday) for 20 days.

      Study participants will be randomly assigned to 1) start robot therapy early or late after
      stroke and 2)receive one or two hours of robot therapy per treatment day for four weeks, or
      3) control group that will receive the current standard of care.

      The participant's chart will be reviewed for information about their stroke and related
      health effects and medical treatments. Assessment points to track progress will occur at 7,
      18, 31,44,90,180, and 365 days after a stroke for all groups (give or take 2 days to account
      for weekends and holidays).

      Standard clinical assessments of neurologic function will be done at each assessment point
      and include: cognition, arm strength, muscle tone, spasticity, reflexes, dexterity, visual
      acuity and fields, the Behavioural Inattention Test, and tests of arm movement (Fugl-Meyer
      Upper-Extremity, Box and Block Test, Chedoke-McMaster Stroke Assessment, and the Action
      Research Arm Test). These assessments can usually be done in about an hour. The assessment
      may be done over two sessions if needed due to fatigue or scheduling conflicts.

      Robotic therapy will be conducted using the Kinesiological Instrument for Normal and Altered
      Reaching Movements (KINARM, Bkin Technologies, Kingston, ON). It will include several
      different tasks, each designed to train aspects of sensorimotor function of the proximal
      upper limb. Task performance will be monitored and difficulty will increase within and
      between sessions. The majority of the investigator's methods have been used previously to
      achieve equivalent or superior outcomes to standard rehabilitation.

      Robotic assessment will measure elbow and shoulder range of motion, reaching for targets, the
      ability to mirror match the position of an arm with the other arm, and the ability to use
      both arms to hit away moving targets. The robotic assessment will take approximately 1.5
      hours.

      Robotic tasks include:

      Visually guided reaching with assistance or resistance; Virtual Soccer; Shape Tracking;
      Whack-a-mole; Table Tennis Task; Ball on Bar Task; Proprioceptive Reaching; Hand Ball;
      Proprioceptive Shape Tracking.
    
  