
    
      Participants Patients who have recently (<72 hours) suffered an acute myocardial infarction
      will be invited to participate. The immediate post-infarction period is one of particular
      anxiety for patients and their carers and the project has been designed following advice from
      Patient-Public-Involvement advisers and also after discussion of the project at the
      Cardiovascular Clinical Research Facility PPI group meeting. Patient attendance will be kept
      to a minimum and dovetail with clinical investigations wherever possible. In view of the
      exploratory nature of the project, and the primary endpoint: left ventricular remodelling,
      exclusion and inclusion criteria have been limited, preferring instead to capture a
      real-world pragmatic view of changes in cardiac function following myocardial infarction.
      This is also important when viewed in context of the long-term plan to investigate the
      effects of vitamin D in ameliorating these adverse changes following a heart attack.

      Data collection, administration and imaging protocol Demographic and clinical variables will
      be recorded on a bespoke database, which will also store biochemical information including
      vitamin D, PTH and vitamin D binding protein levels measured in routine blood samples. EDTA
      blood we will also be stored for analysis of vitamin D binding protein haplotypes. It is
      thought that vitamin D does not exhibit an acute phase response so levels are stable
      following a myocardial infarction. Each participant will undergo full bedside
      echocardiography within 72 hours of an acute ST elevation myocardial infarction, the results
      of which will be available for clinical use. European and American guidelines recommend
      echocardiography prior to discharge for patients admitted with a STEMI, so this scan will not
      be an extra procedure. The consent process will describe that the scan is clinically
      indicated but will also be used for research purposes. As such this proposed study will
      provide support for the clinical service.

      VINDICATE (vitamin D replenishment in patients with chronic heart failure) examined
      remodelling and vitamin D over 12 months. Remodelling is expected to be accelerated in
      patients experiencing an acute STEMI (a recent study of acute iron supplementation compared
      scans at baseline and at three months) and indeed previous work describing the outcomes and
      predictors of remodelling in 284 STEMI patients did so using repeat echocardiography at 6
      months.

      Full conventional echocardiography will be carried out with grey-scale and tissue Doppler
      images recorded in the two and four chamber views using harmonics to improve border
      definition if necessary. All images will be stored in the 'echopac' digital imaging system
      and analysed offline. This analysis will include a calculation of LV end diastolic and end
      systolic volumes using the real-time three dimensional data and two-dimensional biplane discs
      (modified Simpson's) method by tracing the endocardial border excluding the papillary
      muscles. An average of three measurements will be used in the final analysis. The frame at
      the R-wave will be taken as end diastole, and the frame with the smallest LV cavity, as end
      systole. The LV end-systolic volume index (LVESVi) will be calculated as LVESV/body surface
      area.

      Statistical considerations Study design and analysis plan have been developed with the help
      of Dr David Cairns, Principal Statistician at the Leeds Clinical Trials Research Unit.

      Statistical analysis plan Clinical and technical variables known to be of relevance to
      outcomes in patients following myocardial infarction including pre-existing left ventricular
      function, anaemia, age, female sex, diabetes mellitus, previous chronic kidney disease will
      be collected.

      Change in left ventricular volume is a reliable surrogate of change in outcome. Two possible
      markers of progressive remodelling will be analysed. The first will be to use the cut-off of
      5% reduction in LVEF or a 15% increase in left ventricular end systolic volume index
      (LVESVi), two variables which have been frequently used in the literature as a measure of
      adverse remodeling. How changes in LVESVi and LVEF as continuous variables relate to the
      baseline clinical data will also be explored. In this analysis we will follow the guidelines
      described in STARD and TRIPOD statements to produce transparent and reproducible evidence
      which relate clinical variables to markers of progressive remodeling.

      Hence, the initial approach will be to perform univariate tests of association (two sample
      t-tests, one way analysis of variance and chi-squared tests) to look at the relationship
      between the predictor variables of rhythm, past medical history (of ischaemic heart disease
      and diabetes mellitus), pre-existing left ventricular function, location of myocardial
      infarction, anaemia, age, female sex, previous chronic kidney disease and markers of
      progressive remodelling. Around one quarter (25%) of all returning patients are expected to
      fulfil the binary cut offs of >5% reduction in LVEF or >15% change in LVESVi. This will then
      be further developed to construct robust multivariable predictive models based on a step-wise
      logistic regression modelling procedure using bootstrap resampling to develop and internally
      validate the model. This approach will require sufficient patients' data to reliably allow
      regression models including all potentially relevant clinical variables.

      Sample size prediction It has been assumed that for each independent predictor under
      investigation, there will need to be 10 'events' (>5% reduction in LVEF). With nine predictor
      variables, allowing for drop outs, withdrawal of consent or poor imaging, while recognising
      that the predictor variables are not likely to be independent of one another, it has been
      conservatively estimated that the study will need 90-100 subjects with 'events' (in this case
      remodelling) to robustly estimate a model. Since conservatively estimates suggest that around
      25% of patients will experience remodelling, 400 patients will be scanned at baseline and 6
      months.

      However, around half of all patients presenting to Leeds with a STEMI come from other
      districts and may not want to return to LTHT for an echocardiogram. It has therefore been
      conservatively estimated that around 800 patients will need a scan to achieve 400 attendances
      at follow-up. Leeds performs primary angioplasty (for STEMI) on around 1200 patients per year
      such that allowing for weekends and refusals, there will be sufficient patients to complete
      enrolment within two years.

      Follow-up and outcomes recording Outcomes data at one year, two years and five years
      following the index event will be collected using routinely collected hospital admissions and
      mortality data.
    
  