
    
      The principal way of penetration of CBRNE agents is the respiratory system. The current
      technology of a gas mask has been used to protect the respiratory system as far back as the
      First World War. That originated from Dr Cluny Macpherson's initiatives whom was a Canadian
      military physician.

      The military gas mask is part of the respirator classification but owes its specific
      features. Conventionally, the military gas mask covers a large spectrum of protection aspects
      and matched with their specific canisters. Consequently, gas masks are usually studied
      separately from other respirators and Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SBCA).

      The gas mask design and its components may lead to these respiratory load issues. At rest and
      effort, what would be the impacts for the work of breathing and gas exchange? In order to
      avoid hypoxemia and hyperoxia, what would be the optimal means to restore proper oxygenation?
      We hypothesised: i. on a heightened WOB and the respiratory demands related to wear of the
      gas mask; ii. An occurrence of hypoxemia will be manifesting during a continuous period at
      both at rest and effort.

      Our goal was to measure the impact of the work of breathing and the gas exchange for a gas
      mask user. We also measured what was the optimal means for correcting the hypoxemia with a
      subject.

      14 Male Human Subjects participated in a comparison and single-blind randomized experimental
      study. That was approved by the Ethical Review Committee. All male subjects were in averaged
      age of 38.9±5 year old and a FEV1 4.60±0.70 Liter. A written consent was obtained for all the
      subjects prior their acceptance. No rejection happened during the recruiting. The eligibility
      criteria were: i. No significant cardiac and respiratory diseases known; ii. No epilepsy
      background; iii. No severe pathology requiring medication; iv. No pregnancy for woman; v.
      Face medium - size in relation of the gas mask. The exclusion criteria were: i. Refusals
      relate to wear the oesophageal catheter and for capillary punctures; ii. Claustrophobia; iii.
      Oesophageal wounds backgrounds; iv. No coronary background and stroke history; v. No face
      morphology incompatibility with the mask. Spirometry and usual health screening was also done
      before starting the clinical trial.

      Design comprised seven 10-minute testing conditions split in two parts. Five were at rest and
      sitting on a chair: i. Baseline without gas mask; ii. Baseline with gas mask; iii. Hypoxemia
      without mask; iv. Hypoxemia with gas mask; and v. Hypoxemia corrected. Two effort conditions
      were programmed at 7 METS Effort Zone and were performed on Treadmill (Constant 3 MPH speed
      and 10% inclination). These were with and without the gas mask. Between the rest-condition a
      5-minute wash-out took place while for the effort a ten-minute was applied.

      Three five-minute periods was followed to record blood pressure and pulse during the
      conditions. SpO2 was continuously measured with Free O2 during condition while the Massimo
      was employed also at the beginning both the inclusion and at the each three hypoxemia
      condition (Radical - Signal Extraction Pulse Oximeter). During effort, they were taken at
      each two-minute, starting at a zero starting point. Capillary punctures were done at the end
      of each condition.

      Our main measurements were the WOB performed with a continuous recording of Peso pressure and
      respiratory volumes. Software Acknowledge, version 3.9 served as acquisition data system and
      analysis were achieved with a 4.2 version and a free-trial WOB calculus system, named
      RESPMAT. That was obtained from Maynaud and al. [2]. As power source, we used a BIOPAC
      (MP100, Santa Barbara, Californie, USA, 200 Hertz), four differential sensors (Validyne : 1x
      MP45±100 cmH2O; 2x MP??±5 cmH2O; 1x MP100±100 cmH2O) and four Carrier D-Modulators (Validyne,
      CT-15,120 Volt, 60 Hertz, 5Watts, Model CD15-A-2-A-1).

      Single esophageal catheter (Type Cooper, French caliber #5) and disposable pneumotachs were
      used. Lidocain spray and K-Y gel were applied during the insertion of the catheter. Its
      placement was done at 37.6±5.7 cm across the subject and a Mueller test was performed for
      each subject. In regard of spontaneous breathing, an Hudson mask was used while a C-4 Gas
      Mask with a canister was employed (Manufacturer: Airboss Defence, Bromont, Canada). Hypoxemia
      mixture was home-design with usual nitrous and medical gas and maintaining a FiO2 target at
      14%. Prototyped Free O2 System was employed for the correction of the hypoxemia.
    
  