
    
      Diabetic foot complications are the most common cause of nontraumatic lower extremity
      amputations in the industrialized world. The risk of lower extremity amputation ranges from
      15 to 46 times higher in diabetics than in persons who do not have diabetes mellitus.
      Furthermore, foot complications are the most frequent reason for hospitalization in patients
      with diabetes, accounting for up to 25 percent of all diabetic admissions in the United
      States and Great Britain. The vast majority of diabetic foot complications resulting in
      amputation begin with the formation of skin ulcers. Early detection and appropriate treatment
      of these ulcers may prevent up to 85 percent of amputations. (Armstrong)

      The primary goal in the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers is to obtain wound closure. Rest,
      elevation of the affected foot, and relief of pressure are basic treatments that are usually
      initiated when the patient first presents with a foot ulcer. A postoperative shoe or another
      type of pressure-relieving footwear is also often prescribed. Crutches or a wheelchair might
      also be recommended to totally off-load pressure from the foot. Necrotic tissue is debrided
      to allow full visualization of the extent of the ulcer, to allow detect underlying abscesses
      or sinuses, and to support healing. Wet-to-wet dressings are used to provide a warm, moist
      environment that is protected from external contamination is most conducive to wound healing.
      Additional options include numerous topical medications and gels, and special dressings,
      including semipermeable films, foams, hydrocolloids, and calcium alginate swabs.

      When these more conservative treatments fail, another recently developed nonoperative option
      is available. The genetically engineered platelet-derived growth factor becaplermin (Regranex
      Gel, OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) is approved for use on neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers and
      can expedite healing. Growth factors stimulate chemotaxis and mitogenesis of neutrophils,
      fibroblasts, and monocytes, as well as other components that form the cellular basis of wound
      healing.

      When nonoperative treatments fail, skin grafting is often required to achieve wound closure.
      In addition to autologous donor tissue for the graft procedure, bioengineered skin (Apligraf,
      Organogenesis, P950032/S016) and human dermis (Dermagraft, Smith & Nephew, P000036) are new
      types of biologically active implants approved for diabetic foot ulcers that are derived from
      fibroblasts of neonatal foreskins. These bioengineered products enhance healing by acting as
      delivery systems for growth factors and extracellular matrix components through the activity
      of live human fibroblasts contained in their dermal elements. (Frykberg)

      Despite the variety of modalities available to treat diabetic foot ulcers, the US Center for
      Disease Control reports that the age-adjusted lower extremity amputation rate for persons
      with diabetes is 5.5 per 1,000 persons with diabetes, which is was 28 times that of persons
      without diabetes.

      ESWT for Soft Tissue Indications

      The use of extracorporeal shock waves for clinical applications was introduced in the United
      States more than 20 years ago; the first indication for use approved by FDA was for treatment
      of renal calculi (kideny stones). Since that time, the clinical applications of
      extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) have been expanded to include treatment of chronic
      proximal plantar fasciitis (P990086, HealthTronics OssaTron; P000048, Dornier EPOS Ultra;
      P040026, Orthospec Extracorporeal Shock Wave Device; P040039, Orthometrix Orbasone Pain
      Relief System) and chronic lateral epicondylitis (P990086/S003, HealthTronics OssaTron;
      P010039, Siemens Sonocur Basic). In addition, there are numerous reports in the clinical and
      pre-clinical literature of shockwave therapy used to treat orthopedic conditions such as
      fracture non-unions, femoral head necrosis, and non-orthopedic conditions related to tissue
      healing.

      Treatment with extracorporeal shock waves has been shown to be associated with
      neovascularization in an animal model. Further, since several shockwave systems have been
      approved through the PMA process for treatment of chronic proximal plantar fasciitis and
      chronic lateral epicondylitis, there is a large amount of data regarding the safety of these
      devices in treating soft tissue. The research done by Meirer et al. (2005) and by Nishida et
      al. (2004) suggests that local delivery of shockwave therapy results in increased release of
      growth factors and improved circulation in the wound.

      Because of the promising association between ESWT and tissue healing, the favorable risk /
      benefit profile of the devices approved for treatment of soft tissue indications, and the
      European clinical experience with ESWT for wound healing, it is hypothesized that
      extracorporeal shock wave treatment (ESWT) could be beneficial in treating diabetic foot
      ulcers. Therefore, this IDE describes a clinical study designed to determine the safety and
      effectiveness of the DermaGold® ESW System when used to induce healing of chronic plantar
      foot ulcers in patients with diabetic foot ulcers.
    
  