
    
      CVD is the leading cause of death for women in the United States. It affects African American
      women at a higher rate than it does white women. People at risk for CVD are encouraged to
      maintain a healthy weight, eat a healthy diet that is low in fat and cholesterol, and
      increase their physical activity. Heath care centers are excellent places to provide
      counseling to people on ways to reduce their risk of CVD. In this study, researchers will
      evaluate the effectiveness of a community health care center-based counseling program aimed
      at reducing CVD risk factors among African American women from financially disadvantaged
      backgrounds.

      This study will enroll African American women. Participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of two groups-either a basic program or a comprehensive program. During a routine, scheduled
      visit with their health care providers, all participants will learn about the importance of
      increasing physical activity and eating a low fat diet. All participants will also receive
      educational materials and a community resource guide. In addition to this, participants in
      the comprehensive program will receive a pedometer and will be asked to keep a daily log of
      their physical activity and eating habits. Once a month, these same participants will receive
      telephone calls from a health counselor and a newsletter by mail that encourages them to
      maintain a healthy lifestyle. All participants will receive home visits from study staff at
      baseline and Months 6 and 12. During these visits, participants will undergo blood pressure,
      weight, height, and waist measurements and a blood collection. Participants will complete
      questionnaires to assess their medical history, diet, and physical activity habits. For 1
      week after each visit, participants will wear a physical activity monitor and keep an
      activity diary.
    
  