
    
      While COVID-19 vaccination will reduce COVID-19-related morbidity and mortality, the learned
      immune response may vary between individuals. This means interventions such as monoclonal
      antibodies (mAB) will still be needed to prevent progression of COVID-19 illness. Monoclonal
      antibodies seek to mimic or enhance the natural immune system response against a pathogen and
      are often used in the care of patients with cancer or infection.

      For viral infections, mABs are created by exposing a white blood cell to a particular viral
      protein, which is then cloned to mass produce antibodies to target that virus. For
      SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, IgG1 mABs target the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2
      and block viral attachment and entry into cells.

      The SARS-CoV-2 mABs bamlanivimab and etesevimab, and the REGN-COV2 combination (casirivimab +
      imdevimab) reduce nasopharyngeal viral burden plus clinical outcomes including future
      emergency department visits and hospitalizations. Each received FDA Emergency Use
      Authorization (EUA) for use in selected populations.

      As of February 2021, there are over 60,000 new cases of COVID-19 diagnosed daily in the US,
      with over 7000 daily COVID-19 related hospital admissions. Although case volumes are
      currently declining, COVID-19 remains a significant public health threat.

      Despite the EUAs, the clinical use of mABs is low due in part to lack of patient access,
      complexities in drug allocation, and lack of knowledge among providers are contributing
      factors. Further, the comparative effectiveness of different mABs is unknown and not yet
      directly studied. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recently
      called for expanded access and clinical use of mABs, noting it is "critical to collect data
      and evaluate whether they are working as predicted". This evaluation seeks to determine their
      relative effects versus each other, starting with those governed by EUAs.

      The COVID-19 mABs are routinely used at UPMC and which mAB is assigned by pharmacies is
      haphazard. Once any order for mAB infusion is approved by the UPMC system oversight group,
      the pharmacy provides whichever EUA-governed mAB is available under a therapeutic interchange
      approach. Ordering physicians review with the patient the EUA Fact Sheet for each mAB, and
      explain that the patient could receive any of the mABs governed by FDA EUAs. If demand for
      mAB exceeds supply, UPMC has a lottery system to allot who receives the therapy once
      requested by a physician. This pragmatic evaluation embraces and extends the current lottery
      system and therapeutic interchange policy for EUA-governed mABs for COVID-19, using an
      embedded assignment system akin to current mAb provision. This embedded system structures
      assignment to allow a clearer examination of care as a clarity measure for quality
      improvement. This system will allow a comparative effectiveness evaluation of the multiple
      mABs by effectively ensuring random allocation. As per standard UPMC pharmacy therapeutic
      interchange policy for all medications, the Physician can agree to the assigned mAB or can
      request a specific mAB. As per EUA requirements, patients will be counseled by their
      Physician about mABs and provided EUA Fact Sheets.
    
  