
    
      This is a commercially funded prospective observational, cohort study of healthy volunteers
      to assess the sensitivity and specificity of a point of care antibody assay for COVID-19 (the
      ARIA COVID-19 IgG/IgM Rapid Test. The test is a disposable lateral flow chromatographic
      cassette (CTK Biotech, Inc., USA). The kit is CE approved for its intended purpose.

      200 healthy volunteers will be enrolled into one of two cohorts:100 who have been confirmed
      to have had COVID-19 in the past (either by previous positive PCR swab or positive antibody
      test) and 100 thought not to have been affected by COVID-19. Once they have provided written
      informed consent to participate, volunteers will be invited to attend a 30 minutes
      appointment for testing. Prior to testing they will be asked to complete a short
      questionnaire to collect demographic information and details about previous symptoms of
      COVID-19.

      A finger prick blood sample will be taken from the patient and then tested in the ARIA
      antibody kit. Afterwards, a routine blood sample (10 ml) will then be taken from the
      participant. The blood sample will be used in three separate ways:

        1. A small sample of blood will be immediately removed from the sample bottle and placed
           into an ARIA antibody test kit.

        2. One blood tube will be immediately centrifuged and a sample of plasma removed for use in
           the ARIA antibody testing kit.

        3. One tube will be sent to the designated laboratory for formal COVID-19 ELISA antibody
           testing.

      The ARIA antibody kit will be used to identify the presence of COVID-19 antibodies. The
      results will be compared to a laboratory enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for
      COVID-19 antibodies. Once samples have arrived at the designated study laboratory they will
      undergo a specified ELSIA test for COVID-19 antibodies conducted according to the laboratory
      standard operating procedure for that test. For each sample type analysed (finger prick
      blood, venous blood, and plasma) the sensitivity and specificity of the test will be
      calculated against the results of the laboratory ELISA test.

      Afterwards a brief exit questionnaire will be completed by the participant to document their
      experience of the study.

      Recruitment is expected to be completed within six months of commencing the study.
    
  