
    
      Lymphedema is the result of an intra-tissue fluid accumulation by failure of the lymphatic
      system to absorb the excess fluid from the veinulo-capillary circulation. Lymphedema can be
      primitive with aplasia or hypoplasia of the lymphatic vessels or secondary by destruction of
      the lymphatic structures.

      We define three stages of severity of lymphedema:

        -  Stage I: increase of volume which is mitigate when the limb is raised

        -  Stage II: the elevation does not reduce anymore the volume and the oedema is still
           compressible. It produces skin changes such as fibrosis, rendered by the sign of
           Stemmer.

        -  Stage III: elephantiasis with disappearance of the compressible nature of edema,
           appearance of trophic skin disorders (papillomas, vesicles) and nail disorders.

      The first-line treatment of lymphedema corresponds to a physical therapy by decongestive
      physiotherapy. This intensive rehabilitation includes sessions of manual lymphatic drainages
      or pressure therapy sessions followed by the application of inelastic multilayer bandages,
      muscle exercises under bandages, skin care and pedicure for lymphedema of the lower limbs.

      Rehabilitation results in a decrease of the perimeters of the limb with lymphedema by a
      decrease in the amount of liquid of the affected limb, with movement of the intracellular
      liquid towards the trunk and the neck then into the jugular-subclavian confluence, the
      superior vena cava and right atrium without modification of extracellular fluid. No study
      have evaluated the prevalence of sleep apnea syndrome in this population and the effect of
      this treatment on sleep apnea syndrome.

      The interest of this study is to evaluate the prevalence of sleep apnea syndrome at patients
      suffering from lymphedema and the effect of intensive decongestive physiotherapy on the
      syndrome of sleep apnea by modification of the fluid redistribution.
    
  