
    
      There is evidence that demonstrate the beneficial effects of pulmonary rehabilitation
      programs (PR) on symptoms, exercise capacity, muscle strength and quality of life in patients
      with Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The majority of the studies used high
      intensity endurance and strength exercise training on land. Exercise on water is an effective
      form of training that has been used for decades for rehabilitation in different chronic
      conditions. In addition, there are promising preliminary results on the literature regarding
      aquatic training in patients with COPD. However, several gaps remain.

      Therefore, we aim to compare the effects of two rehabilitation programs with 6 months of
      duration in patients with COPD on physical activity in daily life and balance: land versus
      water.

      The sample will consist of 36 patients with COPD diagnosed according to the GOLD criteria, 50
      years old or more and clinically stable.

      Patients will be evaluated in 3 different moments: before the PR, after the PR and 6 months
      after the end of the PR (follow up). In addition to the assessment of physical activity in
      daily life and balance, the investigators will also evaluate pulmonary function, peripheral
      and respiratory muscle strength, body composition, maximal and submaximal exercise capacity,
      functional status and quality of life.

      Both groups (land or water) will be submitted for 3 sessions of exercise training per week,
      with 45 minutes of duration, during 6 months. The sessions of both groups include the same
      exercises sequence. Endurance exercise training will be performed on a bicycle and walking on
      land and strength training using free weights. Workload will be established according to the
      tests performance on assessment and progression will follow a predetermined schedule and
      adjusted according symptoms. On water the same approach will be followed.

      Expected results: the investigators expect improvement in terms of symptoms, exercise
      capacity, muscle strength, quality of life, functional status and physical activity in daily
      life at the end of the two training protocols. However, it is unclear whether one training
      protocol will be superior than the other. Due to the characteristics involved in the aquatic
      training, the investigators hypothesized that this type of training can result in better
      results on balance.
    
  