
    
      After the development of second generation drug-eluting stent (DES), clinical outcomes
      including in-stent restenosis have been dramatically improved in patients with coronary
      artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) compared with bare metal
      stent or first generation DES era. However, interventional cardiologist still concern about
      late adverse cardiac events including stent thrombosis (ST) in patients who received
      implantation of permanent metallic stent. Bioresorbable scaffold (BRS) have been developed to
      provide mechanical support and drug-delivery function similar to those of DES for
      approximately 1 year, followed by complete bioresorption over several years. It has the
      advantages of reducing the risk of late ST and maintaining of normal vascular function
      because these novel devices are expected to leave no permanent materials within the vessel.
      Although there was no significant difference from previous randomized controlled studies for
      evaluating the clinical outcomes at 1-year between BRS and DES, recently documented ARSORB II
      trial, which compared 3-year outcomes between BRS and DES, show that patients treated with
      BRS had a higher risk of device-oriented composite endpoint mainly driven by target vessel
      myocardial infarction (MI) compared to those with DES. In addition, in several case reports,
      the late ST after discontinuation of dual anti-platelet therapy (DAPT) was reported in
      patients who underwent BRS implantation. Therefore, the efficacy of extended DAPT and needs
      for optimal DAPT duration in patients treated with BRS have been emerged. In the DAPT study,
      randomized controlled trial including approximately 10,000 patients, DAPT beyond 1 year after
      placement of a DES, as compared with aspirin therapy alone, significantly reduced the risks
      of major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) and ST. However, extend
      use of DAPT increases bleeding risk and cost. Endoscopic, dental, and surgical procedures are
      often delayed due to extended DAPT, which may affect the patient's quality of life. In
      addition, there was no significant difference in all-cause mortality between extended DAPT
      and aspirin monotherapy in the DAPT study because of increased bleeding risk in extended DAPT
      group. Therefore, to determine the optimal or minimal necessary duration of DAPT is very
      important. The other important issue is that which antiplatelet agent is more appropriate
      after DAPT. In CAPRIE (Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischaemic Events)
      trial, clopidogrel showed a superior efficacy in preventing ischemic events compared with
      aspirin and the incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding was significantly lower with
      clopidogrel than with aspirin. Moreover, clopidogrel monotherapy was associated with a
      reduced risk of ischemic events without increased bleeding risk compared with aspirin
      monotherapy in patients receiving DES after 12-month DAPT. However, current guidelines still
      recommend aspirin monotherapy after 6-12 months of DAPT in patients treated with DES, there
      were no data for evaluating the optimal duration of DAPT and preferred choice of monotherapy
      in patients treated with BRS. Through results of previous studies, the authors postulated
      that P2Y12 antagonist monotherapy, which might have superior ability to prevent ischemic
      event compared to aspirin monotherapy, had similar risk of ischemic events with lower risk of
      bleeding complication compared with extended DAPT in patients who received BRS implantation
      with 12-month DAPT. Therefore, in the SMART-CHOICE II trial, we will test noninferiority of
      P2Y12 antagonist monotherapy compared with aspirin plus P2Y12 antagonist after 12-month of
      DAPT in patients treated with BRS.

      Stratification: presence of diabetes mellitus, clinical presentation (acute coronary
      syndrome), type of P2Y12 inhibitor (clopidogrel or ticagrelor), and investigational center.
    
  