
    
      Buruli ulcer disease (BUD) is caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans. It usually
      starts as a small nodule under the skin but may progress to an ulcerative lesion; and
      eventually large, usually painless ulcers may develop. When it heals - with surgery or
      without - it may cause severe scarring resulting in disability and deformity. BUD has emerged
      as an important infectious disease among rural populations in West Africa. The standard
      treatment used to be surgical excision for all forms and stages. In 2004. The World Health
      Organisation advised the use of streptomycin (S, 15 mg/kg daily, intramuscularly) and
      rifampicin (R,10 mg/kg daily) along with surgery. This preliminary advice was based on the
      observation in 21 patients with pre-ulcerative lesions of BUD, who were given daily SR
      treatment for varying periods of time. If patients had received such treatment for at least 4
      weeks, M. ulcerans could not be cultured again from the lesions that were excised. The
      treatment has been implemented in areas with poor access to surgical facilities, in Pobe,
      Benin, and although no formal evaluation or comparison with other treatments have been
      conducted or published, the impression is that this treatment is probably beneficial and may
      cure BUD without the need for additional surgical management.

      This study protocol was designed to evaluate the hypothesis that early, limited lesions of
      Buruli ulcer (M. ulcerans disease; pre-ulcerative or ulcerated lesions, less than or equal to
      10 maximum diameter), can be healed without recurrence using antimycobacterial drug therapy,
      without the need for debridement surgery.

      In endemic regions in Ghana, active case finding will be followed by accrual of patients

        -  5 years of age and over, with

        -  limited early (i.e., onset less than 6 months) lesions of Buruli ulcer.

      After appropriate consent by patients and / or their care givers or legal representatives,
      patients will be diagnosed both by

        -  clinical evaluation, and

        -  by analysis of three punch biopsies (0.3 cm each) under local anaesthesia.

      Only patients with confirmation of M. ulcerans disease - presence of dry reagent-based
      polymerase chain reaction (DRB-PCR) signal with insertion sequence IS2404, were to be
      randomised to receive either SR for 8 weeks, or 4 weeks of SR followed by oral treatment
      consisting of R and clarithromycin (C), as allocated by a computer-generated program;
      patients will be stratified for ulcerative or pre-ulcerative lesions.

      Patients who meet the clinical criteria for M ulcerans disease but are PCR negative, will be
      offered 8 weeks RS treatment, as is presently provisionally recommended by WHO, and will be
      evaluated separately, according to the protocol for patients allocated to 8 weeks RS
      treatment. All biopsies from lesions will be subjected to histopathology, DRB-PCR-,
      microscopy, culture, genomic, sensitivity tests and external quality control in laboratories
      in Kumasi (KNUST), Hamburg (BNITM), Munich (DITM) and Antwerp (ITM). Lesions will be assessed
      regularly for progression or healing during treatment. Drug toxicity will likewise be
      monitored: renal and audiographic tests for S and C, ECG for C, and liver enzymes for R and
      C, and blood cell counts for C.

      The primary endpoint is healing without recurrence at 12 months follow-up after start of
      treatment Secondary endpoint is reduction in lesion surface area and/or clinically assessed
      improvement on completion of treatment, averting the need for debridement surgery.

      Recurrences will be biopsied for confirmation, using PCR, histopathology, and culture. In
      all, 200 patients will need to be screened according to protocol, and 2x74 evaluable patients
      will be randomised based on a power analysis to detect a difference of 20 % in
      recurrence-free cure 12 months after start of treatment between the two groups (60 versus
      80%). A Data Safety and Monitoring Board will make interim analyses.
    
  