
    
      Treatment on this study consists of 2 parts. The first part of your treatment is called
      induction chemotherapy and will last for 6-9 weeks, depending on which group you are in. The
      second part of treatment will be radiation therapy (either with or without chemotherapy). The
      type of treatment you will receive depends on the site and stage of the disease.

      Study Drugs:

      Paclitaxel, carboplatin, and 5-fluorouracil are designed to block cancer cells from dividing,
      which may cause them to die.

      Docetaxel is designed to stop the growth of cancer cells, which may cause the cells to die.
      It may also damage blood vessels in tumor tissue.

      Cisplatin has a platinum atom at its center. The platinum is supposed to poison the cancer
      cells, which may cause them to die.

      Cetuximab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking proteins
      inside the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. There is an equal chance of being assigned to either
      group.

        -  If you are in Group A, you will receive cetuximab, paclitaxel, and carboplatin.

        -  If you are in Group B, you will receive cetuximab, docetaxel, cisplatin, and
           5-fluorouracil.

      Part 1 Study Drug Administration:

      Group A:

      During induction, you will receive cetuximab, paclitaxel, and carboplatin by vein once a week
      for 6 weeks. During Week 1, the cetuximab infusion will last about 2 hours. During Weeks 2-6,
      the cetuximab infusion will last about 1 hour. Following the cetuximab infusion, you will
      receive paclitaxel over about 1 hour followed by carboplatin over about 1 hour.

      Your vital signs will be monitored before, during, and after the cetuximab infusion.

      Group B:

      During induction, you will receive cetuximab, docetaxel, and cisplatin by vein. You will also
      receive 5-fluorouracil as a non-stop infusion over 4 days through an infusion pump. This pump
      is portable so that you can have this treatment on an outpatient basis.

      On Day 1 of each 21-day cycle:

        -  You will receive cetuximab over about 1-2 hours.

        -  You will receive docetaxel over about 1 hour.

        -  You will receive cisplatin over about 1-3 hours

        -  You will then begin receiving 5-fluorouracil. This infusion will be non-stop over the
           next 4 days.

      On Day 2 of each cycle, you will receive saline (salt water) to prevent dehydration.

      On Days 5-10 of each cycle, you will take antibiotics, by mouth, to prevent infection. Your
      doctor will tell you what type of antibiotic to take.

      On Day 8 of each cycle, you will receive cetuximab over about 1 hour.

      You will have 3 cycles of induction therapy.

      Other drugs may be given before you receive the study drugs to prevent side effects. You will
      be closely monitored for side effects during the infusions in the clinic setting before you
      will be allowed to leave.

      Part 1 Study Visits:

      Every week:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

      After you have completed your induction therapy, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, and/or a
      PET-CT to check the status of the disease.

      Part 2 Study Drug Administration:

      Before you begin radiation, you will have a dental exam.

      You will begin either radiation with chemotherapy or radiation without chemotherapy. Your
      doctor will decide which treatment is best for you.

      All participants will begin radiation about 2-4 weeks after induction therapy. You will
      receive radiation Monday through Friday for about 7 weeks, or as recommended by the treating
      radiologist.

      If you are receiving radiation with chemotherapy, you will receive carboplatin or cisplatin
      every week while you are receiving radiation. If you receive cisplatin, it will be given by
      vein over about 1-3 hours. If you are given carboplatin, it will be given by vein over about
      1 hour.

      Part 2 Study Visits:

      Every week:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Your skin and the lining of your mouth will be checked for sores.

      Follow-Up Phase:

      About 6 weeks after you finish all treatments:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking.

        -  Your skin and the lining of your mouth will be checked for sores.

      If you were in Group B, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, and/or PET/CT scan at 6 weeks (+/-
      14 days) after you have completed radiation/chemoradiation to check the status of the
      disease.

      If you were in Group A, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, and/or PET/CT scan at 9 weeks (+/-
      14 days) after you have completed radiation/chemoradiation to check the status of the
      disease.

      Six (6), 12, and 24 months after you finish treatment, you will have a videofluoroscopic to
      check your swallowing. You will complete a separate consent form for this procedure. You will
      also complete the questionnaire about your day-to-day activities.

      All participants will have clinic visits every 3 months for 2 years. At these visits:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have additional tests/procedures performed.

      After the Year 2, follow up will be done per standard of care. You will be contacted by a
      member of the study team by phone or by letter and asked about you how you are doing and if
      you have received any other treatment for cancer.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on treatment for about 15-16 weeks. If, during that time, the disease gets
      worse or you experience intolerable side effects, you will be taken off study.

      This is an investigational study. All of the study drugs are FDA approved and commercially
      available. The combination of these drugs when given to patients with locally advanced head
      and neck squamous cell carcinoma is investigational.

      Up to 128 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 100 will be enrolled MD
      Anderson.
    
  