
    
      Purpose: Cigarette smoking is the single greatest cause of preventable deaths. In the VA
      health care system, patients with chronic medical illnesses represent an important population
      on which to focus smoking cessation efforts. Smoking cessation among patients with chronic
      medical illnesses can substantially decrease morbidity and mortality. Despite these benefits,
      many patients with chronic medical illnesses continue to smoke. There is a strong
      interrelationship between depression and chronic medical illness. Depression can derail
      sustained smoking cessation and may be an important barrier to smoking cessation for Veterans
      with chronic medical illness. Despite the barriers they face, smokers with depression are
      motivated to quit smoking. Smokers with histories of depression may respond better to smoking
      cessation interventions that are augmented with mood-management adjuncts such as
      mood-management counseling. Thus, depressed smokers are more likely to quit when behavioral
      mood-management is added to traditional cessation approaches. Yet, the augmentation of
      smoking cessation with behavioral mood management is not yet firmly established. Also these
      intensive interventions have limited reach when conducted in person. Telephone counseling can
      deliver intensive and effective treatment to people who smoke, yet its implementation has
      been limited among smoker with depression. There is a need to develop novel proactive
      telephone-delivered approaches that can broadly deliver intensive smoking cessation
      interventions to Veterans who may not respond to standard care, such as those with chronic
      medical illnesses and depressive symptoms.

      Methodology: The investigators propose a randomized comparative effectiveness trial with a
      two-group design in which 350 Veteran smokers with depression and chronic medical illness
      will be randomized to either: 1) smoking cessation plus adjunctive behavioral mood management
      (SMK-MM group), an intervention that includes a proactive telehealth intervention that
      combines evidence-based smoking cessation counseling augmented with behavioral mood
      management and a tele-medicine clinic for accessing nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), or 2)
      smoking cessation telephone counseling control (SMK CONTROL), a contact-equivalent control
      that provides the same smoking cessation telephone counseling intervention augmented with
      health education (instead of mood-management) and a tele-medicine clinic for accessing NRT.
      Patients with chronic medical illnesses will be identified from patient intake systems of the
      Durham Veteran's Affairs Hospital and screened for tobacco use and depressive symptoms.

      The main outcome in this trial is prolonged abstinence at 6-month and 12-month follow-up.
      Logistic regression will be used to test for a between-group difference in the proportion of
      patients with self-reported prolonged abstinence from cigarettes at 6 months. A general
      linear mixed model will be used to estimate changes depressive symptoms between groups. If
      there is a significant intervention effect on smoking cessation, mediational analysis will be
      conducted to examine whether changes in self-efficacy or affect mediate the impact of the
      mood management intervention.

      Objectives: The specific aims of the study are to 1) evaluate the impact of a
      telephone-delivered smoking cessation intervention augmented with behavioral mood management
      on rates of prolonged and point prevalence abstinence from cigarettes among Veterans with
      chronic medical illnesses and depression; 2) monitor the impact of behavioral mood management
      intervention on depressive symptoms; 3) if effective, assess whether change in self-efficacy
      as well as positive and negative affect mediate the impact of behavioral mood management
      intervention on smoking cessation among Veterans; and 4) assess the cost-effectiveness if the
      mood-enhanced intervention.
    
  