
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is the most common motor neuron disease in adults
      affecting upper and lower motor neurons resulting in progressive muscle atrophy and paralysis
      of the patients within 2 to 5 years. The majority of ALS cases are sporadic (SALS), 5 to 10%
      are familial forms (FALS). In France, the most frequent mutation is an intronic
      hexanucleotide expansion in the C9orf72 gene, representing 46% of FALS followed by mutations
      in the first discovered ALS gene, SOD1 accounting for around 10% of FALS. Using mutant SOD1
      ALS mouse models, the investigators and others have shown that motor neurons degenerated
      through a non-cell autonomous mechanism involving microglial cells. Microglial cells are the
      macrophages of the central nervous system (CNS) capable of producing neurotrophic or
      neurotoxic factors. Microglial cells are part of the myeloid lineage like macrophages at the
      periphery, however these two cell types have different developmental origins and are in
      different environments. Spinal motor neurons are particular neurons since their cell body is
      in the CNS, and therefore surrounded by microglial cells, while their axon extends at the
      periphery and is therefore in contact with peripheral macrophages. The investigators have
      shown that (i) peripheral macrophages in affected peripheral nerves of ALS mouse models and
      ALS patient post-mortem tissues were activated, (ii) in ALS mouse models, both microglial
      cells but also peripheral macrophages participated in disease progression and (iii)
      peripheral macrophages were able to influence microglial cell reactivity.

      The working hypothesis is that peripheral macrophages are themselves (and not just microglial
      cells) involved in ALS and with this project the investigators want to compare macrophages
      from ALS patients and controls using macrophages derived from blood monocytes. The aim is to
      analyze the macrophage transcriptome and protein markers of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
      (ALS) patients compared to controls (non-affected individuals, patients with other motor
      impairments) and asymptomatic ALS gene carriers, to find new pathways to target and disease
      biomarkers.
    
  