
    
      It is indisputable that health declines with age, and that the rate of decline is not the
      same for everyone. Many sources of accelerated risk of illness have been identified in prior
      research, and among the most reliable predictors of ill health are social stressors,
      including abusive social relations in childhood. Early life adversity may lead to poorer
      mental health and physical functioning in midlife through various pathways; among the most
      likely paths are social in origin, including troubled family relationships, heightened
      sensitivity to interpersonal stressors, and social isolation. Is it possible to interrupt
      this cause-effect pairing between early adversity and illness in later life? The
      investigators examine that question. Specifically, the investigators address whether the
      individual differences in risk attributable to childhood adversity are reversible through a
      social intelligence (SI) intervention for an established cohort of community residents who
      were part of a comprehensive study of biopsychosocial markers of resilience at Mid-Life. The
      investigators have three primary objectives in this research:

        1. To examine whether an SI intervention can enhance the capacity for rewarding social
           relations, especially for individuals with a history of early life adversity.

        2. To examine evidence for the investigator's hypothesis that intervention-related gains in
           the quality of social relationship will be responsible for the improvements in
           psychological, and physical functioning, and influence two bio-markers of health risk
           and resilience: interleukin 6 (IL-6) and DHEA-S.

        3. To probe for individual differences in age, gender, history of abuse, personality, and
           genetic markers of risk that identify participants most responsive to the intervention.

      To address these questions, an SI intervention will be delivered to a random-selected half of
      220 middle-aged participants: Half with a history of child abuse and half who did not report
      abuse. The program is an on-line self-instructional series of videos with awareness exercises
      and behavioral practices designed to enhance fund of knowledge about relationships, increase
      skills, and enhance motivation to engage socially. In addition to charting social relations
      with daily diaries, the investigators will assess participants' social, psychological, and
      physical functioning at pre-test, post-test, three months, and six months following the
      intervention. The investigators hypothesize that the SI intervention will prompt lasting
      improvement in the ability to establish, maintain, and benefit from social relations in
      comparison to controls, which will lead to better psychological and physical functioning. The
      investigators will examine evidence for the hypothesis that the benefits of the intervention
      will be largest for individuals who have experienced greater early childhood adversity, as
      well as probe other individual differences in receptivity to the SI program that will inform
      future efforts to refine, test and disseminate this innovative program.
    
  