
    
      Idiopathic Nephrotic Syndrome is characterized by proteinuria, volume retention,
      hyperlipidemia, hypoalbuminemia. As Minimal Change Disease (MCD) represents by far the most
      prevalent underlying diagnosis in children older than 1 year, a kidney biopsy is usually
      deferred in these cases. In adolescence and adults, a kidney biopsy is crucial for the
      diagnosis because MCD and FSGS account for only 10-15 and 12-35 percent of all cases of
      nephrotic syndrome respectively. Pathomechanisms as well as optimal treatment remain elusive
      as systematic trials are scarce and hampered by low incidence and heterogenicity of the
      clinical presentation. To bridge this informational gap, the investigators identified the
      need for a German registry of pediatric and adult patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome
      (in children) and biopsy-proven MCD/FSGS (in adults).

      The registry will record clinical data of participants regarding basic demographics, initial
      presentation, hereditary traits, disease course and treatment modalities as well as quality
      of life, concomitant diseases, and comedication. During the initial visit and to a lesser
      intent on follow-up visits, biomaterials (blood, urine, DNA, feces, tissue) will be collected
      and stored in a state-of-the art biobank. This material will be available to collaborators to
      support research on idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and MCD/FSGS. By the time of completion,
      the registry will provide data on clinical courses and outcome of approximately 500 patients
      that can easily be correlated with biomaterials giving insight into risk factors, prognostic
      parameters, and association with comorbidities.

      Tissue sections of all patients that undergo kidney biopsy (all adult and some pediatric
      patients) will be digitalized, annotated, and analyzed by a panel of nephropathologists.
      Histopathologic features will be individually assessed and scored according to a set of
      descriptors that was developed and is used by the American NEPTUNE (Nephrotic Syndrome Study
      Network).
    
  