
    
      Recent studies indicate that the use of triple-combination therapy, in particular the
      combinations of reverse transcriptase inhibitors and a protease inhibitor, can result in a
      significant decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA levels and an increase in CD4 cell count. Continued
      follow-up of patients taking triple-combination drug regimens has in some cases demonstrated
      sustained suppression of plasma HIV-1 RNA levels for up to 18 months. Furthermore, despite
      the potent antiviral effect of some triple combinations, a percentage of patients continue to
      have measurable levels (more than 500 copies/ml) of HIV-1 RNA in plasma, even when treated
      with a combination of 2 reverse transcriptase inhibitors and indinavir. Over time, some
      patients experience a rebound of plasma HIV-1 RNA for reasons that are not well understood.
      [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/8/98: Randomization to 2 dose levels may allow more patients to derive
      therapeutic benefit from Preveon by minimizing adverse effects.]

      Patients not previously enrolled in clinical trials of Preveon are randomized to 1 of 2 doses
      of Preveon orally once daily and L-carnitine orally once daily. [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/8/98:
      Patients must receive other antiretroviral agents concomitantly with Preveon; at least 1
      other antiretroviral agent must be added with Preveon that was not previously administered to
      the patient.Patients previously enrolled in Preveon clinical trials who "roll in" to expanded
      access and who have received at least 16 weeks of Preveon receive open-label Preveon orally
      once daily and L-carnitine orally once daily, taken with or without food at the same time
      each day.] All patients enrolled in expanded access are randomized in a 1:1 fashion to 1 of 2
      doses taken orally once daily. Patients initially assigned to the higher dose will have their
      Preveon dose reduced to the lower dose at Week 16 of treatment. Patients initially assigned
      to the lower dose continue this dose unless dose modification to an even lower dose for
      toxicity is required. [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/8/98: Additional informed consent is needed for
      this reduction due to limited efficacy of the lower dosage in treating HIV infection.]
    
  