
    
      Twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) occurs in approximately 15% of monochorionic
      pregnancies. The disease is thought to result from unbalanced intertwin blood flow between
      the donor and the recipient twin through placental vascular anastomoses. Untreated, TTTS is
      associated with high perinatal mortality and morbidity.

      Fetoscopic laser photocoagulation of the vascular anastomoses is currently the best treatment
      option for TTTS. The aim of laser surgery is to separate completely both fetal circulations
      by occluding all placental vascular anastomoses.

      However, at the same time the fetoscopic procedure can cause injury to the amniotic membrane.
      This injury will last until childbirth, as the fetal membrane's capability to repair is
      restricted. This can lead to preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) and in some cases
      even to fetal loss.

      Decreasing the diameter of fetoscopic instruments can reduce injury to the amniotic membrane.
      At University Hospital Halle/Saale a new ultrathin fetoscpoes with 1.0/1.2 mm optic is used
      to reduce sheath sectional area from 3.8/4.3 mm (13F) to 2.3mm (7F).

      In 2011 the author published a retrospective cohort study of the first results of laser
      coagulation using 1.0/1.2 mm optic on 27 female patients. The data was compared to the
      results using 2.0 mm optic on 53 female patients. The comparison brought to light that the
      survival rate of at least one twin was 97% (compared to 94.4% using classic optic) and 83.3%
      (75.5%) for both twins surviving. At the same time the use of the ultrathin optic increased
      the length of pregnancy by 21.3 days, increased the recipient's weight by 389g and also the
      donor's Apgar score.

      On the other hand, donor's weight and recipient's Apgar score remained unchanged. The results
      also did not show a decrease in the rate of premature rupture of membranes or a decrease in
      re-TTTS.

      The Authors expect to show more advantages using a wider sample size. The data will be
      analysed adhering to strict quality protocols. This will hopefully allow us to demonstrate
      our succesful clinical experience with fetoscopic laser photcoagulation for TTTS using a 1.0
      mm endoscope.

      A retrospective analyse of all data of patients who underwent fetoscopic laser coagulation
      with TTTS will be performed retrospectively. As part of the ongoing quality control the
      authors were able to safely store patient data relating to fetoscopic laser coagulation with
      TTTS. The plan is to compare results using 1.0/1.2 mm optic with 2.0 mm optic.

      Planned study areas inlcude gestational age at birth, the child's survival after fetoscopic
      laser coagulation (at least one child survives, both children survive, intrauterine foetal
      death of both children), as well as premature rupture of membranes and reoccurrence of TTTS
      after the procedure.
    
  