
    
      Background:

        -  Methylation-mediated silencing of genes is an epigenetic mechanism implicated in
           carcinogenesis; agents that inhibit this mechanism are of clinical interest because of
           their potential to re-activate silenced tumor suppressor genes. Two DNA hypomethylating
           nucleosides, 5-azacytidine (azacytidine) and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) have
           been approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes
           and certain leukemias.

        -  The nucleoside analog 4'-thio-2'-deoxycytidine (TdCyd) is incorporated into DNA where it
           engages the active site of DNA methyltransferase I (DNMT1), a maintenance
           methyltransferase that contributes to the hypermethylation and silencing of tumor
           suppressor genes. DNMT1 can become trapped in a covalent complex with DNA, thus
           depleting free enzyme and inhibiting the normal maintenance methylation of CpG sites,
           resulting in reactivation of tumor suppressor genes.

        -  Data generated at Southern Research Institute and the NCI suggest a correlation between
           TdCyd activity in solid tumor xenograft models and decreased levels of DNMT1.

        -  TdCyd offers an improvement over current DNA methyltransferase inhibitors by virtue of a
           higher incorporation rate into DNA at lower levels of cytotoxicity; treatment with TdCyd
           is anticipated to result in the inhibition of tumor growth due to DNMT1 depletion at
           oral doses that are well tolerated in extended dosing schedules.

        -  Two patients on dose levels 6 and 7 developed Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP) so
           all patients will be administered PJP prophylaxis.

      Primary Objective:

      -To establish the safety, tolerability, and MTD of oral TdCyd administered daily for 5 days a
      week for 2 weeks, with one week off, q 21-day cycles, to patients with refractory solid
      tumors

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of oral TdCyd

        -  To document preliminary evidence of TdCyd activity

        -  To determine effect of study treatment on re-expression of select genes silenced by
           methylation in circulating tumor cells

      Eligibility:

      -Patients must have histologically documented solid tumors whose disease has progressed on
      standard therapy or for which there is no available standard therapy

      Study Design:

        -  TdCyd will be administered orally once a day for 5 days of each week for 2 weeks, with
           one week off, in 21-day cycles.

        -  The trial will follow an accelerated titration design, changing to a traditional 3+3
           dose escalation design (3-6 patients per cohort) once specified toxicity criteria are
           met. Intrapatient dose escalation will be allowed.

        -  Blood samples will be obtained for pharmacokinetic analysis and to isolate circulating
           tumor cells to assess re-expression of genes silenced by methylation.
    
  