
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the U.S. and if detected early, has a
      favorable prognosis. Colorectal cancer survivors face many physical and psychosocial sequelae
      including second cancers, adverse effects on major organs, cognitive, and sexual function,
      problems in work and social roles and reduced quality of life. Following adjuvant treatments
      (chemotherapy and/or radiation), these individuals may be at increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease, obesity, osteoporosis and future cancers. There is growing evidence
      that moderate-intensity physical activity can improve physical functioning, reduce fatigue,
      enhance vigor and improve body esteem among those treated for breast cancer. Colorectal
      cancer survivors report increased fatigue, low vigor, impaired physical functioning and
      disturbances in body esteem. However, the group is relatively understudied and the potential
      benefits of increased physical activity to their recovery have not been examined. This study
      focuses on enhancing recovery by offering a home-based physical activity program to patients
      who have completed treatment for colorectal cancer. The program, based on our prior work
      among breast cancer survivors, consists of telephone-delivered physical activity counseling
      over three months. The counseling is based on the Transtheoretical Model, Social Cognitive
      Theory and elements of Motivational Interviewing. This study will test the efficacy of the
      physical activity intervention using a randomized controlled design among 134 patients who
      have completed treatment for colorectal cancer in the past 2 years. Outcomes will include
      physical activity behavior, fitness, vigor, fatigue, physical functioning, and body esteem
      among participants at baseline, 3 (posttreatment), 6 and 12 months. We will also track
      intervention costs and conduct exploratory analyses of moderators and mediators of change to
      help guide the future development of physical activity interventions to enhance recovery from
      colorectal cancer.
    
  