
    
      Although subacute transitional care is thought to reduce costs by as much as 60 percent of
      hospital-based care costs (DHHS, 1995), systematic prospective studies of utilization and
      cost of services have not been done. An important factor to be considered, particularly in
      elderly patients, is the cost associated with readmission. Some studies have suggested that
      cost savings and reduced readmissions are associated with the increased availability of
      post-discharge services (Ludke, MacDowell, Booth et. al., 1990; Weinberger, Smith, Katz et
      al., 1988). If such cost savings exist, then transitional subacute care may be an important
      community-based resource for patients returning to independent living. In addition to
      demonstrating the clinical efficacy of subacute transitional care, the proposed study will
      also assess long-term outcomes, taking into account patient resource utilization and the
      incidence of readmission.

      The current study will determine if subacute transitional care can improve outcomes that are
      important to the broad goals of long term independent living and enhanced quality of life.
      Variables assessed will focus on physical and family function, adjustment, resource
      utilization, skilled care placements, and survival. When compared to hospital-based
      rehabilitation, subacute rehabilitation is expected to demonstrate improvements in physical
      abilities, family function, adjustment, well being, and survival.

      b. Hypothesis. The primary hypothesis is that clinical outcomes will be significantly better
      for subacute care patients at 3 and 12 months than hospital-based control patients. Costs and
      resource utilization are hypothesized to be significantly less.

      c. Objectives and projected timeline. The objective of this study is to conduct a randomized
      clinical trial to examine the effects of subacute transitional care compared with
      hospital-based rehabilitative care for disabled patients. Specific objectives will be to: 1]
      evaluate the type, magnitude and duration of rehabilitative care provided, 2] determine
      differences in cost of care provided to the two groups, 3] compare clinical outcomes of the
      two treatments by assessing the magnitude of change, and 4] compare long-term outcomes at 12
      months.

      Secondary objectives will be to describe diagnostic or demographic subgroups who may benefit
      to a greater or lesser extent than others.

      Patients will be recruited into the study and followed for 1 year, with measurements
      occurring at hospital admission, at 3 months, and at 12 months. The time to completion of the
      study is projected to be 3 years. Recruitment of subjects will begin during the second
      quarter of the project and will continue for 1.5 years. Follow-up measures will continue for
      an additional year.
    
  