
    
      Promoting health behaviors during pregnancy has tremendous public health significance. Poor
      health behaviors are associated with pregnancy complications, birth outcomes, and the health
      of the child. They influence infant birthweight, premature birth, and infant mortality rates,
      all of which continue to be public health concerns, reflected in the goals of Healthy People
      2020.

      Pregnant women, particularly those from under-served populations, often have a multitude of
      health behavior risks that threaten positive pregnancy and birth outcomes, as well as the
      future health of mother and baby. Pregnancy offers a window of opportunity for behavioral
      intervention. The immediate health risk for the baby motivates most pregnant women to at
      least consider changing their behavior. Furthermore, the regular and continual medical care
      that most pregnant women receive allows optimal access for intervention. The circumstance of
      pregnancy can be used as a teachable moment to better the future health of women and
      children.

      The primary goals of this study were to complete and enhance the development of an iPad
      delivered intervention and to assess the efficacy in a randomized clinical trial involving
      pregnant women from three federally-funded community health centers that treat under-served
      populations. Using interactive technology, users complete onscreen assessments and receive
      individually tailored feedback messages on key behavior change strategies identified by the
      Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change and matched to their stage of readiness for each
      behavior. Supplemental intervention components were created including printed feedback
      reports, a multiple behavior stage-based manual, and Spanish versions of all intervention
      materials. This intervention offers a cost-effective, science based, and easily deliverable
      solution to improve multiple health behaviors, and overall health and well-being, of
      populations of pregnant women.
    
  