
    
      This study is a prospective, self-control, phase I trial, which will be performed in
      Department of Neurosurgery, Chinese PLA General Hospital (Beijing, China). Six patients with
      severe Alzheimer's disease will be included in this study and receive continuous bilateral
      deep brain stimulation of the fornix.

      BACKGROUND With the prolongation of life expectancy of the world population, Alzheimer's
      disease (AD) has become one of the major diseases that influence the quality of life in the
      aging population. The latest data have shown that there are approximately 24 million AD
      victims and the number increases in fold every 20 years. With global population aging, there
      is an increasing number of population who are at the risk of AD. Epidemiological studies in
      China have shown that the incidence of AD increases with aging and it is about 5% in people
      aged over 65 years and about 20% in people aged over 85 years. AD has been reported to
      greatly affect patient's quality of life. However, there is currently no effective method to
      hinder, postpone or treat AD. Cholinesterase inhibitors (Donepezil, Galantamine and
      Rivastigmine) and N-methyl-D-asparate receptor antagonist Memantine are the commonly used
      drugs. But the curative effects are not identified. Therefore, there is an urgent need to
      investigate a novel treatment method of AD.

      Deep brain stimulation is hopeful in the treatment of AD. There is clinical evidence that
      deep brain stimulation can effectively postpone, hinder and even reverse the progression of
      AD. The clinical data also shows that selective atrophy of cholinergic neurons of the nucleus
      basalis of Meynert (NBM) is one of characteristics of AD. In 1985, Turnbull et al., were the
      first to report the role of deep brain stimulation of the NBM in AD patients. They detected
      cortical glucose metabolic activity using FDG-PRT and found that the cortical glucose
      metabolic activity in the frontal lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, and occipital lobe of
      the right hemisphere (not stimulated) of AD patients was decreased by 21%, 24%, 10%, and
      7.5%, respectively. By contrast, cortical glucose metabolic activity in the left hemisphere
      was decreased by 12%, 4%, 0 and -1.5% respectively. Although there were no improvements in
      clinical symptoms, study findings suggest that deep brain stimulation of the NBM is safe and
      leads to strong pathophysiologic response. Laxton et al. performed deep brain stimulation of
      the hypothalamus and fornix in six patients with mild AD. At 6 and 12 months after deep brain
      stimulation, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment
      Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) evaluations showed that patient's cognitive was improved.
      In the same case cohort, Smith et al. investigated cerebral glucose metabolism and found that
      deep brain metabolism increased cerebral glucose metabolism mainly through two orthogonal
      networks: a frontal-temporal-parietal-striatal- thalamic network and a
      frontal-temporal-parietal-occipital-hippocampal network. Fontaine et al. performed deep brain
      stimulation in one AD patients presenting with mild cognitive disorder. Twelve months after
      deep brain stimulation, cerebral glucose metabolism was slightly increased in the cerebrum,
      in particular in bilateral middle temporal gyri; in addition, cognitive function was improved
      as confirmed by MMSE and ADAS-Cog evaluations.

      Deep brain stimulation for treatment of AD is internationally in its infancy. Only
      exploratory studies involving a few cases have been reported. Similar reports are not
      reported in China. Global doctors eager to understand the exact effects and possible
      complications and risks of deep brain stimulation in the treatment of AD. AD patients are
      also looking forward to the effectiveness of this therapy in reducing their sufferings.

      Adverse events

        1. At 6 months after surgery, radiological examination of the implants will be performed to
           determine that the stimulation system is not impaired.

        2. Deep brain stimulation parameters: frequency, amplitude and pulse width

        3. After deep brain stimulation, follow-up evaluation will be performed once every 6
           months. Deep brain stimulation-related complications, such as dyskinesia, dysarthria,
           gait disorder, eye apraxia, depression, apathy and hypomania. Corresponding treatment
           methods will be administered. All these will be reported to the principal investigator
           and Institutional Review Board within 24 hours.

      Data management According to the trial design, a table will be formulated for data
      collection. Collected data will be input into an electronic database by professional staff
      using a double-data entry strategy. Information accuracy will be checked when all recruited
      patients are followed up. The database will be locked by the researcher in charge and will
      not be altered. All information relating to this trial will be preserved by Department of
      Neurosurgery, Chinese PLA General Hospital of China. The electronic database will be fully
      disclosed to a professional statistician for statistical analysis.

      Statistical analysis All data will be statistically analyzed by a statistician blinded to
      randomization using SPSS 18.0 software. The successive normally distributed variables will be
      expressed as the mean ± SD. The non-normally distributed variables will be expressed as
      median and quartile. Classification variables will be expressed as count and percentage. A
      paired t-test or Wilcoxon Matched-Pairs Signed-Rank Test will be used to compare the
      continuous variables of the primary and secondary outcome measures at each time point. The
      chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the classification variables.
      A P level of <0.05 will be accepted as statistically significant.
    
  