
    
      Mesothelioma is a rapidly lethal cancer which is increasing in incidence year on year. A
      projected doubling of cases has been predicted within the next two decades in Europe and the
      disease is usually diagnosed only after it has become advanced.

      As yet the standard treatment for advanced mesothelioma, chemotherapy (cytotoxic drugs), is
      only for disease control and symptom management. A Phase I study of a drug called Vorinostat
      recently looked in to its effect, when given with standard cytotoxic drugs, on advanced solid
      tumours. The data for this study showed that this treatment caused a response in the tumours
      of patients with mesothelioma.

      The study aims to examine the efficacy and safety of first-line vorinostat when used
      concurrently with cisplatin/pemetrexed.

      In the proposed trial, we will initially conduct an initial run-in phase I study, to find the
      maximum tolerated dose, before embarking on the randomised phase II trial. The study is
      therefore in two stages:

      Phase I study: to find the maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat in this patient group. Both
      safety (ie the observed number of Dose Limiting Toxicities per cohort and the overall
      toxicity profile) and the number of chemotherapy cycles administered will be used to
      determine the final dose of vorinostat to be used in the subsequent phase II study.

      Randomised Phase II study: to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vorinostat (using the dose
      from the phase I study) versus placebo in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed. The
      Phase II study will use a placebo and double-blinding to ensure that neither the patient nor
      the research team are aware of the allocated treatment, which should allow for accurate
      comparison of the two treatment arms and reduce the potential for researcher bias. Patients
      will be randomized 1:1 to the two treatment arms.
    
  