
    
      During this study the subjects will be asked to visit the lab followed between 4 and 16 weeks
      usage of the PROTEIN app and then a final lab visit.

      In the event that COVID-19 restrictions continue and prevent, or restrict, face-to-face
      visits a completely remote study protocol will also be developed and used in place of the
      study below.

        1. Advertising and Recruitment:

           i) General public: Prospective users will be recruited by the University of Surrey via
           social media (e.g. Facebook and Twitter), posters and flyers in the local area and
           emails sent to University staff and students. With the permission on the relevant group
           leaders,' overweight participants will be recruited via local commercial weight loss
           groups. With the permission of the practice managers recruitment via GP practices will
           also be undertaken, with practice registers screened by a member of practice staff and
           information/ invitation letters sent to those who meet the inclusion criteria (no
           details will be shared with the research team). Flyers will also be distributed to local
           relevant outpatient clinics, e.g. haematology and dietetic with the permission of the
           clinic managers.

           Participants will also be recruited through health care professionals (HCP) in the local
           area following identification of suitable HCPs (see below)

           ii) Health Care Professionals (HCPs):

           HCPs involved in supporting the dietary or activity goals of target clients will also be
           recruited to the HCP arm of the study. The project will be promoted through local (and,
           if remote, National) professional networks and professional body membership lists,
           newsletters and via relevant social media channels. HCPs will have the option to
           participate in a desk-based expert review of the application (without registering
           specific clients) with respect to its usability or to register one or more of their own
           clients on the app via the user dashboard to participate in the efficacy review. In the
           latter case suitable clients identified by the HCP will be required to also register
           with the trial. The HCP will be provided with flyers and invitation letters to allow
           them to make first contact with the client who will be asked to contact the research
           team to confirm their willingness to participate, ensuring no personal data is shared
           prior to consent being received.

        2. Baseline measurements:

           i) Public, Face to face: Users will attend the lab and will then have their body
           composition measured (to include their height, weight, waist and hip circumference) by
           the researchers.

           ii) Public, Remote: An alternative remote protocol will utilise Zoom/ Microsoft teams
           video call. These will be arranged by the researchers with the participants to take them
           through self-completion of the baseline measures and procedures.

           iii) HCPs: HCPs will be contacted via email and will also be invited to either attend
           the lab or meet with the researchers utilizing Zoom/ Microsoft teams to discuss the
           usage of the expert dashboard.

        3. PROTEIN app usage for public:

           Following this, the users will be requested to log the following details to set-up the
           PROTEIN system: contact details (name/ email/phone number), age, gender, height, weight,
           ethnicity, morbidity status (such as cardiovascular disease/ diabetes mellitus etc.),
           education/ socioeconomic status, smoking status, diet or drink habits (such as
           vegetarian/ vegan/ dairy-free etc.), and medication.

           Daily food and fluid intake will be collected via the PROTEIN app and will be
           self-reported by the user/ participant.

           Users will be asked to log all dietary and fluid intake for 7 days per week (to include
           the weekend) into the home PROTEIN application suite.

           Users will either use their respective smartwatches/activity trackers or manually input
           the relevant data into the home PROTEIN application suite. In the former case, physical
           activity and sleep data will be collected in daily summaries as provided by Google Fit
           (or a suitable alternative, such as Garmin, FitBit, Polar, Apple watch etc.).

           Smart watches may be provided free of charge for a subset of users (subject to trial
           resources) and there may also be an opportunity for participants to use their own
           existing smartwatches. In the latter case, users will be requested to manually log daily
           activity data, for 7 days per week.

           Users will be monitored by the PROTEIN artificial intelligence (AI) system for
           deviations from their suggested plan and for any meal or activity swaps requested to
           check for adherence/ compliance to the recommendations suggested by the PROTEIN AI
           system.

           A subset of users who are also registered with OCADO will receive food shopping
           recommendations (in the form of a shopping list) tailored to their nutritional
           requirements and targets; budget will also be taken into account. Participants will be
           asked to indicate all food products that they swapped/ bought and for whom they bought
           them within the PROTEIN application suite. This will be conducted in partnership with
           OCADO.

        4. After at least 4 weeks of usage, data will be collected regarding the user and HCP
           experience via an online questionnaire through the PROTEIN app or sent usability
           questionnaires via email by the researchers.

        5. Follow-up measures:

           i) Public, Face to face: Users will attend the lab after at least 4 weeks of usage and
           will then have their body composition remeasured (to include their height, weight, waist
           and hip circumference) by the researchers. They will also be asked to provide feedback
           on the usability of the application by completing two questionnaires on the 1) usability
           of the application and 2) suitability for general public use.

           ii) Public, Remote: An alternative remote protocol will utilise Zoom/ Microsoft teams
           video call. These will be arranged by the researchers with the participants to take them
           through self-completion of the follow-up measures following at least 4 weeks of usage.
           Participants will be asked to provide feedback via two online questionnaires on the 1)
           usability of the application and 2) suitability for general public use.

           iii) HCPs: HCPs will be contacted via email and will also be invited to either attend
           the lab or meet with the researchers utilizing Zoom/ Microsoft teams to discuss their
           feedback following usage of the expert dashboard for at least 4 weeks. They will be
           asked to provide feedback via two questionnaires on the 1) usability of the application
           and 2) suitability for usage by health care professionals.

           A subset of participants (from all groups), representing both those who have engaged or
           not with the app, will also be contacted by the researchers after their trial period has
           ended and invited to take part in additional qualitative measures, such as focus group
           interviews to provide more feedback on their experience of the PROTEIN app.
    
  