
    
      A Hybrid type 1 implementation science design,will be used to pilot test the APN-led iRaPID
      program while exploring information on its implementation at multiple time points through the
      study. The hybrid type 1 pilot trial provides an implementation heuristic to assess potential
      research questions, perhaps more comprehensively, accurately and certainly earlier than could
      be achieved in a sequential 'intervention-then-preliminary-pilot study' strategy. In this
      hybrid type 1 pilot trial, the RCT will be utilized to:

        -  Examine feasibility and acceptability among PWID and clinical stakeholders for an
           adapted APN-delivered, rapid HIV prevention program for PWID (iRaPID) that integrates
           same-day PrEP and OAT.

        -  Estimate the preliminary efficacy of PrEP and OAT uptake in a pilot randomized
           controlled trial of the iRaPID vs. treatment as usual strategy in PWID without HIV.

      To assess future scale-up factors, the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research
      (CFIR) will be utilized with the nominal group technique (NGT). It is a conceptual framework
      developed to guide the assessment of multilevel implementation contexts. The CFIR framework
      was selected because it provides a structured menu of constructs associated with effective
      implementation. It consists of 5 domains with 39 underlying constructs. As recommended by
      Damschroder, in this study 8 CFIR constructs based on the relevancy will be measured.

      During the NGT, participants will be asked questions related to the multi-level
      implementation factors that will be based on the sample guide available on
      http://cfirguide.org but tailored for PWID. After posing each question, participants silently
      generate individual ideas. Then, using a round-robin elicitation process, each person
      contributes ideas that are recorded visually. They then engage in group discussion to clarify
      and evaluate the ideas. Items are then grouped by consensus with duplicate items removed.
      Then, each participant casts three votes on items as they deem them important. Votes are
      immediately tallied, ranked based on total number of votes, and the facilitator leads a final
      discussion to review the results. Sessions will take 60 minutes and be audio-recorded and
      transcribed.
    
  