
    
      The follow-up of the cases and the witnesses will be identically and carried out according to
      the following process: First visit (post-delivery, at the maternity): reception of the
      informed consent, collection of demographic data (age, marital status, level of education,
      financial resources), social data (life form, socio-economic data of the child father,
      developmental data of the child siblings) and medical records (gestation and parity,
      pregnancy records, medical surgical and psychiatric history). During the first examination:
      evaluation by perceived social support self-questionnaire (QSSP) and MNI (Psychiatric
      disorders Axis I). Second visit (during the mandatory post-natal consultation, 6 to 8 weeks
      after delivery): Evaluation by self-questionnaires of depression (BDI and EPDS), maternal
      anxiety (STAI), and personality disorders (screening IPDE) and evaluation of maternal
      attachment pattern (AAN). Third visit (when the child is 6 months old, at the mother's home):
      video recording to evaluate the interactions during a meal (CIB), self-questionnaires of the
      child temperament (QT6) and maternal depression (EPDS), evaluation of the child development
      (Denver scale), evaluation of a relational retreat behaviour of the child (ADBB),
      semi-structured interview for the personality disorders (IPDE). Fourth visit (when the child
      is 12 months old, at the mother's home): maternal self-questionnaires (BDI, STAI, QSSP,
      EPDS), video recording to evaluate the interactions during a meal (CIB), evaluation of the
      child development (Denver scale), evaluation of a relational retreat behaviour of the child
      (ADBB). Fifth visit (when the child is 18 months old, in a room equipped with video
      recording): evaluation of the child quality attachment ("Strange situation"), evaluation of
      the child development (Denver scale). Sixth visit (when the child is 20 months old, at the
      mother home): open conversation with the mother.

      The total duration of participation of a patient is of 20 months.

      Will be analysed in this study, the impact of pregnancy denial as well as the duration period
      from the pregnancy announcement to the delivery on: (i) The attachment pattern of the child,
      evaluated by the "Strange Situation". A mother and a child are under observation in a
      laboratory. The observer notes the child reactions during 8 episodes of 3 minutes involving
      the separations and reunions between the mother and the child, as well as the introduction of
      a stranger. The situation is observed behind a two-way mirror and recorded in video. This
      procedure of evaluation of the attachment was organized according to the Mary Ainsworth's
      works. The coding system of interactive behaviours allows a categorization into 4 attachment
      patterns: "secure", "anxious-avoidant insecure" "anxious-ambivalent resistant insecure" and
      "disorganized/disoriented and insecure" (Regrouped into two categories: "Secure" and
      "Insecure"). (ii) The quality of early interactions between the mother and the child
      evaluated by the Coding Interactive Behaviour (CIB - Feldman) (10), the CIB includes 42 items
      (21 concerning the mother, 16 concerning the child and 5 concerning the dyad). Each item is
      evaluated on a 5 points scale. The scale consists of 2 segmentations of 15 minutes
      interactions: one episode of game and one episode of feeding. (iii) The infant's temperament
      characteristics evaluated by the QT6 (Infant Characteristics Questionnaire, Bates), specific
      questions will be asked to parents about the "difficult" temperament of the child. The
      filling lasts approximately 10 minutes, the questionnaire account 26 questions. It was
      validated in France with 794 mothers of old children from 6 to 9 months, by the team of the
      Dr B. Larroque. (iiii) The child's development evaluated by the Denver scale (DSST - Denver
      Developmental Screening Test), the child is accessed in different areas such as gross motor
      skills, language, fine motor skills, and social contact, and by the ADBB scale. This scale
      includes 8 items concerning facial expression, eye contact, body activity, self-simulation
      gestures and fingers activities, level of vocal expression, liveliness of a response to
      stimulation, ability to connect with someone else and attractiveness.

      Research for factors potentially associated to the occurrence of a denial of pregnancy: (i)
      Pattern of mother's attachment evaluated by the AAN (Adult Attachment Narratives), it allows
      studying the representations of the attachment at the adult through the analysis of 4
      narratives (2 referring in the relations over adults, and 2 in the relations mother - child)
      built by the subject. He is asked to use 12 words by narrative presented in writing by the
      examiner (these words establishing the weft of the history). These narratives are blind
      recorded and analyzed by professionals trained and validated in the scale, every narrative
      receives a note of 1 in 7 reflecting the secure base of the script in connection with the
      pattern of attachment of the subject. The average obtained in these 4 narratives estimates
      the security of attachment of the subject and allows the categorization in 2 groups notes =
      3: pattern of attachment insecure, notes > 3 pattern of attachment secure). The interview
      lasts approximately 1/2 the hour. The entire interview is transcribed verbatim to allow the
      quotation. (ii) Mother's personality evaluated with the IPDE (International Personality
      Disorders Examination) is a semi-structured diagnosis interview allowing the evaluation of
      personality disorders described in the CIM 10. It contains 67 items. The criteria of
      personality are grouped in six domains: work, personal, interpersonal relations, affects,
      apprehension of the reality and the control of the impulses. The administration of the
      instrument varies between 60 and 90 minutes. (iii) Mother's psychiatric trouble assesses with
      the MINI (Mini International Neurospychiatric Interview) is a structured diagnostic
      maintenance, exploring the main psychiatric disorders of the axis I of the CIM 10. It
      contains 120 questions and is divided into 16 modules, each corresponding in a diagnosis
      category: A. Major depressive disorder, B. Dysthymia, C. Suicidal risk, D. Mania (hypomania)
      episode, E. Panic disorder, F. Agoraphobia, G. Social phobia, F. Obsessive-compulsive
      disorder, I. Post-traumatic stress disorder, J. Alcohol (dependence / abuse), K. Drugs
      (dependence / abuse), L. Psychotic disorders, M. Anorexia nervosa, N. Bulimia nervosa, O.
      Generalized anxiety disorder, and P. Antisocial personality Disorder. For each of the
      disorders(confusions), two in four questions-filters are presented at the beginning of every
      module, allowing the screening. The signing of the MINI is brief, on average 19 minutes. The
      MINI was simultaneously developed in French and in English.

      To neutralize the identified biases, we also assess maternal comorbidities: (i) Postnatal
      depression screened with the EPDS (Edinburgh Post-natal Depression Scale), a
      self-questionnaire of screening of the postnatal depression. EPDS is a quick
      self-questionnaire used in Anglo-Saxon countries since its elaboration by John Cox in 1987,
      validated by a number of studies, translated and validated for France by Nicole Guedeney in
      1995. The formulation is simple and its easy use. We consider a known postnatal depression
      when the score is upper or equal to 11. (ii) Maternal anxiety evaluated with the scale STAI
      (Trait Anxiety Inventory) form Y, Trait Anxiety Inventory of Spielberger. The inventory of
      trait anxiety is intended to estimate on one hand the trait anxiety and on the other hand the
      state anxiety through 20 items, which concern only the psychological and not somatic aspects
      of the anxiety. The Y version was developed to eliminate items more bound to the depression.
      "State Trait Inventory Anxiety" is both very used in the practice and in the clinical
      research. It includes different scales to estimate the state (STAI form Y-A) and the trait
      (STAI form Y-B). Each scale includes 20 proposals, the scale E to estimate what the subjects
      feel at the moment, the scale T to seize what the subjects feel generally. The STAI is
      intended for the auto-administration. He can be individually performed or in a group. The
      time of signing is about 10 minutes to fill in both scales. Every answer to a proposal of the
      questionnaire corresponds to a score from 1 to 4: - 1 indicating the lowest degree of
      anxiety, - 4 the strongest degree. French translation and validation by Scweitzer MB. (iii)
      Maternal depression evaluated with the scale BDI (Beck Depression Inventory), it gives a
      quantitative estimation of the intensity of the depressive feelings. It includes 21 items of
      symptoms and attitudes, which describe a specific behavior of the depression, increased from
      0 to 3 by a series of 4 statements reflecting the severity degree of the symptom. Scale
      translated and validated in French by P. Bourque and D. Beaudette, on 1982. (iiii) Maternal
      social support estimated by the Perceived Social Support Questionnaire (QSSP), a
      self-assessment that estimates the availability and the satisfaction with the social support
      received. The authors were inspired by the theory of the attachment of Bowlby, by associating
      the notion of social support with fundamental needs: need for proximity with the mother, then
      need for a relation favoured with others significant. Thus this scale allows estimating the
      type of received support, the sources of this support, number of people who get it (or
      availability) and the perceived quality (or satisfaction). This tool also informs about the
      nature of the social support perceived by the person. Translated in French by
      Bruchon-Schweitzer, Rascle, Sarason.
    
  