
    
      The results of the Spatz adjustable balloon system have been reported in four studies with
      weight losses of 24.4 kg (48.8% excess weight loss - EWL), 21.6 kg (45.7% EWL),17.2 kg (42.9%
      EWL) and 16.3 kg (67.4% EWL), respectively. The responder rate (>25% EWL) was 88.5% in one
      recent study.

      The authors report and analyze the results of 227 Spatz3 patients retrospectively reviewed in
      3 centers- some adjusted and some not adjusted during the course of their 1-year implantation
      - to determine if the adjustment option can improve overall results and diminish the
      non-responder rate.

      The Spatz3 Adjustable intragastric balloon (IGB) (Spatz FGIA, Inc. New York, USA) was
      implanted at the following centers between May and December 2015: University Hospital,
      Ostrava, Czech Republic, Clinica Opcion Medica, Barcelona, Spain, and Optimal Clinic, Tel
      Aviv, Israel. Patients were selected according to the well-established criteria for
      intragastric balloon implantation, consistent with NIH and CE Mark guidelines, and were
      independently evaluated by members of the staff: gastroenterologists, dieticians, and
      psychologists. Indications for Spatz3 Adjustable IGB implantation included one of the
      following: (1) temporary weight loss treatment in a patient with body mass index (BMI) in the
      range of bariatric surgery (>35) who refuse surgery or are at high risk for surgery, (2)
      temporary weight loss treatment for a patient without indications for surgery (BMI>29). All
      patients underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy using conscious sedation with or without
      an anesthetist using one or more of the following medications - Propofol, Midazolam, and
      Fentanyl.

      Balloons were inflated with a mean 464ml (400-500ml) of normal saline with the addition of
      2-3 ml of a 1% solution of Methylene Blue (not used in the Czech Republic center). Patients
      were recovered for 45 minutes and discharged the same day on a once-daily PPI, anti-nausea
      medications (Aprepitant 125 mg day 1; 80 mg days 2 and 3), ondansetron (8 mg Q6H X 3 days),
      anti-spasmodic (papaverine 80 mg tid prn), and dietary instructions. After the fifth
      post-procedure day, a progressive full liquid to soft to solid 1,200-1,400 kcal diet was
      started. Monthly follow up with dietician and/or doctor (gastroenterologist or
      endocrinologist) was offered to all patients after implantation. Cognitive behavioral therapy
      by licensed psychologists was offered in 2 of the 3 centers (206/227 patients) with 6-10
      sessions after implantation. Patients who were intolerant to the balloon could be adjusted
      downward by 100-150 ml. Patients with one or more of the following were offered upward
      adjustments of the balloon volume (200-400 ml at the discretion of the endoscopist): weight
      loss plateau; lack of balloon effect; ability to overeat without resultant symptoms (any of
      the following: nausea, vomiting, bloating, eructation, abdominal pain, acid reflux symptoms).
      Preparation for an adjustment or extraction procedure required the following diet: 3 days
      prior- no meat or vegetables; 2 days prior- full liquids; 1 day prior- clear liquids and NPO
      after midnight. After 12 months of placement, the balloon was deflated by aspiration via
      standard balloon needle or deflation utilizing the valve, and extraction was completed using
      a grasping forceps or a polypectomy snare - all under conscious sedation.
    
  