
    
      Title: Esteem® Totally Implantable Hearing System Clinical Trial

      Purpose: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Esteem® Totally Implantable Hearing
      System (hereafter called the Esteem® System) in subjects suffering from mild to severe
      hearing loss.

      Trial Design: This pivotal trial is designed as a prospective, multi-center, non-randomized,
      clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Esteem® System. For this trial the
      subject will act as his or her own control.

      This trial has been designed to meet the United States' regulatory requirements.

      Enrollment Size: It is currently estimated that 50-60 subjects will be enrolled in this
      trial.

      Subject Population: Adult subjects who have mild to severe sensorineural hearing loss, have a
      healthy middle ear, have a speech discrimination score of equal to or better than 40%, and
      have previously worn a hearing aid for a minimum of 3 months with an average daily use rate
      of at least 4 hours are eligible for inclusion in the trial. See detailed inclusion/exclusion
      criteria for specifics.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To demonstrate that the Esteem® System improves the speech threshold of sensitivity for
           hearing and identifying speech signals as well as or better than the pre-implant hearing
           aid (aided condition).

           Endpoint: Comparison of the speech reception threshold (SRT) using the Esteem® System (4
           months post activation) as compared to the pre-implant aided condition.

        2. To demonstrate that the Esteem® System at the 4 months post- activation visit is as
           effective as or better than the hearing aid for improving speech discrimination
           (intelligibility) as shown by the word recognition score at 50 dB.

           Endpoint: Comparison of the word recognition score using the Esteem® at 4 months
           post-activation compared to the pre-implant aided condition.

        3. To determine the incidence of Serious Adverse Device Effects (SADE) and the incidence
           rate of device failures and replacements.

           Endpoint: The analysis of the incidence of SADEs and device failures and replacements at
           each follow-up.

        4. To demonstrate that the subjects' cochlear function remains unchanged with the Esteem®
           System as shown by comparison of the subjects' pre-implant baseline bone conduction
           threshold versus the subjects' 4 month post-activation visit bone conduction threshold.

      Endpoint: Comparison of bone conduction threshold (BC) using forehead placement at 4 months
      post activation compared to the pre-implant BC threshold.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To demonstrate that the Esteem® System at the 4 months post activation visit improves
           the 3-frequency (500, 1000, and 2000 Hz) pure tone average (PTA) when compared to the
           baseline unaided condition.

        2. To demonstrate that the Esteem® System at the 4 months post-activation visit is as
           effective as or better than the hearing aid for improving speech discrimination
           (intelligibility) as shown by the QuickSIN (speech in noise) test results.

        3. To show that the Esteem® System improves Quality-of-Life when compared to the baseline
           aided condition as shown by APHAB results.

        4. To gather subject feedback and comments on the use of the Esteem® System relative to the
           pre-implant hearing aid (aided condition) as shown by the Esteem® Questionnaire.
    
  