
    
      SARS-Cov-2, a virus causing a new infectious disease called COVID-19, has been subject to
      numerous publications since its emergence. Almost 20% of people infected with SARS-Cov-2
      develop severe to critical symptoms and required hospitalization, often in Intensive Care
      Unit (ICU).

      Respiratory failure is the main reason for admission in ICU of patients with COVID-19, which
      develop an Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Respiratory failure may be associated
      to liver, renal, coagulation and hemodynamic failure.

      Therapeutic strategies implemented for the management of critically-ill patients with
      COVID-19 may often lead to short-term muscular and functional alterations resulting in
      ICU-Acquired Weakness (ICUAW), as studied in other ICU population.

      The muscular and functional impairments of patients are associated to a longer duration of
      mechanical ventilation and hospital length of stay and increased mortality. Long-term impacts
      are also reported like dependence and quality of life impairment of survivors.

      The COVID-19 pandemic currently leads to an increasing number of ICU admission in France with
      a high risk of settings saturation. Specialized settings for post-ICU rehabilitation are
      preparing to early receive difficult-to-wean patients with ICUAW after admission in ICU for
      severe or critical form of COVID-19.

      To our best knowledge, no data is obviously available regarding at the future of these
      patients in terms of quality of life, dependence or survival. Moreover, no short-term data
      are available concerning the course of lung damages and muscle function after ICU stay. The
      safety of early mobilization usually delivered in patients admitted to post-ICU settings has
      never been assessed in patients with COVID-19.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the quality of life, dependence and survival at one
      year in patients who survived from COVID-19 in ICU and are admitted in post-ICU setting for
      difficult weaning purpose.

      Ancillary studies aim to assess course of muscle function (atrophy, structure modification),
      lung function (loss of aeration) and safety of early mobilization.
    
  