
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial of an intervention to improve the outcomes of depressive
      disorders, generalized anxiety, panic disorder, and at-risk drinking or alcohol use disorders
      in primary care. Over 3 years, adult patients who self-refer, or are referred by their
      Primary Care Provider, and consent and meet the eligibility criteria will be randomized to
      either: (1) usual care provided by their Primary Care Provider enhanced by a baseline
      assessment and follow-up assessments 4, 8, and 12 months later; or (2) an intervention
      consisting of care provided by their Primary Care Provider enhanced by a baseline assessment,
      follow-up assessments 4, 8, and 12 months later plus psychoeducation, monitoring, and support
      offered by telephone by a Mental Health Technician receiving supervision from a project
      psychiatrist.

      At baseline and 4, 8, and 12 months later, symptoms, quality of life, and function of all
      participants will be assessed by telephone by Research Analysts (RAs) blind to the
      randomization. In addition, at 12 months, patient satisfaction will be assessed. Results of
      these assessments will be shared with the participant's Primary Care Provider, regardless of
      randomization. The Primary Care Provider will receive a document summarizing the results of
      the baseline assessment and the three follow-up assessments for the participants of both the
      usual care and intervention groups. For participants in the intervention group the Primary
      Care Provider will also receive treatment recommendations and updates as needed.

      In the enhanced usual care group, the Primary Care Provider will treat the participant as
      they deem appropriate. In the intervention group, participants will be assigned to a team
      constituted by a Mental Health Technician and a psychiatrist. The team will communicate
      evidence-based treatment recommendations to the Primary Care Provider, for example initiating
      the use of an antidepressant or referring the participant for therapy or counselling. The
      Mental Health Technician will offer participants telephone-based psychoeducation about their
      diagnoses made by their Primary Care Provider or other consulting physicians, their symptoms,
      and the treatment selected by the Primary Care Provider. The Mental Health Technician will
      also monitor by phone the progress of treatment and communicate updates to the Primary Care
      Provider with additional recommendations as required. Thus, the Mental Health Technician will
      contact the Primary Care Provider on an as needed basis. In addition, for participants who
      are doing well and for whom no new recommendations are needed, the Mental Health Technician
      will provide a brief "progress report" to the Primary Care Provider on a monthly basis.

      In addition, at the completion of the one-year period, the RA will review all the
      participants' charts to abstract the intervention (e.g., medications, doses, refills) and
      other health services (e.g., diagnostic tests, referrals, mental health evaluations) they
      have received during their participation in the study. The chart audit will be conducted
      using REDCap, a secure application supported by the CAMH Information Management Group (IMG).
      IMG has all the necessary physical and operational securities in place to meet security and
      privacy regulations for data transmission and storage using REDCap. Investigators will follow
      the best practices outlined by IMG to ensure that all data and information is kept private
      and confidential.
    
  