
    
      Relapse and recurrence following recovery from Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) are common and
      debilitating outcomes that carry enormous social costs [1-3]. Our CIHR funded program of
      research has studied the nature of psychological vulnerability in affective disorder. We have
      recently identified the activation of a depressive cognitive mode triggered by temporary
      dysphoric states as a reliable risk marker for depressive relapse [4, see attached]. In
      parallel, functional imaging studies have increased our understanding of the neural
      mechanisms underlying normative affective responses [5] and have begun to examine their
      dysregulation in affective disorder [6-8]. Our research has identified potential brain
      biomarkers that predict episode relapse in unipolar depression. However, it remains unknown
      how these potential biomarkers are related to dysphoria-triggered information processing
      modes that also predict relapse, and whether these neurocognitive vulnerabilities are
      amenable to intervention, resulting in more lasting prophylaxis. The present proposal employs
      a cognitive neuroscience approach to examine whether our previously identified neural markers
      of depression relapse and prophylaxis are associated with a dysphoric information processing
      mode. In particular, we will use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and behavioural
      probes to undertake a finely tuned examination of mood linked biases in attention toward
      dysphoric stimulus events (i.e., sad faces) to link our previously identified neural markers
      with a specific information processing mode. Further, our preliminary data presented here
      demonstrate a correlation between these mood linked neural markers and relapse, but we cannot
      demonstrate that these markers are causally related to relapse or prophylaxis. To address
      this, we will examine whether these markers and associated dysphoric attentional biases are
      1) modifiable via attentional training designed to overcome reflexive modes of thought and
      perception and 2) are predictive of relapse status across an 24-month prospective follow up
      of treated patients. This research will elucidate the neural and information processing
      correlates that may signal relapse risk in recovered depressed patients. This knowledge will
      increase our limited understanding of the mechanisms underlying enduring depressive relapse
      vulnerability as well as assess potentially efficient strategies for relapse prophylaxis.
    
  