
    
      The use of complementary medicine has increased significantly worldwide and up to 40% of
      American patients use some form of complementary therapy[1,2 ]. Among these are the energy
      therapies such as Reiki[3], Johrei, and Spiritist "passe"[4]. These therapies are based on
      the modification of the energy fields that surround and penetrate the human body, and are
      supposedly involved in the health and disease process. Application of these therapies
      involves touch or laying hands on these energy fields, the existence of which has not yet
      been proven. Experimental studies have shown the action of energy therapies in animal models
      or in cell cultures[5,6,4]. Johrei proved to be effective in improving sleep in mice
      subjected to sleep interruption[5] and in reducing tumor cell growth in vitro[6]. An
      experimental study was recently published showing the effect of Spiritist "passe" on the
      growth of bacterial colonies of Escherichia coli. When "passe" was applied with the intention
      of reducing the growth of colonies there was a statistically significant reduction compared
      to the control group, subjected to laying of the hands without application of "passe" [4].
      This study is recognized as the first experimental evidence of "passe" which is widespread in
      spiritism. Spiritism is a very common religion and philosophy in Brazil and the use of
      Spiritist "passe" is a form of treatment under this religion that is highly established in
      the treatment of psychiatric disorders[7,8]. Therapies used in spiritualism include Spiritist
      "passe," spiritist education, disobsession, and fluidic water. Studies investigating the
      scientific basis of these therapies are beginning to feature in the literature[8,9,10]. For
      energy therapies with clinical purposes, a few meta-analysis studies have evaluated distance
      healing and some touch therapies without reaching conclusive results, indicating a high
      heterogeneity between studies and presenting the need for more primary studies in the
      field[11,12]. Among the energy therapies, Reiki is the most widely studied; however, in
      recent meta-analysis, due to the large variability of the studies, different endpoints
      (anxiety, pain, depression) and methodological flaws, its efficacy has not yet been
      confirmed[13]. However, a more recent systematic review shows the efficacy of Reiki in
      reducing anxiety and pain[14].

      Thus, despite the heterogeneity of the studies, energy therapies appear to have positive
      effects, particularly on the reduction of anxiety and pain. Spiritist "passe" is an important
      therapy in Brazil that is similar to other energy therapies such as Reiki and Johrei, and its
      efficacy has been experimentally confirmed[4]. Therefore, studies on clinical outcomes of
      this important form of complementary therapy are necessary. Unlike Reiki[14] and Johrei[15],
      there are no clinical studies on Spiritist "passe" despite its similar basis as an energy
      therapy.

      1. STUDY HYPOTHESIS

      The hypothesis of the study is that the Spiritist "passe" energy therapy will result in the
      reduction of anxiety, depressive symptoms, and improved quality of life in subjects with
      anxiety. The primary objective is to evaluate the Spiritist "passe" therapy in reducing
      anxiety in subjects with symptoms of anxiety after 8 weeks of study.

      II. OBJECTIVES

        1. PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

           The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of the Spiritist "passe" therapy in
           reducing anxiety after 8 weeks of study in subjects with symptoms of anxiety.

        2. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

             -  Evaluate the impact of "passe" in reducing depressive symptoms

             -  Evaluate the impact of "passe" on improving of quality of life

             -  Evaluate the impact of "passe" on brain wave patterns detected with the
                electroencephalogram (EEG) III. PATIENTS AND METHODS

      1. PATIENTS

      1.1. Cohort:

      Sixty patients with anxiety, who have not been treated by psychologists or doctors previously
      and do not use specific medication, will be evaluated. Patients will be recruited through the
      Botucatu Faculty of Medicine Press Service that will advertise phone numbers in newspapers
      and magazines and on the radio. Patients will be selected by the researchers according to the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      1.2. Outline: This is a randomized controlled prospective single-center study to evaluate the
      effect of Spiritist "passe" in reducing anxiety.

      The trial will be conducted at a single location in the Clinical Hospital of the Botucatu
      Faculty of Medicine - UNESP.

      Eligible patients who agree to participate and sign the informed consent form will be
      included in the study. The following four standardized questionnaires will then be
      administered:

        1. DUREL questionnaire for assessment of spirituality

        2. Beck Depression Inventory

        3. State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)

        4. WHOQOL-BREF quality of life questionnaire The questionnaires will be administered by an
           examiner who will read out the questions and write down the answers. The anxiety
           questionnaire (STAI) will always be administered first followed by the other
           questionnaires in random order.

      After the questionnaires have been administered, patients will be randomly categorized into
      two groups, control and treatment (application of Spiritist "passe"), weekly according to the
      description of the study design.

      1.3. Period: The study will begin after approval by the Research Ethics Committee of the
      Botucatu Faculty of Medicine. Thereafter, patients selected through interviews will be
      considered eligible if they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria (described below in
      section 1.5). Eligible patients will be followed over an 8-week period with weekly
      applications of the treatment (Spiritist "passe") or the placebo (simulation of Spiritist
      "passe").

      The standardized questionnaires will be administered three times (start, 4 weeks, and 8
      weeks). Three assessments by electroencephalogram (start, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks) will also be
      made.

      1.4. Sample: The sample will consist of 60 patients selected by interview following the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Based on the doctoral work of Ricardo Monezzi, the
      application of Reiki in elderly volunteers with stress resulted in a 20% reduction of anxiety
      level in the placebo group and 60% in the treatment group. Considering the reduction of
      anxiety in the control and treatment groups with an alpha of 0.05 and a beta of 0.8,
      respectively, a sample of 46 patients is planned. Assuming a 25% loss in follow-up, a sample
      of 60 patients is finalized.
    
  