
    
      Vitamin D is an important nutrient controlling the health and development of our bones. Many
      patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are deficient in levels of vitamin D in their
      bodies. This is probably because vitamin D is lost from inflamed intestinal tissue into the
      stools. But while much attention has been given to studying the impact of vitamin D
      deficiency on the bone status of patients with IBD, our understanding of how vitamin D
      deficiency might affect the immune system in these patients is relatively poor.

      The investigators intend to study vitamin D supplementation in children with Crohn's disease,
      ages 8 to 18 years. At the time of enrollment, the investigators will gather data on disease
      activity using both a simple history and physical exam, as well as blood and stool tests. In
      addition, the investigators will measure the levels of cathelicidin produced by the immune
      cells in their blood. The investigators will then supplement 20 children with vitamin D for a
      total of 6 months. During the study, patients will be seen every two months, where the
      investigators will monitor their vitamin D levels as well as perform rigorous safety
      monitoring for toxicity using blood and urine tests.

      And at study conclusion, the investigators will again judge their disease severity and check
      their vitamin D levels in addition to tests of cathelicidin levels. The investigators believe
      that at study conclusion, the investigators will have achieved several important objectives.
      First, as a public health benefit, the investigators will show that large doses of
      supplemental vitamin D are safe in children and provide more benefit with less risk. Our
      patients will achieve those levels of vitamin D agreed by expert opinion that are required to
      cause effects on the immune system, and the investigators will see an increase in the amount
      of cathelicidin produced by their immune cells. As an added piece of information, the
      investigators would like to determine if there are any improvements in disease activity in
      patients supplemented with vitamin D.
    
  