
    
      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) is conducting a rigorous evaluation of the Peer Group
      Connection (PGC) program's impact on sexual behaviors associated with teen pregnancy. PGC is
      a school-based, group peer mentoring program for ninth grade students that is designed to
      facilitate the transition into high school and improve non-cognitive abilities, student
      engagement, and educational outcomes. The study enrolls students from high schools that serve
      large populations of economically disadvantaged and minority students in communities with
      high teenage birth rates. In North Carolina, the study is being implemented in schools
      serving rural populations, and in New York City, schools serving largely Hispanic and other
      minority populations are targeted.

      As part of the PGC program, ninth-grade participants attend weekly group outreach sessions
      led by older peer leaders. Outreach sessions occur during regularly scheduled classes
      (participants are pulled from their classes to attend). They include hands-on activities,
      simulations, and discussions intended to build group cohesion and to improve the
      decision-making skills of group members. A minimum of 18, 45-minute outreach sessions are
      expected to be offered to PGC participants during the course of their ninth-grade year.
      Although PGC is not explicitly a sexual health or teen pregnancy prevention program, the
      belief is that by engaging ninth grade students in school, building connectedness among
      peers, and building students' decision-making and goal-setting skills, PGC will encourage
      students to make healthier decisions, including reducing sexual risk-taking and increasing
      protective behaviors.

      The comparison condition consists of normally scheduled classes or activities (e.g., Physical
      Education/Health class, elective class, or homeroom period) that comparison group
      participants are assigned to during the period that PGC outreaches occur. Comparison group
      participants will therefore receive more time in the regularly scheduled class than will the
      treatment group, but there will be no alternative program or additional activities offered to
      the participants assigned to the comparison group.

      The study is an individual randomized controlled trial in which eligible, consenting ninth
      grade participants are randomly assigned by the evaluator to intervention (PGC) or control
      (class as usual) groups at a 1:1 ratio. Outcomes will be assessed using questionnaire data
      gathered at three time points: baseline, occurring during the fall of participants' 9th grade
      year (prior to the provision of any PGC programming), and follow-up during the fall of their
      10th and 11th grade years. Primary outcomes of interest include sexual initiation, frequency
      of any type of sex, and number of sexual partners.
    
  