
    
      This is a prospective, observational, single center study which will be conducted at the
      Rabin Medical Center (Beilinson Campus), Petach Tikva, Israel, a tertiary university
      hospital. Fifty healthy woman (≤45 years old) undergoing IVF treatment will be enrolled
      following filling out an informed consent form.

      Study procedure:

      Women will be recruited in the IVF department upon consulting with the fertility specialist.
      Following signed informed consent, patients' blood pressure will be measured using a
      non-invasive upper arm blood pressure. Cardiovascular monitoring will be carried out using
      non-invasive NICAS cardiac impedance cardiography by the use of two electrodes stickers which
      are pasted on the wrists for 6 minutes.

      Monitoring will be performed on:

        1. 1-3rd day of the menstrual cycle prior to treatment with gonadotropins

        2. On the day of ovulation triggering

        3. On the day of ovum pickup prior to their entrance to the operating theater.

        4. On the day of embryo transfer.

      IVF Protocol:

      The antagonist protocol consists of daily gonadotropin stimulation from day 3 or 4 of
      menstruation. In addition, once the leading follicle reached 13-14 mm, daily injections of
      Cetrotide 0.25 mg (Serono, Switzerland) or Orgalutran 0.25 mg (N.V. Organon, the Netherlands)
      are given and until the day of hCG (Ovitrelle, Serono, Switzerland) injection. Gonadotropin
      stimulation will consist of recombinant FSH (Gonal F, Serono, Postfach, Switzerland; or
      Puregon, N.V. Organon, Oss, The Netherlands), alone or in combination with urinary
      gonadotropins (Menopur, Ferring, Kiel, Germany). During treatment, the ovarian response will
      be monitored by serial vaginal ultrasound measurements of follicular growth and serum E2
      level every 1-3 days, starting on the fourth or fifth day of stimulation, gonadotropin dosage
      will be adjusted accordingly. When at least 3 follicles reached at least 17 millimeters, hCG
      is injected and thirty six hours after hCG injection, follicles will be aspirated in the
      operating room.

      Data Collection:

      Recorded data will include:

        -  Cardiac Output and its derivate including: systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic
           blood pressure (DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV),
           cardiac output (CO) and total peripheral resistance (TPR).

        -  Demographic and obstetric age, weight, height, current hemoglobin, comorbidities,
           regular medication and other obstetric data.

      Data Handling Data collection for all participants in the study will be done anonymously. All
      hemodynamic data collected will be done by a trained member of the research team. All
      collected data will be coded and recorded on the eCRF NICaS monitor, and will be accessible
      only to a member of the research team.

      Study duration:

      The study duration for each participant will be throughout the IVF cycle of treatment
      approximately 6 weeks.
    
  