
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The purpose of this protocol is to acquire information on the types of cortical
      reorganization associated with different stroke lesions. This is important for formulating
      hypotheses on lesion-specific types of cortical plasticity following stroke. Understanding
      lesion-specific cortical reorganization is essential to advancing our understanding of the
      mechanism(s) underlying functional reorganization and recovery after stroke.

      This protocol will establish a neuroimaging database of brain activations in stroke patients
      with various lesion sites using task-controlled functional and high-resolution structural
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods and detailed monitoring of task performance in the
      scanner (electromyography [EMG] and motor kinematics). Specifically, we propose to acquire
      the following from each new patient in the clinic who has had a stroke at least 3 months
      prior to their visit:

        1. A high-resolution T1-weighted structural scan and T2-weighted MRI; used to characterize
           lesion location and to quantify tissue loss.

        2. A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan with standardized motor tasks.

      Both will be repeated every two years, for up to 10 years to provide preliminary information
      on the consistency of plastic changes over time in the chronic stage. This information will
      be used to generate future hypotheses and power analysis on lesion-specific forms of cortical
      reorganization.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      One hundred and twenty five stroke patients aged 18 or above with motor function impairment.

      DESIGN:

      All stroke patients under this protocol will complete the following evaluations during their
      initial visit: clinical interview and neurological exam, the National Institutes of Health
      Stroke Scale (NIH Stroke Scale), the Medical Research Council (MRC), and Jebsen-Taylor
      scores.

      Following the initial screening, subjects will be asked to participate in up to two MRI
      sessions every two years. Session 1 includes anatomical MRI scans (T1- and T2-weighted);
      Session 2 involves BOLD functional MRI scans.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Outcome measures will include lesion loci and size, gray matter loss (volume size), white
      matter loss (volume size), total white matter volume, total gray matter volume, patterns of
      fMRI BOLD activation within and across sessions, the NIH Stroke scale, the MRC, and
      Jebsen-Taylor test scores.
    
  