
    
      At screening, informed consent and health insurance portability and assurance (HIPAA)
      authorization will be reviewed and signed. A medical history will be obtained. If criteria
      for enrollment are satisfied, a fasting blood sample will be collected for a comprehensive
      metabolic panel, and blood count. Results will be reviewed by the study physician for
      compliance to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The screening visit will also include a
      review of foods to avoid during run-in and study participation. Once lab results from the
      screening visit come back and are determined to be satisfactory for inclusion, the subject
      will be called and instructed to start dietary restrictions. The first stool collection (Day
      -1) will occur after two weeks of dietary compliance.

      Day -1: Subjects will be asked to collect an entire stool and store it in a cooler filled
      with ice packs, along with a collection container until delivery to the lab within 24 hours.

      Day 1: Subjects will take the 1st dose of POMx and be given a container for collecting their
      urine for 24 hours and asked to refrigerate this as the urine is collected. This urine will
      be used to determine the presence of urolithin A and whether they are "responder or non
      responder". Participants will be asked to consume 1 POMx capsule daily and to abstain from
      consuming pomegranates, walnuts, or polyphenol-rich foods or juices drawn from a list.

      Day 27: Subjects will collect one entire stool and place in the provided cooler filled with
      ice packs for storage of the stool sample until delivery to the lab within 24 h. Urine
      collection will start at 8am after the morning dose of POMx and last until 8 am the day of
      clinic visit.

      Day 28: Stool and urine sample will be collected. The stool sample collected at home (within
      the prior 24 hours) will be returned on this day. Blood sample will be collected. Compliance
      will be assessed by pill count. Safety and tolerance data will be collected.
    
  