
    
      To avoid unnecessary toxicity from treatments that do not cure, patients with chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients are traditionally observed until they develop symptoms
      that justify first-line therapy. This period of observation is called "watch and wait".
      Treatment of symptomatic CLL has improved significantly with new drugs such as ibrutinib that
      provide disease control previously impossible with standard chemotherapy. Unfortunately,
      these drugs rarely cure and outcomes are poor once they stop working. There is a need for
      strategies to prevent disease progression during "watch and wait" in order to extend survival
      and improve the lives of CLL patients.

      It has been found that CLL cells from many patients spontaneously make the cytokine
      interleukin-1 (IL-1). When IL-1 is blocked by the IL-1 receptor antagonist anakinra, CLL
      cells release high amounts of type 1 interferon (IFN). Since IFN produced at sufficient
      levels for appropriate times activates immune responses that may prevent progression of
      cancer and anakinra has a favorable toxicity profile, the hypothesis of this trial is that
      anakinra administered in the "watch and wait" period may clear CLL cells before they can
      cause symptoms.

      The hypothesis will be addressed in a phase 1 clinical trial. The primary objective is to
      determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of anakinra, which has not been established
      previously in this patient population. The secondary objectives are to determine the effect
      on disease burden. Anakinra will be provided by Sobi and clinical trial costs supported by
      the Sunnybrook hematology site group. The trial will involve 3 cohorts of 4 patients in a
      standard phase 1 design. Eligible patients will be on "watch and wait" but expected to
      inevitably require treatment as predicted by unmutated IGHV status, presence of
      lymphadenopathy or splenomegaly, circulating CLL counts greater than 30x106 cells/ml, or IgG
      levels less than 8 g/L. Cohorts will be treated with 100 mg subcutaneously (SC BID) daily,
      the dose approved for rheumatoid arthritis, 100 mg SC BID, or 200 mg BID, to approximate
      doses for genetic inflammopathies. Anakinra will be given daily for seven 4-week cycles based
      on experience with other immunomodulatory drugs that suggest an average time to best response
      is ~7 months. Responses will be determined by conventional criteria based on decreases in
      circulating CLL cell numbers and radiologic measurements of lymphadenopathy. Anakinra will be
      considered ineffective if no clinical responses are observed after 7 cycles. Based on Gehan
      criteria, a new drug must show activity in at least 1/13 patients to justify further testing.
    
  