
    
      This multi-site study aims to investigate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of using
      embodied virtual reality graded motor imagery software to treat adults with diagnosed chronic
      central pain conditions in two bodily regions: chronic pain in the lower back and in the
      upper limbs. The research will be conducted in two phases, the second of which is contingent
      upon successful completion of the first. The first phase will involve piloting a novel
      virtual reality treatment for chronic pain to investigate feasibility and safety with a
      smaller number of patients (N=30 for each condition). The second phase of the research will
      investigate efficacy using a single-blinded randomized control study design with sham
      control. Chronic pain conditions of the lower back and upper limbs will be investigated
      separately, and power analyses have been conducted to determine optimal study size, which is
      N=200 for each portion.

      Central pain is defined as pain that originates in the central nervous system, and is not
      immediately due to injury, but is possibly a delayed reaction to injury. Example conditions
      eligible for this study include chronic lower back pain, as well as phantom limb pain,
      complex regional pain syndrome, carpal tunnel syndrome, post-stroke limb pain, and repetitive
      strain injuries of the shoulder, arm or hand. In the pilot phase of the study, 30 subjects
      with chronic lower back pain and 30 subjects with chronic upper limb pain will receive 8
      sessions of graded motor imagery virtual reality therapy. Contingent on the success of the
      pilot, defined as completion of 8 session with no adverse events, and trends indicating
      improvement of range of motion, pain, fear/avoidance, and depression symptoms, the randomized
      control trial phase of the research will proceed. In the randomized phase, subjects will be
      randomized into active or control conditions. Active condition subjects will receive 8
      sessions of graded motor imagery in virtual reality, and control condition subjects will
      receive a non-embodied sham virtual reality experience. This study will investigate the
      safety and feasibility of this approach, as well as its effects on pain symptoms.

      This product is considered a non-significant risk device, as is explained in the accompanying
      letter from the sponsor, Karuna Labs Inc. A request for feedback from the presubmission
      program of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has additionally been submitted.
    
  