
    
      Background: AVF is the preferred vascular access for maintenance hemodialysis. However, AVF
      is not an ideal vascular access without any drawback. Previous studies had revealed several
      risk factors of AVF maturation failure, including anemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking. On
      the other hand, basic studies have revealed molecular pathogenic factors of AVF maturation
      failure, including localized inflammation, hypoxic injury, oscillating wall shear stress,
      uremic milieu and oxidative stress. Despite of these substantial studies exploring the role
      of pathogenic factors, a modifiable pathogenic factor that is applicable to improve AVF
      maturation remains lacking.

      Maturation failure of AVF results from luminal stenosis due to neointimal hyperplasia,
      signifying thickening of subintimal area caused by proliferation of myofibroblast, which is
      remarkably stained for α-smooth muscle actin and vimentin. Neointimal hyperplasia of AVF
      occurs mainly at the arteriovenous junction and venous limb of AVF, where venous endothelium
      is exposed to non-physiologically high blood flow rate, oscillatory shear stress and
      pulsatile stretching strain by arterial blood flow, suggesting the role of altered
      hemodynamics on AVF subintimal proliferation. It has also been reported that endothelial
      cells from arterial and venous parts of circulation system show different genetic expression,
      indicating that different hemodynamic environment regulates phenotypes of endothelial cells.
      Therefore, it is reasonable that elevated luminal pressure may stimulate proliferation in
      venous endothelium of AVF and result in maturation failure. In contrast, elevated AVF luminal
      pressure also provides stretching force for outward remodeling, which is required for AVF
      maturation. Therefore, this prospective observational study is conducted to investigate the
      optimal AVF luminal pressure for AVF maturation, which may be modified surgically or
      pharmaceutically to improve AVF maturation rate.

      Specific aims Aim 1: To characterize the altered blood flow rates and luminal pressures in
      different segments of AVF. Aim 2: To characterize the association between luminal pressures
      and vessel diameters of different segments of AVF. Aim 3: To investigate the association
      between AVF luminal pressure and AVF maturation rate. Aim 4: To investigate the association
      between AVF luminal pressure and known risk factors of AVF maturation failure.

      Methods and analysis: This prospective observational study is mainly aimed to investigate the
      association between AVF luminal pressure and maturation rate. Patients who meet the following
      eligibility criteria are eligible for enrollment: (1) Patient at pre-dialysis or
      post-dialysis status who undergoes surgical creation of native AVF for hemodialysis will be
      included. (2) AVF created at both radial and brachial arteries are eligible for inclusion.
      Exclusion criteria: (1) Patients at age <20 years old will be excluded (2) Patients who are
      unconscious or unable to sign the inform consent will be excluded (3) Patient in whom native
      AVF creation is shifted to arteriovenous graft placement due to technical difficulty will be
      excluded from this study. The recruit of participants, collection of parameters, and
      confirmation of the outcomes are performed by a full-time study nurse.

      Statistic methods: Continuous variables will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation, while
      nominal variables are expressed in frequency and percentage. Comparisons of continuous
      variables will be performed using the two-tailed t-test for unpaired samples or Welch's
      t-test as appropriate. Comparisons of nominal variables will be performed using the
      Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Multivariate logistic regression test
      will be used to evaluate the association between predictor variables and outcome variables.
      Statistical significance will be defined by a P value of <0.05. The statistics will be
      performed using SAS 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc, Cary, NC, USA). G*Power 3.1.9.4 was used to
      estimate the sample size to reach statistical significance in the t-test. Assuming the effect
      size to be 0.6. Under the condition that α error is defined as 0.05; power was defined as
      0.8; and the allocation ratio was defined as 1. Therefore, the sample size required to
      achieve statistical significance is 90 patients. The data used for the study will be
      preserved and analyzed by the primary investigator. The data is accessible only to the
      primary investigator and study nurse for data safety. The data will be preserved for 2 years
      after the end of the study.
    
  