
    
      Participants:

      Up to 20 recreationally active healthy males, aged between 21 to 35 years, will be recruited
      to take part in this study. All volunteers will provide their informed consent in writing
      before participating in the study. The possible risk and benefits will be made known to the
      participant prior to the agreement to participate and they will be allowed to withdraw from
      the study at any point in time without any reason provided. All potential participants will
      first be required to undergo medical screening by a certified independent practitioner before
      participating in the study. The medical practitioner conducting the assessment will be
      informed of the purpose of the medical screening. The screening is to ensure that the
      potential participant is eligible to take part in the study. The personal particulars form
      will also be completed by each participant prior to the commencement of each trial.

      Baseline measurements and familiarisation trials:

      In the first session, anthropometry measurements will be taken. Based on the height and nude
      body mass, the body mass index (BMI) will be calculated (body mass in kg) / (height in m)2.
      Waist and hip circumference will be determined using a measuring tape. Skinfold thickness
      measurements will be taken at 4 sites (biceps, triceps, subscapular and suprailiac) in
      triplicate using skinfold calliper and the mean value will be used to calculate total skin
      fold. Body density will be calculated according to the estimation of Durnin and Womersley
      (1974) and percentage body fat will be estimated using the equation of Siri (1956).

      Familiarisation of the 2.4 km time trial and the treadmill peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) test
      will be performed 2 weeks before the commencement of the actual 2.4 km time trial. Ample rest
      is given between the two sessions for recovery.

      Control of trial status:

      Before the commencement of every trials, participants will be reminded to remain hydrated by
      consuming sufficient fluids, to have at least 8 hours of sleep, to refrain from alcoholic
      beverages, and to refrain from any forms of strenuous physical activity 24 h before each
      trial. Blood glucose will be measured before the start of the session via finger pricked
      using a lancing device. Prior to the pricking of the finger, the site will be disinfected
      with an alcohol wipe(s) and pressure will be applied to the site of the prick after blood
      sampling to minimise any bruising that may develop. In addition, Participants will be
      required to perform a 2-day dietary record prior to every blood draw session. They will be
      requested to refrain from participating in other aerobic training regimes (other than the
      prescribed exercise routine) or any acute strenuous bout of exercise that is not part of
      their routine during the study period.

      Study design:

      Participants will be required to undergo endurance interval training with low, moderate or
      high intensity. Each training session will comprise a warm-up run (50-60% VO2peak) followed
      by a 1-min fast run (80 to 140% VO2peak) interspersed with 1-min of recovery between each
      running bout till participants reach 18 out of 20 on the ratings of perceived exertion (RPE;
      Borg's scale). Participants will perform 10-15 repetitions of interval runs during each
      session. Heart rate, RPE, and blood pressure will be measured continuously at stipulated
      intervals. Water will be provided ad libitum during all training sessions. In the utility
      phase, participants will either perform an AI-led training or a conventional training program
      for 4 weeks. A 2.4 km time trial and a treadmill peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) test will be
      conducted at baseline, in between the low, moderate and high intensity bouts of training in
      the calibration phase, and before the first and last week of the utility phase. Similar to
      the familiarisation trials, the treadmill VO2peak test and 2.4 km time trial will be done at
      3 days apart from each other to allow for recovery. The two phases would consist of 47
      sessions, inclusive of seven VO2peak tests and seven 2.4 km time trials. The total duration
      for each participant will take approximately 6 months.

      Blood sampling and analysis:

      After 5 min of seated rest, participant will immerse their arm in warm water (42-45°C) for 10
      min to promote arterialisation of venous blood. Blood (10 ml) will be withdrawn from the
      antecubital vein of the participants into an ETDA vacutainer tube for subsequent analysis of
      the lipid profile.
    
  