
    
      Background

      In patients with one anatomical or functional ventricular chamber, which encompasses a
      spectrum of rare and complex congenital cardiac malformations, a staged surgical approach in
      view of an ultimate Fontan operation has become the procedure of choice. Especially in the
      earlier era, perioperative mortality was the leading cause of death. However, many patients
      have a long and high-quality life, continuously improved by a better understanding of Fontan
      hemodynamics and the refinement of the surgical procedures. Nevertheless, the prospect of
      eventual failure of the Fontan circulation remains a major concern. More specifically,
      evaluation of the pulmonary circulation becomes particularly important as the failing Fontan
      circulation has become a common indication for cardiac transplantation. Although essential,
      especially in the preoperative setting, a comprehensive evaluation of the pulmonary
      circulation remains difficult in this patient population.

      Different types of Fontan circulation

      Atriopulmonary connection

      In the atriopulmonary connection, the right atrium is interposed as a valveless contractile
      chamber between the systemic venous and pulmonary arterial bed. Although initially believed
      to be beneficial, the interposition of such a valveless pulsatile chamber does not contribute
      positively to fluid energy. Moreover, pulsation results at the price of higher upstream
      pressures, whereas downstream pressures remain unchanged.

      Total cavopulmonary shunts

      This procedure consists of diverting the superior vena cava return into the pulmonary
      arteries and connecting the vena cava inferior to the pulmonary arteries. This action is
      achieved either by the construction of a composite conduit made of the sinus venarum and a
      prosthetic patch (intracardiac total cavopulmonary connection or lateral tunnel) or by an
      extracardiac conduit (extracardiac total cavopulmonary connection).

      Our global hypothesis is that the absence of pulsatile pulmonary flow may lead to the
      development of pulmonary vascular lesions after the Fontan operation and that - together the
      absence of a subpulmonary ventricle for pressure generation - this increasing afterload will
      result in systemic ventricular underfilling and will eventually lead to a failing Fontan
      circulation.

      Fontan attrition

      The systemic ventricle

      Although preload reduction may lead to inappropriate ventricular hypertrophy, with
      concomitant ventricular relaxation problems and a decreased capacity for adaptation to
      increased afterload, it is generally accepted that the pulmonary vasculature is more
      important than mild ventricular dysfunction in this patient population. Naturally, severe
      ventricular dysfunction will affect patient's prognosis.

      The pulmonary circulation

      The absence of a right ventricular to pulmonary arterial coupling has a profound influence on
      systemic venous return and the pulmonary circulation. Several aspects have to be taken into
      account when evaluating the pulmonary circulation

        1. Systemic venous pressure.

           Systemic venous pressures, which are approximately 5 mmHg in healthy controls at rest
           and remains unchanged during exercise, are higher in Fontan patients. In Fontan
           patients, the absence of a right ventricle for pressure generation, some degree of
           congestion is required in order to force transpulmonary flow. However, at rest pressures
           above 20 mmHg are rarely seen as such pressures would lead to complications (oedema,
           pleural effusions and ascites). Interestingly, pressure change observed during exercise
           in normals and Fontan patients is quite similar. In healthy controls, an increase in
           mean pulmonary artery pressure from 15 mmHg at rest to 30 mmHg during exercise. In
           Fontan patients, mean right atrial pressure increased from 15 mmHg at rest to 25 mmHg
           during exercise.

        2. Left atrial pressure.

           In healthy controls, left atrial pressures shows little variability at rest and is
           mainly determined by the atrioventricular valve and ventricular dysfunction. In Fontan
           patients, diastolic parameters are more difficult to assess as preload insufficiency
           should be considered.8 During exercise, left atrial pressure normally remains stable or
           increases somewhat in healthy individuals. However, there are few data available on left
           atrial pressures during exercise in Fontan patients.

        3. Pulmonary circulation

      Although there is still no unequivocal proof, several authors indicated that PVR appears to
      be the major determinant of cardiac output in Fontan patients at rest and during exercise. A
      low PVR is even more important in these patients as they do not have the possibility for
      adapting to a higher afterload, whereas in patients with a subpulmonary ventricle, increased
      afterload will be countered by RV hypertrophy. It has been suggested that Fontan patients
      having low PVR remain stable for many decades, whereas a high PVR appears to be poor
      prognostic factor.

      Measurement of PVR and problems in Fontan patients

      Most commonly, PVR is measured using the Fick method based on the principle that a known
      amount of a specific indicator is added to a volume of fluid. If the concentration before and
      after this addition is known, the volume of fluid can be calculated. The Fick method uses the
      physiological uptake of oxygen as an indicator. However, this method may be inaccurate in
      this patient population. Other techniques, such as the dye dilution technique or
      thermodilution technique suffer from their own limitations, such as reduced reliability in
      the presence of shunts or valvular regurgitation.

      In order to provide a more accurate measurement of PVR, a combined approach of invasive
      pressure measurements and velocity-encoded magnetic resonance has become available, and has
      proven to be feasible in different patient populations. Cardiac output measured using this
      approach has been shown to be accurate and feasible in Fontan patients. Moreover, flow
      through to left and right pulmonary artery can be measured separately.

      Measurement of PVR and ventricular volumes during exercise

      As mentioned earlier, transpulmonary flow in Fontan patients is dependent on the presence of
      low PVR and normal behavior of PVR during exercise in order to be able to increase cardiac
      output. An increase in PVR during exercise would cause a more pronounced underfilling of the
      systemic ventricle with subsequently less increase or even decrease in stroke volume. Both
      pressure and flow measurements have been shown feasible in patients with congenital heart
      disease at rest and during exercise.

      Measurement of PVR and ventricular volumes after vasodilatation Several studies have shown
      that drugs affecting the pulmonary vasculature (sildenafil, bosentan, NO) reduce PVR and
      increase cardiac output in selected patients. Especially in patients with elevated PVR, these
      drugs have the potential to decrease PVR and increase ventricular volumes, cardiac output and
      exercise tolerance. Whether these drugs improve outcome remains to be evaluated.

      Aims of the study

      Feasibility of measuring PVR in Fontan patients using simultaneous acquisition of invasive
      pressures and MR flow data.

      Effect of Sildenafil 50 mg on PVR, ventricular volume and function at rest

      Effect of bicycle stress on PVR, ventricular volume and function

      Evaluating the reliability of bicycle stress echocardiography in determining ventricular
      volume and function as an indirect parameter reflecting the status of the pulmonary
      vasculature
    
  