
    
      In obese patients, lung compliance decreases by 25% and Functional Residual Capacity
      decreases by about one-third. As they consume about 25% more oxygen than non-obese
      individuals, postoperative pulmonary complications occur more commonly. POINT (Peri-Operative
      Insufflatory Nasal Therapy) provides humidified and heated high flow oxygen therapy in
      perioperative period. High-ﬂow nasal oxygen (HFNO) facilitates oxygenation and ventilation of
      both the spontaneously breathing and apnoeic patient.High-ﬂow nasal cannula oxygen came to
      prominence in anaesthesia when it was shown to prolong the time to oxygen desaturation in
      patients with a difﬁcult airway.

      Lung ultrasonography (LUS) has been used more frequently in the diagnosis of pulmonary
      pathologies than chest radiography. This prospective observational study is to evaluate the
      effects of high-flow nasal oxygen therapy on atelectasis in the perioperative period by lung
      ultrasound (LUS) in bariatric surgery patients.

      Materials and Methods: Following the Ethics Committee approval and written informe consents,
      100 adult bariatric surgery patients are include in this observational study. The patients
      are randomly distributed into two groups ; High Flow Nasal Cannula Oxygenation(HFNCO) made
      group(n:50); HFNCO not made group(n:50).

      HFNCO is start at a flow rate of 20 L/min with 100% oxygen in the preoperative period. It is
      titrate up to 50 L/min and increase to 80 L/min under general anesthesia until tracheal
      intubation. Atelectasis evaluation with lung ultrasound is performe and score in 6 different
      areas before and after HFNCO.

      Pulmonary function tests and blood gas parameters are compared.During the procedure, the
      patient's blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, any complications that may develop
      will be recorded.nduction of anesthesia; difficult airway management, difficult mask and / or
      difficult intubation incidence, Mallampati scores, the use of one of the difficult intubation
      techniques during intubation (such as FastTrack, videolaryngoscopy or fiberoptic intubation),
      perioperative mechanical ventilation parameters (ventilation mode, tidal volume, respiratory
      frequency, end of tidal CO2 (carbon dioxide) pressure, PEEP usage, SpO2 (saturation oxygen),
      airway peak pressure, urine volume, arterial blood gas parameters are recorded.Duration of
      operation, surgical method (laparotomy / laparoscopy), agents used in induction and
      postoperative analgesia, use of blood, blood product and vasopressor are recorded.
    
  