
    
      This pilot study utilizes a double-blind, two-armed design to evaluate the efficacy of
      combining oral selegiline with transdermal nicotine patch for smoking cessation in 40
      nicotine-dependent smokers. After successful completion of 3 screening visits (to ensure
      medical and psychiatric eligibility criteria are met), subjects will be randomized into one
      of two experimental groups:

        1. selegiline (10 mg/day) + NRT (21 mg/24 hr)

        2. matching placebo + NRT (21 mg/24 hr)

      Randomization will be performed through the use a random number list to generate 50%
      selegiline/50% placebo and also 50% male/50% female within each of those treatment groups.

      Participants will begin selegiline (or placebo) once a day during Week 1, and dose will be
      graduated to full study dosage (10 mg/day) by adding an evening intake (a.m. and p.m. dosing)
      for Weeks 2-8. Day 15 of the trial represents target quit day and the transdermal nicotine
      patch (21 mg/24hr) will be applied at this time. Patches will be worn in conjunction with
      study medication for Weeks 3-8, after which the patch will be removed and study medication
      tapered throughout Week 9.

      Subjects will present weekly to the Nicotine Dependence Clinic where they will provide
      breath, urine and blood samples as required, receive brief smoking cessation counseling and
      complete questionnaires regarding their smoking behavior and psychological state. A
      post-trial physical will be conducted upon completion of Week 9. Monthly follow-up phone
      interviews will be conducted for 5 months and subjects will be re-assessed in the NDC for a
      6-month follow-up.

      Trial Objectives

        1. To determine if combination of selegiline hydrochloride and NRT (full substitution to
           tobacco) is superior to NRT alone + placebo (partial substitution) for smoking cessation
           in nicotine dependent smokers.

             -  The primary hypothesis is that full substitution (selegiline + NRT) will be
                superior to placebo + NRT for achievement of 7-day point prevalence smoking
                abstinence rates at the end of trial abstinence rates (Day 49-56) assessment in
                nicotine-dependent cigarette smokers.

             -  Secondary hypothesis 1a is that full substitution (selegiline + NRT) will be
                superior to NRT for achievement of last four weeks of trial (Days 29-56) smoking
                abstinence rates in nicotine-dependent cigarette smokers.

             -  Secondary hypothesis 1b is that full substitution (selegiline + NRT) will be
                superior to NRT for achievement 6-month post target quit date smoking abstinence
                rates in nicotine-dependent cigarette smokers.

        2. To determine if treatment retention and study medication compliance will be higher in
           the full substitution (selegiline + NRT) group as compared to the NRT group during the
           8-week smoking cessation trial.

           Hypothesis 2 is that treatment retention and study medication compliance will be higher
           in the full substitution (selegiline + NRT) group as compared to the NRT group during
           the 8-week smoking cessation trial.

        3. To determine if full substitution (selegiline + NRT) reduces nicotine craving and
           withdrawal symptoms as compared to NRT group during the 8-week smoking cessation trial.

           Hypothesis 3 is that full substitution treatment will lead to significant reductions in
           tobacco withdrawal and craving ratings compared to NRT group.

        4. To determine adverse events profile in nicotine-dependent smokers of the combination of
           selegiline and NRT as compared to NRT.

      Hypothesis 4 is that selegiline in combination with NRT will be well-tolerated and that rates
      of adverse events will not be significantly different between subjects assigned to full
      substitution as compared to NRT group.
    
  