
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether the administration of low-dose alemtuzumab at the onset of acute
           graft-versus-host disease can accelerate withdrawal of glucocorticoids and decrease
           nonrelapsing mortality in patients who have undergone myeloablative allogeneic stem cell
           transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

      Within 72 hours of beginning glucocorticoid therapy, patients receive alemtuzumab IV over at
      least 2 hours on days 1 and 2. If graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) responds well during days
      1-14 but returns between days 28 and 56, patients are eligible to receive 2 additional doses
      of alemtuzumab.

      Patients receive glucocorticoid therapy comprising methylprednisolone IV or oral prednisone
      daily until objective evidence of improvement in manifestations of GVHD. Patients with
      resolved or significantly improved GVHD receive treatment until day 10 followed by an
      accelerated taper until day 72 if no flare up of GVHD occurs during the glucocorticoid taper.
      Patients with recurrent or progressive GVHD during the accelerated taper are treated for 5-7
      days before resuming a less rapid taper. Patients with no improvement may receive secondary
      therapy with alternative immunosuppressive medications at the discretion of the managing
      physician. Treatment continues in the absence of progressive GVHD of at least 3 days duration
      during days 2-10; persisting GVHD without improvement between days 10-14; recurrent or
      progressive GVHD after day 10 that does not respond within 3 days to topical
      immunosuppressive therapy; and/or an increase in the systemic glucocorticoid dose by two
      taper steps; or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection at baseline and then periodically during study treatment
      for pharmacokinetics and quantification of viral loads for human herpes virus 6, adenovirus,
      Epstein-Barr virus, and cytomegalovirus. Samples are also examined by flow cytometry for B-
      and T-cell quantification at baseline, periodically during study treatment, and at 1 year
      after transplantation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 53 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  