
    
      Regional scalp block (RSB) is an established technique that involves infiltration of local
      anesthetic (LA) at well-defined anatomical sites targeting the major sensory innervation of
      the scalp. Regional techniques minimize anesthetic requirements and their effects may be
      beneficial. There is a lack of consensus and evidence concerning alternative analgesia
      strategies for cranial neurosurgery.

      Patients undergoing elective craniotomy for tumor dissection will be randomly divided into
      four groups to receive scalp block as an adjuvant to general anesthesia. After a standard
      induction sequence using propofol, fentanyl and a single dose of rocuronium, patients will be
      intubated. Bilateral scalp block will be given immediately after induction, except patients
      in control group who will not have a scalp block. Drugs for scalp block will be 20ml
      ropivacaine 0.5%, 20ml xylocaine 1% and dexmedetomidine 1mcg/kg.Anaesthesia will be
      maintained with propofol and remifentanyl infusion. Intraoperatively, propofol infusion at 75
      to 100 μg/kg/h up to dura closure and reduced to 50-75 μg/kg/h up to skin closure. Five
      minutes before head pinning scalp block was performed by blocking the supraorbital,
      supratrochlear, auriculotemporal, occipital, and postauricular branches of the greater
      auricular nerves.Routine monitoring of electrocardiogram, heart rate (HR), and mean arterial
      blood pressure (MAP) will record at two-minute intervals from the beginning of anesthesia
      until 10 minutes after incision, followed by 5-minute intervals throughout the remaining
      course of the surgery. Monitoring of the depth of anesthesia will also performed using the
      Bispectral Index. Sample size was calculated based on Type I error of α = 5% and power = 80%
      and minimum difference d = 30%, which is clinically significant in the pilot study. All
      quantitative variables will be reported as mean and standard deviation, and qualitative
      variables will be listed as number (percentage). Mann-Whitney test and Chi-square test will
      be used for comparison of endpoints. Linear mixed model will be used to evaluate the
      differences of hemodynamics variables. Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS, version
      19.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA) will be used for all calculations. p values less than .05 will
      be considered significant.
    
  