
    
      BACKGROUND Low back pain (LBP) is highly prevalent and a frequent reason for patients to
      consult general practice. It is a common pain condition affecting both men and women at all
      ages. LBP is rarely caused by only one specific factor but is eventually caused by multiple
      and often unknown factors. This makes it difficult to perform a precise diagnosis based on a
      single cause and for most patients, the LBP is diagnosed as nonspecific with or without nerve
      root compression.

      Patient education and information is a cornerstone in the management of LBP. Providing
      information to patients is considered a crucial issue as it is necessary to support
      self-management. However, the delivery of evidence based information by a healthcare
      professional is time consuming and not straight forward to deliver during the available
      consultation time in general practice.

      The internet is a widely accessible source of medical information to patients and offer a
      range of information provided by a variety of different sources. It has been reported that
      about 50% of patients use internet search for health and medical advice, and evidence
      suggests that patients willingness to use this source to obtain information about their
      health is increasing. The advance of new technologies offer new opportunities to the delivery
      of patient information on private computers, tablets, and smartphones. Online information can
      be considered an inexpensive solution to extend the combined treatment in general practice.
      Therefore, future optimization of information delivery has the potential to increase the
      delivery of evidence-based treatment of LBP which may lead to better patient outcomes.
      Patient satisfaction has been suggested as an important domain when evaluating the provision
      of online information.

      Measuring patient satisfaction is a recommended outcome measure when evaluating the effect of
      interventions for LBP. Furthermore, patient satisfaction may be associated with compliance to
      the recommended treatment. Patient satisfaction is, however, rarely applied as the primary
      outcome in studies of LBP. To the investigators' knowledge, there exist no instrument to
      evaluate specific satisfaction with information delivered online for LBP. The aim of this
      study is to develop and validate a new questionnaire to inform about patients' satisfaction
      with online information for LBP.

      METHODS This is a development and validation study of a patient reported questionnaire to (1)
      inform about the discrepancy in satisfaction of online information for LBP between groups and
      (2) to evaluate changes in satisfaction over time. The conceptualization is based on a
      formative model, which assumes a causal relationship between different domains of
      satisfaction with online information and the construct of patients' combined index score of
      satisfaction. The first version of the instrument was based on findings from an interview
      study among patients consulting for LBP in Danish general practice. Data for further
      developing on the first version were exclusively collected for piloting and validating the
      instrument.

      HYPOTHESIS The OPSI index scores among patients categorised as promoters will be compared to
      the OPSI index scores of patients categorised as non-promotors on the Net Promotor Score.
      Based on results from the pilot test. It is hypothesised that promotors will have an OPSI
      score of minimum 2.5 points more than non-promotors (0-8 Points on the Net Promotor Score).
    
  