
    
      This study is a Prospective interventional clinical trial comparing two groups of mild to
      moderate progressive keratoconic patients; Control group will be treated with routine
      accelerated protocol of corneal cross-linking, while exposure time will be decreased in the
      experimental group.

      we considered two groups of patients in our study:

        -  Group 1 (experimental): Exposure to 7 minutes at 9 mW/cm2 = 3.78 J/cm2

        -  Group 2 (controls): Exposure to 10 minutes at 9 mW/cm2 = 5.4 J/cm2

      All demographic data of patients, their uncorrected distance visual acuity (UCDVA), corrected
      distance visual acuity (BCDVA), sphere and cylinder refraction, keratometry readings (k1 and
      k2) and other topographic parameters of the patients before the procedure and at every follow
      up visit will be recorded.

      Corneal hysteresis and resistance factor will be checked by Ocular response analyzer before
      surgery and will be rechecked at 6 month follow up.

      Intraoperative pain will also be recorded based on the visual analog scale (VAS + FACES pain
      scale) immediately after the completion of surgery.

      Confocal microscopy will be used to evaluate changes in corneal stromal collagen fibers and
      keratocytes following cross-linking at 3 and 6 and 12 month post op period.

      All procedures will be done by a single surgeon. We will use topical anesthesia by tetracaine
      followed by mechanical epithelial debridement at a radius of 9 millimeters. Then riboflavin
      0.1% combined with dextran 20 % will be instilled every 3 minutes for 25 minutes. A short
      irrigation of the surface with BSS (to avoid a layer of riboflavin on the cornea during
      irradiation) will be performed. Corneal thickness will be determined by ultrasound
      pachymetry. If needed, hypoosmolar solution will be used to swell the cornea over 400 µm. If
      400 µm cannot be reached, then irradiation will not be performed. Then we will irradiate the
      eye by the UV A light source 5cm away from the eye with a light intensity of 9 mW/cm2 for 10
      minutes in control group and 7 minutes in experimental group and riboflavin will be instilled
      after 5 minutes for further in both groups, followed by a short irrigation of the surface
      with BSS (to avoid a layer of riboflavin on the cornea during irradiation).

      After the procedure we will apply a bandage contact lens for 5- 7 days and will prescribe
      topical betamethasone every 6 hours for 2 weeks, tapered to TDS, BID and HS weekly for a
      total duration 5 weeks. A topical antibiotic drop (Oftaquix every 6 hours) will be used for
      the first week.

      Patients will be followed up at day 1, day 6, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months and 12 months
      after surgery.
    
  