
    
      Background The proneness to react to noxious stimuli varies widely between individuals and
      pain ratings of seemingly identical noxious stimuli may range from "no pain" to "excruciating
      pain" . Imaging studies in healthy subjects have provided useful information on the
      identification of the inter-individual variability in pain perception [2,3,4]. These studies
      have shown that subjective pain reports are closely related to the degree of neuronal
      activity in several brain regions known to be identified in pain processing. Furthermore,
      there has been a growing interest in understanding structural and functional mechanisms of
      inter-individual variability in responses to identical noxious stimuli [5,6,7]. Yet, the
      relationship between pain perception and various anatomical and functional connectivity
      within resting state brain networks is not completely understood. With regard to the
      anatomical correlate of pain sensitivity, differences in grey matter may reflect neural
      processes contributing to the construction and modulation of pain in healthy individuals. As
      such, studies are inconsistent regarding this issue, showing positive [7] or inverse
      connections [6] between pain sensitivity and brain morphology. The inconsistency regarding
      this issue warrant further investigation which may elucidate the relationship between
      differences in pain sensitivity and regional grey matter and may provide novel insights into
      brain mechanisms contributing to that topic. Understanding brain morphology and connectivity
      within specific regions associated with pain processing can provide reliable anchor for the
      individual differences in pain response.

      A widely used approach to examine brain morphology from MRI images is voxel based morphometry
      (VBM). VBM tests for statistically significant differences in regional gray matter (GM)
      density between study groups, and its temporal changes. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a
      type of diffusion weighted imaging with the advantage of being able to resolve individual
      functional tracts within the white matter (WM) thus, DTI parameters serve as indirect
      measures of structural connectivity via the degree of integrity of WM tracts.

      2. Aim of the study To Identify neuroimaging biomarkers, demographic, personality and sensory
      factors for predicting extreme pain responses to various experimental pain stimulations in
      healthy subjects 3. Methods 3.1 Sample

      The study population will consist of 196 healthy participants. Of these, 48 patients will
      undergo brain imaging after meeting the following inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Study design The proposed study has been conducted at the Pain Research Laboratory of
      University of Haifa (in which psychophysics tests will be conducted), and imaging tests will
      be performed at the Imaging department of Rambam Health Care Campus.

      Subjects were recruited through advertisements distributed on campus bulletin board.
      Responders who met the inclusion criteria were invited to participate in the study. The trial
      will be held in two independent experimental sessions with an estimated duration of one hour
      and a half for the psychophysical tests and half an hour for the neuroimaging session.

      This study is focused on extreme subgroups only. Therefore, in the first session (which took
      place in the pain lab) subjects (n=196) were either divided into two subgroups according to
      their tolerance results to the Cold Pressor Test (CPT) (high tolerance subgroup = 180 s vs.
      low tolerance subgroup ≤20 s). 24 subjects from each subgroup will be randomly selected and
      will receive an explanation about the option to participate in the brain imaging test.
      Subjects who will decide to participate in the imaging test will undergo it at the Imaging
      Department of Rambam Health Care Campus. Upon arrival, subjects will receive a full
      explanation of the course and time of the MRI scan of the brain and will be asked to sign an
      informed consent form. The duration time of the MRI procedure is around half an hour during
      which no material will be injected or pain tests will be performed.

      During the test, several sequences will be performed; three-dimensional high-resolution
      anatomy, another structural test for the definition of connectivity (DTI), and resting state
      (RS) fMRI tests to examine the activity of brain networks. MRI will be performed using a
      3-Tesla scanner (GE Discovery MR750). The protocol consists of (1) a T1-weighted 3D
      magnetization-prepared rapid gradient echo (MPRAGE) sequence (176 slices; 220 × 220 matrix;
      TR = 2520 ms; TE = 1.74 ms; 1.0 × 1.0 × 1.0 mm voxels), (2) an echo-planar imaging (EPI)
      resting state sequence (34 slices; TR = 2010 ms; TE = 30 ms; 64 × 64 matrix; 3.5 × 3.5 × 5 mm
      voxels 200 volumes lag=4 RTs), (3) a diffusion-weighted imaging (DTI) sequence (70 slices; TR
      = 4600 ms; TE = 89 ms; 2 × 2 × 2 mm voxels) using non-collinear 64 directions and a single
      non-diffusion weighted (b = 0 s/mm2) image. At the end of the examination, analyzes of the
      data will be carried out for each individual and for each population of the study. After the
      MRI scan subjects will be asked to fill out the depression, anxiety and stress scales (DASS):
      The DASS assess depression, anxiety and stress with 7 Items each (Henry & Crawford, 2005).
      The DASS-Depression focuses on reports of low mood, motivation, and self-esteem, DASS-anxiety
      on physiological arousal, perceived panic, and fear, and DASS-stress on tension and
      irritability. The short-form version of the Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS-21):
      Construct validity and normative data in a large non-clinical sample. It was validated in a
      population of over 300 patients with chronic pain as well as healthy volunteers and found
      valid and reliable in both populations.
    
  