
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the proportion of adolescent and young adult (AYA) acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia (ALL) patients with a documented treatment plan consistent with NCCN guidelines for
      AYAs with ALL.

      II. To evaluate the proportion of AYA ALL patients whose delivered treatment during induction
      and post-induction therapy (PIT) is consistent with NCCN guidelines for AYAs with ALL.

      III. To determine the impact of treating physician specialty and facility type on likelihood
      of AYA ALL patients having a documented treatment plan concordant with NCCN guidelines when
      stratified by age group (15-17year[y], 18-21y, and 22-39y).

      IV. To determine the impact of treating physician specialty and facility type on the
      likelihood of AYA ALL patients receiving induction and post-induction therapy (PIT)
      concordant with NCCN guidelines when stratified by age group (15-17y, 18-21y, and 22-39y).

      V. To identify for AYAs with ALL, targetable structure- and process-level barriers and
      facilitators which will increase the proportion of patients having a documented treatment
      plan and receiving treatment according to NCCN guidelines.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore potential correlations with clinical and social demographic variables to the
      presence of a documented treatment plan and delivered treatment consistent with NCCN
      guidelines in AYAs with ALL.

      OUTLINE:

      CHART REVIEW: Patient medical record data is abstracted and treatment plans are reviewed for
      consistency to NCCN guidelines. For each patient, induction and post-induction care is
      recorded as either concordant with NCCN guidelines or non-concordant with NCCN guidelines.

      SITE QUESTIONNAIRE: Participating sites complete a questionnaire which is designed to capture
      facility-oriented data.

      FOCUS GROUPS: Healthcare providers participate in focus groups over 2-3 hours to discuss
      facilitators and barriers to AYA ALL guideline concordance. Participants provide responses
      which will be recorded on a flip-chart or white board, followed by discussion of the ideas
      for clarification.
    
  