
    
      The objective of this Phase 1 open-label study is to assess the feasibility of UCD19 Chimeric
      Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells manufacture onsite, successful infusion of eligible subjects,
      and safety of UCD19 CAR T Cells infusion in subjects with relapsed/refractory B-Cell
      Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (B-NHL).

      Six (6) subjects will participate in the initial cohort of this open-label, single arm,
      single site study to assess dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and safety; the first set of 3
      subjects will initiate treatment with lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior to CAR T cell
      infusion staggered 30 days from CAR T cell dosing of the previously treated subject.
      Depending on the assessment of DLTs, the second set of 3 subjects may be enrolled and dosed
      without stagger.

      After the initial 6 subjects have received treatment, an additional 14 subjects will
      participate in the Phase 1 expansion study.

      Participants will include adults with relapsed/ primary refractory CD19 positive (i.e. CD19
      expressing) B-NHL as confirmed by either flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry (IHC), or both
      who are not candidates for other curative forms of therapy. Enrolled participants will
      receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy followed by infusion of UCD19 CAR T Cells (Lentiviral
      Vector [LV] Transduced Autologous Peripheral Blood Lymphocytes). Participants will be
      enrolled up to 1 month before anticipated date of apheresis, and will be considered completed
      at 12 months post-treatment.

      Long Term Follow Up will be conducted under a separate protocol and will occur for up to 15
      Years to collect data on the long-term safety of UCD19 CAR T Cells, and for the observation,
      detection, and evaluation of latent adverse reactions including secondary malignancies.

      While this study focuses on primary endpoints for feasibility of the manufacturing and
      infusion processes and safety of the administered UCD19 CAR T Cells, preliminary evidence of
      effectiveness will be collected and analyzed for use in planning future CAR T cell therapy
      studies.
    
  