
    
      Chemotherapy is indispensible for patients suffering from advanced gastric or colorectal
      cancer, and also the main therapy for those with end-stage tumor. However, incidence of
      malnutrition during chemotherapy was reported as high as 60%. The mechanisms include anatomy
      modification of digestive tract, side effects of chemotherapy such as anorexia, nausea,
      vomiting, and inflammatory factors generated or induced by the tumor. Malnutrition may lead
      to discontinuation of the therapy, compromise of the anti-cancer effect, increase of toxicity
      and mortality. 20%-40% of patients with end-stage tumor ultimately died from malnutrition.

      EPA (Eicosapentaenoic acid, molecular formula C20H30O2) belongs to ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty
      acid (ω-3 PUFA). EPA is one of the main constituent of fish oil. EPA decreases LPS-stimulated
      macrophage production of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and human B lymphocytes production of IL-10,
      TNF-α, IFN-γ. EPA can suppress cancer induced lipolysis, and enhanced the inhibitory effect
      of 5-Fu over cancer cell proliferation. However, cancer patients are always lack of EPA.

      Nutriall is a sort of non-elemental diet. The kind of powder is produced by Guangdong Academy
      of Agriculture Science. Every 50 grams of nutriall contains 9.3mg of VitC and 0.8mg of VitE.
      For this enteral nutrition preparation, there have been evidences of protective effects on
      nutritional status during chemotherapy on lung cancer. However, this kind of preparation does
      not contain EPA.

      Up to date, there has been no RCT which testified whether therapeutic dosage of EPA plus
      enteral nutrition has combined effects on patients receiving chemotherapy. The investigators
      choose nutriall as basic nutritional support agent during chemotherapy, and give patients
      different dosage of EPA. Nutritional and immunologic status, quality of life and side effects
      of chemotherapy are recorded to evaluate whether EPA can improve outcome of these patients.
      Through this study the investigators may also optimize the dose of EPA for patients receiving
      chemotherapy on gastric/colorectal cancer.
    
  