
    
      At screening Participants will present to the clinical site having refrained from oral
      hygiene for at least 8 hours, but no more than 18 hours for baseline examinations (safety
      oral and hard soft tissue exam, MGI - Modified Gingival Index, BI - Bleeding Index and PI-
      Plaque Index and Extrinsic Staining. After the baseline oral examinations, qualifying
      participants will receive a whole-mouth supragingival dental prophylaxis and will be randomly
      assigned to one of three treatment groups.

      Participants randomly assigned to the negative control treatment group will brush twice daily
      with a marketed fluoride toothpaste in their usual manner and rinse with a placebo mouth
      rinse. Participants randomly assigned to the experimental treatment group will brush twice
      daily with a marketed fluoride toothpaste brush in their usual manner and use an experimental
      mouth rinse. The last treatment group randomly assigned to the positive control will brush
      twice daily with a marketed fluoride toothpaste in their usual manner and rinse with a
      marketed available mouth rinse. Participants will have an equal chance of being assigned each
      of the three groups. The first product use will be conducted under supervision of study
      personnel. Participants will be required to stay at the site 20 minutes after the first use
      of product during visit 1 to monitor any potential analytic reaction. All other brushing and
      rinsing will be unsupervised and the participants will be required to maintain a diary card
      to document twice-daily product use, brushing and rinsing times. Diaries along with product
      accountability will be used to check for subject compliance.

      Participants will return to the clinical site after 1 week (Day 7±1 day), 2 weeks (Day 14±2
      days) and 4 weeks (Day 28±3 days). Oral hard and soft tissue safety, Modified Gingival Index
      (MGI), Bleeding Index (BI), and Plaque Index (PI) will be assessed by the primary examiner 1
      at all visits Extrinsic stain will be assessed at baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks by the
      secondary examiner.

      At the end of the study, subjects will return all used and unused product to the clinical
      site.
    
  