
    
      This study is a feasibility, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to introduce a novel,
      pre-operative educational session for breast reconstruction patients. It will follow a
      single-center, 1:1 allocation, two-arm parallel group superiority design.

      The primary objective of this trial is to determine feasibility of a larger, definitive RCT.
      The primary outcomes will allow for an accurate assessment of recruitment, study completion,
      efficient resource requirements and utilization, and treatment effect size. This will not
      only enhance the likelihood of success of a future RCT and allow us to foresee potential
      issues in study design, but also provide an opportunity for patient feedback on the
      educational intervention. The secondary objective is to address whether the novel,
      pre-operative educational intervention improves satisfaction (as measured with the BREAST-Q),
      health-related quality of life (as measured with the PROMIS-29) and decrease anxiety (as
      measured with the STAI for adults) in breast reconstruction patients at compared to the
      standard of care.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to the (1) control group or the (2) experimental
      group. The control group will receive the current standard educational information from the
      surgeon along with an information package, while participants in the experimental group will
      also receive an additional education session before their operation.The session will be
      provided after the patient chooses their desired method of reconstruction and signs consent
      for their surgery. The session is specifically tailored to the method of breast
      reconstruction (autologous or alloplastic) the patient will undergo. It is a one-on-one
      session delivered by the research assistant using a visual aide on an iPad (power point
      presentation). The educational session reviews the basics of their reconstruction, explains
      the normal in-hospital course and post-operative recovery, reviews potential complications
      and provides advice from previous breast reconstruction patients. The information, visual
      aids, and lesson plan were created after a needs assessment of McMaster University breast
      reconstruction patients was performed (literature review, surgeon input, and semi-structured
      patient interviews).

      The questionnaires (BREAST-Q, PROMIS-29 and STAI) will be administered to all participants at
      4 time points: trial recruitment/initial consultation or preoperative appointment (1-2 weeks
      before surgery), and 3 follow-up time points (2-4 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after
      surgery). If the participant is undergoing two-stage implant based reconstruction, the
      questionnaires will also be administered 1-2 weeks before the second surgery, and 2-4 weeks
      and 3 months after the second surgery. Qualitative interviews will be performed at 6 months
      post-operation with participants in the experimental group and control group. They will
      explore the patient perspective to identify ways to improve the content and delivery method
      of pre-operative education, and if in the control group, satisfaction with the standard care
      and information provided.
    
  