
    
      Symptom management is essential in home caregiving. However, many informal caregivers are not
      confident of their ability to assist their their loved ones with their cancer symptoms at
      home. A low level of confidence or self-efficacy may negatively affect a caregiver's
      psychological well-being which is already vulnerable as a consequence of caregiving. Because
      of the reciprocal nature in a caregiver-patient dyad, caregiver decline is likely associated
      with patient decline. Improving caregivers' self-efficacy to manage their loved ones'
      cancer-related symptoms may mitigate their psychological decline and may positively affect
      patients' well-being by alleviating their symptom distress. Additionally, training in
      self-management of stress may promote coping among caregivers as many data show that
      caregiver stress is overwhelming.

      This study will examine the effects of an Enhanced Caregiver Training protocol delivered to
      informal caregivers of cancer patients before hospital discharge. The primary aim is to test
      the effects of the training on caregivers' self-efficacy in cancer symptom management and
      self-efficacy in self-management of stress. The study will also look at the effects of this
      training on caregiver outcomes (depression, anxiety, quality of life, caregiver stress) and
      patient outcomes (symptom distress and intensity, depression, anxiety, quality of life). The
      study will use a treatment and attention-control group. Subjects in the treatment group will
      receive an individualized experiential caregiver training in strategies for managing
      patient's symptoms and in the use of pleasant imagery and muscle relaxation to manage stress,
      whereas subjects in the attention-control group will receive an informational session about
      cancer and resources for caregiving. Data will be collected before and after the training,
      and at 2 and 4 weeks after hospital discharge. Descriptive statistics and multivariate
      analysis including mixed models will be used for data analysis This study could have
      important implications for the nursing community on how to effectively prepare informal
      cancer caregivers for home caregiving prior to hospital discharge. The long term goal is to
      refine and expand the training so that it can be used to teach and support informal
      caregivers of patients suffering from other chronic illnesses, and to determine the
      cost-effectiveness of this training.
    
  