
    
      The term "overlap syndrome" (OS) is used to describe the association of both chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and obstructive sleep apnea disease (OSA) in a single
      Veteran. Given the high prevalence of both COPD and OSA, it is expected that a third of
      Veterans with OSA could be affected by OS. Importantly, Veterans with OS have a higher
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality than either OSA or COPD-only Veterans, likely due to
      worse nocturnal hypoxia and subsequent inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Therefore,
      therapy for Veterans with OS that decreases cardiovascular disease (CVD) by targeting
      inflammation is a high priority. Home-based exercise interventions that translate to a
      lifestyle with increased physical activity (PA) are an ideal strategy as 150 minutes of
      leisure time PA a week is associated with reduction in risk of CVD-related events and death.
      Further, PA decreases biomarkers of systemic inflammation. However, no data is available on
      the effect of exercise on biomarkers of systemic inflammation in Veterans with OS. It is
      difficult to increase the leisure time PA in adults with COPD and OSA as this population is
      more sedentary due to a combination of increased obesity, daytime sleepiness and dyspnea.
      Therefore, home-based exercise would be ideal for these Veterans. The objective of this
      proposal is to conduct a single arm 12-week home-based exercise pilot intervention to
      determine the effect on biomarkers of systemic inflammation in 50 Veterans with OS on CPAP.
      The investigator hypothesizes that 1) Baseline PA intensity and duration will correlate
      inversely with the biomarkers of systemic inflammation independently of nocturnal hypoxia;
      and 2) Exercise training using a home-based computer exercise program will decrease
      biomarkers of systemic inflammation and increase exercise capacity in Veterans.
    
  