
    
      Osteoporosis is a major health problem in postmenopausal women. At age 50, half of women will
      suffer an osteoporotic fracture in their remaining lifetime, causing increased disability and
      mortality. Vitamin D deficiency, defined as a serum 25(OH)D <15 ng/mL, contributes to
      osteoporosis via decreased calcium absorption (Ca·Ab), secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT),
      increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density (BMD). Thus, experts agree that
      patients with vitamin D deficiency should receive vitamin D therapy.

      Vitamin D insufficiency (VDI) is a milder form of hypovitaminosis D defined as a 25(OH)D
      level between 15 and 30 ng/mL regardless of parathyroid hormone (PTH) status. Experts
      disagree on whether to treat VDI, as the clinical benefits of therapy are uncertain. Some
      experts insist the optimal 25(OH)D level is ≥30 ng/mL. By contrast, both the Food and
      Nutrition Board and NIH Evidence Report No. 158 state that insufficient evidence exists to
      declare the optimal serum 25(OH)D for bone health, despite review of ~170 studies.
      Consequently, the Food and Nutrition Board cannot determine a recommended daily allowance for
      vitamin D. Confusion over the optimal 25(OH)D level results, in part, because previous trials
      failed to recruit subjects based on initial 25(OH)D levels and/or failed to target or achieve
      25(OH)D levels ≥30 ng/mL. Moreover, secondary HPT, the proposed mechanism by which VDI causes
      bone loss, occurs in only 10% to 33% of people with VDI. As such, people with VDI and normal
      PTH might not experience clinical benefits from vitamin D therapy. VDI is widespread,
      affecting 26% to 39% of postmenopausal American women with and without osteoporosis.
      Therefore, determining the ideal 25(OH)D level for optimal calcium homeostasis and bone
      health is of utmost clinical and public health importance. Our overall goal, congruent with
      Healthy People 2010 objective 2-9, is to evaluate the effect of vitamin D therapy on the risk
      of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women with VDI, as reflected by changes in Ca·Ab, BMD and
      muscle fitness. Our second goal is to evaluate whether a high-dose vitamin D regimen, chosen
      to achieve and maintain a 25(OH)D level ≥30 ng/mL, is superior in its effects on study
      outcomes compared to a low-dose vitamin D regimen that can permit continued VDI.

      We will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind trial of low-dose and high-dose
      vitamin D in postmenopausal women with vitamin D insufficiency in order to investigate the
      following aims:

        1. To evaluate the effect of vitamin D3 therapy on Ca·Ab in postmenopausal women less than
           or equal to 75 years old with VDI. Sub-aims include the investigation of subject
           variables influencing Ca·Ab and 25(OH)D levels at baseline and one month, the accuracy
           of oral isotope plasma levels for Ca·Ab measurement and the ability of a questionnaire
           to identify patients with low vitamin D status.

        2. To evaluate the effects of vitamin D3 therapy on the 12-month change in BMD and bone
           turnover in the same trial conducted for Aim 1. Sub-aims include the identification of
           subject variables significantly influencing change in BMD and an evaluation of the
           relationship between changes in Ca·Ab and changes in BMD.

        3. To evaluate the effect of vitamin D therapy on muscle mass and functional capacity in
           the same trial conducted for Aim 1. We will measure muscle mass by whole body bone
           densitometry and assess muscle function using the Timed Up and Go (TUG) Test and the
           modified Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) score. Sub-aims include the
           identification of subject variables significantly influencing muscle outcomes.
    
  