
    
      The inclusion period of the patients in this research will be on September 2015 to November
      2015. Patients are going to be selected by the medical staff on duty in the emergency
      paediatric service, according to the criteria previously established inclusion and exclusion.
      Immediately a baseline degree of respiratory distress using PRAM scale and heart rate,
      respiratory rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation. While informed consent in which the
      objective and characteristics of the study will be obtained will be explained.

      Patients will be randomly assigned one of the two treatments in the Research: standard
      treatment for moderate to severe asthma attack, according to GINA or standard treatment plus
      nebulised magnesium sulphate, according to the table of random allocation of treatment.

      Evaluations were performed after administration of each spray, that is, at 20, 40, 60, 120,
      180 and 240 minutes after beginning treatment. The parameters' to evaluate are going to be
      heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, blood pressure and assessment of severity of
      acute asthma with PRAM scale.

      The application of nebulized drugs are made in the emergency department of pediatrics by
      inhalation therapy staff who are also responsible for the preparation of medicines. It is
      clear that this staff not participate in the evaluation of patients, which will be performed
      by the research staff or by medical staff on duty in the pediatric emergency department.

      Patients and evaluating physician will not pick out between the two solutions for
      nebulization not only colour but also smell or other special feature, because the solutions
      were arranged in two identical syringes. Administered alone at the end of the study treatment
      is known.

      Later the entry or exit of the patient decide, who can be egress to show clinical improvement
      with decreased severity index PRAM, patients will be graduates of an outpatient treatment
      according to international guidelines on the management of acute asthma. All initial and
      outcome data will be recorded in a format of data collection All decisions will be made by
      patients pediatricians emergency department which will follow patients throughout the study
      and will have the power to release the study patients to use other interventions that they
      consider clinically necessary
    
  