
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess clinical benefit rate (CBR), defined as complete response (CR) + partial
      response (PR) + stable disease (SD) > 6 months, in the brain in subjects with melanoma brain
      metastasis (MBM) per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1
      criteria who are treatment naive to anti-PD-1 agents in the metastatic setting (prior
      adjuvant anti-PD1 allowed).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess clinical benefit rate (CBR) in the brain in subjects with MBM per modified
      RECIST 1.1 in patients who previously progressed on PD-1 inhibitors.

      II. To assess overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS). III. To evaluate the
      brain-specific safety and tolerability of the combination regimen in subjects with or without
      stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) received prior to study entry, or on study.

      IV. To evaluate cytokine levels and changes in the T-cell population in the cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) and blood in patients treated with combination low dose ipilimumab and
      pembrolizumab.

      V. To assess changes in relative apparent diffusion coefficient as measured by magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) as an early predictor of response.

      VI. To assess changes in circulating cfDNA (cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid) as determinants
      of response and/or markers of early progression.

      VII. To evaluate molecular and immunological changes in extracranial lesions.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes and pembrolizumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles for ipilimumab and up to
      35 cycles for pembrolizumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks for
      the first year, and then every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  