
    
      Pre-anesthetic Management: This research will be initiated after receiving an approval from
      the Institution Review Board, and an informed written consent will be obtained from each
      patient. Forty patients in the age range 18-65 years and presenting for elective orthopedic
      or gynecological procedures will be recruited. Both male and female patients will be
      considered. Only patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I,
      II and III will be included. Patients who are pregnant and those with uncontrolled
      hypertension with BP above 180/100, unstable angina, chronic obstructive lung disease
      requiring oxygen therapy at home, and end-stage liver and kidney diseases will be excluded.
      In addition, orthopedic surgery that needs the patient in prone position will not be eligible
      for this investigation. Patients who have a medication allergy to propofol and food allergy
      to egg and soy, since egg lecithin and soy milk are constituents of propofol preparation,
      will be excluded. In order to have a complete data collection, only surgical procedures
      scheduled to last more than three hours will be considered for this study.

      Anesthetic Management: Routine anesthetic care, such as intravenous line placement and
      American Society of Anesthesiologists' standard monitoring, will be applied to all patients.
      In addition, a non-invasive Bispectral Index (BIS) sensor will be placed on patient's
      forehead and connected to its monitor. Midazolam (25mcg/kg) and fentanyl (1mcg/kg) will be
      administered to establish preanesthetic sedation and analgesia, respectively. Lidocaine 40mg
      will be given to attenuate propofol-induced injection pain. Thereafter, Total Intravenous
      Anesthesia (TIVA) will be induced with propofol (2mg/kg), and tracheal intubation facilitated
      with a neuromuscular blocking agent chosen by the attending anesthesiologist. The skeletal
      muscle relaxation will be maintained as needed for the surgical procedure. The TIVA will be
      maintained with propofol infusion, for approximately half-hour, at 160mcg/kg/min with minor
      adjustment, as needed, to maintain patient's vital signs within ± 20% of the baseline. Once a
      steady state is established, propofol infusion rate will be reduced to 140mcg/kg/min and
      maintained for approximately 15-30 min, following which the infusion rate will be increased
      to 180mcg/kg/min and maintained for the same period of time. Thereafter, the propofol
      infusion rate will be returned to 160mcg/kg/min. This exercise will be repeated at
      120mcg/kg/min and 200mcg/kg/min if patient's vital signs permit. In addition, remifentanil at
      an infusion rate of 0.02 - 0.2mcg/kg/min will be administered to provide surgical analgesia
      during the general anesthetic period. The infusion rate of remifentanil will be tailored to
      the demands of the surgical stimulation. During the study period, the attending
      anesthesiologist will have the option to deviate from the study protocol and adjust the
      propofol infusion rate, as needed, to maintain patient's vital signs within ± 20% of the
      baseline if such a need arises. An independent observer will continuously monitor the BIS
      values at all time frames. Following the study period needed to collect the required data,
      the attending anesthesiologist will have the option to continue general anesthesia with
      either TIVA or with the traditional inhalational anesthetic. The reversal of the
      neuromuscular blockade and subsequent tracheal extubation, at the conclusion of surgery, will
      be performed using the customary criteria employed in anesthetic practice. In addition, the
      routine protocols used for surgical infection prevention and attenuation of postoperative
      pain and vomiting will be followed.
    
  