
    
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is well established as an efficacious treatment for a wide
      variety of chronic pain conditions, including headache pain. A promising trend within the
      behavioral medicine field in recent years has been the integration of mindfulness into
      traditional treatment modalities and the development of innovative treatments based upon
      these principles. Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) maintains a patient-centered
      approach that focuses upon mindfulness meditation as the key mechanism to teach people how to
      cope with their pain, take better care of themselves, and to improve their overall quality of
      life. MBSR has successfully been utilized in a number of disorders including chronic pain
      1,2,3 and in general medical populations 4 Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT),5
      originally developed to target relapse prevention in major depression, is essentially a
      modification of MBSR to incorporate more traditional cognitive-behavioral interventions into
      the extant MBSR framework. Studies of MBCT support its efficacy in eliciting cognitive
      changes similar to those demonstrated in CBT, while still incorporating the more general
      salutary effects seen in MBSR,6,7,8,9,10While MBCT has been applied to other populations,
      there has been no published work to date adapting it to chronic pain patients. This is a
      surprising gap in the literature given the effectiveness of both CBT and mindfulness
      independently for chronic pain. Therefore, the present proposal seeks to begin to fill these
      gaps by testing the feasibility and efficacy of MBCT for chronic pain in a series of pilot
      groups.

      Primary Specific Aims The proposed project is a feasibility study designed to test the MBCT
      protocol for chronic pain treatment and to provide pilot data to support subsequent research
      proposals to be submitted to the National Institutes of Health. In this initial trial the
      investigators will use patients with primary complaints of headache pain and treat them at a
      collaborating headache clinic. We selected this target population because headache pain is
      highly disabling and is the most common pain related complaint treated in medical practice.
      Furthermore, given the time frame of the study, it is more feasible to recruit patients where
      the PI has an established and ongoing collaborative relationship. The proposed project
      emphasizes the research area of health, medicine, and behavior.

      Aim 1: To examine feasibility of the treatment, data will be collected regarding participant
      flow across each stage of the study design, including recruitment, participation, and
      drop-out rates, and percentage of sessions attended. Furthermore, pre-treatment expectations,
      post-treatment satisfaction, and global ratings of self-perceived improvement will be
      assessed.

      Hypotheses: It is expected that the feasibility of MBCT, as measured by the above indicators,
      will be comparable to similar data for other psychosocial treatments for pain, such as CBT.

      Aim 2: As an initial test of the efficacy of MBCT for chronic pain, the investigators will
      compare an immediate treatment condition to a delayed treatment (OT) control on pre- and
      post-intervention measures. Time constraints of the current project will necessitate
      follow-up assessment to be part of future proposals.

      Hypotheses: Participants in the immediate treatment condition will obtain significantly
      greater pre-post treatment gains compared to OT on primary outcome measures of pain
      acceptance, pain catastrophizing, and pain interference; and secondary outcome measures of
      mindfulness, pain intensity, perceived disability, selfefficacy, quality of life, and
      depression.

      Long-term objectives: Future projects will include a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      comparing MBCT to an attention control condition (education support group), and eventually a
      comparative effectiveness stUdy of CBT vs. MBCT.

      Innovative aspects of the proposed study: This is the first examination of MBCT for chronic
      pain, which incorporates specific components of mindfulness and cognitive behavioral therapy
      to form a comprehensive treatment approach.
    
  