
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the response rate (overall and within strata) in both minimally pretreated,
           low-risk and heavily pretreated, high-risk children with refractory or relapsed
           Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with ifosfamide and vinorelbine with filgrastim (G-CSF).

        -  Determine the cardiac, hepatic, renal, and hematologic toxicity of this regimen in
           minimally-pretreated, low-risk patients.

        -  Determine the toxic death rate in minimally pretreated, low-risk patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine whether this treatment regimen can mobilize sufficient hematopoietic stem
           cells (CD34) for subsequent stem cell transplantation in minimally pretreated, low-risk
           patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of hypermutability by longitudinal genotoxic biomonitoring of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of biological markers, including serum interleukin
           (IL)-10 receptor, serum IL-2 receptor, p53, and mdm-2 in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by prior therapy (minimally
      pretreated, low-risk vs heavily pretreated, high-risk).

      Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on days 1-4 and vinorelbine IV over 6-10 minutes
      on days 1 and 5. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV over 15-30
      minutes beginning 24-36 hours after completion of vinorelbine and continuing daily until
      blood counts recover. Treatment repeats at least every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive a third course of
      therapy at the discretion of the investigator.

      Heavily pretreated, high-risk patients who achieve a complete response are eligible for stem
      cell transplantation. Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection during
      hematopoietic recovery after the second course of chemotherapy. Patients with sufficient
      PBSCs collected may undergo PBSC transplantation on protocol COG-AHOD0121.

      Patients are followed at 1, 6, and 12 months and then periodically thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients will be accrued for this study within 1.5 years.
    
  