
    
      CBD stones are defined as the occurrence of stones in the bile ducts. CBD stone usually
      causes biliary pain and jaundice, whereas obstruction that develops gradually over several
      months may manifest initially as pruritus or jaundice alone.

      Unlike stones in the gallbladder, CBD stones cause symptoms, tend to present as
      life-threatening complications such as cholangitis and acute pancreatitis. Given its
      propensity to result in these serious complications, choledocholithiasis warrants treatment
      in nearly all cases In 2010, guideline for the risk and treatment of choledocholithiasis was
      published. The most predictive variables seem to be cholangitis, a bilirubin level higher
      than 1.7 mg/dL, and a dilated CBD on US. The presence of 2 or more of these variables results
      in a high probability of a CBD stone. Advanced age (older than 55 years), elevation of a
      liver biochemical test result other than bilirubin, and pancreatitis are less robust
      predictors for choledocholithiasis.

      There are various ways of non invasive imaging diagnosis of CBD stone. The sensitivity of
      transabdominal US and conventional computed tomography (CT) in the detection of biliary
      stones is variable, ranging from 20% to 80% and from 23% to 85%, respectively. MRCP had
      sensitivity 92-93%, specificity 97-98%. Although MRCP is most excellent in diagnosis, the
      sensitivity is reduced 33-71% at diagnosis of small stones(less than 5mm) An ERCP has
      traditionally been considered the evaluation of biliary-tract diseases. This modality is very
      sensitive (90%) and specific (98%) in detecting CBD stone. EUS for the diagnosis of CBD stone
      reports widely varying sensitivities of 71% to 100% and specificities of 67% to 100%. Some
      papers report that intraductal ultrasound(IDUS) is very sensitive(97-100%). However, this is
      expensive and requires the fully-experienced endoscopist, so, it is difficult to use that.

      In recent years, endoscopic sphincterotomy and stone extraction are standard procedures for
      the removal of bile duct stones. After procedures, there are some complications such as stone
      recurrence, papillary stenosis, cholangitis and liver abscess. These recurrent symptomatic
      bile duct stones, despite increasing experience and success with the procedure, occur in 4%
      to 24% of patients.

      Retained stone is defined as incomplete stone removal during ERCP, otherwise recurrent stone
      is defined as recurrence stone after complete stone removal. A criterion to distinguish
      between the two is stones rediscovery time after ERCP stone removal. Typically, bile duct
      stones found 6 months or more after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
      generally are considered recurrent, as opposed to retained Gallbladder stone, pneumobilia and
      many other various factors are known to be associated with CBD stone recurrence. Lithotripsy
      was also related to the development of recurrent stones. It is natural that small stone
      fragments left after lithotripsy may act as nidi for stone recurrence.

      For this reason, many studies that reduce the residual and recurrence CBD stones have been
      performed. Before procedures, MRCP, CT and EUS are performed to identify the exact location
      of stones. Many studies demonstrated that residual stone clearance with ENBD, EUS or IDUS
      immediately after ERCP stone removal are useful in reducing the recurrence.

      However, cholangiogram with ENBD or using EUS after ERCP stone removal increases the duration
      of hospital stay, cost and the patient's discomfort. Until now, non-invasive, time reduced,
      cheap and simply way was unknown.

      Recently, two different studies were published. Using IDUS could effectively find residual
      CBD stones that persisted after EST and balloon and basket extraction. Furthermore, normal
      saline irrigation of CBD after stone removal appeared useful in clearing residual small
      stones. These procedures could reduce the retained and recurrent stone Another study showed
      that additional IDUS to confirm complete stone clearance after ERCP with basket stone removal
      significantly decreases the early recurrence rate of common bile duct stones.

      These studies demonstrated that small remaining stone could not be completely detected only
      using ERCP stone removal and remaining stone removal can reduce residual and recurrent
      stones. Saline irrigation was effective immediately after ERCP stone removal to remove
      remaining small stones .

      However, prospective study that saline irrigation without EUS or IDUS can reduce recurrent
      CBD stones after ERCP stone removal does not yet. Saline irrigation has many advantages such
      as easy to treatment during ERCP stone removal, almost no additional cost and rare side
      effect. This study The authors expect this study is a remarkable role of ERCP stone removal
      procedure.
    
  