
    
      This study evaluates how well Ramelteon works by measuring sleep at night and during the day.
      After consenting and final determination of eligibility, participants will complete a
      baseline phase to assess usual sleep, as well as daytime alertness and activity , thinking
      and memory, walking and balance (among those who walk and/or stand), and mood. Sleep at night
      and during the day will be objectively assessed with wrist actigraphs in all subjects.
      Approximately half will also receive polysomnography to assess nighttime sleep. Subjects who
      sleep more than 75% of the time they are in bed will not continue in the study. Subjects that
      do not have improved sleep with the sleep hygiene program will be randomized to one of two
      treatment groups - one will receive the active drug along with the sleep hygiene intervention
      and the other will receive a placebo along with the sleep hygiene intervention. Following
      randomization, subjects will complete a brief run-in phase and then enter the treatment
      phase. Assessment of sleep and other measures will be repeated.

      The primary hypotheses to be examined in this study are as follows:

      Hypothesis 1: Subjects treated with ramelteon in addition to a sleep hygiene (SHI) will have
      improved sleep latency, and as a consequence, a significant increase in actigraphically
      measured sleep efficiency, compared to subjects treated with placebo plus a SHI.

      Hypothesis 2: Subjects treated with ramelteon in addition to a SHI will sleep less and spend
      less time in bed during the day, be more engaged in daytime activities, and have better mood
      than subjects treated with placebo plus a SHI.

      Hypothesis 3: Changes in daytime sleep, time in bed during the day, engagement in activities,
      and mood will be positively correlated with improved sleep efficiency among subjects
      receiving ramelteon in addition to a SHI.
    
  