
    
      Children and young people experience significant pain and distress related to procedures.
      There are many studies looking at psychological and pharmacological interventions
      demonstrating that these can reduce procedural-related pain and distress. Distraction is
      frequently studied and consistently demonstrated to reduce procedure-related pain and in some
      cases distress. It has also been shown that children choose different distractors, and this
      can be related to age and sex. Best practice for distraction should therefore include
      identifying and working with individual patient preferences and this can additionally help by
      giving children some control over the procedure. There are limited studies looking at other
      interventions such as preparation and parent positioning showing that these interventions can
      have a positive impact on distress and coping. Few trials examine effect of interventions
      over time and multiple procedures.

      Play specialists provide therapeutic play for children undergoing procedures. They use a
      combination of psychological interventions alongside pharmacological interventions which
      includes preparation for the procedure, support during the procedure and post-procedure.
      However, whilst there is information about what play therapy should involve and which
      standards should be met, we are unaware of any specific framework of how this should be
      delivered.

      Investigators have developed a semi-structured play therapy intervention, which is developed
      from standard play therapy theory and well-recognised techniques as well as expert
      experience. This play therapy intervention is designed to represent a gold standard of care
      for delivering play therapy to children requiring procedures. The intervention aims to
      deliver play therapy in a standardised fashion whilst utilising the skill of the play
      specialist to choose and implement techniques in an individualised approach to each child.

      This study aims to deliver this semi-structured play therapy intervention and examine its
      impact on procedure-related anxiety, coping, pain and patient experience.
    
  