
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of osimertinib (AZD9291) in combination with tegavivint
      (BC2059) in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) and determine
      the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant NSCLC
      treated with the combination of AZD9291 and BC2059.

      II. Determine the progression free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant
      NSCLC treated with the combination of AZD9291 and BC2059.

      III. Determine the duration of response (DOR) in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant NSCLC
      treated with the combination of AZD9291 and BC2059.

      IV. Determine the overall survival (OS) in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant NSCLC treated
      with the combination of AZD9291 and BC2059.

      CORRELATIVE/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate biomarkers of EGFR, Notch3, and beta-catenin pathway activity in tumor biopsies
      and blood samples.

      II. Assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) of AZD9291 and BC2059 in patients with metastatic
      EGFR-mutant NSCLC.

      III. Assess circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) at baseline, following 2
      and 4 weeks of treatment to evaluate for clearance, and at time of progression to assess for
      changes in EGFR mutation status.

      IV. Measure response using computed tomography (CT) tumor volumetry and dynamic positron
      emission tomography (PET)/CT.

      V. Identify a gene signature that may be predictive of treatment response or resistance using
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing of tumor tissue.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive osimertinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and tegavivint
      intravenously (IV) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive osimertinib PO QD on days
      1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then for 4
      years.
    
  