
    
      Objectives: To compare the efficacy of Leukine and Neupogen in the treatment of patients
      receiving cisplatin and gemcitabine for regionally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer
      in regard to reduction of grade 3 and 4 neutropenia. Secondary objectives include a
      comparison of: hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities, anti-tumor effects, dose
      intensity, and quality of life in each treatment arm.

      Methodology: The study will be a multi-institutional, randomized, phase III study in patients
      with regionally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. All patients will receive
      chemotherapy with cisplatin plus gemcitabine for six 21-day cycles. Patients will receive
      hematopoietic growth factor support with either Leukine (Arm A), or Neupogen (Arm B). Rates
      of anti-tumor responses and the incidence of toxicities in each treatment arm will provide a
      comparison of efficacy and safety for the hematopoietic support regimens.

      Patient Population: Patients to be enrolled (n=100) in this study will have received a
      diagnosis of regionally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer of the bladder, ureter, or
      renal pelvis and will have not undergone previous systemic chemotherapy. Approximately 50
      patients will be enrolled into each treatment arm.

      Main Criteria for Inclusion: Inclusion criteria for this study specify that patients have
      evaluable, biopsy-proven, surgically unresectable, regionally advanced, or metastatic
      urothelial cancer of the bladder, ureter, or renal pelvis. Additionally, patients must have
      an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0-2 and adequate bone marrow,
      renal, and hepatic function. Patients who have undergone previous systemic chemotherapy will
      be excluded from this study.

      Test Product, Dose, Mode of Administration: All patients will receive chemotherapeutic
      treatment with cisplatin (70 mg/kg) intravenously on Day 1 and gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2)
      intravenously on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 21-day cycle. Patients will be randomized to
      receive either Leukine (250 µg/m2) or Neupogen (5 µg/kg) subcutaneously on Days 2-6, 9-13,
      and 16-20 of each cycle.

      Duration of Treatment: Patients will receive a maximum of six 21-day cycles of treatment. The
      overall trial, including follow-up, is expected to be 3 years in duration.

      Criteria for Evaluation: Efficacy will be assessed by, incidence of grade 3 and 4 toxicities,
      evaluation of complete and partial response, time to progression, overall and disease
      specific survival, planned vs administered doses, and quality of life. Safety will be
      assessed by, vital signs, physical examinations, clinical laboratory evaluations, and the
      reporting of adverse events.
    
  