
    
      The major thrust of this project is to develop a fundamentally new technology that overpasses
      current views in brain network analysis in an effort to i) identify the organizational
      mechanisms of brain plasticity underlying recovery in stroke patients and ii) exploit this
      information to design new diagnostic and prognostic neuromarkers of motor recovery.

      ATTACK focuses on the acquisition of a longitudinal dataset (15 patients and 15 age=matched
      healthy controls). Multimodal data (clinical/functional scales, behavioral measures, brain
      activity EEG) will be collected from each patient at different phases after stroke across a
      series of consecutive recording sessions, i.e. +10 days, +1 month, +3 months, +6 months, +12
      months after the first stroke event

      Patients will be selected with the following inclusion criteria: first=ever infarct lesion,
      with hand motor impairment. Exclusion criteria will be aged 18 to 85 years, inability to
      understand the task or perform motor tasks, contraindication to MRI. In each session,
      patients will be asked to perform several trials of resting state and hand grasping tasks
      (imagery and execution) in order to study also the intra=session brain changes occurring at
      short=time scales. Differently from current approaches focusing on fMRI changes, the present
      project focuses on high= density (64 sensors) EEG data in order to exploit the higher
      temporal resolution (in the order of ms) and have a much clearer understanding of the motor
      processes occurring at rapid oscillatory ranges (e.g. ERD/ERS). Furthermore, the high
      portability of EEG systems has the advantage to perform recording sessions at the patient's
      bedside, or even at home, in a totally non=invasive way, thus decreasing the impact on
      patient life in the hospital.

      Clinical and behavioral data will be also collected from each patient to assess their motor
      recovery progress. Different scores include the ARAT, hand grip strength, NIHSS with motor
      subitems and Rankin score. Finally, anatomical MRI (T1 and tensor imaging) scan will be
      acquired for each patient after the subacute phase (+3 months) in order to locate and assess
      the severity/size of the lesion. These scores and data will be eventually used as covariates
      for the brain network topological changes. The first recording session will be performed at
      the Stroke unit of the Hospital Pitié_Salpêtrière. Subsequent sessions will be performed at
      the ICM, operated by the Centre EEG/MEG (CENIR).

      The same data will be also collected at the ICM from the group of age-matched healthy
      subjects according to the same protocols and timing. This data are crucial in that they will
      be used to assess the statistical significance of the changes observed in the stroke
      patients. Recording sessions will be conducted in compliance with French regulations,
      including provisions relating to biomedical research in the Public Health Code, the French
      Bioethics law, the French Data Protection Act, and the World Medical Association Declaration
      of Helsinki.
    
  