
    
      The protocol consists of a screening visit and evaluation of their autonomic nervous system
      status. The following activities are part of this study. Subjects may stay for 2 nights and 3
      study days.

      Day 0 Participants will be admitted to the Clinical Research Center, their medical history,
      physical exam, routine lab work (hemoglobin/hematocrit & CMP) and a serum pregnancy test will
      be done during that first day. They will also be asked to fill out a health questionnaire.
      Later that day they will be evaluated to determine the extent of fatigue, depression and
      anxiety ratings, autonomic symptoms and quality of life, with the use of questionnaires.

      Subjects may be asked to stop taking some medications for up to 7 days; it will be decided on
      an individual basis and after considering each medication and its effect to the autonomic
      nervous system. If subjects are asked to discontinue the medication, they will ask them to
      keep a diary of symptoms and to contact the PI or staff by phone if any new symptom appears.
      If necessary, medications will be restarted.

      Testing day 1:

      In the morning during the posture test, 5 teaspoons of blood will be drawn while subject is
      lying down, and after sitting and or standing for 30 minutes to measure substances produced
      by the body in response to inflammation and oxidative stress and to determine hormones that
      regulate the blood pressure. Blood pressure and heart rate will be measured in these
      different positions. A total of 10 tablespoons will be drawn.

      In the afternoon, more tests will be performed designed to determine how well the autonomic
      nervous system is working in regulating blood pressure and heart rate. Autonomic function
      test will be performed to see how the involuntary nervous system is working. For these tests,
      heart rate will be recorded using a continuous electrocardiographic trace, blood pressure
      using a cuff around one arm and/or finger and heart's pumping capacity (cardiac output) will
      be measured by analyzing the shift of fluids in the body (body impedance) and/or by analyzing
      the air that is breathe.

      Participants will be tilted up on a tilt table for 10 minutes while recording their heart
      rate and blood pressure. The autonomic function tests include asking the participants to
      breathe deeply for two minutes and breathing rapidly for 30 seconds, maintaining a handgrip
      for 3 minutes, blowing against pressure for 15 seconds and placing one hand in ice water for
      1 minute. All these tests are meant to stimulate the autonomic nervous system to produce
      changes in blood pressure and heart rate of short duration that reflect how well the
      involuntary nervous system is working.

      Testing day 2:

      In the morning, total blood volume will be measured by using iodinated I-131 tagged human
      serum albumin, a material with a very small amount of radioactive substance. The test
      involves drawing a blood sample before the I-131 is given, then giving the I-131 through a
      catheter in one vein, waiting 12 minutes before the second blood sample is drawn to check its
      concentration. Blood samples will also be drawn while subjects are lying down to measure for
      hormones, which control blood pressure and heart rate. Blood will drawn at several points
      during the study. The total amount of blood drawn during this study is approximately 3
      teaspoons.

      In the afternoon, exercise capacity test with estimation of maximal oxygen consumption (VO2
      max) will be done. This test will be conducted on a stationary bicycle and the resistance
      will be gradually increased while the expired air is measured during exhaustive physical
      work. The test will last approximately 30 minutes. A mouthpiece with a one way re-breathing
      valve attached to a breathing tube will be used to collect air samples during the exercise
      test. Essentially, subjects will breathe room air through a mouthpiece, and then expire the
      air into a tube that connects to a machine (metabolic cart). This machine analyzes carbon
      dioxide and oxygen content, which allows us to calculate the amount of oxygen they are using
      under resting and exercise conditions.

      The workload will be gradually increased on the bike by increasing the resistance. As the
      workload increases, oxygen consumption also increases. Throughout the test period exhaled air
      will be collected. When subjects can no longer continue, the test will be stopped. Blood
      pressure will be measured at the end of each resistance-stage. Heart rate data will be
      recorded continuously.

      Before and after completing the exercise test, subjects will be required to complete a
      "warm-up" and "cool-down" session including stretching exercises.
    
  