
    
      Going back home following a stroke is a key step for the patient and his or her relatives.
      Due to the brutality of stroke and increasingly shorter lengths of hospital stay, patients
      and their families must adapt quickly to the patient's new state of health and the new role
      of caregiver for family members. Currently, 70% of patients return home directly after
      treatment in a stroke center. Following the acute phase, the patient's care path involves
      many health and social workers. However, the health care system is complex and difficult for
      patients and their caregivers to understand. A lack of support during the hospital/home
      transition has significant negative consequences for the patient (reduced functional
      prognosis, quality of life and reintegration, increased risk of recurrence) and his or her
      caregiver (increased perceived burden, decreased quality of life, socio-economic impact).

      Patients and caregivers report a significant need for advice and information during this
      transition period. They are looking for individualized, good quality information and whose
      nature evolves over time with the needs and recovery of the patient. Thus, the provision of
      information through an Internet platform could meet these characteristics, in association
      with individualised support by a case-manager to ensure continuity of care and improve care
      pathway. In France, no such program has been developed to date for stroke. Existing
      transition programmes mainly focus on home rehabilitation and do not offer a comprehensive
      approach to the situation, integrating caregivers. In addition, no programs have been
      developed in partnership with patients and families to best meet their needs.

      The investigator's hypothesis is that, through comprehensive, individualized and flexible
      support for patients and their caregivers, a patient-centred post-stroke hospital/home
      transition program, combining an Internet platform and telephone follow-up by a case-manager,
      could improve patients' level of participation and quality of life.
    
  