
    
      Background

      The fast and correct diagnosis of heart rhythm disorders is very important to reduce
      morbidity and mortality in cardiovascular patients. Atrial fibrillation is of special
      interest, because it is an important cause of devastating brain strokes. A significant number
      of strokes has a cardioembolic genesis due to paroxysmal atrial fibrillation which was not
      diagnosed early enough. Therefore, it is very important to detect atrial fibrillation as soon
      as possible. With oral anticoagulation an effective therapeutic option in available to
      prevent cardioembolisms.

      In the clinical routine, mostly 24-hour or 7-day ECGs are made to look for cardiac
      arrhythmias. The use uf such devices is well established. Nevertheless, they have some side
      effects/limitations. Skin electrodes used for derivation of the ECG often cause skin
      irritation, sometimes leading to premature termination of the recording. Because of dryout of
      the contact gel (causes artifacts), small p-waves and especially also motion artifacts,
      triggered recording or semi-automatic analysis of the recording is problematic, but for
      longer recording times such a semi-automatic analysis would be helpful. As an alternative
      esophageal electrocardiography can be performed. Signal quality of the ECG recording
      (especially of the left atrium) is better than in the standard surface ECG because of the
      vicinity of the esophagus and the left atrium. The esophagus tolerates well foreign bodies as
      we know from long-term nasogastric intubation. Therefore use of the esophageal technique for
      long-term rhythm monitoring is an interesting and promising alternative to conventional
      surface Holter ECGs.

      The diagnosis of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (pAF) can only be made if an episode of
      atrial fibrillation occurs during the long-term ECG recording. Surrogate markers of pAF could
      identify a "population at risk" in which pAF has to be suspected although they show sinus
      rhythm during the time of recording. In surface ECG such markers have been suspected. The use
      of esophageal long-term electrocardiography with its better signal properties is a promising
      alternative to find such surrogate markers for risk stratification.

      Objective

      Identification and characterization of surrogate markers indicative for pAF in patients with
      sinus rhythm at the time of recording.

      Methods

      A total of 60 patients will be included to identify and characterize surrogate markers for
      pAF. Cases with known pAF will consecutively be recruited from the cardiology ward and the
      cardiological ambulatory. After inclusion, an age (+/- one year) and gender adjusted control
      person without known pAF (negative 7-day ECG within the previous 365 days before study
      inclusion) will be matched to every patient. Cases and controls will receive a simultaneous
      24-hour esophageal electrocardiography and standard surface electrocardiography. Controls
      without negative 7-day ECG within the past year will have to wear the surface ECG recorder
      for additional 6 days (total surface ECG recording of 7 days). In the case that paroxysmal
      atrial fibrillation is detected for the very first time during the study, patients will be
      allocated to the "case" group.

      Additionally, in all patients LA diameter parasternal will be measured echocardiographically.
    
  