
    
      Polyps detected during a colonoscopy may range from benign to precancerous and cancerous.
      While experienced endoscopists can reliably recognise cancer, the difference between small
      polyps that have the potential to develop into cancer (adenomas) and those that do not
      (hyperplastic), is often ambiguous. The standard approach is to simply remove all polyps and
      analyse them in the histology lab. This means that many patients with hyperplastic polyps
      (40% of those detected) are unnecessarily exposed to risk of injury (bowel perforation and
      bleeding) during removal. Furthermore the NHS faces the significant cost of diagnosing this
      harmless colon tissue. If clinicians were able to accurately determine polyp type during
      endoscopy, without removal, then hyperplastic tissue could be left alone while potentially
      harmful tissue is removed.

      A pilot study of a new endoscopic optical imaging probe (OPTIC), which analyses how different
      colours of light interact with tissue, is proposed. Previous research has indicated that
      these properties differ in hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps. The probe is contained within
      a normal endoscope and uses white light and blue/violet laser light to illuminate the tissue.
      The reflected and fluorescent light emitted, along with normal colour pictures of the polyp
      surface, are measured and recorded to quantify specific characteristics of each type.

      Patients attending endoscopy clinics at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust will be asked
      to allow the use of the OPTIC probe during their colonoscopy. If the clinician detects a
      polyp that he/she intends to remove then this will be analysed using OPTIC before removal.
      The histology results from the tissue sample will be recorded and correlated to the OPTIC
      probe measurements. The resulting library of optical data will be used to design software to
      automatically categorise unknown polyps based on the OPTIC signal. The accuracy of the
      technique will be compared to the clinicians' visual assessments. The patients' involvement
      in the study ceases after the colonoscopy.
    
  