
    
      Hematological malignancies including T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), T cell
      lymphoma (TCL), natural killer cell lymphoma (NKL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are
      aggressive diseases which may express the early T cell development molecule CD7.

      T-ALL represents 15% of childhood and 25% of adult ALL, and T-ALL patients are prone to early
      disease relapse and suffer from poor outcomes. Several immunophenotypic classifications have
      been proposed. According to European Group for the Immunological Characterization of
      Leukemias (EGIL), the presence of cytoplasmic or membrane expression of CD3 defines T-ALL.
      Four subgroups are proposed: (TI) the immature subgroup or pro-T-ALL is defined by the
      expression of CD7 and cCD3; (TII) pre-T-ALL also expresses CD2 and/or CD5 and/or CD8; (TIII)
      or cortical T-ALL shows CD1a positivity; (TIV) finally, mature T-ALL is characterized by the
      presence of surface CD3 and CD1a negativity.

      Over the past few years, T cells modified with lentiviral chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
      gene have been studied in different clinical settings. CD7 is a T cell surface protein that
      plays important role in T cell-B cell interaction in early lymphoid development, displays
      membrane expression early during T cell development before TCR rearrangement, and persists
      through terminal stages of T cell development, and a well-known marker for T-ALL. CD7 is
      considered a promising target for the treatment of T-ALL, TCL, AML and NKL. In this study, we
      will investigate CD7 CAR-T in combination with alternative targeting CAR-T cells as a new
      strategy to treat hematological malignancies.

      The T cells from patients or transplantation donors will be genetically modified with
      lentiviral CAR vector to recognize CD7 expressed on the surface of the cancer cells. The
      engineered T cells will be applied to patients through intravenous delivery.

      The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of
      multiple CAR-T cell therapy in hematological malignancies. Another goal of the study is to
      learn more about the function of CAR T cells and their persistence in the patients.
    
  