
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common and disabling condition, with about 10% of
      people having experienced PTSD at some point during their lives. The diagnosis of PTSD
      requires certain criteria: exposure to a severe psychological trauma and the persistent
      presence of three symptom clusters that include re-experiencing the traumatic event,
      physiologic hyperarousal, and emotional numbing paired with avoidance of stimuli associated
      with the event. Stimuli and cues associated with the trauma, such as features of an assailant
      or accident site, can cause a person to re-experience the traumatic memory and associated
      feelings of helplessness and fear. When re-experiencing a traumatic memory, people with PTSD
      usually undergo a heightened stress-related hormonal response that further solidifies new
      stimulating associations with the traumatic memory. Treatment with propranolol, a blood
      pressure-lowering drug that reduces stress-related hormonal responses, may be an effective
      means of preventing the formation of traumatic memories and of improving PTSD symptoms. This
      study will evaluate the effectiveness of propranolol in reducing symptoms of distress
      associated with traumatic memories in people with PTSD.

      Participation in this study will last 14 weeks. All potential participants will undergo a
      4-hour initial visit that will begin with a medical and psychiatric history review, a
      psychiatric interview, and symptom questionnaires. Participants will then be assigned
      randomly to take a test dose of either propranolol or placebo. Upon completion of the test
      dose, participants will begin 14 weeks of treatment with their assigned test dose medication.
      Participants will be asked to take the study medication each time they have a traumatic
      memory associated with hyperarousal symptoms, but no more than two times a day. Using a
      cognitive behavioral therapy based-workbook, participants will track their symptoms daily and
      when they use cognitive techniques to relieve symptoms.

      Participants will attend study visits every 2 weeks for the 14 weeks of treatment. During
      these visits, participants will describe any side effects experienced, complete interviews
      and questionnaires about PTSD symptom severity, review with study officials their daily
      workbook entries, and pick up medication. Study participation will end upon completion of the
      Week 14 study visit.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00391430
    
  