
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 200 dyads (total
      individual N=400), who will be randomized to receive the 2GETHER HIV prevention and
      relationship education intervention or an attention-matched couples-based positive affect
      enhancement program. Each program (both 2GETHER and control) delivers 4 sessions over
      1-month; 2 group sessions of 4-8 couples focused on relationship skills building, and 2
      individual couple sessions focused on skill utilization. Couples complete skills practice
      homework between sessions and receive community-based resources.

      Eligibility Screening. Participants will be screened either online, over the phone with a
      member of the study staff, or in-person at Howard Brown Health Center, depending on the mode
      of recruitment (recruitment activities described below). (a) Online screening - young men who
      have sex with men (YMSM) who are recruited via social media ads or via email contact (i.e.,
      email listservs, HBHC Primary Care patients) will be linked directly to the online
      eligibility screener, and YMSM recruited from flyer postings will be given a URL and the
      option to screen online. Potential participants will be greeted with a brief description of
      the project and will be asked if they are willing to answer some questions to assess their
      eligibility. Those who agree to participate will answer questions about their age, gender,
      and relationship status. Participants who meet initial eligibility criteria will be shown a
      message telling them that they are preliminarily eligible for the study. These participants
      will be asked to provide contact information for themselves and for their partner. If they do
      not consent to give contact information for their partner, the participant will be
      responsible for ensuring the partner also completes the screener. If they provide contact
      information for their partner, study staff will contact the partner and provide him with a
      link to complete the screener. (b) Phone screening - YMSM who opt to call the study phone
      number on the flyer will be screened by a study staff member. They will be given an overview
      of the study, the ability to ask questions, and will then be asked if they are interested in
      participating and asking their partner to participate. If they agree, the staff member will
      administer the online screener over the phone. All other procedures are analogous to the
      online screening. (c) In-person screening at Howard Brown Health Center - Upon completion of
      their HIV testing and counseling session or their primary care visit at Howard Brown, YMSM
      will be provided with a brief description of the 2GETHER project asked if they are interested
      in participating in the study. If interested, participants will complete the online
      eligibility screener. All other eligibility screener procedures are analogous to those
      described above for online screening. Screening data will be retained during the course of
      the study in order to help identify duplicate participants or participants faking
      eligibility.

      Couple Confirmation. In order to participate in this study, both partners in the couple must
      complete the screener, meet all eligibility criteria, and be confirmed by study staff to be
      an actual couple. Couple confirmation will involve separate calls to each partner with a
      series of questions to elicit information about the individual, his partner, and their
      relationship (i.e., information only an actual couple would know about one another). After
      these phone calls, study staff will review the responses to determine agreement. Once staff
      has confirmed that the two participants are a couple, they will be contacted to schedule an
      in-person meeting where they will complete a consent form and the baseline assessment.

      Baseline Assessment. After couple confirmation, the couple will be scheduled for an in-person
      appointment. After consenting to participate in the study in-person (consent process
      described below), the 2 partners will be directed to complete a baseline assessment. This
      approximately 60-minute questionnaire will assess demographics, relationship characteristics,
      HIV knowledge and motivations, HIV risk and prevention behaviors, and other relevant
      psychosocial outcomes (e.g., substance use, mental health). The couple will then be given
      additional information about the structure of the intervention and scheduling options. The
      baseline assessment will occur 1 week prior to the first session of the 2GETHER intervention.
      Urethral/rectal STI testing will also occur at baseline.

      Randomization. Dyads will be randomized to the 2GETHER intervention or attention-matched
      control using stratified block randomization, which involves performing simple randomization
      many times within blocks (e.g., ABBA, AABB, etc.), ensuring equal N in each condition while
      avoiding temporal imbalance. The eligibility screener will assess age and known HIV status.
      Blocks will be stratified to ensure equal numbers of couples assigned to each condition in
      which: (a) at least 1 member is HIV+; and (b) 1 member is aged 30+. Randomization will occur
      at completion of baseline survey. Baseline interviews will occur 1 week prior to
      2GETHER/control session 1, and dyads will only be baselined if they are available for all
      sessions. Scheduling conflicts arise; 2 group cohorts are run simultaneously, so dyads that
      miss a group session can be scheduled for the same session in the other cohort.

      2GETHER Intervention: The study intervention will take place over the course of 4 weeks (4
      sessions total; approximately 1 session per week), beginning with 2 group sessions and ending
      with 2 individual couple sessions. During group sessions, 4-8 couples will work with 2
      facilitators; in the couple's sessions, each individual couple will work with a single
      facilitator. Intervention content will be delivered via a combination of facilitated
      discussion, group and/or couple activities, worksheets, videos, and didactic material. Skills
      will be reinforced using interactive homework assignments between sessions, which will be
      reviewed at the beginning of the subsequent session. After each session, participants will
      complete a brief online evaluation to assess acceptability of the intervention content.

      Session 1. The first group session (4 hours) will consist of four modules: 1) an orientation
      to the intervention, 2) characteristics of healthy relationships, 3) effective communication
      skills, and 4) reducing HIV risk in relationships. In the orientation module, couples will
      learn about the structure and purpose of the intervention, collaboratively develop a list of
      group rules with the facilitators (e.g., confidentiality, respect for others), and will
      complete ice-breaker activities to facilitate participants' comfort with the other group
      members. In the healthy relationships module, couples will learn how to identify healthy and
      unhealthy relationship patterns, discuss past experiences with healthy/unhealthy
      relationships, and then develop a list of pleasurable activities in which couples can engage
      in the Chicago area (e.g., free museum nights). Couples will identify one activity they will
      do in the next week. In the effective communication skills module, couples will learn about
      several effective and ineffective communication patterns, watch brief videos demonstrating
      these patterns, and briefly practice effective communication skills with their partners.
      Couples will be asked to practice using effective communication skills and identify instances
      in which they use ineffective communication with their partners before the next session.
      Finally, in the reducing HIV risk module, couples will learn about HIV risks in same-sex male
      relationships, sexual behaviors that pose different levels of HIV risk, different methods of
      HIV prevention including condom use, pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), and post-exposure
      prophylaxis (PEP), and where one can be tested for HIV and obtain condoms and PrEP/PEP.

      Session 2. The second group session (2 hours) will cover 1) coping skills, 2)
      problem-solving,3) social and community support, and 4) acceptance. In the coping skills
      modules, couples will learn the various types of strategies that can be used to cope with
      stress and will discuss which strategies are the most effective in various situations. In the
      problem-solving module, couples will learn a simple framework for addressing problems and
      stress in their relationship. In the social and community support module, couples will
      participants identify the social networks and communities that can serve as additional
      support for each individual and the couple. Finally, the acceptance module will teach couples
      who to identify stresses that can't be changed and will review strategies for accepting
      stressful situations without changing them in order to reduce their impact on the health of
      the couple.

      Session 3. The first couples' session (1 hour) will consist of more in-depth discussion and
      practice of communication skills. Facilitators will elicit reasons why utilizing effective
      communication and minimizing ineffective communication are important for each couple, as well
      as ways in which using effective or ineffective communication has affected their relationship
      in the past. Couples will identify two areas of conflict or disagreement that can be targeted
      in a 30-minute skills practice. Each partner will take at least 1-2 turns communicating their
      concerns about the disagreement, listening to their partner communicate their concerns, and
      responding to their partner's concerns respectfully. The facilitator will provide each
      partner with feedback. Before the next session, couples will be asked to continue practicing
      effective communication on 1-2 additional topics identified in this session, to continue
      identifying and rectifying ineffective communication, and engage in another positive activity
      as a couple.

      Session 4. The second couples' session (1.5 hours) will be focused on relationship sexual
      agreements. Couples will engage in a facilitated discussion about their perceived risk of HIV
      and identify their motivations for reducing HIV risk in their current relationship and/or
      with outside partners. Couples will learn about relationship agreements (i.e., agreements
      about whether or not it is permissible to have sex with partners outside of the
      relationships) and generate list of pros and cons about having outside partners and having
      relationship agreements in general. Couples who do not have a relationship agreement will,
      with the help of the facilitator, begin drafting an agreement that meets each partner's
      emotional, sexual, and health needs. Couples who have an existing agreement will identify
      whether their current relationship agreement meets these needs and determine whether and how
      to amend their relationship agreement. Couples will also learn about how relationship
      agreements may change over time, how to renegotiate agreements, how to communicate about a
      broken agreement, and how different agreement types impact HIV risk. Finally, the facilitator
      will review strategies for maintaining healthy relationships in the long-term, including
      discussing strategies the couples can use to handle lapses in their newly acquired healthy
      relationship skills.

      Positive Affect Promotion Program (Control Condition):

      The control condition will be a positive affect program developed by Co-I Dr. Moskowitz, that
      matches attention and the mixed group and individual format of 2GETHER. Developed based on
      Stress and Coping Theory and the Broaden-and-Build theory of positive emotion, this program
      aims to reduce distress and improve wellbeing by increasing attention to positive emotions
      and reducing impact of negative emotions. In this trial, Sessions 1 and 2 will be group
      sessions facilitated by two individuals and focused on didactic instruction of strategies for
      increasing positive affect in both individuals and couples. Analogous to 2GETHER, Sessions 3
      and 4 will be individual couple sessions facilitated by one individual that focus on skills
      implementation in the dyad. Justification: The positive affect program has received high
      acceptability ratings and has been found to improve psychological distress in HIV+ MSM, but
      analyses find no effect on transmission risk behavior and we would not anticipate it would do
      so among HIV- MSM. This control condition is both ethical and appropriate for this RCT: it
      delivers beneficial skills but it does not address the primary mechanisms of change in
      2GETHER (i.e., communication, sexual health negotiation skills). Exit interviews from our
      pilot trial indicate that this positive affect intervention would be beneficial to coupled
      YMSM but would not address 2GETHER's mechanisms of change: "I like the thought of learning to
      be more mindful, and I think that would be easier to do in a group setting, so we would enjoy
      the program. But I also feel that the new topics are less focused on communicating
      effectively as a couple, so I do not feel it would have had the same effect for me
      personally." Facilitators. Facilitators will hold a bachelor's degree at minimum and have
      direct experience working with young adults and/or MSM. Facilitators will receive project-
      and university-specific training and will be certified in HIV testing and counseling. Weekly
      supervision groups will review and discuss issues that arise during sessions. Using BA-level
      facilitators means 2GETHER will be easier to implement in the community.

      Post-Session Evaluations. After each of the 4 intervention sessions (or single sessions in
      control condition), participants will complete brief online evaluations that assess
      feasibility and acceptability of the intervention, as well as provide ratings of the
      facilitators. These surveys will be programmed in REDCap software, and links to the
      evaluations will be emailed to participants after completing each session of the
      intervention.

      Assessment Timepoints. Baseline assessment will occur in-person. Each individual will
      complete informed consent separately to ensure both are willing/able to participate.
      Intermediate follow-up assessments will be completed remotely online (to minimize burden) at
      3-, 6-, and 9-months; 12-month follow-up will be completed in-person to facilitate collection
      of biological endpoints (STI testing). All assessments will last approximately 45-60 minutes
      will assess the same or analogous constructs.

      Fidelity. The study will use 2 strategies to ensure fidelity to the intervention manual.
      First, an independent assessor will sit in on 20% of group sessions. Second, the study will
      audio-record all individual couple's sessions, and an independent assessor will review 20% of
      sessions for fidelity. Independent assessors will complete a checklist indicating whether or
      not each component of each intervention session was completed by facilitators.
    
  