
    
      -  Rationale: Even though the World Health Organization (WHO) histological classification
           and Masaoka-Koga staging system are currently the most widely used, some studies have
           validated alternative pathologic classifications, as the one proposed by Suster and
           Moran. Following the proposals of a working group of the International Thymic
           Malignancies Interest Group (ITMIG) and the International Association for the Study of
           Lung Cancer (IASLC), a new staging system for thymic epithelial tumors has been included
           in the last Tumor Node Metastases (TNM) cancer staging system revision. TNM staging has
           been shown to have a stronger correlation with disease-free survival (DFS) analysis in
           comparison with the Masaoka-Koga staging system. Moreover, many studies sustained the
           role of preoperative CT-scan in predicting the pathologic features of thymic tumors. In
           this context, the potential association between clinical-radiological features and
           histo-pathological appearance may therefore provide a more accurate prognostic
           stratification in patients with thymoma.

        -  Targets: The aim of this study is to evaluate the potential association between
           clinical, radiologic and pathologic characteristics in patients submitted to surgical
           treatment for thymoma, and their prognostic value.

        -  Design of the study and parameters: Data about the patients submitted to surgical
           resection for pathologically proven thymoma at our Department of Thoracic Surgery
           between January 2005 and December 2015 will be retrospectively reviewed. Patients
           enrolled in the study will undergo a follow up until the date of death, and not later
           than March 31th, 2020. The following data will be entered in a prospective database:
           age, gender, presence of myasthenia gravis, neoadjuvant therapy, date of operation,
           surgical access (median sternotomy, thoracotomy or VATS), tumor histology according to
           WHO classification revised in 2015, Masaoka-Koga staging, adjuvant chemotherapy or
           radiotherapy, recurrence-free and overall survival, and cause of death. All
           histopathologic reports will be reviewed. Histology of each case will be reclassified
           according to the proposed Suster and Moran classification . Moreover, Masaoka stages
           will be reclassified according to the newly proposed IASLC/ITMIG TNM staging system.
           Preoperative CT scans will be reviewed. The following features will be evaluated using a
           dedicated software (Philips Intellispace): location, 2-axes diameters, volume, shape,
           presence of necrosis, calcifications, or lymphoadenopathy, presence and length of
           pleural contact, presence of pleural effusion or dissemination, pericardial effusion,
           invasion of mediastinal fat, great mediastinal vessels, pericardium or lung, and
           contrast-enhancement pattern. The association between clinical, radiological and
           pathologic features and survival will be analyzed to identify possible prognostic
           factors.

        -  Histopathological and staging review: all histopathological reports will be reviewed.
           Histology of each tumor will be classified according to the 2015 WHO classification and
           re-classified according to the classification proposed by Suster and Moran as follows:
           A, AB, B1 and B2 thymomas will be re-classified as well-differentiated thymic neoplasms
           (or typical thymoma); B3 tumors will be re-classified as moderately-differentiated
           thymic neoplasms (or atypical thymoma). Tumors will be staged according both to the
           Masaoka-Koga and the 8th edition of the IASLC/ITMIG TNM staging system.

        -  CT scan features and image interpretation: All patients will be sumbitted to chest CT
           scan before surgery. CT scans will be reviewed by two radiologists, expert in thoracic
           oncology. Differences will be resolved by consensus. The following features will be
           evaluated using a dedicated software (Philips Intellispace): location of the tumor,
           2-axes diameters, volume, shape, presence of necrosis, calcifications, pathological
           lymph nodes, presence and length of pleural contact, presence of pleural effusion or
           dissemination, pericardial effusion, invasion of mediastinal fat, great vessels,
           pericardium or lung, and contrast-enhancement pattern. Location of the tumor will be
           classified as right, left, or median according to the site of the intersection of the
           two main diameters of the lesion. The size of the lesion will be defined as the length
           of the largest of the three lesion diameters. Tumor volume will be calculated with the
           dedicated software after the identification of the borders of the lesion. Shape and
           contours will be defined as regular or irregular. A contrast-enhancement pattern will be
           assessed in the images obtained 30 seconds after contrast medium injection, and
           described as homogeneous or heterogeneous. Necrosis will be defined as an area without
           contrast-enhancement or low-density value comparable to water. A short-axis diameter of
           ≥ 1 cm will be used as the threshold for pathological lymph-nodes. Length of pleural
           contact will be measured with multiple lines along all the borders of the lesion in
           contact with the mediastinal pleura. Invasion of the mediastinal fat will be established
           in case of disomogeneity, ill-definition and hypodensity. Contact with great vessels
           will be reported whenever clear distinction of margins was not possible. Lung invasion
           will be documented when the border between the tumor and the lung was markedly irregular
           and/or the lung was compressed and pinched by the lesion.

        -  Data management: The authorized staff of the Thoracic Surgery Department will acquire
           data from the institutional electronic dossier at IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele. All data
           will be protected from unauthorized access. Data will be archived in an electronic
           database (Microsoft Excel) in pseudo-anonymous form, and patients enrolled in the study
           will be identified with a progressive number code.

        -  Sample size: We identified 50 patients who can potentially be enrolled in the study.

        -  Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures: The patients enrolled in the study gave a
           standard informed consent, and underwent routine preoperative workup (contrast enhanced
           chest CT-scan, FDG-PET scan, pulmonary function tests, blood tests) and surgical
           treatment for thymoma following international guidelines.

        -  Ethic evaluation: The study will be conducted following ethical principles of the
           Declaration of Helsinki and the current legislation on observational studies.

        -  Declaration on the management of patient's consent: All the patients who will be
           considered for this study have been staged and surgically treated following
           international guidelines. In addition, all patients provided standard informed consent
           to the planned therapy prior to surgery. In accordance with the Privacy Regulation, we
           wrote a specific informed consent form for the enrollment in this study, and all
           patients will be required to fill it out. However, considering the long follow-up (up to
           over 10 years), it is likely that some subjects have already died. The collection and
           analysis of data for this retrospective observational study does not involve physical,
           psychic and social risks towards enrolled patients. Nevertheless, reasonable efforts
           will be made to re-contact patients who are still alive.

        -  Internal organization and statistical analysis: This research will be carried out by the
           authorized staff of the Department of Thoracic Surgery involved in the study. The final
           analysis will be responsibility of the PI. Analysis was performed with the SPSS, v. 18
           software (Chicago, IL, USA). In order to evaluate the association between clinical
           variables, histopathology and radiologic features, and their prognostic value,
           continuous variables will be dichotomized according to their median value. Comparisons
           of categorical variables among the groups of patients will be performed by means of
           either Chi-square test or Fisher Exact test as appropriate. Survival curves will be
           estimated by the Kaplan and Meier method. Cox regression analysis will be used to assess
           the risks of the variables. Survival rates of patients grouped according to selected
           variables will be compared by means of the log-rank test. On the univariate analysis
           basis, in order to evaluate the independent contribution of the variables on
           recurrence-free and overall survival, a multivariate analysis will be performed using
           the Cox regression method. The analysis of the retrospective data will be based on the
           consultation of the institutional electronic archive (Galileo). The visualization of the
           images (CT scan) will take place using using a dedicated software (Philips Intellispace)
           available on the workstations of the Radiology Department. A duration of approximately
           30 days for the completion of the study is expected.

        -  Privacy: The PI and Ospedale San Raffaele own the data and results of the study, which
           will constitute the material for scientific publications. In these works data will be
           reported anonymously.
    
  