
    
      Obesity is associated with insulin resistance and diabetes. Since both of these conditions
      have been implicated in cardiovascular complications, this association may explain obesity
      related illnesses and deaths. Gastric bypass is considered the "gold standard" surgical
      weightloss procedure and has been demonstrated to cure diabetes and insulin resistance. Some
      severely obese patients, however, have normal insulin-glucose metabolism. The differences in
      metabolic healthy in severely obese individuals has not been fully recognized or understood.
      This research will study insulin-glucose metabolism in a population of severely obese
      individuals undergoing gastric bypass. This investigation is based on the following
      hypotheses:

        1. Severely obese individuals can be categorized by degree to which insulin-glucose
           homeostasis is impaired.

        2. The degree of insulin resistance correlates with risk for cardiovascular disease. Weight
           loss in obese individuals with insulin resistance, will correlate with improvement in
           parameters associated with cardiovascular disease. Obese individuals with better insulin
           sensitivity will not have a high risk for cardiovascular disease and therefore will not
           experience this risk reduction in cardiovascular disease.

        3. Insulin resistance is a consequence of pathological storage of excess energy intake;
           therefore, individuals who are insulin resistant and obese will differ from individuals
           who are obese, but not insulin resistant with regards to gene expression in subcutaneous
           adipose tissue and visceral adipose tissue.

      Subjects will be studied for evidence of end organ dysfunction and predictors of morbidity
      and mortality preoperatively and postoperatively. Additionally, gene expression in the
      subcutaneous and visceral adipose depots of subjects will be studied
    
  