
    
      Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic, autoimmune, multisystemic disorder caused by ingestion of
      gluten contained in wheat. A chronic gluten-free diet (GFD) is the only therapy for CD,
      however a small subgroup of patients is refractory to a GFD, in fact the pathology does not
      regress even with a strict diet. The microbiota plays a fundamental role in the CD, in fact,
      especially intestinal homeostasis requires balanced interactions between the microbiota, food
      antigens and the host. It is widely recognized that intestinal microbiota plays a role in the
      initiation and progression of intestinal inflammation in numerous chronic conditions, but
      recent studies have shown that even the blood microbiota plays a fundamental role in
      autoimmune diseases. Also microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA sequences of 20-22 non-coding nucleotides
      that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression, are molecules of interest in many
      common diseases and therefore also in CD. Fermentable, Oligo-, Di-, Mono-saccharides And
      Polyol (FODMAP) are short-chain carbohydrates with poor absorption in the small intestine
      which increases gas production and intestinal osmolarity, which can trigger gastrointestinal
      symptoms in sensitive individuals. A diet low in FODMAPs is a new dietary option for the
      treatment of persistent gastrointestinal symptoms in celiac patients. Evaluating the effect
      of this type of diet on intestinal microbiota changes and miRNA expression in celiac patients
      with persistent gastroenterological symptoms and in patients with refractory celiac disease
      represents an opportunity to understand how this dietary modification could contribute to the
      development of this disease.

      15 patients with refractory celiac disease (RCD) and 15 patients with CD responsive to the
      GFD between the ages of 21 and 60 will be enrolled. The aim of the research will be: 1) to
      characterize the intestinal, blood and duodenal microbiota, then to evaluate both the
      taxonomy of the identified bacteria and their relative abundance 2) to analyse the profile of
      miRNAs from biopsy and fibroblasts isolated in the first duodenal portion, highlighting any
      basal deregulation and, for fibroblasts, after treatment with the 33-mer immunogenic peptide
      3) quantify and know the composition of the fecal microbiota in celiac patients with
      persistent symptoms and in refractory celiac patients before (T0) and after (T28) treatment
      with a low-FODMAP diet. The aim of the study is to observe a diversification of the
      microbiota pattern of refractory patients vs. normoresponsive celiac patients and to observe
      a deregulation in the expression of miRNAs, both basally on biopsies and after treatment with
      the immunogenic peptide in primary fibroblast cultures.
    
  