
    
      Tooth color; It is formed by the combination of enamel, dentin and pulp with different
      optical properties. Tooth coloring is divided into two as etiological, internal and external.
      External colorants can be removed simply by cleaning. Removal of intrinsic coloring is
      possible with chemical bleaching. In the treatment of tooth coloring, whitening is considered
      the least aggressive method.

      Due to the increasing interest in aesthetics in recent years, patients' demands for teeth
      whitening have increased. Home-bleaching technique, developed by Haywood and Heymann in 1989,
      has been the most frequently used method until recently. In this method, the bleaching agent
      contains 10% hydrogen peroxide. For 2-5 weeks, whitening is performed by placing the gel in a
      plate by the patient every night. The advantages of this method are that it is easy to apply,
      low cost, use of lower rates of hydrogen peroxide, and less time spent in the clinic.
      However, the disadvantages are that the whitening process is not under the control of the
      physician, the patient does not apply the whitening gel regularly, and the procedure takes
      several weeks. Office-bleaching technique has been developed in order to make the bleaching
      process more controlled, to ensure color stability and to shorten the time. This technique,
      which contains a high concentration of (15-38%) hydrogen peroxide, is activated by heat or
      light sources. These sources include plasma arc, LED, UV lamps and laser. However, there is
      no consensus on the effectiveness of heat and light sources used in tooth whitening.

      The light sources used during bleaching are expected to increase the effectiveness of the
      bleaching and shorten the processing time. Among these, plasma arc and diode lasers have a
      wide range of uses. Laser teeth whitening method has been applied for about 15 years and many
      laser devices have been recommended for this procedure. It is expected that the treatment
      time will decrease and the sensitivity that may occur in the teeth will decrease as a result
      of laser application. However, the superiority of laser bleaching compared to other methods
      is still controversial.

      External root resorption and irritation in soft tissues can be observed during the teeth
      whitening, even if in a small amount. It is stated that the sensitivity of teeth after the
      procedure is the most common complication by some researchers, but disappears by itself after
      the end of the bleaching process.

      The purpose of aesthetic applications in dentistry; morphological, optical and biological
      compatibility. Tooth color is one of the most important criteria of aesthetics. Clinically,
      two different methods are used in color selection. The first, visual method, includes
      evaluation with the naked eye. The second method is colorimeter, spectrophotometer etc. is
      the use of devices that measure color. During clinical applications, color selection of
      dental materials is done by using visual scales. Color selection by visual method is both
      subjective and difficult; it can also lead to inadequate results. During color selection,
      erroneous results may occur due to parameters such as ambient light, physician's experience
      and age, and eye fatigue.

      Due to these existing disadvantages, systems such as spectrophotometers, colorimeters,
      digital color meters have been launched to assist the physician in color selection. In
      dentistry, spectrophotometers and colorimeters are used to overcome problems related to color
      selection with the eye. Although the visual method is used more in the selection of colors by
      clinicians, it is stated that the color measurements made by using the visual method and
      spectrophotometer together are quite successful.

      Color is formed by the merge of wavelengths in a light beam. In order for an object to be
      visible, it must emit light or reflect light from a light source. From the point of view of
      dentistry, the property of objects to reflect the incoming light is more important. The
      incoming light usually consists of a mixture of various wavelengths, that is, it has a
      polychromatic feature. When light comes on an object, it absorbs certain wavelengths and
      reflects certain wavelengths. The human eye can distinguish light between wavelengths of
      400-700 nμ. Nerve responses play a big role in the appearance of color. As a result of
      attached stimulation, the eye gets tired and the reaction of the eye decreases. Color
      separation is a subjective issue.

      The first color specification was proposed by CIE in 1931. Although this system was developed
      in the following years, its principles have still not changed. CIE system uses 3 variables,
      X, Y and Z. These variables are based on the spectral response functions defined by the CIE
      observer. The CIE chromaticity diagram is also used to define the exact color. In another CIE
      color system, three variables are used: L *, a * and b *.

      The spectrophotometer is a photometric appliance that is used to measure the transmittance,
      reflection and true absorption of color. They contain prisms or dispersing parts to create a
      continuous color line in their structure. Spectrophotometric color measurements may vary
      depending on the light source used and the measurement mode. Some spectrophotometers can be
      used according to two different measurement modes: Specular Component Included (SCI) and
      Excluded (SCE). Many types of standard light source are also used for color measurement of
      dental materials. These devices give three stimulus values x, y, z or CIE L *, a *, b *.
      These values can be converted into numerical values and color variables of different objects
      can be compared.

      The aim of the study is to compare the color change caused by laser-activated and chemically
      activated vital whitening systems with two different evaluation methods (digital camera and
      spectrophotometer). In this way, a comparison of the effectiveness of both the whitening
      systems and the reliability of the evaluation methods will be made. It is also aimed to
      determine the sensitivity of the teeth that may occur during and after bleaching.
    
  