
    
      Brief title: Efficacy and safety of artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine for
      the treatment of malaria in Cameroon.

      Official title: Monitoring the efficacy and safety of artesunate-amodiaquine and
      artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria
      among children in the Center Region of Cameroon.

      Purpose: To monitor the efficacy and safety of artesunate-amodiaquine and
      artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria
      among children in the Center Region of Cameroon.

      Background: Malaria remains a major public health concern in Cameroon especially among
      vulnerable groups such as children less than 5 years and pregnant women.
      artesunate-amodiaquine (ASAQ) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) are currently being used for
      the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum in Cameroon. Worldwide, several studies
      among children have reported high efficacy and safety of artemisinin-based combination
      therapies (ACTs). There is paucity of data to support the continuous use of ASAQ and AL in
      Cameroon.

      Objective: To assess the efficacy and safety of artesunate-amodiaquine and
      artemether-lumefantrine during a 28-day follow-up period among children with acute
      uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Center Region of Cameroon.

      Study sites: District Hospital Akonolinga, District Hospital Mfou, District Hospital Soa,
      District Hospital Mbalmayo, District Hospital Mbandjock, and District Hospital Ngog-Mapubi in
      the Center Region of Cameroon.

      Study period: 5th April to 31st December, 2021. Study design: This surveillance study is a
      two arm, open label, randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Patient population: Febrile patients aged 6 months to 10 years, with confirmed uncomplicated
      P. falciparum infection. Eligible children for whom parent/guardian informed consents are
      obtained will be randomized to receive either artesunate-amodiaquine (group A) or
      artemether-lumefantrine (group B) in the ratio 1:1.

      Sample size: A minimum sample of 76 patients will be required for the study. With a 20 %
      increase to allow loss to follow-up and withdrawals during the 28-day follow-up period, 92
      patients will be enrolled for each of the two study arms. The study will recruit a total of
      184 patients. At least 30 participants shall be enrolled at each of the six study sites.

      Treatment (s) and follow-up: Drug intake will be done under strict supervision on days 0, 1
      and 2. Follow-up visits will be performed on days 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 to evaluate clinical
      and parasitological resolution of their malaria episode as well as adverse events. Polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) genotyping of merozoite surface proteins 1 and 2 (msp-1, msp-2) as well
      as glutamate rich protein (GLURP) will be used to differentiate between recrudescence and new
      infection.

      Classification of treatment outcomes: Classification of treatment outcomes will be done based
      on the WHO 2009 guidelines: treatment failure (Early Treatment Failure-ETF, Late Clinical
      failure-LCF and Late Parasitological Failure-LPF) and treatment success (Adequate Clinical
      and Parasitological Response-ACPR).
    
  