
    
      Chest injuries are common in patients with polytrauma and are responsible for approximate 25%
      of all trauma-related mortalities. Traumatic injuries to the thorax often result in the
      accumulation of blood within the pleural space (i.e. a hemothorax (HTX)). The management of
      HTX remains a clinical dilemma when the volume of blood is small to moderate and the patient
      is hemodynamically stable. Prior to the ubiquitous use of chest computed tomography (CT),
      diagnosing quantities of blood <1000 mL was challenging (especially given inherent
      limitations in the standard chest radiograph (CXR)). With the widespread adoption of CT
      ''pan-scanning'' however, significantly more HTXs are being detected. The clinical
      significance and optimal treatment of these small to moderate HTXs remains unknown. Although
      HTXs are effectively managed with tube thoracostomy (TT) drainage of the pleural space (i.e.
      chest tube placement), this intervention is associated with numerous potential major
      complications, including iatrogenic injury, retained HTX, and empyema in up to 22% of
      patients. The East American Association of Trauma guidelines suggest that all HTXs should be
      considered for TT drainage. However, a prospective observational study suggested small to
      moderate HTXs could be absorbed without intervention. Classic studies from the 1960's also
      indicate that much larger quantities of blood can be reabsorbed without intervention as well.
      As a result, it is unclear if chest tubes are being over-utilized in patients who may not
      actually require them. Retrospective data from over 2,000 patients also suggests that many
      traumatic HTXs can be managed expectantly without TT drainage. Finally many small or occult
      HTXs (those not diagnosed by CXR, but later detected by CT scan) may also be safely observed,
      thus supporting the concept of expectant management (EM) for many HTXs with the goal of
      minimizing patient morbidity.

      The Foothills Medical Centre recently reported a retrospective study including 635 patients
      with traumatic HTXs. Overall, 491 (66%) HTXs were drained while 258 (34%) were managed
      expectantly. Independent predictors of TT placement included concomitant ipsilateral flail
      chest or pneumothorax. It also became evident that clinical practice was not directly
      dependent on the specific size of the HTX. Although the adjusted odds of mortality were not
      significantly different between groups (OR 3.99; 95% CI 0.87-18.30; p = 0.08), TT was
      associated with a 47.14% (95% CI, 25.57-69.71%; p < 0.01) adjusted increase in hospital
      length of stay. Empyemas (n = 29) also only occurred among TT patients. The authors concluded
      that expectant management of traumatic HTX was associated with a shorter length of hospital
      stay, no empyemas, and no increase in mortality. Although EM of small HTXs appears safe and
      optimal, these findings must be confirmed by a larger randomized controlled trial. The
      purpose of this study is therefore to conduct a randomized controlled study to compare
      patients with traumatic HTX managed by TT or EM. Characterization of those HTXs that require
      pleural drainage versus those that can be managed conservatively will be optimally defined.
      The results from this study will inform the care of future trauma patients who present with
      this common injury throughout the globe.
    
  