
    
      Cumulative observations indicate that demented patients withdrawn antipsychotics may not
      exacerbate BPSD. The DART-AD study shows that both demented patients with/without
      antipsychotics for six months have no significant difference in cognitive symptoms and BPSD
      (Ballard et al., 2008). Moreover, the results of a long-term follow-up DART-AD study
      demonstrate that the survival rate of demented patients with antipsychotics is lower than
      those without antipsychotics at 24th month (with group vs. without group = 40% vs. 71%) and
      36th month (with group vs. without group = 30% vs. 59%), respectively (Ballard et al., 2009).
      Recently, several studies indicate that antidepressants such as citalopram and milnacipran
      might be a new medication management for demented patients with BPSD (Pollock et al., 2007).

      The present study is designed as a retrospective open-label pilot study. The initial research
      goal of this study is to determine the prevalence of psychotropic agents in demented patients
      in Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD) (2005 v.s. 2008) and
      prescription rates of psychotropic agents in demented patients in Taipei Medical
      University-Teaching Hospitals (from 2002 to 2010). The psychotropic agents are defined as
      antipsychotic, antidepressant, sedative-hypnotic, anticonvulsant agents. Moreover, the second
      objective of this study is to investigate the risk of cardiovascular and aspiration
      pneumonia. Finally, the results of this study could be used to create the best and practical
      protocol of treatment for BPSD in demented patients of Taiwan to improve their drug safety
      and quality of life.

      Currently, there is no treatment for BPSD, and pharmacists should recommend physicians to
      decrease the off-label use of antipsychotics in demented patients with BPSD. The main reason
      is due to the fact that off-label use of antipsychotics increases significantly the mortality
      rate of demented patients. The therapeutic management of BPSD should be based on the
      evidence-based medicine and patient safety.
    
  