
    
      Study Design This is a multi-center study including low and high prevalence ovarian cancer
      sites. The sites are representative of all institutions where potential ovarian tumor
      subjects will undergo a gynecological examination with radiological exam prior to surgical
      intervention. A blood specimen will be taken once only from enrolled subjects. This blood
      specimen will be used in the evaluation of the OvaRl test to identify subjects with ovarian
      cancer from within a population of women with a documented ovarian mass and planned surgical
      intervention.

      Expected Total Enrollment: Up to 1000 subjects with a documented ovarian mass Study Start:
      February 2007

      Study Details:

      Study Population:

      Female subjects over the age of 18 with an ovarian tumor with planned surgical intervention
      will be enrolled at up to 40 sites. The sites will be demographically mixed to include, for
      example, large and small medical centers (universities/community hospitals), small
      gynecology/obstetrics groups, gynecology/oncology practices, and HMO groups.

      It is anticipated up to 1000 subjects will enroll. This population will exclude minors,
      pregnant women, or patients with a history of malignancy in the last 10 years, with the
      exception of a non-melanoma skin cancer.

      You will only be asked to participate in this study if you have a documented mass or tumor in
      your ovarian area. The Ciphergen OvaR1 assay is a proteomics-based blood test that assists
      the physician to determine whether the documented tumor is cancer or benign (non-cancer).
      This is not a necessary part of your treatment. You are already scheduled to have an
      operation to remove this tumor, which makes you eligible for this trial. If you agree to
      participate you will be one of up to 1000 people to do so.

      Once you are scheduled for surgery, you will be asked to provide a blood specimen once only.
      The blood sample will be prior to your surgery. The sample will consist of 30-50 ml of blood
      (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn from a vein in your arm. The blood specimen will be processed
      and blood serum specimens stored, then tested with the OvaRI assay which looks at proteomic
      patterns indicative of cancer or non-cancer. Your serum specimens will be assigned a coded
      identification number to protect your privacy. Your research blood will be drawn at the time
      of your routine pre-operative blood work visit or at the time of surgery depending on
      scheduling. The only risks and potential discomforts outside of your surgery are associated
      with the blood draw.

      The primary principal investigator in charge of this study is Frederick R. Ueland, M.D., of
      the University of Kentucky.

      You will not receive any personal benefit from taking part in this study. However, the
      information obtained from your participation may potentially benefit other patients in the
      future by providing helpful information about proteomic patterns connected with ovarian
      tumors.

      Subject Participation Eligibility:

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Subject is female and age 18 years or older

        2. Subject has a level of understanding sufficient to agree to all tests required by the
           protocol, must be considered reliable and must be able to cooperate with study
           procedures

        3. Subject signs approved written informed consent prior to any study procedures being
           performed

        4. Subject must agree to venipuncture

        5. Subject has a documented ovarian tumor with planned surgical intervention

      Exclusion Criteria

        1. Women under age 18

        2. No planned surgical intervention

        3. Decline phlebotomy

        4. Diagnosis of malignancy in the last 10 years, with the exception of a non-melanoma skin
           cancer
    
  