
    
      Background In 2015, WHO recommended that all patients be treated with combination
      antiretroviral therapy (cART) once the diagnosis of HIV infection was made. On the population
      level, starting cART soon after HIV diagnosis can prevent onward HIV transmission. Although
      WHO has recommended "treat-all" policy since 2015, there were still 1.8 million people
      becoming newly infected with HIV in 20179. The substantial loss of patients during the HIV
      care continuum among the most vulnerable populations have been major concerns in the cART
      scale-up. Therefore, the concept of rapid ART initiation, defined as starting ART within 7
      days or even on the same day after HIV diagnosis was confirmed, was introduced to improve HIV
      care continuum. In several clinical trials, loss to follow-up was observed despite the
      clinical trial settings. From our prior study18, among 786 individuals who were screened
      positive for HIV, 2.4% never returned to the clinic for the confirmatory tests. Despite ART
      scale-up and the policy of rapid initiation, 30% the of patients who were diagnosed with HIV
      infection during 2017-2018 did not initiate cART within 7 days after HIV diagnosis was made.
      Prior studies revealed that point-of-care diagnostic methods for detection of HIV RNA can
      accelerate linkage to care and reduce anxiety. However, the cost of and the barriers to
      accessing the point-of-care HIV RNA testing remain high. By shortening the interval between
      infectious disease physician referral, time-lag between screening and confirmatory tests,
      with the use of newly developed point-of-care immunochromatographic confirmatory test,
      initiating a safe and potent antiretroviral therapy on the same day of HIV confirmation will
      be feasible to improve linkage to care and to shorten the interval between HIV diagnosis and
      viral suppression.

      Study aim This study objective is to investigate the feasibility and outcomes of same-day
      initiation with Biktarvy (Bic/F/TAF) among patients who receive a diagnosis of HIV infection
      by confirmatory test.

      Study Interventions This is a multi-center, single-arm, prospective cohort study. All
      individuals who fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in our study and
      followed for 48 weeks. During the first visit at ID clinic, baseline clinical data will be
      collected by history taking, physical examination, and blood testing. The confirmatory test
      and baseline evaluations will be performed at the Visit 1. The test results will also be
      reported on the same day. Patients, who are HIV(+) by confirmatory test ,will receive a 7-day
      Biktarvy treatment and the first dose will be administered from Visit 1 (Day 1). The results
      of other evaluation including viral load, CD4 count, and coinfection will be available at
      visit 2.

      At Visit 2, the clinical symptoms and the tolerability will be recorded. If participants
      continue to receive Biktarvy® at the discretion of the HIV treating physicians, Biktarvy will
      be continued according to the national HIV treatment guidelines, which will be reimbursed by
      the National Health Insurance, and the patients will be followed in our study for 48 weeks.
      If the patients are switched to other cART regimens than Bictarvy according to physician's
      clinical judgements, the participants will continue their follow-up in the study.

      During the follow-up period, clinical information on symptoms, tolerability, and adverse
      effects with the use of face-to-face questionnaire interviews, and follow-up laboratory test
      results will be collected. to evaluate the efficacy and adverse effect according to the
      national HIV treatment guidelines and routine clinical practices.

      Monitor of Adverse event and management The subjective adverse events will be inquired during
      each visit and recorded with the use of questionnaire interviews. According to the national
      HIV treatment guidelines in Taiwan, the liver and renal functions and muscle enzymes will be
      followed during treatment as part of the standard of care. The study team will provide best
      clinical care if adverse events develop and the cost of medical care required will be covered
      by the insurance company. Severe adverse event and withdrawal from the study will be reported
      to the primary investigator on a monthly basis. When the number of drop-out is higher than
      30%, the enrollment will be stopped temporarily until the investigation ensures the safety of
      the participants.

      Study Endpoints

        1. Primary endpoints 1) The rate of retention in care at Week 48 2) The proportion of viral
           suppression (<50 copies/ml) at Week 48

        2. Secondary endpoints 1) The rate of same-day initiation of ART among patients who receive
           a confirmed diagnosis of HIV infection 2) The proportion of viral suppression (<200
           copies/ml) at Weeks 1, 4, and 48 3) Any/severe adverse effect of B/F/TAF before Weeks 4
           and 48 4) Patient's satisfaction at Weeks 1, 4, and 48

      Statistical analysis

        1. This is a feasibility study aiming to investigate the rate of engagement in same-day ART
           initiation and retention in care at Week 48. No sample size calculation is needed. The
           sample size of 200 participants is estimated by taking into account the case numbers of
           newly diagnosed HIV-positive patients seeking HIV care and cART at each participating
           hospitals during the past 1 year.

        2. Timetable for study and enrollment:

      1) Total subjects expected to be enrolled: 200 2) Total subjects expected to enter treatment:
      195 3) Total subjects expected to complete treatment: 191 4) Duration of enrolled period: 20
      months 5) Number of subjects entering treatment per month: 10 ( 2 subjects per site)
    
  