
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      In sensory systems, a neural mechanism called surround inhibition (SI) sharpens sensation by
      creating an inhibitory zone around the central core of activation. This principle was
      described for the visual system first, but there is evidence for similar mechanisms in the
      primary motor cortex (M1) involved in movement generation and control, especially in precise
      motor tasks. Dystonia is generally regarded as a motor execution abnormality due to a
      dysfunction in the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical motor loop. Using transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS), recent findings point to highly task-specific impairment of motor cortical
      inhibition in patients with focal hand dystonia (FHD).

      The goal for this research proposal is to understand the underlying physiology as it relates
      to different inhibitory pathways on movement generation and control. To achieve this goal,
      different modes of voluntary contractions will be examined in healthy controls and patients
      with FHD with the prospect of having new options for treatment.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We intend to study 100 adult patients with FHD and 100 healthy volunteers on an outpatient
      basis.

      DESIGN:

      Participants will perform a contraction of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI). At
      rest, before EMG-onset (premotor), during phasic and tonic contraction single TMS pulses
      (Experiment 1) or double TMS pulses (Experiment 2) will be applied over the primary motor
      cortex to assess activation-induced changes in cortical excitability in the abductor pollicis
      brevis muscle (APB), which is not activated. Additionally the influence of visual feedback on
      short intracortical inhibition (SICI) will be tested in Experiment 3. In Experiment 4-8
      interhemispheric (IHI), ventral and dorso-lateral premotor-motor intracortical inhibition
      will be assessed.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome measure for Experiment 1 will be the difference in MEP peak-to-peak
      amplitude between all motor conditions.

      The primary outcome measure for Experiment 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 will be the difference in
      normalized MEP peak-to-peak amplitude between all motor conditions in FHD patients and
      healthy volunteers.

      In Experiments 1 and 2, the change in MEP peak-to-peak amplitude between different force
      levels (10% versus 20%) will be a second outcome parameter.

      The primary outcome parameter for Experiment 3 will be change in MEP peak-to-peak between
      patients and healthy volunteers during tonic contraction with and without visual feedback.

      In Experiment 4, Hmax/Mmax ratio will be the primary outcome parameter.
    
  