
    
      This study is a pragmatic clinical trial in outpatient PT practices utilizing cluster
      randomization by healthcare system and facility size. Sites will be randomized to enroll all
      eligible and consented participants with FM to TENS with PT, or PT only (no TENS). We have
      identified 24 clinics across 5 healthcare systems in both rural and urban settings. We will
      enroll 600 patients that self report a clinician diagnosis of FM. At each site, TENS (or no
      TENS) will be applied during each visit along with individualized PT treatment specified by
      the physical therapist. Participants randomized to TENS intervention sites will receive TENS
      units and electrodes at baseline to be applied to the cervical and lumbar regions.
      Participants will take the units home and bring the units back to their PT clinic visits with
      instructions for use at home while active and during their exercises. The physical therapist
      at each clinic will complete routine documentation of treatment that will include the
      patient-specific functional scale (PSFS) at the intake visit and approximately monthly
      intervals. In addition to the primary and secondary outcomes, Electronic Health Record data
      variables will be collected as exploratory outcomes. Variables including adherence to
      physical therapy visits and PSFS will be extracted from each site's Electronic Health Record.
      Patient-reported assessments will be obtained from the participant's at home the day of their
      second PT visit (Baseline) and at 30, 60 (primary outcome), 90, and 180 days following
      enrollment. The primary and secondary outcome assessments will be comparing TENS and no TENS
      groups in terms of changes from baseline to 60 days.

      Participants will be identified after they are referred for PT for treatment of primary
      fibromyalgia (FM), neck pain and secondary FM or back pain and secondary FM. At their first
      (intake) physical therapy visit, they will be provided information about the study that can
      be accessed on paper or on-line. They will perform an electronic screening form on the first
      visit if interested in participating. Participants will provide e-consent after eligibility
      is confirmed at the initial PT visit. At the second PT visit after e-consent is signed,
      participants will be provided instructions on logging onto REDCap for data capture and
      accessing the case report forms. Participants enrolled at a TENS site will then be instructed
      in use of TENS and the TENS unit with electrodes will be provided. Those participants
      enrolled at a no TENS site will skip the instruction in use of TENS but will then receive
      instructions along with the TENS units at day 65. Participants will be instructed to capture
      all baseline assessments at home before their next PT visit before and following their first
      TENS treatment (or no TENS) at home (day 1). At 30, 60, 90, and 180 days following
      enrollment, participants will complete the same assessments at home including pain ratings at
      rest and with movement along with questionnaires. The primary and secondary outcome
      assessments will be comparing TENS and no TENS groups in terms of changes from baseline to 60
      days.
    
  