
    
      Design and participants- This study used a controlled trial design. The study population
      consisted of medical students during their six-week psychiatry clerkship. The study was
      conducted between November 2017 and July 2018 in eight academic hospitals in central Israel.
      There were 16 groups of students.

      The intervention arm included 3 groups of students (n=57) at a single general hospital, and
      the control group was comprised of 13 groups of students (n=163) from six psychiatric
      hospitals (n=139) and one general hospital (n=24). All students were informed that the
      purpose of the study was to explore their attitudes about people with mental illness and
      about psychiatry in general at the beginning (baseline) and at the end (endpoint) of their
      rotation. The participants were assured that their responses would remain confidential, and
      that they would not influence their rotation grade.

      Procedure - The intervention and control groups received the same lecture and practical
      training components. Topics covered in the lectures included psychopathology,
      psychopharmacological treatment, psychotherapy, and forensic psychiatry. Practical training
      included participation in inpatient rounds, visits at outpatient clinics and
      consultation-liaison services, and seminars consisting of patient interviews and discussions
      of clinical cases. All students were placed in a psychiatric ward, under the supervision and
      responsibility of psychiatric residents and senior psychiatrists. Each ward had a range of 4
      to 7 students assigned to it. During the rotation, students assumed supervised clinical
      responsibility for at least one clinical case. Although all students were exposed to a
      variety of patients in different clinical scenarios, they were exposed mostly to acutely ill
      inpatients.

      Study intervention The Anti-Stigma Interventions Curriculum (ASIC) component that was added
      to the intervention group was designed to target stigma towards psychiatric patients,
      psychiatric treatment, and the knowledge base of clinical practice in psychiatry. A first
      part, aimed at reducing stigma towards psychiatric patients, consisted of two forms of direct
      encounters with individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) in recovery or rehabilitation:
      1) A two-hour panel of three people who shared their personal stories as consumers of mental
      health services, followed by an open discussion with the students; and 2) A visit to a
      rehabilitation center, which included direct contact with the consumers. The emphasis in both
      of those encounters was on exposing students to the competence and strengths of the
      individuals, rather than to the symptoms and signs of their underlying illnesses. The second
      part, which was designed to target stigma towards psychiatric treatment and the knowledge
      base of clinical practice in psychiatry, included small group discussions (20 minutes each)
      on the efficacy of different treatments, the clinical utility of admission to inpatient
      wards, evidence-based medicine in psychiatry, and the biological pathways underpinning
      psychiatric disorders.

      The study was conducted after receiving Helsinki ethics committee approval for a multicenter
      study from the University of Tel Aviv Institutional Review Board. Because the ethics
      committee approval was contingent on personal information being de-identified, the
      investigators only used aggregate, unpaired pre- and post-rotation data.

      Study evaluations Participants completed one socio-demographic and two self-report
      questionnaires, the Attitudes to Psychiatry (ATP-30)22, and the Attitudes to Mental Illness
      (AMI)7, which were administrated through a secured online server (SurveyMonkey®). The ATP-30
      consists of 30 items, and it measures medical students' attitudes towards eight different
      attitudinal domains: 1) Psychiatric patients; 2) Psychiatric illness; 3) Psychiatric
      treatment; 4) Psychiatric institutions; 5) Psychiatric knowledge base in clinical practice;
      6) Psychiatric education; 7) Psychiatry as a career choice; and 8) Psychiatrists. The AMI
      consists of 20 items, and it measures medical students' attitudes to mental illnesses and,
      more specifically, towards their causes, treatments, and impact on individuals and society.
      Each item in both questionnaires is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from strongly
      agree to strongly disagree. Some items are negatively phrased in order to minimize the
      likelihood of social desirability bias, and higher composite scores indicate more favorable
      attitudes (less stigma) toward mental illness. Both ATP-30 and AMI have been shown to have
      good psychometric properties, and both have been translated into many languages and used in
      many countries worldwide.7,22
    
  