
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall survival rate at one year in patients with relapsed or refractory
           AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with consolidation therapy comprising
           rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (radioimmunotherapy) given after
           induction therapy comprising etoposide, methylprednisolone, cytarabine, and cisplatin
           (ESHAP).

        -  Describe the toxicity profile of radioimmunotherapy as consolidation therapy, including
           changes in immunologic and virologic parameters over time, in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall disease-free survival of patients receiving ESHAP as induction
           therapy followed by radioimmunotherapy as consolidation therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the effect of ESHAP as induction therapy and radioimmunotherapy as
           consolidation therapy on HIV-1 viral load, CD4 and CD8 cells, and quantitative
           immunoglobulin levels in patients on concurrent highly active antiretroviral therapy
           (HAART).

        -  Determine the objective response rates (complete and partial response) in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of ESHAP as induction therapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive ESHAP chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over 2
           hours on days 1-4, methylprednisolone IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5, cisplatin IV
           continuously over 96 hours on days 1-4, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours on day 5.
           Treatment repeats every 21-28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 21-52 days after completion of ESHAP
           chemotherapy, patients proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive radioimmunotherapy comprising rituximab IV over
           3-4 hours followed by indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan (for radioimaging) IV over 10
           minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo imaging on days 1 and 2. If biodistribution is
           acceptable, patients receive rituximab IV over 3-4 hours followed by yttrium Y 90
           ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 8.

      After completing study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 33 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  