
    
      I. Research object: In the outpatient department of a medical center in a medical center in
      the north, the case was collected, and the sample was selected conveniently. The patients who
      met the following sample selection conditions were selected, and 128 patients who agreed to
      participate in the study and filled out the consent form were studied by Random Allocation.
      The software software generates a random assignment list, which is then assigned to the
      experimental group and the control group.

      2.The number of samples is calculated The number of samples required is calculated by G power
      (version 3.1.9.2) statistical software (Faul, Erdfelder, Buchner, & Lang, 2009), and the
      repeated measures ANOVA of the F test is used to compare the difference between the two
      groups (between factors) due to lack of intervention. The reference data of the effect size
      of the measure, the estimated measure should be moderately beneficial for the degree of
      decision-making, so according to the cohen's rule (Cohen, 1988) f2 is 0.30, the significant
      level α is 0.05, and the statistical power value is 0.05. It is 0.80, repeated measurement 3
      times, the correlation between repeated measurements is 0.5, the total number of samples is
      estimated to be 86, each group is 43, and in addition, in order to make the secondary effect
      variable, there are enough samples, and consider The exit and omission values were about 20%.
      Therefore, 128 end-stage renal patients were selected from the hospital outpatient nephrology
      case management database. About 64 people in the experimental group and the control group
      participated in the study.

      3. Intervention measures The intervention measures in this study were discussed with the
      nephrologist and CKD health teachers. Based on theoretical considerations, both the
      experimental group and the control group can accept the introduction and selection of renal
      replacement therapy, but the decision support measures are different, and the experimental
      group provides decision support. Measures include the use of CKD Guardian as a decision-maker
      and the development of medical decision aids by e-book software, and the application and
      decision-directed model complemented by introduction and selection. The implementation steps
      include team discussion, option discussion and decision making. The conversation is conducted
      while the control group is introduced with traditional care care.
    
  