
    
      The study is a randomized, double blinded, treatment-controlled, parallel design to
      investigate the effect of donepezil (administration of 5-10 mg of donepezil daily, orally,
      over 8 week period) on clinical outcomes reflecting diabetic control. The research assistant
      will not be blinded. The investigator and patient shall be blinded. A computer program will
      be used to randomize the patients.

      50 patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (Adult Onset Diabetes Mellitus) will be randomized
      to either the donepezil treatment group or the control group after screening. (25 patients in
      each arm; a total of 50 patients). Both men and women shall be enrolled.

      As many patients as required to meet the enrollment numbers shall be screened. Patients will
      be monitored daily for blood pressure, glucose levels and heart rate, during the period of
      hospitalization. Adjustments in insulin or oral hypoglycemic, blood pressure and heart rate
      control medications will occur during this time. Follow up visits will be made as required
      and at the end of week 8.

      Donepezil shall be orally administered to the study group. Control group will get an orally
      administered placebo which is an inert compound, lactose.

      Wk0 will be the randomization visit. The patients will take the drug for 8 weeks and the last
      follow up visit will be the last day of week 8.

      Any anticholinergic drugs will be eliminated from the patients' medical regimen with the
      exception for inhaled anticholinergic. There is no known major contraindication of
      acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (like for eg: galantamine, rivastigmine and donepezil)
      Patients shall be monitored closely for vagotonic effect. Acetylcholine is known to have a
      vagotonic effect lowering heart rate and blood pressure. Therefore, during the course of
      administration of the drug close attention to heart rate and blood pressure will be a
      significant part off the clinical management of patients. If the patients are on beta
      blockers, their beta blocker dose will be closely monitored and adjusted as required.

      Proton pump inhibitors will be used to guard against any possible GI bleed. 40 mg of
      pantoprazole once daily.

      Patient will be observed for seizures. The patients will be examined for pulmonary
      exacerbation during treatment in the hospital. If the pulmonary status deteriorates they will
      be eliminated from the study. The medication administration will not start sooner than 24 hrs
      after surgery. Patients shall be observed for exaggerated response from anesthesia.

      Only lipid profile and fasting blood sugar has to be done fasting. As many tests as possible
      shall be combined and done at the same time to avoid multiple needle pricks to the patient.
    
  