
    
      Bone resorption and sinus pneumatization, following tooth extraction, are common occurrences
      in the posterior maxilla. They may cause both a quantitative reduction and qualitative
      deterioration of bone, resulting in an inadequate bone volume for a standard implant
      placement. Sinus floor elevation with lateral approach had been described 35 years ago and
      widely studied afterwards, demonstrating an high predictability in regenerating bone, to
      allow for reliable implant supported rehabilitations. Maxillary sinus floor elevation with
      transcrestal approach represents a validated and effective alternative option to vertically
      enhance the available bone through an access created in the edentulous bone crest. Regardless
      of graft type, it is not yet well defined how three-dimensional anatomical sinus cavity
      characteristics may influence healing and mineralization process. An adequate Schneiderian
      membrane elevation in order to expose sinus floor, buccal and medial walls, seems to
      represent a crucial factor in influencing new bone formation, as the greatest part of the
      osteoprogenitor cells derives from these anatomical structures. It is not documented yet the
      efficacy of the different trnanscrestal sinus floor elevation approaches in exposing the
      internal bony walls of the sinus. Moreover, on the basis of the fact that only few articles
      correlated the size of the maxillary sinus with histologic outcome by lateral window and one
      retrospective radiographic study reported results in relation to the three-dimensional
      conformation of the sinus using a trans-crestal approach, the investigators conjecture that
      sinus bucco-palatal diameter could influence the newly-formed bone quality after a crestal
      sinus lift procedure. For example, the healing in a narrow maxillary sinus could result in a
      faster new bone formation, when compared to a larger and wider sinus. The aim of this study
      is to analyze neoformed bone after maxillary sinus lifting with transcrestal approach, in
      atrophic crests (≤5 mm residual bone height). Clinical and laboratory data will be related to
      maxillo breast anatomy. The present study has been designed as a multicenter prospective
      clinical trial. Five clinical centers will treat patients with two-stage transcrestal sinus
      floor elevation using a calibrated drills technique and a xenogeneic biomaterial. Implants
      will be inserted 6 months after sinus augmentation and bone-core biopsies will be harvested
      during the implant site preparation. Histological analyses will be performed in order to
      assess the quality of the newly-formed tissue and cone beam computed tomography scan
      examination will be used to evaluate graft resorption over time. For each inserted implant,
      collection of experimental parameters will be required up to 1 year after its placement.
    
  