
    
      Vestibular information is important in establishing a child's static and dynamic postural
      control. Any vestibular deficit can have major consequences on development, spatial cognition
      and quality of life.

      In order to interact with the world around us, we must simultaneously integrate different
      sources of sensory informations (vision, hearing, perception of the body ...). The brain
      integrates these different sensory components to form a unified and coherent perception: this
      is multisensory integration.

      It is particularly important in children for the acquisition of sitting, standing and then
      walking. When a congenital vestibular deficit exists, adaptive behaviors using visual and
      proprioceptive inputs are set up.

      Multisensory integration has been studied using virtual reality in adults, in the "spatial
      orientation" team of the Center for Integrative Neurosciences and Cognition. These
      experiments were carried out on healthy subjects and in weightless situations (international
      space station or parabolic flight). However, no protocol has been developed in children or in
      subjects with vestibular deficit. Virtual reality is interesting for developing such a
      protocol because it creates multisensory stimulation capable of promoting visual and
      proprioceptive compensation of the vestibular deficit.

      It induces an immersion of the patient in a virtual spatial and temporal environment
      difficult to carry out with traditional vestibular rehabilitation techniques. Its main
      advantage is that it is a fun and safe interactive diagnostic and therapeutic tool, which is
      particularly suitable for children. Being able to modulate certain sensory information using
      virtual reality, in children without vestibular function deficit and in children with
      vestibular function deficit, will make it possible to better understand the role of the
      vestibule in the construction of the self in relation to space and environment. In addition
      to the scientific aspect, the diagnostic and therapeutic benefits are potentially numerous.

      The objective of the study is to determine a reliable, well-tolerated and age-appropriate
      virtual reality protocol in children without vestibular deficit and in children with chronic
      vestibular deficit, making it possible to study the hand-eye coordination.
    
  