
    
      Ginger, the rhizome of Zingiber officinale, has a long history of medicinal use. In
      traditional Chinese and Indian medicine, ginger has been used to treat a wide range of
      ailments including stomachache, diarrhea, nausea, asthma, respiratory disorders, toothache,
      gingivitis, and arthritis. Subsequent studies revealed that ginger contains constituents with
      pharmacological properties similar to the novel class of dual-acting NSAIDs. Compounds in
      this class inhibit arachidonic acid metabolism via the cyclooxygenase (COX) and lipooxygenase
      (LOX) pathways. These compounds have notably fewer side effects than conventional NSAIDs and
      now are being investigated as a novel class of anti-inflammatory compounds. Different animal
      studies revealed that oral dried ginger or ginger extract reduced inflammation in paw and
      joint swelling induced by different chemical agents, lung inflammation induced by
      lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and arthritis induced by collagen . Several clinical studies
      support the value of ginger for the treatment of osteoarthritis . In addition to alleviating
      pain, ginger extract has been reported to decrease joint swelling. In some of these trials it
      was reported that ginger relieved pain and swelling to varying degrees in patients with
      osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis as well as those with muscular pain without causing
      any adverse effects during a period ranging from 3 months to 2.5 years . In one recent trial
      ginger was tested in primary dysmenorrhea in comparison with Ibuprofen and mefenamic acid and
      no significant differences was found between the three study groups in relief, stability, or
      aggravation of symptoms . The common postoperative sequelae of surgical removal of impacted
      teeth are pain, trismus and swelling, related to local inflammatory reaction, with
      cyclooxygenase and prostaglandins playing a crucial role. NSAIDs (e.g. Ibuprofen) are
      effective in the management of postoperative dental pain, likely through blockage of
      prostaglandin synthesis and are commonly used. The efficacy of Ibuprofen in the treatment of
      postoperative dental pain has been evaluated in several clinical trials . However, NSAIDs are
      contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal ulcers, bleeding disorders, and renal
      dysfunctions. Therefore, there is a need for an effective, oral analgesic with a more
      favorable safety profile. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the ability of
      Ginger powder (Zintoma, Goldaru,Iran) to reduce postoperative swelling, pain and trismus
      after third molar surgery.
    
  