
    
      Lung function assessment of preschool children is hindered by their limited co-operation in
      conventional tests such as peak expiratory flow (PEF) or spirometry. However, indices derived
      from spontaneous tidal respiratory air flow and the shape of tidal expiratory flow-volume and
      flow-time curves relate to lung function and are easier to record even in young children. As
      a more advanced approach, the time dynamics and complexity properties of the tidal breathing
      flow volume (TBFV) signal have been analysed and found to relate to various respiratory
      conditions.

      Impedance pneumography (IP) is a method for measuring changes in the thoracic electrical
      impedance through skin electrodes, which varies as a function of lung aeration i.e.
      breathing. Recent technical advancements have enabled IP to be used for accurate non-invasive
      tidal flow signal measurement. Moreover, in overnight recordings at home, IP was found
      feasible for quantifying nocturnal TBFV variability in young children with lower respiratory
      symptoms, showing that preschool children with high risk of asthma present with increased
      variation of tidal flow profile shape, and momentarily lowered chaoticity, compared to
      children with lower risk of asthma. So far, there are no studies that have addressed the
      utility of IP to assess asthma control in young children with asthma.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the utility of a commercially available IP device
      (VENTICA, Icare Finland, Finland) and IP-derived clinical indices in assessing the clinical
      control of asthmatic children receiving normal therapy in a longitudinal setting. The primary
      hypothesis is that TBFV variability quantified by IP is associated with disease control
      during management of young children with asthma. The secondary hypothesis is that TBFV
      variability quantified by IP predicts changes in disease control during management of young
      children with asthma.
    
  