
    
      One of the serious consequences of single or multiple tooth extraction is the bone resorption
      that follows, which may create aesthetic problems and compromise future implant placement.
      Ridge preservation procedures typically use a combination of a scaffold and a membrane.
      Scaffolds most commonly used are bone grafts; autogenous, allografts, xenografts, and
      alloplasts. Among these bone grafts, allograft materials such as Demineralized Freeze Dried
      Bone Allograft (DFDBA) and Freeze Dried Bone Allograft (FDBA) are frequently used in site
      preservation procedures.

      An additional alternative is to use a collagen sponge (CS) in the extraction socket to
      prevent the infiltration of soft tissues to the lower area and to protect and maintain bone
      graft materials.

      Although ridge preservation has several benefits, it also has several risks and limitations,
      such as membrane exposure and possible infection, loss or fibrous encapsulation of graft
      particles, longer healing period prior to implant placement, invasive and technique sensitive
      procedure, additional cost, and possible soft tissue dehiscence in bone grafted sites
      compared with non-grafted sites. Therefore, any modifications of the technique that will
      reduce these risks and limitations would be advantageous.

      Mucograft速 TM has been specifically designed for soft-tissue regeneration. Its bi-layer
      structure supports tissue in-growth and regeneration and promotes cellular and extracellular
      integration within the host tissue. Clinically, this new collagen membrane was associated
      with a sufficient width of newly formed attached gingiva with coverage of Miller class-I and
      class-II recession defects. These results suggest that the use of Mucograft速 TM in
      periodontal plastic surgery may provide a viable source of grafting material as an
      alternative to autogenous and non-autogenous soft tissue graft materials.

      This study is a clinical and radiographic, randomized parallel arm comparative evaluation of
      the addition of Mucograft速 seal to FDBA in the ridge preservation procedure. Group A will
      receive FDBA and a CS. Group B will receive FDBA with Mucograft速 seal.
    
  