
    
      The Centers for Disease Control's Retention In Care (CDC RIC) and the Participating and
      Communicating Together (PACT) antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence interventions have shown
      success in the literature, and they are well suited to target the two essential HIV adherence
      behaviors needed to achieve better overall health: HIV medical visit adherence and ART
      adherence. While these original interventions target each of these behaviors separately, the
      comprehensive iENGAGE intervention combines these two approaches to address the experience of
      an individual who is initiating HIV care. Upon entry to care, knowledge, motivation, and
      skills for adherence to HIV medical visits and ART must be learned rapidly. Jointly targeting
      these behaviors offers a distinct advantage over addressing them separately.

      iENGAGE integrates CDC RIC and PACT through their common intervention targets with the
      assistance of trained interventionists, who will maintain contact with the new patient to
      educate and assist with reinforcing the importance of adherence to care. While the actions
      required to attend HIV medical care appointments and take medications properly are distinct,
      each is influenced by an individual's personal motivation and skills for self-management of
      HIV infection and overall health; these principles are the focus of the intervention sessions
      for this protocol .

      During this intervention, our team will make every effort to protect all participants'
      confidential and private information in order to minimize possible study-associated risks. In
      addition, the follow up measurement plan for this study is unique, as it aims to utilize the
      X060831001: Unsolicited R24 for the Centers for AIDS Research (CFAR) Network of Integrated
      Clinical Sciences, (CNICS), PI Michael Saag) secure electronic data infrastructure, which has
      existing defined protocols for the protection of human subjects data, including a data
      management core that is housed at the collaborating site at the University of Washington.

      Stigma Supplement (Michael J. Mugavero, Janet M. Turan, Bulent Turan)

      As part of this supplement, the research team has incorporated multi-item questionnaire
      measures of stigma into baseline and final data collection for the iENGAGE trial. The goal of
      Aim 1 is to examine the longitudinal associations and potential causal mechanisms in the
      relationships between dimensions of HIV-related stigma and HIV visit adherence,
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence, and viral load suppression, among control
      participants in the study. In addition, in Aim 2, we will examine the effects of the iENGAGE
      intervention on dimensions of stigma, by comparing changes in stigma in the two arms of the
      Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT).

      For Aim 3, after participants have completed the 48-week iENGAGE intervention, we will
      conduct up to 40 individual in-depth face-to-face qualitative interviews with selected
      participants using a separate informed consent process. Topics to be explored in these
      interviews include qualitative exploration of how HIV-related stigma and other intersectional
      stigmas affect engagement in HIV care, as wells as exploring how participation in the iENGAGE
      intervention may have influenced the participant's experiences of anticipated, internalized,
      and experienced stigma; as well as disclosure concerns and actual disclosure behavior.
    
  