
    
      The foot core system is responsible for the stability and dynamic and static function of the
      foot. Foot core muscles are part of the sub-systems that make up this system. Fatigue affects
      the basic characteristics of the sensorimotor system and impairs the accuracy of the
      voluntary movement. While walking, fatigue, sensorimotor function and motor control can
      affect in many ways. This research focuses on the relationship between foot core muscles with
      balance and gait parameters. The main purpose of the project is to investigate the effect of
      the endurance and fatigue responses of the extrinsic and intrinsic foot core muscles and the
      isolated fatigue response of the tibialis posterior muscle on balance and gait parameters.

      The method of the project was established to investigate the effects of foot core muscles on
      balance and gait parameters. Demographic and basic physical characteristics of the
      participants (age, dominant hand, height, weight, education, marital status) will be taken
      and individuals with normal BMI will be included in the study. Each individual will walk on
      the treadmill for at least 512 steps at the rate he/she will have at his own pace. Then the
      individual will rest. Then the gait test on the 10% slope will be repeated and the individual
      will rest at the end of the test. The balance of individuals' will be evaluated with Y
      balance test after the resting process is ended. The Heel Rise test will be used to measure
      the endurance of the tibialis posterior muscle. The test will be repeated separately for both
      feet. Then the individual will be put on the gait and balance tests. The individual will be
      recalled the next day and the paper grip test will be performed to measure the total
      endurance of the foot core muscles. Then the individual will be put on the gait and balance
      tests.

      With this research; the relationship between the endurance and fatigue responses of the foot
      core muscles, which have an important role in the protection and support of the foot arches
      and which perform this function with tonic contraction in daily life, will be determined. In
      this way, the results of the research will provide information to explain the gait cycle. We
      believe that with an original study we may support the development of rehabilitation
      processes for individuals who have gait problems or who are at risk of falling.
    
  