
    
      The Peer Approaches to Lupus Self-Management (PALS) study is a randomized controlled trial
      designed to examine whether a new, culturally tailored peer mentoring intervention improves
      disease self-management, indicators of disease activity, and health related quality of life
      (HRQOL) in African American women with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). African American
      women with active SLE will be recruited as mentees and peer mentors. The investigators will
      recruit 300 mentees (150 mentored and 150 support group) and up to 60 mentors. As part of
      each wave, mentors (n=20) will be trained to deliver intervention content, prior to being
      paired with up to three mentees (n=50). The peer mentoring intervention will occur by twelve
      60-minute telephone or video sessions carried out across the course of 24 weeks. In each
      wave, social support controls (n=50) will participate in a lupus support group created for
      this project, on the same schedule as peer mentoring sessions. Both conditions will be
      delivered via Webex, which has several advantages for this intervetion: 1) Sessions are
      easily accesible via phone or computer, allowing participants to choose their preferred
      interaction style; 2) A study coordinator can host the support groups and drop in/out for
      monitoring purposes; 3) There are video- or voice-call options for up to 25 paricipants at a
      time; and 4) This application ensures concordiant delivery methods across both arms of the
      study and the ability to document the frequency that voice and video options are used to
      adjust for participant choices in analyses. All participants (mentees, mentors, and social
      support controls) will be assessed using validated measures of patient reported outcomes and
      clinical indicators of disease activity at baseline, mid-intervention (3 months from
      baseline), immediately post-intervention (6 months from baseline), and 6 months
      post-intervention (12 months from baseline). For each wave, outcomes for mentees randomized
      to the mentored group will be compared with the outcomes of mentees randomized to the support
      group. A booster session will be incorporated for all participants (mentored and support
      group) at 3 months post-intervention to encourage retention.
    
  