
    
      Abnormal Executive function (EF) profile was considered a major characteristic of Attention
      deficit / hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism, and is frequently implicated in
      Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) children as well. The scientific literature implies
      that the EF profile among these three groups share some common abnormalities, but differ
      significantly in specific features. Abnormal EF profile may be a core feature of the
      developmental trajectory of each syndrome.

      The fine measurement of eye movements may shed light on the underlying mechanisms of specific
      disorders, and point to abnormal attention, information processing, or motor organization.
      Gaze is an important component of social interaction. Eye contact and recognition of other's
      gaze direction are crucial to empathy assessment.

      The current study will embark in the assessment of a wide range of EF in these populations
      and in a matched control group, as well as their relation to other important parameters such
      as daily function skills and comorbid neurobehavioral characteristics. It will also assess
      the pattern of eye movements in response to various visual stimuli in these populations. The
      main purpose is to characterize the similarities and differences of each of these
      populations, in terms of EF and eye movements.

      Assessment methods:

      Clinical parameters:

        -  Intelligence tests (according to the child's age)

        -  Communication: DSM-IV, ADOS, Stony Brook questionnaire

        -  Motor / Coordination: Movement Advanced Battery for Children (M-ABC)

        -  Attention: Conners Rating Scales - Revised (CRS-R 3rd ed.)

        -  Sleep: Sleep habits questionnaire

      Executive functions will be assessed using the following methods:

        -  NEPSI-II

        -  BRIEF questionnaire

        -  Wisconsin Card Sorting Test

        -  Tower of Hanoi

      Eye movements will be measured using an infra-red video camera produced by ISCAN inc. the
      following visual stimuli will be presented:

        -  Human faces presenting various emotions

        -  Various objects

        -  Saccade and anti-saccade tasks
    
  