
    
      Background Danish cancer patients have poorer cancer outcome compared to other European
      cancer patients. Earlier cancer diagnosis is a pivotal step to improve the prognosis, and
      there seems to be opportunity for improvement, as e.g. colon cancer is more often diagnosed
      at an advanced stage in Denmark than in other countries.

      In Denmark, more than 11,500 abdominal cancers are registered yearly, which corresponds to
      31% of all newly diagnosed cancers. The majority (75-85%) of cancer patients initially
      present symptoms to their GP. But only half of the patients present an alarm symptom, while
      20% present serious non-specific symptoms, and 30% present vague non-specific symptoms.
      Site-specific CPPs for alarm symptoms were implemented in Denmark in 2008/2009 to optimise
      the diagnostic route for cancer. In 2012, a new Danish CPP was implemented to target patients
      with serious non-specific symptoms and signs of cancer (NSSC-CPP). No pathway exists for
      patients with vague abdominal symptoms.

      Presenting in general practice with abdominal symptoms is very common. Most abdominal
      symptoms presented in general practice can be signs of serious disease in the abdomen and the
      pelvic region. However, in most cases, the symptoms are benign, self-limiting and harmless.
      Still, more than ten different cancer types can cause these symptoms, but clinically it is
      often difficult to distinguish between the symptoms.

      For patients presenting vague symptoms to the GP, the ideal strategy could be easy and direct
      access to relevant investigations rather than a wait-and-see approach or referral to a CPP.

      Aim The study sets out to investigate the need for an abdominal 'yes-no' pathway for primary
      care patients with vague and non-specific abdominal symptoms, how it could be clinically
      organised and integrated, and whether such pathway is feasible.

      Material and methods Prior to the current intervention, a developmental part was conducted in
      2018. It consisted of focus group meetings with 16 selected specialist, with expertise
      regarding patients with abdominal symptoms in general practice and abdominal cancers and
      other abdominal diseases.

      The investigators assembled two focus groups during autumn 2017, each comprising the
      following experts: two GPs, a physician with expertise in gastroenterology, an abdominal
      surgeon, a radiologist, a gynecologist, a microbiologist and a physician in clinical
      biochemistry. The focus groups aimed to develop and agree on an abdominal 'yes-no' pathway
      using the following criteria: 1) reduce the time to diagnosis, 2) avoid unnecessary tests, 3)
      increase patient safety and minimise missed opportunities, 4) order the specific
      investigations temporally, 5) place responsibility and develop a structure and 6) illustrate
      an optimal pathway.

      From January to September 2018, the investigators completed two meetings in each focus group,
      after which the investigators compared the results and gathered the groups in a common
      session. From the literature and the preliminary results of an yet unpublished register
      study, the investigators were able to present the clinical challenges to the participants
      during the meetings. Moreover, the possible access to investigations was presented
      (laboratory tests, imaging, endoscopies and access to specialist advice). Based on
      discussions during the meetings, the investigators developed an abdominal ´yes-no´ pathway.
      The abdominal ´yes-no´ pathway consists of three steps; 1) Medical and objective examination,
      2) Selected blood samples and a FIT, and 3) Abdominal US and TVUS. The GP continues to hold
      responsibility for follow-up, while hospital examinations are performed on an outpatient
      basis with direct access from general practice. After finished investigation, the results
      from the tests will all return electronically to the referring GP.

      The intervention is planned to initiate as a feasibility study at Silkeborg Regional Hospital
      from 1 April 2019. Agreements have been made with the hospital management, and an information
      meeting has taken place in March 2019 at the hospital. All GPs in the municipality of
      Silkeborg were invited to participate. An illustration, to hand out for involved GPs has been
      developed. Prior to investigation, all patients referred to the abdominal ´yes-no´ pathway
      will receive a consent form with information of the study. The inclusion period is 6 months
      from 1 April 2019 to 30 September 2019, after which the investigators will monitor the
      patients for up to 6 months.

      The study has been approved and is registered in the Record of Processing Activities at the
      Research Unit of General Practice in Aarhus in accordance with the provisions of the General
      Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The Central Denmark Region Committees on Health Research
      Ethics has concluded that the study can be conducted without an approval from the Committees
      (Request 16/2019). Further, The committee on multi-practice studies under the Danish College
      of General Practitioners (DSAM) and the Organisation of General Practitioners in Denmark
      (PLO) have been asked to recommend GPs to participate in the study.

      The analyses will be descriptive with frequencies and incidence rates of use of the pathway
      corrected for practice population. An overview of all findings in the abdominal 'yes-no'
      pathway will be provided, and possible side effects will be assessed.

      Perspectives The study will provide new important knowledge of patients with vague and
      non-specific abdominal symptoms, who do not fulfil access criteria for the CPPs, but for whom
      the diagnosis of an abdominal cancer should not be missed. This may improve the diagnostics
      of abdominal cancers or other serious abdominal disease in the future, aiming to reduce time
      to diagnosis.
    
  