
    
      With increasing use of high-resolution conventional imaging, pancreatic incidentalomas are
      being diagnosed more frequently. In two recent surgical series, neuroendocrine tumors (NETs)
      and carcinomas account for 10-15 % of all pancreatic incidentalomas, the majority ( 75-90 %
      of cases) well differentiated. The factors affecting the behaviour of pancreatic NETs are
      differentiation, histological grade, staging, size and intratumoral microvascular density. In
      updated World Health Organization (WHO) classification, the grading system is based on tumor
      differentiation, the rate of proliferation and Ki-67 index. The management of pancreatic NETs
      depends on tumor stage and on presence or not of hormonal syndrome. By definition, the
      incidentally discovered pancreatic NETs (PNETs) are unassociated with hormonal syndromes
      (nonfunctioning) and detected in patients who undergo diagnostic evaluations for unrelated
      conditions.

      The therapeutic approach for hormonally functional tumor, or large tumor (> 2 cm) with local,
      vascular or lymph nodes invasion, highly suggestive of malignancy, or in presence of
      metastasis, is well admitted: surgery is indicated or should be discussed.

      However, the attitude is less consensual for small (≤ 2 cm) non-functioning (NF) and
      non-metastatic lesions. There is a paucity of literature reporting pancreatic neuroendocrine
      incidentalomas and their characteristics. However, given their increased incidence, they are
      an emerging problem and require changes in treatment guidelines. In English, American or
      French recommendations, systematic surgical resection with lymphadenectomy is currently
      recommended in all medically fit patients. The follow-up (FU) is possible for tumors <2 cm
      (T1) located in the pancreatic head and for which enucleation is not feasible. This
      therapeutic approach has two limitations: 1) the significant incidence of these tumors,
      because of the widespread use of routine imaging, and the improved technology of multi
      detector CT scan, the fortuitous discovery of small pancreatic incidentalomas is becoming
      more common. 2) Pancreatic surgery carries significant postoperative morbidity even in
      high-volume tertiary centers and even in parenchyma-preserving resection. This may results in
      many pancreatic resections for tumors with unknown natural history. On the other hand, the
      follow-up may be a factor of considerable anxiety, and carries the risk, actually difficult
      to assess, to let the tumor grow between two monitoring controls, with the possible evolution
      to the irreversible metastatic stage of the disease.

      As a result, the investigators are unceasingly facing a dilemma: how to manage asymptomatic
      patients with small incidentally detected, potentially benign NETs? Several recently
      published retrospective studies discuss the "non- surgical" management of the small NF
      incidentally detected pancreatic NETs (IPNETs) and highlight the necessity of developing
      guidelines for management of these patients. A strict correlation between tumor size and
      malignancy of these tumors was demonstrated in the single-center retrospective Italian study
      of Bettini and col. , which included all patients with NF PNETs who underwent curative (R0)
      resection during 18 years. In the group of 51 patients with small size of T (2 cm or less),
      incidentally discovered, the majority of lesion was benign, and the authors concluded that
      follow-up can be proposed in patients with incidentally discovered NF PNETs ≤ 2 cm. However
      in despite of small size and asymptomatic character of the tumor, the rate of malignancy of
      NF IPNETs ≤ 2 cm was estimated to be 24 % (in 18% and 6% of cases, uncertain behaviour and
      carcinoma were present).

      Given the inherent morbidities associated with pancreatic surgery, a risk-benefit calculation
      may favour surveillance rather than surgery in highly selected patients. Thus, a better
      understanding of NF IPNETs and identification of their prognostic factors can be of help to
      select a subgroup of patients who could benefit from a long-term surveillance rather than a
      systematic surgical resection. Clearly, large prospective trials are needed to validate this
      approach.
    
  