
    
      It has been long noted that facial volume loss is one of the primary visible components of
      aging. Asymmetrical volume loss has been noted as well, but there is no proven theory
      explaining why this occurs.

      This study will attempt to determine whether there is an association between greater facial
      volume loss on the drivers' window side of the face.

      This data will allow for image and statistical analysis to determine if a facial volume loss
      differential exists, and what factors may be isolated to determine causality The study
      population will be between 350-500 males or females aged 45-80 having visible photodamage and
      spent (or are spending) at least 30 minutes in a car per day (as the driver), 5 days per week
      for at least 15 years of their adult life to ensure they have the type of asymmetrical
      exposure required for hypothesis validation.

      This will be a multi-center trial, and study sites will range from northern to southern
      latitudes in North America, Australia and potentially other international sites.

      This study is to be conducted under the general supervision of PI(s) and will follow the
      general guidelines recommended in current Good Clinical Practices (cGCP).

      Individual sites will have a PI to supervise study related procedures and data collection and
      will be in contact with Dr. McDaniel and staff throughout the study.

      The study period for each subject will be approximately 1-2 visits. Consented and qualified
      subjects will be imaged using the Canfield VECTRA H1 digital imaging system as described
      above and then given the study questionnaire and completion instructions. Once the subject
      has had both the images and questionnaire reviewed by study personnel for completeness, their
      participation in this study is ended; unless the supplemental contact visit is determined to
      be required for data clarification or additional, IRB approved, follow up questions.
    
  