
    
      Three areas will be examined:

        1. Clinical performance

        2. Continuity of care

        3. Utilization of resources

      Clinical performance will be assessed using Health Plan Employer data and Information Set
      (HEDIS) performance standards. These standards were developed for the purposes of quality
      assessment, and in our study we will examine the following HEDIS standards:

        1. Breast Cancer Screening- the proportion of women between the ages of 52 and 64 who have
           had a mammogram within a two year period.

        2. Cervical Cancer Screening- the proportion of women between the ages of 21 and 64 who had
           a Pap test in the preceding 3 years.

        3. Cholesterol Screening- the proportion of patients ages 20 to 39 and 40-59 who have had
           their cholesterol tested at least once in the past five years.

        4. Asthma admission rate- the proportion of asthmatics admitted to the hospital for the
           care of asthma per year.

        5. Diabetic Standards-

             1. Admission for cellulitis/ 1000 diabetics per year.

             2. Admission for diabetes/ 1000 diabetics per year.

             3. Inpatient days per 100 diabetics per year.

             4. Prevalence of ischemic heart disease.

             5. Prevalence of severe renal disease.

             6. Diabetics with >2 hemoglobin A1C drawn per year.

      Continuity of Care will be assessed by 3 different indicators:

        1. The proportion of visits that are made to the designated primary care provider of the
           number of visits made.

        2. The proportion of missed appointments of the total number of appointments.

        3. The proportion of walk in visits of the total number of appointments.

      Resource utilization will be assessed by examining the following:

        1. Number of lab test per year per patient.

        2. Number of specialty consults per year per patient.

        3. Hospital admission rates per patient per year.

        4. Cost to medications. Confidentiality will be maintained throughout the study. In
           clinical practice access to CLIMACS is limited to the medical providers and
           administrators by individuals access codes. Furthermore, our study will remove specific
           identifiers to maintain the anonymity of both the patients and residents.
    
  