
    
      Aim of work To compare accuracy of 2D transesophageal echocardiography versus balloon sizing
      in determining size of device during transcatheter aortic valve implantation and inhospital
      outcomes of this approach using 2D TEE and balloon sizing only during TAVI .

      Patients and methods. The study will include (100) patients, prospective observational study

      All patient will undergo :

      1-Written consent. 2-Detailed history including symptoms (NYHA class) ,co morbidities
      3-Clinical examination 4-Electrocardiogram (detection of conduction disturbance , ischemic
      changes). 5-Laboratory investigation (hemoglobin level, creatinine, glomerular filteration
      rate(GFR)) 6-Risk stratification: using STS score 6- Transthoracic Echocardiography: (7)

      1-Assesment of aortic valve by

        1. Mean and maximum pressure gradiant (severe AS if mean pressure >40mmhg and maximum
           pressure >64mmhg) in presence of normal ejection fraction (EF).

        2. Aortic valve area by continuity equation (severe AS if < 1cm2).

        3. Measurement of aortic valve annulus (in parasternal long axis view) .

        4. Assesment of associated aortic regurge (8) :

           -Regurge jet width/LVOT width (mild <25%,moderate 25-65%, severe >65%)

             -  Vena contracta (VC) (mild <0.3cm, moderate 0.3-0.6cm, severe >0.6cm)

             -  Regurge volume (RV) (mild <30ml, moderate 30-60ml, severe >60ml).

             -  Regurge fraction (RF) (mild <30%, moderate 30-50% and severe > 50%).

             -  Effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA) (mild <0.1 cm, moderate 0.1-0.29cm and
                severe ≥0.3cm) 2- Assesment of EF (by M-mode and simpsons method). 3-Assesment of
                other valves .

                7-Transesophegeal Echocardiography.(9):

                  1. Morphology of valve (tricuspid, bicuspid , unicuspid).

                  2. Measurement of aortic valve area (AVA) by planimetry.

                  3. Extent, distribution and location of Calcification. (annular calcification
                     symmetrical or asymmetrical, sinuotubular junction , subvalvular
                     calcification)

                  4. Measurement of aortic annulus dimension, LVOT, sinus of valsalva, sinotubular
                     junction and ascending aorta dimensions.

           Determinations of 2D TEE aortic annular and LVOT diameters were performed in the
           3-chamber long-axis view at approximately the 120◦ angle during early systole . The
           aortic annular diameter was measured from the junction of the aortic leaflet with the
           septal endocardium to the junction of the leaflet with the mitral valve posteriorly,
           using the inner edge to inner edge. The LVOT diameter was obtained 5 mm into the LVOT
           from the level of the annulus.(10) Calculation of a cover index: defined as a 100 x
           (prosthesis diameter - transoesophageal echocardiography annulus diameter)/prosthesis
           diameter. (11).

           6- Aortic atheroma: The Katz classification for grading aortic atheromas is as follows:
           Grade 1, normal-appearing intima of the aorta; Grade 2, extensive intimal thickening;
           Grade 3, sessile atheroma protruding <5 mm into the aorta; Grade 4, sessile atheroma
           protruding >5 mm; and Grade 5, mobile atheroma.(12) 7-Associated basal septal
           hypertrophy . 8-Assesment of associated aortic regurge. 8-Pre-TAVI workup in cardiac
           catheterization laboratory:

             1. Access route evaluation: assess peripheral vasculature for size, tortuosity,
                calcification -Iliofemoral angiography: A 5F metric (graded) pigtail is used for
                calibration and accurate determination of vessel calibre and minimal lumen
                diameter. The pigtail is placed at the lumber 4/5 level, which approximates a
                position just proximal to the common iliac bifurcation with injection of 15-20mls
                contrast at 20mls/sec.

                -Iliofemoral diameter: determined by Sheath-to-iliofemoral artery ratio (SIFAR) was
                defined as sheath outer diameter divided by access-side vasculature diameter.

                -Iliofemoral calcification: Calcification can be evaluated on fluoroscopy and
                graded as: none, mild (spotty), moderate (coalescing), severe (bulky, protruding,
                horse-shoe, circumferential ). Iliofemoral tortuosity : determined by tortuosity
                score which is defined as follows: 0 = no tortuosity; 1 = mild tortuosity (30° to
                60°); 2 = moderate tortuosity (60° to 90°); and 3 = marked tortuosity (>90°).(13)

                -Subclavian or axillary angiography if femoral axis is unsuitable.

             2. Diagnostic coronary angiography: for assessment of presence and severity of
                coronary artery disease.

             3. Aortogram: is done to asses for angle between LVOT and ascending aorta , distance
                of coronary vessels from annulus and presence of aortic regurge.

                  -  5F graded pigtail is placed into the non-coronary cusp (NCC) and an aortogram
                     performed (20mls contrast at 20mls/sec). Fluoroscopic projection of RAO 30◦
                     and LAO 30◦.

             4. Aortic valve cross over: to demonstrate feasibility of crossing valve.

             5. Hemodynamic assessment: assess invasive transaortic gradiant with simultaneous
                pressure transduction.

                  -  Pigtail will be crossed into the LV cavity, simultaneous measurement of
                     pressures from the LV and femoral artery can be obtained. Use of a 5F pigtail
                     enables simultaneous pressures to be transduced from the 6F femoral artery
                     sheath without the need for a second arterial sheath.

             6. Left ventriculogram: assess EF by eyeballing (mild 40-50%,moderate 30-40% and
                severe <30%) and presence of MR according to seller criteria described later on.

                Left ventriculography is done using 25ml contrast at rate 10ml/second in both RAO
                30◦ and LAO 60◦

             7. Right heart catheterization: assess pulmonary artery (PA) pressure, Pulmonary
                capillary wedge pressure (PCWP).

           TAVI procedure:

           The detailed steps of procedure are reported by Nijhoff F,etal. TAVI is performed
           through transfemoral or transapical approach, based on the feasibility of the
           iliofemoral anatomy and suitable access sites. All procedures are performed in a fully
           equipped hybrid cardiac catheterization laboratory. Surgical cutdown is used to close
           the vascular access site at the femoral arteries.

           Fluoroscopy is used to guide the deployment of the valves and prosthesis positioning.
           Both predilatation of the native valve and prosthetic valve implantation are performed
           during rapid right ventricular pacing (160 to 200 beats/min). Prosthesis position,
           function, and coronary ostia patency are assessed with fluoroscopy and aortography .

           -Balloon sizing: An appropriately sized valvuloplasty balloon is choiced .The initial
           volume of inflation is set to obtain a balloon size of 1 mm less than the TEE
           measurement. The balloon is positioned across the aortic valve through femoral sheath
           and inflated with the same volume during rapid ventricular pacing, using a 30 cc
           inflation syringe.

           At full inflation, an aortography is performed. The following parameters are recorded:
           (I) presence of a waist on the balloon at the level of the annulus, (II) intra-balloon
           pressure, (III) patency of the coronary artery ostia and their relations with the
           displaced aortic valve cusps, (IV) presence and entity of aortic regurgitation on
           aortography at full balloon inflation ("para-balloon leak"). In the absence of a waist
           on the balloon and/or in case of major para-balloon leak, the procedure is repeated with
           a larger diameter balloon (larger balloon or same balloon inflated with a larger volume
           of contrast media).

           Assesment of inhospital outcomes after TAVI procedure:

           1- paravalvular leakage : Assessment of paravalvular leakage

           1-Angiographic evaluation of paravalvular leakage :

           Ten minutes after the deployment of the prosthetic valve, angiography of the aortic root
           is performed to assess the severity of aortic regurgitation according to Sellers
           criteria (14):

           (0) no regurgitation.

             1. only trace of contrast could be seen in the left ventricle, and it is cleared in
                each systole.

             2. contrast filling the entire LV in diastole with less density compared with
                opacification of the ascending aorta.

             3. contrast filling the entire LV in diastole equal in density to the contrast
                opacification of the ascending aorta.

             4. contrast filling of the entire LV in diastole on the first beat with greater
                density compared with the contrast opacification of the ascending aorta.

           Two observers independently score the images. In case of discrepancy the images will be
           re-evaluated and consensus will be reached by a third observer. .

           2-Transthoracic Echocardiographic study:

           All patients will be evaluated after TAVI by pre-discharge transthoracic
           echocardiography. The extent of PVL is assessed according to the main VARC criteria
           (15):

        1. Semiquantitative parameters

             1. Diastolic flow reversal in the descending aorta-pulsed wave : mild (Absent or
                brief) ,moderate ( early diastolic Intermediate), severe (Prominent holodiastolic)

             2. Circumferential extent of prosthetic valve paravalvular regurgitation:

           (0) no regurgitation; (1) mild PVL is defined as<10 % circumferential extent; (2)
           moderate PVL was defined as [>10 % but<30 % of PVL and (3) severe PVL is defined as >30
           % according to the updated VARC guideline , that is the circumferential extent of PVL in
           a parasternal short-axis view (19).

        2. Quantitative parameters:

             1. Regurgitant volume (ml/beat) mild (<30) , moderate (30-59) ,severe (>60).

             2. Regurgitant fraction (%) mild (< 30), moderate (30-49 ) ,severe (>50).

             3. Effective regurgitant orifice area (cm2) mild (<0.10) ,moderate (0.10-0.29) ,
                severe (>0.30).

           2-Other complication results from inaccurate annular sizing : prosthesis embolization,
           annular rupture, aortic dissection, coronary artery occlusion , conduction defects.

           3-Assesment of other complication ,vascular site complication, bleeding, stroke and
           mortality.

           Statistical analysis:

           The collected data will be tabulated and statistically analyzed and will be shown in
           tables and figures.
    
  