
    
      Alcohol-positive trauma patients are more likely to be readmitted to a trauma center or
      subsequently die from an injury than are alcohol-negative patients. Empirically supported
      treatments to reduce alcohol use and alcohol-related problems (e.g., injuries, drinking and
      driving) in this high-risk population are needed, but few exist. This randomized controlled
      clinical trial assesses the efficacy of a brief intervention that includes the patient and a
      significant other, relative to an intervention including the patient only, for reducing
      alcohol use and alcohol-related problems among trauma patients.

      Motivational Interviewing (MI), a brief, directive, non-confrontational intervention, has
      demonstrated some promise in this setting. Further, inclusion of a significant other (SO) in
      prolonged, intensive alcohol treatment appears to improve treatment retention and efficacy.
      Although inclusion of an SO in MI has been suggested, there are few data to support this
      endorsement.

      Accordingly, this study will address whether motivational interviewing including both the
      trauma patient and an SO can more effectively decrease and maintain reductions in alcohol use
      and alcohol-related problems 6 and 12 months following discharge from the trauma unit than MI
      with the individual patient or an assessment-only condition.

      The 2 MI groups will each receive 2 intervention sessions timed to occur in the hospital, and
      1 booster session, occurring 1 month following discharge.

      In the assessment-only condition, patients will receive only assessment of their drinking at
      baseline. This proposal will allow us to address the next phase of our program of research
      designed to develop easily disseminable treatments for these high-risk populations in medical
      settings. This study will also address potential mediators (motivation to change alcohol use,
      self-efficacy, alcohol treatment attendance, and social support for abstinence) and
      moderators of MI effects. The cost-effectiveness of the intervention will also be addressed.

      Thus, this study will address both a significant public health problem and provide important
      information about MI mechanisms that may be relevant to the broader addiction treatment
      community.
    
  