
    
      General Objective: To investigate the effect of consumption of fresh cheese enriched with
      Bifidobacterium lactis in improving symptoms of constipation.

      Specific Objectives:

      Determine whether the intake of cheese enriched with Bifidobacterium lactis changes:

        -  frequency of bowel movements;

        -  straining or pain when defecating;

        -  format of the faeces;

        -  sensation of incomplete evacuation;

        -  sensation of anorectal obstruction and

        -  use of manual maneuvers to facilitate evacuation.

      The food industry is increasingly concerned about produce food that are healthy and able to
      prevent diseases, in particular, to ensure intestinal health. To verify the effectiveness of
      these new products on the market is one way to ensure that they have health benefits. Thus,
      they may be indicated as a treatment for constipation, as part of a healthy lifestyle that
      includes nutrition and physical activity practice. For this reason, this search is justified.

      Type Search:

      The research is quantitative, exploratory and experimental. This is a clinical trial
      randomized and controlled trial.

      Population and study sample:

      The study population comprised of individuals who will use the Unified Service Health System,
      the Family Health Strategy,Brazil, participating groups of Nutritional Education. This
      population is comprised of approximately seventy individuals, but this number is quite
      relative, it depends on the participation. The approach of research subjects will be done
      through an invitation, conducted orally through the Community Health Agents (CHA), during
      home visits monthly. During the period of one month, the CHA invite to attend a lecture given
      by the student Diane Favretto, who will speak constipation on the subject and propose the
      participation of stake holders in the research. The stakeholders respond to a questionnaire
      administered by the student and those who 24 showing symptoms of constipation (according to
      Rome III criteria), will be part of study, and the sample.

      Methodology:

      For individuals in the population are classified as constipated, they will responding to a
      structured questionnaire with closed questions based on criteria Rome III that characterizes
      the symptoms of constipation. Will be considered constipated individual who has at least two
      of six symptoms in the questionnaire, 25 at least 25% of the evacuation, in that alternative
      corresponds to the questionnaire "Often".

      Being able to participate in this study, a structured questionnaire, with open and closed
      questions to assess the lifestyle (dietary habits, intake of net) associated diseases and
      medications will be made to collect these data.

      The weight of the participant will be measured using portable scale brand and the individual
      is placed standing bare foot in the center of scale with light clothing, with arms out
      stretched to the side, with out moving. To measure the height measuring tape will be set at
      flat wall with no baseboard and individuals will be placed in an upright position, standing
      with bare feet parallel and heels, shoulders and buttocks touching the wall. The Body Mass
      Index is calculated from data on weight and height (kg / m²) and classified according to the
      Organization World Health Organization.

      Both data will be collected at the neighborhood community hall, where the meetings monthly
      nutrition education groups are held. Agreeing to participate in the study, the group will
      receive all necessary instructions and will sign the informed consent. Each participant
      receives two copies of the word, anda copy shall be given to the student and a copy will be
      with the participant. Individuals selected to participate in the study will be randomized
      into two groups: treated group and control group. The treatment group will receive the fresh
      cheese plus Bifidobacterium lactis Bi-07, with 108 colony forming units per serving. In the
      placebo group, individuals will receive a fresh cheese, the same brand, with out the addition
      of probiotics. The products will be packaged or numbered so that neither the researcher nor
      the participants know what is cheese and what is probiotic cheese placebo. The two groups
      will be oriented eating a slice of cheese per day (30 grams) for 30 days. This cheese will
      part of the breakfast. Patients will be advised that, according to the manufacturer's
      product, both cheeses not present any risk to health. Some patients may not like the taste of
      cheese. That may be minimized by the use there of in food preparation involving other,as
      sandwiches and salads, as long as the cheese is not heated, because this way he loses
      probiotic your property. During this period, all participants will be instructed to continue
      their normal dietary habits, physical activity and fluid intake. It will also be directed to
      participants do not make use of other products containing probiotics.

      After the intervention period, the questionnaire on the symptoms of constipation is applied
      again in order to determine whe ther there was a change in bowel habits.
    
  