
    
      The hypothesis is based on data from our current NIA-funded R01 protocol. The investigators
      treated older men with weekly intramuscular injections of testosterone enanthate (100 mg) for
      4 weeks followed by 4 weeks of placebo injections. This 4-week-on, 4-week-off cycled
      treatment regimen was repeated for 5 cycles (20 weeks). This group was compared with a group
      of older men who received SOC weekly intramuscular injections of testosterone enanthate (100
      mg) for 20 weeks, and another group who received placebo injections. Our preliminary data
      showed equal gains over placebo in muscle strength and lean body mass in those who received
      testosterone for 20 weeks, whether SOC continuous or cycled. Moreover, both groups showed
      greater bone density and markers of bone formation over placebo. In terms of the anabolic
      actions of testosterone on skeletal muscle in the older men, the investigators found that
      continuous and cycled administration of testosterone primarily stimulated muscle protein
      synthesis for the 20 weeks of the study. Cycled testosterone administration enhanced muscle
      protein synthesis throughout the full 5 cycles of 20 weeks, with no significant loss in
      muscle protein synthesis during the off-cycle weeks. Additionally, cycled and continuous
      testosterone administration reduced serum markers of bone resorption compared with placebo.
      These exciting findings of the benefits of a cycled testosterone regimen in older men
      represent a novel therapeutic paradigm over the existing SOC approach of continuous
      administration. The investigators believe the cycled regimen offers a more safe and
      efficacious approach to combat sarcopenia and osteoporosis with equal anabolic benefit to
      muscle and bone with only half the dose of testosterone. Critical to the application of this
      significant paradigm shift in testosterone administration is to determine whether these
      effects at 20 weeks can persist for the 52 weeks proposed in this study, which represents a
      treatment duration applicable to the traditional SOC approach.

      Thus, the central hypothesis is that cycled administration of testosterone for 52 weeks in
      healthy, older men will increase muscle function as determined by muscle strength
      measurements (Biodex dynamometer), lean body mass (DEXA) and muscle volume (MRI), and bone
      density (DEXA) similar to SOC continuous testosterone administration. Moreover, the
      investigators anticipate reduced side effects of testosterone administration in the cycled
      group since they will receive one half the dose over the 52 weeks. The investigators will
      test the following specific hypotheses in healthy older adults during 52 weeks of cycled,
      continuous, or placebo testosterone:

        1. Cycled and continuous testosterone will increase muscle strength of upper and lower
           extremities compared with placebo as determined by Biodex dynamometer assessment.

        2. Cycled and continuous testosterone will increase lean body mass and muscle volume
           compared with placebo as determined by DEXA and MRI.

        3. Cycled and continuous testosterone will increase bone density compared with placebo as
           determined by DEXA. The following specific aims will be tested in a randomized
           double-blind placebo-controlled trial in healthy, older men (60-75 years) undergoing 52
           weeks of cycled, continuous, or placebo testosterone:

      1. To determine if cycled and continuous testosterone administration increases muscle
      strength compared to placebo. 2. To determine if cycled and continuous testosterone
      administration increases lean body mass and muscle volume compared to placebo. 3. To
      determine if cycled and continuous testosterone administration increases bone density
      compared to placebo. Our overall goal is to complete a long-term study to determine whether
      cycled testosterone achieves the same gains in muscle and bone function in older men as SOC,
      continuous testosterone administration. If our hypothesis is correct, then the investigators
      will validate an important paradigm shift in testosterone administration in older men that
      will help combat the disability of sarcopenia and osteoporosis using half the dose of
      testosterone of the current SOC approach. This reduction is testosterone dose should lessen
      the side effects and improve the safety of testosterone administration in healthy older men
      requiring androgen therapy.
    
  