
    
      The investigators will send participants supportive text-messages for a period of 2 months.
      These text-messages will include tips about behavioral activation and coping skills to deal
      with worries and stress. The investigators generated a message bank balanced such that 50% of
      all messages are related to behavioral activation (BA) and 50% messages involve different
      coping skills. Participants will receive one of these messages per day between 9:00 am and
      6:00 pm. Participants will also receive a message asking them to rate their mood on a scale
      of 1-9 once a day 3 hours after the BA or coping message.

      Participants will be randomized to:

        1. a uniform random messaging group (micro-randomized trial design).

        2. a reinforcement learning group with a learned decision mechanism for the timing and type
           of text-message. The algorithm learns from previous data (which messages were sent, what
           was the participants' mood) to maximize an increase in participants mood. No other data
           are collected from participants' phones.

      The investigators will compare the effect of sending text-messages by a random schedule, and
      text-messaging chosen by the RL algorithm. This allows to both evaluate the effect of the
      individual intervention components over time within a micro-randomized trial design, and
      assess the added value of using RL to adapt the messaging scheme.

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        -  Participant will show improvements in depression, anxiety symptoms and mood during the
           60 day study.

        -  The participants in the group receiving reinforcement learning will have a greater
           improvement in depressive symptoms, anxiety and positive mood during the study than
           participants in the micro-randomized group.

        -  The investigators will find differential effects on mood ratings for the two categories
           of messages
    
  