
    
      The diagnosis of Pulmonary Embolism (PE) is a crucial matter in the Emergency Department
      (ED). Because a missed PE could be potentially lethal, several researches reported that PE is
      both overinvestigated and overdiagnosed. The diagnostic gold standard for PE is the computed
      tomographic pulmonary angiogram (CTPA) and has been shown to have clear risks (allergic
      reaction, acute renal failure, delayed solid tumor) and other downsides such as prolonged ED
      stay and increased cost. To limit the use of CTPA, two rules were recently reported to be
      safe to exclude PE: the PERC rule and the YEARS rule.

      PERC is an 8 item block of clinical criteria that has recently been validated to safely
      exclude PE in low risk patients.

      YEARS is a clinical rule that allow to raise the threshold of D-dimer for the order of CTPA.
      However, whether a modified diagnostic algorithm that includes these two rules combined could
      safely reduce imaging study use in the ED is unknown.

      The primary objective of this trial is to assess the safety of a modified diagnostic strategy
      (MODS) with the YEARS for patients in whom PE was not excluded by PERC score in the ED.

      The primary endpoint is the failure percentage of the diagnostic strategy, defined as a
      diagnosed thrombo-embolic event at 3 month follow-up (either a PE or a deep venous
      thrombosis), among patients in whom PE has been initially ruled out.

      The secondary outcomes try to assess the efficacy of the modified diagnostic strategy (MODS)
      in reducing order of irradiative imaging studies, ED length of stay, undue onset of
      anticoagulation regimen, hospital admission, hospital readmission, and mortality at 3 months.

      To evaluate the efficacy of the modified diagnostic strategy to reduce overall 3-months total
      cost.

      Secondary endpoints include:

        -  CTPA or V/Q scan

        -  Anticoagulant therapy administration

        -  Length of stay in the ED (hours)

        -  Admission to the hospital following ED visit.

        -  All causes re hospitalization at 3 months,

        -  Death from all causes at 3 months

        -  Diagnosed pulmonary embolism at 3 month follow-up excluding the isolated sub-segmental
           pulmonary embolism, among patients in whom PE has been initially ruled out

        -  PEPS score

        -  3 months total cost and cost effectiveness

      In the Modified diagnostic strategy (MODS), All included patients will be tested with
      quantitative D-dimer. The MODS work-up strategy will be based on YEARS rule, that included
      three criteria (hemoptysis, signs of DVT, PE is the most likely diagnosis)

      - If all YEARS criteria are absent, the threshold of D-Dimer for ordering a CTPA will be
      raised at 1000 ng/ml.

      If at least one criterion of YEARS is present, then the D-dimer threshold for ordering a CTPA
      will be as usual (500 ng/ml, or agex10 for patients aged 50 and over)

      Group control :

      All included patients will be tested with D-Dimer, the threshold for ordering a CTPA will be
      as usual (conventional age-adjusted threshold at 500 ng/ml, or agex10 for patients aged 50
      and over).

      Safely reducing the use of CTPA would be beneficial for the patients, by limiting their risk
      of associated adverse events and overdiagnosis of PE, and will also reduce their length of
      stay in the ED, which is associated with better outcomes. Furthermore, reducing supplemental
      investigations for patients with suspicion of PE may also reduce the cost of ED visits, which
      would be of great benefit in the context of increasingly resource stretched healthcare
      services.
    
  