
    
      1. The research can be started only after approval by the Medical Ethics Committee of the
           Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University.

        2. According to the "Consensus on Diagnosis and Treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease"
           formulated by the Beijing Conference in 2018 as a standard, patients with clear
           diagnosis of CD are collected. Exclusion criteria included pregnancy, breastfeeding,
           liver and kidney dysfunction, concurrent autoimmune diseases, and use of antiepileptic
           drugs or drugs metabolized by liver cytochrome P450 enzymes.

        3. Assess disease activity of CD participants based on the "Simplified Crohn's disease
           Activity Score".

        4. General information about participants with CD is collected.

        5. Detection of VDR gene polymorphisms using Snapshot technology.

        6. Serum C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, white blood cells, albumin,
           creatinine, alanine aminotransferase, calcium and phosphorus levels are measured.

        7. The level of serum 25 (OH) D of participants is detected.

        8. Develop a treatment plan for participants.

        9. Participants are divided into two groups, one group is given oral Caltrate 0.6g / d, and
           the other group did not intervene.

       10. The above serum indicators are re-measured in the 12th month, and the condition of CD
           participants is also evaluated.

       11. Follow-up for 12 months. By comparing the above indicators, observe that in the Han
           population:

             1. Can Caltrate supplementation increase serum 25 (OH) D levels in patients with CD?

             2. Can Caltrate supplementation improve the condition of patients with CD?

             3. whether vitamin D gene polymorphisms affect the efficacy of Caltrate
                supplementation therapy?

             4. Analyze whether the effect of Caltrate on CD patients is affected by factors such
                as disease site, disease activity, treatment, etc ..

       12. Through statistical analysis, comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness and safety of
           Caltrate supplementation in Han patients with CD, and its relationship with vitamin D
           gene polymorphisms, providing a theoretical basis for further "precise treatment"
           intervention in inflammatory bowel disease.
    
  