
    
      There are estimated to be tens of thousands of long-Covid patients in the UK, and the number
      is set to grow as the pandemic continues. Little is known about the cause of long-Covid
      clinical syndromes and there are no evidence-based treatments available to patients. There is
      therefore an urgent need to undertake research into long-Covid.

      Long-Covid referral to our general medical outpatient clinics has been growing, as these
      patients typically present with multiple symptoms that require a holistic approach to patient
      care. Patients are often distressed and disabled by their symptoms, exacerbated by the lack
      of any detailed understanding about their condition, and the absence of specific treatment
      strategies. Anecdotal reports of ongoing inflammation in long-Covid, not typically measurable
      in routine blood tests, have prompted interest in exploring the nature of this inflammation
      further. In addition, some long-Covid patients have reported clinical improvement following
      empiric treatment with anti-inflammatory medications including anti-histamines and
      corticosteroids. These clinical observations, and the enthusiasm expressed by the long-Covid
      patient community for further research to be conducted, have been the key drivers for this
      study. Patients attending our clinics have all without exception expressed their interest in
      participating in this work.

      This small sample size study sets out to explore whether there are identifiable abnormalities
      in the blood cells of long-Covid patients that might correlate with patients' clinical
      presentations which may in turn trigger further avenues of investigation.

      The study participants are all patients with a history of Covid19 infection and who either
      have ongoing symptoms or who have fully recovered. The clinical information is available in
      case records as part clinical care and patients' blood samples are sent for analysis as part
      of ongoing clinical care. Patients are informed about their blood test results as part of
      ongoing clinic care. All patients are provided with information about the study and asked to
      consent to their anonymised clinical and laboratory data being used as part of this
      observational study. We also seek consent to save serum for additional blood analysis
      depending on the results of the initial study. No genetic investigations will be conducted.

      This study does not involve any treatment intervention, and there is no risk of harm to
      patients. The use of person-identifiable information will be restricted to an absolute
      minimum, and all data will be anonymised for purposes of our study analysis. The members of
      the research team all work within one organisation adhering to GDPR standards, and all email
      communication remains within that organisation and is password-protected. No conflicts of
      interest have been identified. We have undertaken to share individual results with
      participating patients by the end of the study.
    
  