
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating illness associated with increased mortality
      and significant impairment in quality of life. The prevalence of MDD is particularly high in
      patients with cancer, as much as 38% in some studies.

      The study of depression in cancer patients is particularly important, as these co-morbid
      illnesses can frequently complicate the management of each other. In addition to affecting
      quality of life, poorly controlled depression can affect cancer treatment adherence and can
      lead to poor treatment outcomes.

      Depression can be challenging to diagnose in patients with cancer. A spectrum of depressive
      symptoms can be seen, ranging from appropriate sadness in response to a life threatening
      diagnosis, to a major depressive episode. The diagnosis is confounded by the symptoms brought
      on by the cancer and its treatment, such as fatigue, insomnia, anorexia, and pain.
      Medications commonly used in cancer patients such as narcotics, benzodiazepines,
      antihistamines, steroids, antibiotics, chemotherapy, and endocrine therapy can all lead to
      side effects that further confuse the picture. However, while challenging, evidence does
      suggest that a valid diagnosis of depression can be made in this patient population.

      The current standard for diagnosing MDD is the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders - Fourth Edition - Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR), which was published in 2000 by the
      American Psychiatric Association. The diagnosis is made based on an interview between the
      patient and physician in which nine criteria are assessed, including depressed mood,
      anhedonia, weight loss or gain, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or
      retardation, fatigue, feelings of worthlessness or guilt, difficulty concentrating, and
      recurrent thoughts of death. In patients with cancer, the diagnosis of MDD is more often
      based on anhedonia and feelings of worthlessness, as depressed mood, weight fluctuation, and
      sleep disturbance can be symptoms of the underlying cancer itself. Once the diagnosis has
      been made, there are several tools which have been created and validated for the purpose of
      assessing the severity of depression and for following the severity over time. The tool we
      intend to use in this study is the PHQ-9.

      Therapy for MDD in the general population includes both psychotherapy and pharmacological
      intervention. However, the optimal therapy of MDD in cancer patients remains uncertain. Very
      few placebo controlled trials have been performed in this population, and there is currently
      no uniformly accepted standard of care. Some of the evidence from studies in depressed but
      otherwise medically healthy patients may be applicable to cancer patients, but there are
      several factors which complicate the treatment of depression in this group. For example, the
      overlap of symptoms between depression and the underlying malignancy can confound the
      diagnosis, as discussed earlier. Simultaneous treatment of the underlying malignancy
      introduces adverse effects from surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation, as well as an increased
      likelihood of drug-drug interactions. Finally, co-morbid conditions such as cancer pain can
      contribute to the depression, requiring simultaneous therapy. As a result of these unique
      factors, the treatment of MDD in cancer patients cannot necessarily be approached using the
      standard recommendations for the general population.

      There is scant evidence supporting the effectiveness of pharmacologic therapy in cancer
      patients with MDD. In the last 25 years only four placebo controlled trials have been
      published, and of these only two have shown a statistically significant improvement in
      depression scores with active treatment.

      Additional studies are needed to evaluate some of the newer antidepressants within the cancer
      population and to assess whether this strategy of matching side effects to symptoms is
      beneficial.
    
  