
    
      INTRODUCTION Acute appendicitis is a very common surgical emergency worldwide, with a
      lifetime risk reported to be 7-8%..Accordingly, appendectomy is the most frequently performed
      operation worldwide.

      Many surgical centers attempt to reduce surgical procedures performed during the night, and
      delaying appendectomy for 12-24 h does not seem to increase complications

      Despite thorough research, the diagnosis of acute appendicitis is still difficult and remains
      the most common problem in clinical surgery.

      In addition to clinical examination of the patients with appendicitis, ultrasonography and
      multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) have become the most useful tools with a respective
      sensitivity and specificity of 98.5% and 98.0% in expert centers Routine use of MDCT not only
      increases exposure to radiation but also very expensive and time-consuming. Thus evolving
      methods to diagnose early acute appendicitis without radiological examinations are of
      interest.

      Observing serum bilirubin and phospholipase A2 level came into consideration as it seems to
      elevate in early appendicitis, its determination is fast and can be performed with other
      commonly performed blood tests.

      Bacteria invade the appendix and release tumour necrosis factor-alpha, Interleukien 6, and
      cytokines. These substances reach the liver through superior mesenteric vein and cause
      dysfunction of liver either by direct effect or indirectly through altering the hepatic blood
      flow. So it is important to evaluate the total bilirubin level in the diagnosis of clinically
      suspected cases of appendicitis (6) THE AIM OF THE WORK

      This study aims to evaluate the role of bilirubin and phospholipase A2 in:

        1. Cases of grey zone unsure appendicitis (intermediate risk Alvarado score 5-6).

        2. As a complementary to CT.

        3. Detect early cases of appendicitis.

        4. Decrease the incidence of negative appendicitis.

        5. Decrease complications of missed cases of appendicitis.

        6. Reduce the overnight appendectomy rate with its complications. Patients and methods
           Cases with normal CT but with persistent right iliac fossa tenderness and failed to
           improve under conservative treatment for 48 hrs With antibiotic therapy (Group A)
           underwent laparoscopic appendectomy. Patients proved to be appendicitis by CT underwent
           laparoscopic exploration (Group B). All the appendices removed were sent for
           histological examination and the operated cases divided into positive appendicitis
           (macroscopic or microscopic) and negative appendicitis.

      Group A , patients with normal CT but with persistent right iliac fossa pain. Group B ,
      patients with proved acute appendicitis in CT.
    
  