
    
      The techniques of reference for the central venous access (internal jugular, subclavian or
      femoral) are based on anatomical landmarks and the low probability of anatomical variations.
      With these techniques, the central venous puncture, with Seldinger method, is associated to
      complications both in adults and in children (pneumothorax, hemothorax, infection,
      thrombosis, arterial puncture, inappropriate location). The frequency of these adverse events
      is highly variable and ranges between 1 and 20% of central venous catheters in place.
      Ultrasound, visualizing anatomical structures before (echo tracking) or during (ultrasound
      guidance) the puncture, improves about 80% the success of the first puncture, and decreases
      by 50% the complications. The ultrasound guidance is better than echo tracking to reduce the
      time of implementation of the central venous catheter. However, this technique requires more
      practice. On the other hand, visualization of the needle path is not always easy especially
      for the subclavian access, because it requires a puncture in the ultrasound plane.

      GPS system (Guidance Positioning System) is an original system of guidance. This is a simple
      navigation system for projecting the theoretical position of the puncture needle in the
      ultrasound plane. The guidance system consists of a receiver and two motion sensors. The
      receiver is connected to the system. A motion sensor is incorporated into the end of the
      needle. Another motion sensor is located within the ultrasound probe. The relative positions
      and the axes of the needle and the ultrasound probe are transmitted with coordinates in three
      dimensions.

      The puncture can be carried out of the plane (ultrasound probe perpendicular to the axis
      puncture) and the direct visualization of the needle is not necessary. Before the puncture,
      the end of the needle is placed on the skin. The direction and the axis of the needle
      relative to the skin are adjusted, before the puncture, depending on the position of the
      target to be achieved, displayed by a mark on the screen. Throughout the puncture, a
      projected image of the needle is displayed on the screen.
    
  