
    
      Background:

      This trial focuses on anti-atherogenic properties functions of HDL lipoproteins, particularly
      those linked to reverse transport cholesterol (RCT) pathway, genetic factors involved in
      plasmatic HDL-C and post-prandial metabolism. The post-prandial period is associated with an
      activation of the RCT with an increase in Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), in
      plasmatic HDL particles. There is also an increase of HDL particles ability to mediate
      cellular cholesterol efflux, via SR-BI and ABCG1 pathways. TaqIB polymorphism is associated
      with a variation of the plasma to mediate cellular cholesterol efflux.

      Aim of the study:

      The investigators were aiming to test the hypothesis that the genetic variability of HDL-C is
      associated with structural and functional variability of post-prandial HDL particles and
      particularly in their ability to mediate the initial step of RCT.

      Intervention:

      The study aimed to include n=50 patients with a TaqIB AA polymorphism and 50 patients with a
      GG TaqIB polymorphism. Blood samples were performed fasted, before and after intake of a
      standardized test meal at 5 different time : H0 before the meal, H2, H4, H6 and H8 after the
      meal.

      Explorations:

      For the fasted sample a full lipidic assessment was performed including the dosing of:
      triglyceridemia, HDL-C, apolipoprotein B (apoB), apolipoprotein AI. The plasmatic kinetic of
      triglyceridemia, apoB100, apo-48 and the activity of CETP was performed on each sample.

      HDL particles were also explored with qualitative and quantitative assessment of the HDL
      fractions ability to mediate cholesterol efflux via each pathway : SR-BI, ABCA1 and ABCG1 in
      our cellular models.

      The study therefore aimed to improve our knowledge of molecular mechanisms involved in HDL
      particles dysfunction in metabolic diseases.
    
  