
    
      SUMMARY OF STUDY RATIONAL - Lower socioeconomic status (SES) individuals with type 1 diabetes
      (T1D) have poorer outcomes than wealthier patients and part of this disparity comes from a
      lack of tools and knowledge about how to teach these patients on the technologies other
      patients take for granted. Until recently many of these lower SES individuals did not have
      access to health insurance, but with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act the group
      with the greatest expansion of coverage is the young adult age group (ages 18 - 34),
      particularly in the Latino community. Increased insurance allows for access to newer
      technology including insulin pens and pumps. As these patients have not had access to such
      devices, low literacy educational tool are necessary for safe and efficient utilization.
      Therefore, this is a study designed to develop and test low literacy English/Spanish language
      teaching tools for patients with type 1 diabetes treated with varying types of technology in
      the Los Angeles County (LAC) healthcare system. This study is a single center pilot study and
      by the nature of our clinic setting it cannot be a randomized controlled trial - it is more
      of a naturalistic experiment comparing each patient to their prior state of glycemic control
      with their status after the educational intervention using low-literacy educational materials
      has been applied.

      INTERVENTION - Baseline Visit: Participants will sign informed consent, complete
      questionnaires, and measure HbA1C. Those opting to do so will start a continuous glucose
      monitor (CGM) sensor. All patients will be provided the written low literacy teaching tools
      in the language of their choice.

      CGM Visit - for those opting to wear CGM will occur at Week 2 where 14 days of CGM data will
      be downloaded from participants' device.

      Education Sessions: Educational sessions will be conducted using the low-literacy tools we
      created. Classes will be available on Fridays during T1D Clinic and on Saturdays to maximize
      participation. Classes will be every two weeks for approximately 3 months. Classes will be
      approximately 1 ½ hours in duration. Patients will be encouraged but not required to attend
      the classes. However, those starting on the pen and/or pump will be asked to attend the
      relevant sessions to prepare them for use of the technology.

      Educational Sessions:

      Session 1 - Basics of type 1 management Session 2 - Carbohydrate counting, Session 3 -
      Insulin self- adjustment, Session 4 - Sick day rules and physical activity dose adjustments
      Session 5 - Starting the insulin pen (for pen users) or pump (for pump users) Session 6 -
      Trouble shooting the pump (for pump users)

      Phone Calls - Each patient will be contacted monthly (baseline month up to month 3 visit) by
      the diabetes educator to follow-up on questions and concerns regarding their diabetes
      management.

      Clinic Visit 2 - post education visit will occur at 3 months. Questionnaires will be
      administered, A1C measured and CGM data and compare to baseline.

      Clinic Visit 3 - will occur at 6 months. Questionnaires will be administered, A1C measured
      and CGM data and compare to baseline.

      Clinic Visit 4 -will occur at 12 months. Questionnaires will be administered, A1C measured
      and CGM data and compare to baseline and 6 months.

      DATA COLLECTION AND TESTING PROCEDURES (Baseline, 6 months and 12 months) HbA1c - HbA1c will
      be obtained using the point of care Siemens DCA Vantage Analyzer.

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM)- A commercially available DexCom G5 or Libre device will
      be provided and a sensor will be inserted. The participant will receive instructions on
      calibration, insertions, maintenance, use, and removal of the sensor.

      T1D REDEEM Diabetes Distress Questionnaire- The T1D REDEEM Diabetes Distress Questionnaire
      measures several dimensions of stress related to having type 1 diabetes. It consists of the
      following 7 subscales: Subscale 1 - Powerlessness (5 items); Subscale 2 - Management Distress
      (4 items); Subscale 3 - Hypoglycemia Distress (4 items); Subscale 4 - Negative Social
      Perceptions (4 items); Subscale 5 - Eating Distress (3 items); Subscale 6 - Physician
      Distress (4 items); Subscale 7 - Friend/Family Distress (4 items). Each question has a
      6-choice Likert response format. Administration time is approximately 10 minutes.

      Hypoglycemia Fear Survey - The Hypoglycemia Fear Survey measures several dimensions of fear
      of hypoglycemia among adults with type 1 diabetes. It consists of a 10-item Behavior subscale
      that measured behaviors involved in avoidance and over-treatment of hypoglycemia and a
      13-item Worry subscale that measures anxiety and fear surrounding hypoglycemia, each with a
      5-choice Likert response format. Administration time is approximately 10 minutes.

      Simplified Diabetes Knowledge Test -The Simplified Diabetes Knowledge Test consists of 23
      knowledge test items developed by the Michigan Diabetes Research Training Center (MDRTC).
      These items represent a test of general knowledge of diabetes and are answered in a
      true/false/don't know format. The psychometric properties provide information regarding the
      reliability of the various groups of items, as well as a difficulty index (percent of
      patients who scored this item correctly), and an item to group total correlation for each
      item. These data can be reported when describing the use of the test. Administration time is
      approximately 15 minutes.

      Assessment of Sever Hypoglycemia and Diabetic Ketoacidosis -The Assessment of Severe
      Hypoglycemia and Diabetic Ketoacidosis is an interviewer administered survey assessing if the
      subject had any episodes of severe hypoglycemia and/or diabetic ketoacidosis since their last
      study visit. Events are recorded to assess frequency, as is type of assistance required to
      treat the event. Administration time is approximately 5 minutes.
    
  