
    
      Even though the Mental Health Program in Mozambique have been providing and implementing
      services to reduce the gap in the treatment of mental disorders, there are no specific
      programs for homeless people. Additionally, in the country, there are no specific
      interventions for the homeless mentally ill, combining hospital and community interventions.
      Therefore we designed a pilot study to evaluate the profile of those individuals who live on
      the streets with apparent mental illness, and the effectiveness of the intervention plan
      considered for this purpose. Utilising an intervention study in community and hospital
      settings, we aim to understand the mental health status of the homeless people and appraise
      the effectiveness and acceptability of a multidisciplinary intervention in a low-income
      country. Our main hypothesis is that the intervention designed to facilitate and maintain the
      homeless people with mental health disorders in treatment through the implementation of
      evidence-based intervention can increase the reintegration of homeless people in their
      community, and that the familial reintegration would be the same among patients with
      different mental disorders. The present study was waived of approval by the National
      Bioethics Committee for Health, since it was realized on behalf of an activity held by the
      Ministry of Health. The study will be conducted in Maputo and Matola cities both in the
      southern region of Mozambique. These cities were chosen because of their accessibility and
      due to the dimension of the homeless population, representing an urban and suburban area
      respectively. The selection of the sample of homeless will be by convenience. After a period
      of mapping (to study homeless' routines including usual pathways), potential participants and
      their relatives will be approached. Members of the community such as the head of the block
      and member of the neighborhood will be involved to facilitate the family contact that after
      explanation about the goals of the program will be asked to give their consent; later the
      potential participant will be approached on the street and informed about the objectives of
      the program, the length of the study, any benefits or risk they might incur as participants,
      who to contact in case they have questions or concerns and their right to decline to
      participate without coercion. Then, they will be proposed referral to inpatient unit where it
      will be done the psychological and medical treatment, rehabilitation and family reintegration
      and will be asked to give their informed consent as well. Upon arrival to the psychiatric
      hospital, a multidisciplinary assistance team will welcome the homeless by initiating the
      intervention with the personal hygiene, including shave and haircut. The diagnosis will be
      established by experienced psychiatrists, using a structured diagnostic assessment instrument
      - Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) - and a socio-demographic inventory
      (with data such as age, name, gender, marital status, occupation, education, employment,
      religion and economic conditions). After psychiatric evaluation, participants will initiate
      psychopharmacological treatment according to the needs of each patient. Laboratorial analyses
      will be performed to exclude organic diseases, and in positive cases an additional clinical
      examination will be requested. Once the symptoms are controlled, the patients will be
      submitted to a psychological evaluation and initiate group psychotherapy interventions. Group
      psychotherapy sessions included the following: training of social skills (such as
      communication, social interaction and assertive behaviors); cognitive stimulation and
      training of activities of daily living (such as personal hygiene, hygiene of spaces and
      standardized mealtimes). In a subsequent phase, for the family reintegration preparation
      process, group psychotherapy sessions and psychoeducation will be held involving patients'
      relatives.

      Furthermore social workers in coordination with the community leaders and the municipal
      authorities will ask for permission to do home visits to the relatives of the participants so
      as to create the appropriated environment to the family reintegration process. Throughout
      these visits, the level of family involvement regarding the therapeutic process, the
      patient's health status, and the search information of their family member's disease will be
      assessed. Family reintegration refers to the process of return from an institution or shelter
      to the original, extensive or adopted family. In our study, we consider family reintegration
      as the return of the participant to family of origin after completing the intervention at the
      hospital level.

      After the family reintegration it will be made a follow up every 3 months during 12 months.
      Participants will be registered and followed in clinic in nearby sanitary units of their
      residence areas as usual procedure after discharge of patients of the psychiatric unity.

      Data analysis will be performed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 22,
      for the quantitative data analysis. All the collected information will be coded including the
      identification of patients, relatives, health professionals and community leaders involved in
      the study.
    
  