
    
      A holistic view of man is increasingly becoming our consciousness these days. Simultaneously,
      the demand for efficient and cost-effective forms of treatment for mental illness rises.
      According to a study by the World Health Organization (2011), 37% of "healthy" working years
      are lost due to psychiatric disorders. Thus complementary-alternative methods (CAM) as
      mindfulness-based meditation are becoming more important in medicine. A special form of
      mindfulness meditation-based training offers "Mindful Self Compassion (MSC)" (to German:
      achtsames Selbstmitgefühl). As evidence-based sister program to the well-established
      procedure MBSR and MBCT, MSC provides about meditation, interpersonal exercises, informal
      practical exercises and homework, the opportunity to learn an attentive and loving contact
      with itself or to improve and thus contribute effectively to comprehensive well-being. The
      literature reveals that MSC helps to lead a fulfilling life and is positively related to life
      satisfaction, emotional intelligence, happiness, optimism and personal initiative. MSC is
      further negatively correlated with depression, anxiety, self-criticism, the suppression of
      negative emotions and a negative body image. Furthermore, it is apparent from a study by
      Blatt (1995) that patients who are very critical towards themselves tend to have less
      positive effects of antidepressants, placebo and psychotherapy. For this reason it seems of
      enormous relevance to develop and evaluate therapies, which can help to change people's
      perception of oneself, like MSC. Based on these results, which show a clear link between
      Self-Compassion and psychological well-being, a study should be carried out which examines
      the effects of mindful self compassion meditation on psychological well-being and the
      severity of clinical symptoms and thus allows a first assessment of effectiveness in clinical
      practice. A randomized controlled trial is investigated at the rehabilitation center
      "Sonnenpark Rust Neusiedlersee" where one group of patients (at least 70 patients
      anticipated) will undergo a shortened form (6 weeks, 75 minutes per week) of MSC training,
      compared to a group of patients (at least 70 patients anticipated) who undergo regular
      progressive muscle relaxation (PMR). Both trainings will take place once a week for 6 weeks
      and will each last for 75 minutes. Patients in both groups will be asked for homework
      assignments and will get a handout. All relevant parameters are examined at the beginning of
      the rehabilitation, as well as at the end of the stay at the center. A follow- up after 6
      months is planned.
    
  