
    
      We aim to implement and evaluate a health information technology (HIT) registry at an urban,
      public delivery system. We will use systems engineering methodologies to design, develop, and
      implement the platform. The platform will be implemented in the Urology clinic that cares for
      patients with prostate cancer. We are conducting a prospective non-randomized pilot study
      that will follow men who choose active surveillance as a management strategy for prostate
      cancer. We aim to assess the impact of the HIT registry on patient monitoring and adherence.

      The HIT platform seeks to improve the monitoring and alerting functionality of existing
      systems. Specifically, it replaces paper-based or ineffective computer-based systems
      previously used by the clinic to monitor its active surveillance patients. It will be
      implemented clinic-wide for all patients being monitored by an active surveillance protocol.
      The platform is approved for clinical use and research by the San Francisco Health Network
      and the University of California, San Francisco.

      Research involves materials that are collected for nonresearch purposes, as well as low-risk
      research employing survey, interview, focus group, program evaluation, and human factors
      methodologies. We will solicit structured feedback from registry users designed to
      continuously evaluate and improve performance in a clinical area to reduce patient safety
      gaps. Patient medical records will be reviewed, but patients monitored on the registry will
      not be contacted by researchers.

      Procedures are in place to monitor the registry. First, quality assurance is performed by the
      research team, information technology analysts in the San Francisco Health Network, as well
      as by the third-party software provider. This includes checking that data in the platform
      matches source data, such as data entered in the electronic health record. In addition, users
      are audited on a weekly basis. A data dictionary defining variables used in the platform
      exists and is updated as needed. The HIT platform users include clinicians who are
      responsible for monitoring patients on active surveillance for prostate cancer. Patients who
      are enrolled in the active surveillance program will be added to the registry by a clinician.
      The research team will support the clinicians in data analysis, although this will be
      performed with population-level, de-identified data. However, if unmediated adverse events
      are identified by the research team, the research team will alert the clinicians
      appropriately. The research team will also develop training materials and conduct training
      sessions to ensure that all clinicians responsible for monitoring patients on active
      surveillance are provided with up-to-date resources and accessible support. The HIT platform
      is designed to supplement, but not replace, the existing electronic health record. Data on
      the registry will be validated with source data and users will still engage with the source
      data and electronic health record as appropriate clinically and operationally.
    
  