
    
      This study aims to test the acceptability of fibre-based foods in terms of their
      palatability, ease of incorporation into the diet and the lack of unwanted side effects of
      consumption. To meet these aims, participants will be provided with bread to incorporate into
      their diet (by substituting like-for-like) over a two-week period. During this time,
      participants will record what they have eaten, along with their general feelings of
      well-being throughout this period. These measures will be compared to the same data collected
      over the two-week period prior to giving the participants the study foods (as a "background"
      measure of food intake and general well-being).

      To carry these studies out, healthy adults will be recruited. Participants will attend an
      induction visit at Newcastle University where we will take informed consent. Participants
      will then be asked to keep a food diary, and fill out daily questionnaires on their general
      well-being and feelings of fullness for the entirety of the following two weeks whilst
      consuming the standard white bread given to them. Following this two-week period,
      participants will attend the study centre again and will be provided with dietary fibre-based
      study food (breads) to substitute into their standard diet over the following two weeks
      (further foods will be provided as and when required). They will fill out the same diaries
      and questionnaires as they did before over the first two week period.

      The wellbeing questionnaire will be filled out by participants every day with a more detailed
      questionnaire completed at the end of each week. Volunteers will complete the more detailed
      questionnaire five times. Once at the start of the study (baseline) and then at then once at
      the end of each week consuming standard white bread and once at the end of each week
      consuming the alginate bread. The standard wellbeing questionnaire will be completed every
      day the volunteers are on the study.
    
  