
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of an interactive tele-health
      monitoring and biofeedback system to establish healthy behaviors and promote self-management
      of pressure relief maneuvers and physical activity.

      Procedures and Course of Study:

      Baseline 50 participants will be enrolled. At study entry participants will complete four
      baseline questionnaires and have a Nurse Practitioner or Physician's Assistant inspect their
      ischial skin to ensure that their prior ulcer is fully healed. A pressure-sensing mat (PRESS)
      will be placed under their wheelchair cushion, and a wheelchair propulsion motion sensor
      (WAMS) will be placed on the rear wheel of their wheelchair. The PRESS and WAMS sensors will
      record participants' pressure relief and wheelchair propulsion activity for the next two
      weeks.

      Intervention:

      Participants will then return to the clinic and the study physical therapist will provide all
      participants with education on importance of pressure relief maneuvers and physical activity
      for health as well as training in the 3 styles of pressure relief (forward and side leans,
      depression raise) and shoulder strengthening exercises to protect against shoulder
      impingement and pain with increased pressure relief and wheelchair propulsion activity. The
      study physical therapist will then assist all participants in setting goals to increase
      pressure relief frequency and/or duration and wheelchair propulsion pushes for the future
      based on their baseline activity. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups:
      feedback and no feedback. In both groups pressure relief and wheelchair propulsion activity
      will be recorded by the PRESS and WAMS sensors for the 12 months. Those participants in the
      no-feedback group will have the feedback features of the system disabled. Those participants
      in the feedback group will receive instant visual feedback on pressure relief duration and
      daily summary charts for both pressure relief and wheelchair propulsion activities.

      Follow-up:

      Every month following the intervention for 12 months, a physical therapist will contact
      participants by phone to inquire whether their ischial skin integrity has changed and whether
      they have developed a pressure ulcer. Additionally, all participants will return to the
      clinic at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the intervention and a nurse practitioner will examine
      their ischial skin and review their medical records to determine if a pressure ulcer has
      developed. Participants will repeat the 4 questionnaires from the baseline evaluation at each
      follow-up visit. At the 12 month follow-up visit, participants will return the sensor
      equipment.
    
  