
    
      Background:

        -  Filgrastim (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor), which is administered by daily
           subcutaneous injection after cytotoxic chemotherapy, shortens the duration of
           chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and lowers the risk of infection.

        -  In children treated with dose-intensive chemotherapy, Filgrastim reduces the duration of
           severe neutropenia and, as a result, has become a standard component of the treatment
           regimen.

        -  Filgrastim-SD/01 (AMGEN), which is produced by PEGylation of the amino-terminus of
           Filgrastim, is a sustained duration form of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.

        -  In phase I and phase II trials in adults, a single dose of Filgrastim-SD/01 appears to
           be equivalent to daily dosing of Filgrastim in enhancing neutrophil recovery and has a
           comparable adverse event profile.

        -  Dose-intensive vincristine/cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin (VDoxC) alternating with
           ifosfamide/etoposide (IE) has become standard therapy for children and adolescents with
           Ewing's sarcoma and other sarcomas treated at the POB/NCI and other cancer centers
           within the US.

      Objectives:

        -  Compare the tolerance, toxicity, and therapeutic effects of Filgrastim-SD/01 given as a
           single injection after chemotherapy to daily subcutaneous Filgrastim in patients with
           newly diagnosed sarcoma receiving multi-agent, dose intensive chemotherapy.

        -  The pharmacokinetics of Filgrastim-SD/01 will also be compared to the pharmacokinetics
           of Filgrastim.

        -  This trial will also be a platform for performing biological studies of these tumors
           study neutrophil function and CD34 mobilization, and for detailed cardiac studies.

      Eligibility:

        -  Children and young adults (less than or equal to 25 years) with previously untreated
           high-risk sarcomas (Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, MPNST, and synovial sarcoma).

        -  No evidence of tumor infiltration of the bone marrow.

      Design:

        -  Participants will be randomized (1:1) to receive a single dose of Filgrastim-SD/01 or
           daily filgrastim as a SQ injection after each cycle of chemotherapy.

        -  Standard 5 drug dose-intensive chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin,
           cyclophosphamide alternating with ifosfamide and etoposide will be administered.

        -  Surgery or radiation for the primary tumor will occur after cycle 5.

        -  A total of 34 patients (17 patients per treatment arm) will be entered onto the trial.
    
  