
    
      This is an unblinded, sequential study in which all participants will receive intravenous
      (IV) infusions of oxytocin in the same manner (except for safety reasons an adjustment at the
      highest level after review of the first 7 study participants as indicated in safety plan). In
      this study healthy people and with those with knee arthritis so severe that a joint
      replacement is needed are recruited for a one day study. Study participants will come to the
      Clinical Research Unit (CRU) and two IVs inserted; one in each forearm. Study participants
      will have an intravenous infusion of oxytocin at infusion rates that will result in a steady
      concentration of oxytocin in the blood for 15 minutes. The infusion rate will be increased
      every 15 minutes for a total of 4 targeted levels. Blood (5 millilitres (ml)) will be
      withdrawn through the IV not being used for infusion at the end of each of these infusion
      levels and the amount of oxytocin measured in the blood samples. This information will be
      analyzed by another group at Stanford University in the Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics
      (PK/PD) Core part of this application. The core group at Stanford University will use
      mathematics to test the accuracy of the infusion to target the blood concentration.

      The main purpose of this study is to define the maximum effect oxytocin has on pain from a 5
      minute heat probe applied to the skin and to get an estimate for the relationship between the
      amounts of pain relief at different amounts of oxytocin in the blood. The study team will use
      a commercially available device (Medoc TSA II) to heat a probe on the skin to 113 degrees
      Fahrenheit (45 degrees Celsius) for 5 minutes. Study participants will score any pain noted
      on a 0 to 10 scale, and most people find that pain rises during the 5 minutes, but remains
      mild, usually around only 1 or 2 on the 0 to 10 scale. The study team will do this 5 times
      during the study, once before the infusion and once during each of the 4 levels of infusion.
      From this the study team will calculate how the amount of oxytocin in the blood affects pain.
    
  