
    
      Anaemia in inflammatory bowel disease is mainly attributed to iron deficiency. The main cause
      of anaemia in IBD patients is chronic blood loss. This means that the iron storage depot in
      IBD patients is always low and should be replenished. Oral iron therapy is the first choice
      in many cases because of its safety and economy. However, in patients with gastrointestinal
      bleeding, the effectiveness of oral therapy is reduced. Additionally, oral iron preparations
      are frequently associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions.

      According to European Guidelines, the preferred route of iron supplementation in IBD is
      intravenous. Absolute indications for intravenous iron include severe anaemia (Hb <10 g/dL).
      The current study is a part of a programme investigating the efficacy and safety of
      FERINJECT®, a new formulation of parenteral iron (5% weight per volume iron containing ferric
      carboxymaltose in a solution of water for injection).

      The efficacy and safety of FERINJECT® were investigated in a prospective, randomised,
      controlled study conducted in IBD patients. According to the results of this study,
      FERINJECT® provides a faster Hb response, a higher increase in iron storage and a better
      patient tolerance compared to oral preparations. In this study, the iron amount required was
      calculated according to the Ganzoni formula, where 500 mg is the amount of storage iron. To
      simplify the treatment and to make the treatment more effective, a new standardised dosage
      regimen was created. The current study is designed to assess whether this new standardised
      dosage regimen of i.v. FERINJECT® is as safe and effective as the currently used individually
      calculated dosage regimen.

      The efficacy and safety of the new standardised dosage regimen of FERINJECT® will be compared
      with an already established, well-known treatment of IDA with iron sucrose (VENOFER®). Iron
      sucrose (VENOFER®) is assessed to be effective and well-tolerated in the treatment of IDA in
      IBD patients.

      The study is a phase IIIb, multi-centre, randomised, prospective, open-label, controlled
      study performed at 83 study centres in 14 European countries.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the non-inferiority in efficacy of a
      standardised dosage regimen of FERINJECT® compared to individually calculated dosage regimens
      of VENOFER® in the correction of IDA in patients with IBD in remission. The secondary
      objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a standardised correction dose
      regimen of FERINJECT®.

      Approximately 420 patients will be randomised (1:1 randomisation) to receive treatment with
      either a standardised correction dosage regimen of FERINJECT® or individually calculated
      dosage regimens of VENOFER®.

      Screening will start between 14 and 7 days before the first infusion is administered.
      Baseline assessments will be performed on Day 1 before the first infusion.

      During the screening period, patients will be selected based on eligibility criteria.
      Patients who meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will
      undergo baseline assessments at Baseline (Day 1) prior to the first dose of study medication.

      Patients randomised to the FERINJECT® group will receive between 500 mg and 2000 mg of
      FERINJECT®, according to their Hb and body weight, in up to 3 infusions. The maximum infused
      weekly dose of will be 1000 mg. For patients in the VENOFER® group, the individual iron
      deficit will be calculated per individual using the modified formula of Ganzoni. Patients
      will receive one infusion of 200 mg of VENOFER® twice a week, up to 11 infusions, depending
      on their calculated iron deficit. Due to the relatively large doses of iron being
      administered, patients will be monitored carefully throughout the study for symptoms of iron
      overload.

      All patients will return for assessment of efficacy and safety at Weeks 4, 8, and 12. The
      maximum study duration for a patient is 14 weeks. Patients who are not anaemic at Week 12
      will be invited to continue to participate in a maintenance study (FER-IBD-07-MAIN), i.e. a
      study of FERINJECT® versus placebo to determine if the treatment of iron deficiency can
      prevent the recurrence of anaemia.
    
  