
    
      Treatment duration with thalidomide will be for 16 weeks, beginning in the hospital setting
      immediately after the index bleed, and clinical follow-up additional six months. Follow-up in
      both the hepatology, outpatient clinic area and the endoscopy suite will occur. Step wise
      thalidomide dosing will be 100 mg/d once a day at night. If no evidence of toxicity is noted
      after 5 doses, the dose will be increased to 200 mg/d, and continued on that dose as an
      outpatient until completion of the study protocol at 16 weeks. Patients will be followed
      daily while inpatients, and subsequently at two-week intervals upon discharge. Females of
      child-bearing potential will be seen weekly for the first month and must have a confirmed
      negative pregnancy test prior to being dispensed the next one week supply of study drug.
      After the first month, females of child-bearing potential will be seen every two weeks as
      will all other subjects. Standard follow-up medical care after esophageal variceal bleeding
      in patients who have undergone endoscopic therapy will include:

      follow-up endoscopy at regular intervals until variceal obliteration, using either endoscopic
      variceal ligation (EVL) or sclerotherapy titrated dose of a nonselective beta blocker
      (propranolol).

      At each follow-up visit, patients will be assessed for development of any interim outcome of
      interest:

      overt upper gastrointestinal bleeding need for transfusion worsening clinical status

      Patients will initially be followed daily while hospitalized. outpatient visits will occur
      every two-week intervals upon discharge. Standard follow-up medical care after esophageal
      variceal bleeding in patients who have undergone endoscopic therapy will include:

      follow-up endoscopy at regular intervals until variceal obliteration, using either endoscopic
      variceal ligation (EVL) or sclerotherapy titrated dose of a nonselective beta blocker
      (propranolol).

      At each follow-up visit, patients will be assessed for development of any interim outcome of
      interest:

      overt upper gastrointestinal bleeding need for transfusion worsening clinical status the need
      for TIPS, liver transplantation or death. In addition, patients and their families will be
      questioned for any evidence of potential toxicity as assessed by using the CTC Toxicity grade
      version 3, or adverse outcomes by one of the study investigators as well as a nurse
      coordinator, using a standardized questionnaire along with a regular clinical
    
  