
    
      Definition of parastomal hernia

      Parastomal hernia is considered if it happens one of the following situations:

        -  Parastomal protrusion spontaneously or with Valsalva maneuver, evidenced by observation
           and palpation, exploring the patient at supine and standing position

        -  Protrusion of intrabdominal contents through the fascial hole, evidenced by abdominal
           computed tomography, in cases without clinical evidence of hernia or in obese patient
           whose exploration is difficult. For the description of parastomal hernias will be used
           the clinico-radiological classification described by Moreno et al. (12).

      Ethical Issues The study is approved by the regional ethics committee. The patients
      candidates for the study will be informed in person by a surgeon of the team and will receive
      written information. Informed consent will be obtained from each patient according to the
      guidelines established by the ethics committee prior to randomization into the study.
      Patients will be free to leave the study at any time.

      To ensure the optimal treatment for patients in each arm of the study, analysis will be
      conducted throughout the inclusion process to compare the incidence of parastomal hernias,
      specific morbidity and mortality specific related to the use of prosthetic mesh. If the
      observed differences were significant, we would stop the study.

      Patient Selection Inclusion criteria

        1. Patients with colorectal disease that require realization of definitive end colostomy

        2. Laparoscopy assisted interventions

        3. Interventions intended to radical treatment in case of oncologic pathology

        4. Signed informed consent by the patient or representative in case of incapacity

      Exclusion criteria

        1. No acceptance to participate or inability to obtain signed informed consent

        2. Urgent interventions

        3. Palliative interventions

        4. Lateral colostomies

        5. American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Classification IV-V

      Randomization and Statistical Analysis The incidence of parastomal hernia according to the
      literature is around 50%. Furthermore, according to the prospective randomized studies
      performed with prophylactic mesh, the incidence varies between 5% and 22% depending on the
      follow-up period and the definition used (4-6,8,10,12).

      In the control group the incidence of the problem is approximately 50% of cases and the
      incidence in the prophylactic mesh group is about 15%.

      With these results, setting the value of the type I error at 5% (α = 0.05), with bilateral
      approximation and considering an estimated loss of 5% during the fallow up, the number of
      patients is 30 in each group (power will be above 80%).

      In case of meeting all the inclusion criteria and accepted by the patient, randomization will
      be:

      Group A: Conventional definitive end colostomy Group B: Definitive end colostomy reinforced
      by retromuscular mesh Ultrapro

      Randomization will be performed by computer-generated sequence and concealment of the
      randomization order will be made using sealed opaque envelopes. The technique to be used in
      each case will be known at the time of the intervention by opening the envelope in order
      during the surgery.

      Actuarial analysis of morbidity, mortality and recurrence index will be performed during the
      study (every 30 patients included). The analysis will be done by intention to treat and
      effective treatment.

      Technical Aspects In the mesh group, a synthetic prosthetic mesh low weight type Ultrapro
      (15x15 cm) will be used. It will be placed in a sublay position between the rectus abdominis
      muscle and the posterior rectus sheath, will be sutured to the posterior rectus sheath with
      absorbable multifilament stitches. Once positioned and fixed the mesh the bowel will be
      brought out through a cross cut in the center of the mesh Finally, colon will be fixed by
      colocutaneous end to end absorbable multifilament sutures.

      Perioperative Care Preoperative: Colon preparation, antibiotic and thromboembolic prophylaxis
      will be carried out in accordance with the standards of the center and will be applied
      equally in both study arms. In each patient the colostomy site will be marked on the abdomen
      the day before surgery, by the stoma therapist.

      Intraoperative: Anesthesia will be conducted according to the standards of the center and
      will be applied equally in both study arms.

      Postoperative: In accordance with the standards of our center it will be applied in all
      patients.

      Fallow up Monitoring will be realized with clinical controls (after 15 days and 2, 6, 12
      months) and with an abdominal computed tomography in the first year.

      Expected Results Statistically significant reduction in the incidence of parastomal hernias
      in patients undergoing elective laparoscopy assisted colorectal surgery with realization of
      end colostomy reinforced with retromuscular mesh collocation.
    
  