
    
      Coronary artery spasm is an abrupt severe vasoconstrictor response which may occur
      spontaneously in normal and diseased coronary arteries. It may result in myocardial ischemia
      and may be provoked by various stimuli such as acetylcholine (ACh). Coronary vasospasm is
      involved in the pathogenesis of Prinzmetal's angina, acute myocardial infarction or sudden
      cardiac death due to ventricular arrythmias and chest pain symptoms associated with viral
      myocarditis.

      The precise cellular and molecular mechanisms of coronary vasospasm have not yet been
      elucidated. The most often suggested but competing explanations for this disease are coronary
      endothelial dysfunction secondary to impaired nitric oxide production versus coronary smooth
      muscle cell hyperreactivity with or without additional endothelial dysfunction. As the
      precise cellular mechanism is currently unknown a large group of people can currently not be
      treated appropriately despite the use of nitrates and calcium antagonists.

      Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase(PDE)-5 inhibitor approved for the treatment of both
      erectile dysfunction and pulmonary hypertension. PDE-5 has been shown to be also present and
      play an important vasomotor role in the coronary vessel wall. Application of the inhibitor
      sildenafil has been shown to increase the resting coronary artery diameter. Furthermore,
      atherosclerotic coronary artery segments which vasoconstrict following intracoronary
      ACh-application vasodilate following the application of sildenafil when ACh-testing is
      repeated. Other studies are also suggesting an improved endothelial function after sildenafil
      application for both the coronary and the peripheral vasculature.

      Taken together, sildenafil is expected to have a positive effect on coronary vasomotility.
      Whether sildenafil can totally prevent the occurrence of coronary vasospasm or at least
      decrease the severity of vasospasm has not been studied so far. Thus, the aim of this study
      is to analyse the possible anti-spastic effects of sildenafil in patients suffering from
      coronary vasospasm.
    
  