
    
      Aim: The aim of this study to Assess the healing process of the immediate implant loading
      with two different provisional techniques (direct and indirect).

      Materials and methods:

      20 implant (Implant Direct ) in the aesthetic zone either in the incisor or in the canine
      area and excluding the lateral location and then immediate loading is achieved for the 20
      implants (10 for direct and 10 for indirect method) Clinical Aspect :color change , healing
      and bone resorption Aesthetic assessment and patient acceptance will be assessed using
      specific tools Lab aspect: surface roughness and Marginal fit will be measured to have clue
      vision.

      The participants were non-dental students from University colleges in and around Damascus.
      They were recruited by reviewing the case documents 20 patient with hapless incisal and
      canine for extraction and immediate implantation and immediate loading with either the two
      different provisional methods participants had to demonstrate a hopeless central incisor or
      canine with no perio-active infection. With two types of provisional technique we will have a
      two groups were calculated a priori in such a way that index can be identified with with
      alpha = .05 in a two-tailed test, a sample size of 2 X10 implants would result in a power of
      94% (g power 3.1.3) based on a pilot study.

      Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) images for each patient to measure the bone level change
      and aesthetic assessment by three general dentists will be achieved. Replica technique
      required the application of impression material build up of addition-silicone.
      Addition-silicone of very low viscosity (ExpressTM2 Ultra-Light Body Quick) was applied to
      all restorations interior, after which the crowns were set onto basic samples. Impression
      material was polymerized within the time which is recommended by the manufacturer, while the
      pressure force of 50 N was applied toward occlusal direction After the removal of all
      restorations from the basic samples, the layer of impression material remained on the
      restoration's inner surface due to its higher roughness compared to the abutment surface.
      With Rt 200 device the roughness will bw measured and then Scanning Electronic Microscope
      (SEM) images will give a close understanding of the surface. Easy shade will measure the
      color change.
    
  