
    
      Introduction: Surgical recovery after discharge from hospital often poses confusion and
      challenges for patients and caregivers. This is more so now, when early discharge after
      surgery has become the norm. Furthermore, the Canadian health care system is fragmented, with
      services that are poorly integrated. Thus, when patients transition from hospital to home
      following surgery, complications and poorly controlled pain results in return to hospital or
      ED visits. Family caregivers are frustrated that health care providers involved in different
      aspects of a patient's care do not always communicate with one another, resulting in
      caregivers having to retell a patient's story and spend unnecessary time clarifying
      information during the ED visits. In fact, caregivers and healthcare providers are both
      looking for one clear point of contact that ensures patients' needs are met at every segment
      of their healthcare journey. Patients believe that when they receive care, it is generally of
      high quality. Despite the positive feedback from the patients about the quality of care, the
      system continues to struggle with transitional care due to lack of system-wide integration.

      This is a randomized controlled trial on continuity of care with digital home monitoring with
      ECG for 2 weeks post-operatively in patients undergoing elective thoracic surgical procedure.

      Eligible patients will be recruited from the surgeon's office and informed consent will be
      obtained. Patients will be randomized to the control group (no digital care) or the
      intervention groups (digital care provided). Intraoperative care and immediate postoperative
      care in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) and surgical ward will remain the same for all
      patients. At the time of hospital discharge, the control group will be discharged without
      receipt of home monitoring and the intervention group will receive a home monitoring kit with
      (NIBP (non-invasive blood pressure), SPO2 (pulse oximetry), and ECG (electrocardiogram)) with
      instructions on how to use these devices. Patients in the intervention groups will receive
      digital communication for 4 weeks and have their ECG, NIBP, HR (heart rate), SPO2 and pain
      scores evaluated 4 times a day for 2 weeks. The control group will not be monitored with
      continuity of care. After this period 30 day emergency department visits will be measured and
      compared between the two groups, along with 30 day readmission rates, in-hospital length of
      stay, mortality, quality of recovery 40 item scale (QoR-40), European Quality of LIfe 5
      Dimensions (EQ5D), patient satisfaction score, and societal and hospital cost.

      ED visits and readmission rate: In Ontario, between 2014 and 2016, within 30 days after lung
      cancer lobectomy surgery, the readmission rate was 5.9% and the Emergency Department (ED)
      visit rate was 16.2%.(1) At the LHSC, the 30-day ED visit rates were 21.5% [95% CI 15.91,
      27.14], and the 30-day readmission rates were 6.73% [95% CI 3.21, 10.24] for lung cancer
      lobectomy.(1) Between 2015/2016 and 2017/2018, unadjusted data of readmissions or ED visits
      within 7 days after Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS) and open thoracotomy were 9%
      and 7% respectively at LHSC. Post-surgical discharge hospital visits remain a significant
      problem in post-thoracic surgical care. Patients have to wait too long during ED visits and
      this is having a negative impact on provider, caregiver and patient well-being.The
      investigators believe that a virtual care option that can extend the continuity of care
      post-discharge is a viable solution to this problem.

      Digital solution - virtual care: In the last few years, the focus for patient care has moved
      from the clinical setting towards the home. Now, more than ever, it is necessary to engage
      patients prior to, throughout the perioperative period, and in rehabilitation post-surgery to
      ensure the best possible patient health outcomes, while reducing LOS and unplanned
      readmissions. Currently, ensuring patients are prepared to adhere to the post-surgical plan
      of care, once released from hospital, can increase length of hospital stay by as much as 25%.
      Digital solutions can alleviate the problem by enabling remote monitoring of a patient's
      vital signs, symptoms and behavior at home, sending medication reminders, monitoring
      medication use and the patient's understanding of the self-care content it is delivering,
      ensuring patients remain on the pathway toward better health, finally improving the patient's
      outcomes.

      Continuity of care: Continuity of care after discharge has been shown to reduce readmissions
      and ED visits and hence, any method of extending the continuity of care into a patient's home
      may reduce revisit rates.(2) In one study on thoracic surgery, 30-day readmissions were
      reduced using a hospital-operated "Integrated Comprehensive Care" program, comprised of a
      single nurse coordinator, 8 registered and practical nurses, and 6 physiotherapists, along
      with respiratory therapists, dieticians, and occupational therapists on an "as-needed"
      basis.(3) In another study, education, coordinated discharge, physician follow-up, & home
      visits all contributed to reduced readmission rates.(4) Of note, Canadian data show that
      within the first 7 days after surgical discharge, 28.3% of the diagnoses fall within the
      Canadian Emergency Department Triage and Acuity Scale (CTAS) IV or V; i.e. less or
      non-urgent. Those are highly likely to be manageable at the patient's home if appropriate
      transitional care is available, and likely preventable.

      For patients who are at risk or rising risk, continuity of care with digital solutions offers
      a pathway to providing more education, influencing behavior, and creating better outcomes for
      patient populations. Care teams can understand what's going on with each patient daily or
      weekly, as opposed to once or twice a year through an office visit. With a continuous and
      more complete picture of patient health, they can adjust care plans as needed and proactively
      engage populations in managing their own care.

      ECG monitoring: The investigators incorporated home-based ECG monitoring in this population,
      because atrial fibrillation is one of the important indicators of adverse outcome after
      thoracic surgery. After thoracic surgery, post-operative atrial fibrillation (POAF) occurs in
      10.5% of patients(4); 7.3% after Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS) and 11.7% in
      open thoracotomy.(5) In major non-cardiac surgery as a group, the incidence of POAF is 3.0%
      (6), making POAF, after thoracic surgery, one of the highest among non-cardiac surgery. POAF
      is associated with infections (7); increased mortality (6); intra-operative transfusions (8);
      post-operative transfusions (9); post-operative pneumonia (10); respiratory failure (11); and
      therefore may be an important sign, or result, of postoperative complications, rather than
      the cause. In one study, POAF occurred at a mean of 3.55 days, with increased in-hospital
      length of stay [LOS].(7) Long term follow-up of over 900 days showed that POAF recurs in
      17.1% of non-cardiac surgical patients, with implications on long term cerebrovascular
      accidents (CVA).(12) In a database study of 1,729,360 patients, POAF in non-cardiac surgery
      was associated with a CVA within one year, at an HR of 2.0 (1.7 - 2.3) compared to cardiac
      surgery or a cumulative rate of 1.47% (95% CI 1.24 - 1.75%).(13) Associated with higher
      mortality and complications, POAF adds another dimension to the high rate of unplanned
      hospital visits after thoracic surgical discharge.

      Digital Monitoring: Even though continuous monitoring is the standard of care in the
      postanesthesia care unit, patients are managed by intermittent vitals check by the nursing
      team in the surgical wards and no monitoring after the hospital discharge. Once patients are
      discharged from the hospital, patients and family caregivers feel vulnerable and abandoned.
      Digital home monitoring and digital self-care such as blood pressure and SPO2 measurement at
      home, enable a small number of providers to coach a large number of patients. Post-operative
      home monitoring with non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP), heart rate (HR), hemoglobin oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), & pain scores collected at regular intervals has been instituted
      previously.(14) Such monitoring will help stratify CTAS IV/V patients from CTAS I, II, or III
      cases. Along with the vitals, home-based ECG monitoring will allow detection of early signs
      and symptoms of any concerns, which can be intervened and may be managed remotely.

      The proposed trial:

      The investigators therefore propose a randomized controlled trial on continuity of care with
      digital home monitoring with ECG for 2 weeks post-operatively in patients undergoing elective
      thoracic surgical procedure.
    
  