
    
      The SADE waiting room: a small waiting room (2.5mx2.5m) inside the clinic with 6 seats. All
      ceiling fluorescent lighting is removed. The adapted lighting consisted of slow-moving,
      repetitive visual color effects created by a projector, and a lighting column that children
      can touch and climb on. Auditory stimuli include rhythmic music, which is heard via
      loudspeakers. The traditional waiting room: a waiting area outside the clinic with ten seats
      in one row faces the reception desk in an area of 15 square meters. The area is
      air-conditioned, moderately well-lit, without posters or paintings on the walls, and no
      reading material.

      •Dental anxiety scale- Venham Picture Test (VPT) is widely used and easily administered. In
      this test, children are presented with eight cards, with two figures on each card, one
      'anxious' figure and one 'nonanxious' figure. They are asked to choose the figure from each
      pair that describes how they feel at that particular time. All cards are shown in their
      numbered order. If an anxious figure is chosen, a score of one is recorded. If a nonanxious
      cartoon is chosen, a score of zero is recorded. A measure of anxiety is obtained by totaling
      the number of times the child picks the cartoons depicting the anxious state (minimum score,
      0; maximum score, 8). The participants will be asked to answer while waiting in the waiting
      room just before entering the clinic.

      Study design- The study is a cross-over randomized trial. The participants will be randomly
      assigned to one type of waiting room for the first visit, and the other type for the second
      visit. Patients that will not need a second visit, or miss the next visits, will not be
      dropped out from the study. Those patients will also be compared, as long as the two groups
      (SADE waiting room/ traditional waiting room) are well matched.

      Additional data- gender, age, the lengths of waiting, the purpose of the visit (examination
      or treatment with/without sedation), dental experience, type of waiting room, child escort.
    
  