
    
      Main goal: Reducing social inequalities in dental health in the Alpes-Maritimes with the
      identification of high-risk subjects in order to implement effective preventive actions
      focused on people likely to benefit most from such actions.

      Carrying out a prospective representative cohort, in schools, over a period of 4 years has
      the following objectives:

        -  To study the pattern of risk factors for tooth decay, as defined by the HAS, in the
           representative studied sample, and particularly to assess the part played by the zone of
           schooling (priority education area (low socio-economic) (PEA) or not).

        -  To evaluate, in a representative French sample, the relevance of the caries risk (CR)
           factors defined by the HAS based on an analysis of the foreign literature.

        -  To evaluate the interest of bacteriological tests using the technique of real-time PCR
           (Cario-analysis ®, Pierre Fabre Oral Care) in the assessment of CR, once the other risk
           factors are taken into account.

        -  To study the interest of using a laser fluorescence device (Diagnodent ® Pen, Kavo)
           compared to clinical examination alone, in the detection of caries which are difficult
           to diagnose(approximal caries or small enamel lesions) and its impact on the caries risk
           assessment.

      Study Type: prospective cohort study. Population study: This study is conducted in 360
      primary schools and 89 high-schools in the Alpes Maritimes (randomized study). They are
      divided into two strata (priority education area or not). Within each stratum and for each
      level of education (primary schools and high schools), schools are chosen at random on the
      corresponding list until the number of children needed in both the 1rst grade and the 5th
      grade is reached.

      Pupils are followed by the investigators. Subjects Number: 678 (339 in 1rst grade and 339 in
      5th grade proportionally divided into non-PEA and PEA).

      Duration of follow-up: 4 years Frequency of visits: annual visits Oral health screening -
      clinical examination (probe and mirror) and with the new laser fluorescence device
      (DIAGNOdent ® pen, Kavo). Salivary Tests: bacteriological in real-time PCR (Cario-analysis ®
      Oral Care Pierre Fabre) and CRT Buffer ® Ivoclar Vivadent) Statistical analyses - Descriptive
      analyses and logistic regression models (dependent variable is the high caries risk (when
      CAODM36-CAODJ0 > or = 4)
    
  