
    
      The proposed research is a randomized, multi-site, blinded comparative study of
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT), Mindfulness Based Self-compassion Therapy
      (MBSCT), minimal-contact MBSCT, and treatment as usual (TAU) in patients with psoriasis.

      Recruitment commenced in November 2013 and continued until March 2014. Participants were
      recruited via the Department of Dermatology in St. Vincent's University Hospital. During
      weekly dermatology clinics eligible participants were identified by medical members of the
      Dermatology team and on expression of interest were referred to an Assistant Psychologist for
      recruitment purposes. In addition participants were also recruited via an advertisement
      placed in a national newspaper.

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to TAU (n=25), MBCT (n=25), MBSCT (n=25), or
      audio-guided MBSCT (n=25).

      At Time 1 (pre intervention), participants will be required to give blood (a 50ml sample,
      i.e., roughly 10 teaspoons), and complete self-report measures on the same day as beginning
      the mindfulness programme. As it has previously been indicated that cells may be sensitive to
      sudden changes in stress, mood and time of day (Epel, 2012), blood samples will always be
      taken after completing the self-report measures and at a relatively standardized time, e.g.,
      between 3-5pm. Care will be taken to ensure that conditions are relaxed across all
      participants, and a 10 minute rest period between completing the questionnaires and giving
      blood will be enforced. Bloods can be kept at room temperate for up to 24 hours and then
      prepared for storage below 60 degrees Celsius until PBMC analysis is to be conducted after
      all samples have been collected at Time 1 (post intervention).

      At Time 2, six-months and twelve-months follow-up, participants will again be required to
      give 50ml of blood and complete all self-report measures via an identical protocol, and
      analysis will be conducted again accordingly. Telomerase will be assessed using a TRAPeze
      EXCEL Telomerase Detection Kit. This will be complemented by flow cytometry analysis of
      telomere length. Serum cytokines before and after treatment will be examined by ELISA. This
      should give an indication of the effect of treatment on systemic inflammation. We will also
      examine the ability of PBMC from patients to produce proinflammatory cytokines, including
      IL-6, TNF, IL-1, and others associated with anxiety and depression. PBMC will be activated
      with innate stimulus such as LPS/zymosan. The production of cytokines will be determined by
      ELISA. Highly sensitive CRP is also a marker for psoriasis and will be assessed by ELISA to
      give an indication of overall inflammation. In regards to self-report measures, the following
      psychological scales will be used:

        1. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS; Snaith & Zigmond, 1994)

        2. Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ: Meyer, Miller, Metzger & Borkovec, 1990) 3 Fears
           of Compassion Scales (Gilbert, 2009)

      4. Five Facets of Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ: Baer, Smith, Hopkins, Krietemeyer & Toner,
      2006) 5. World Health Organisation Quality of Life - BREF (WHO, 2004). 6. Dermatology Quality
      of Life Index

      Addressing our research question regarding the effectiveness of the mindfulness programs
      involves a repeated-measures comparative group intervention design. 4x4 mixed-methods ANOVAs
      will be used to assess pre, post and six/twelve month follow-up differences across the four
      experimental conditions, with group as the independent variable and psychological experience
      (e.g., depression, anxiety, worry, self compassion and mindfulness) or immunological activity
      (e.g., PBMC telomerase and cytokines) as the dependent variables. Number of hours per week
      practicing mindfulness during follow-up will be entered as a covariate. Effect sizes and
      confidence intervals will be calculated post-hoc using G*Power in order to facilitate ease of
      comparison between the study findings and other future studies and the relevant field of
      literature. Bivariate Spearman's Correlations will be conducted to examine the relationship
      between psychological variables and telomerase and cytokine activity on all four testing
      occasions, respectively. Spearman's Correlations are chosen as a suitable non-parametric
      correlation analysis given reports of telomerase as non-normally distributed (e.g., Epel et
      al., 2010; Wolkowitz et al., 2012) and inspection of our own preliminary data.

      Data will be collected on four occasions; pre and post intervention and at six and twelve
      months follow up.
    
  