
    
      Ablative treatment approaches, such as RFA or microwave ablation, have received increased
      attention as alternates to other treatment approaches such as hepatic arterial embolization
      or chemoembolization (TACE) or percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) in the majority of
      patients who are either not candidates for surgical resection or are not offered palliative
      supportive care only for diffuse disease. RFA can be applied repetitively to the same patient
      to treat multiple tumors at time of diagnosis or upon tumor recurrence (local or distant to
      the site of ablation), and is largely limited in its application only by tumor location and
      size (tumors near larger vessels, bowel or the hepatobiliary tree are more difficult to
      ablate). To extend the volume of the ablation region in a controlled fashion in patients and
      to improve the ability to kill tumor cells in the ablation margin region and allow for the
      improved treatment of HCC and MLC lesions > 3 cm in diameter by complete thermal ablation,
      Celsion Corporation has developed ThermoDox, a thermally sensitive, intravenously
      administered liposomal formulation of doxorubicin capable of selectively releasing its drug
      contents when exposed to temperatures of > 39.5°C. The concept behind this treatment approach
      is to create a large concentration gradient of doxorubicin in the immediate region of the
      tumor which borders the zone of RFA induced cell necrosis. The temperature isotherms produced
      in this boundary region should be adequate to activate doxorubicin release by the thermally
      sensitive liposomes deposited locally around the ablation zone. This in effect increases the
      region of tissue that can be treated beyond that achievable by RFA alone. Several clinical
      objectives are being tested in this study. The MTD for ThermoDox is to be confirmed. This
      study will assess the safety of using ThermoDox in conjunction with RFA over multiple cycles,
      consistent with the clinical needs of the subjects. While this study is not powered to define
      effectiveness of the combination of RFA plus ThermoDox, the results of this study should
      allow for an assessment of risk and benefit for designing future studies. This study will
      also test alternative infusion reaction prophylaxis regimens.
    
  