
    
      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this study is to further assess safety and efficacy data
      of the bortezomib/melphalan/prednisone (BMP) regimen in previously untreated and transplant
      ineligible multiple myeloma patients. This is an international, multicentred, open-label,
      single-arm, non-comparative study. After providing written informed consent, patients will be
      evaluated for eligibility during a screening period of 14 days (Days -14 to Day -1). Baseline
      efficacy and safety assessments will be performed on Day 1 (the first day of treatment) prior
      to the study drug administration for patients with measurable monoclonal paraprotein
      (M-protein) or within at least 14 days for patients with extramedullary plasmacytomas.
      Patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not candidates for high dose
      chemotherapy with stem cell transplant high dose therapy/stem cell transplant (HDT/SCT) will
      be enrolled. Approximately 150 patients will be enrolled on study. Patients will receive BMP
      treatment, consisting of Bortezomib (twice weekly [Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29 and 32] for
      four 6-week cycles [8 doses per cycle] followed by once weekly [Days 1, 8, 22, and 29] for
      five 6-week cycles [4 doses per cycle]) in combination with melphalan and prednisone once
      daily on Days 1 to 4 of each 6-week cycle. Treatment will continue for a maximum of 9 cycles
      (54 weeks) and will be discontinued if disease progression or an unacceptable
      treatment-related toxicity occurs, or if a patient withdraws consent. The Final Visit/Early
      Termination Visit will occur 30-42 days after the last dose of Bortezomib. Investigators will
      be asked to report on TTP every 6 months from Final Visit until disease progression for a
      period of up to 2 years. Safety will be assessed by the monitoring of adverse events,
      physical (including neurological/peripheral neurological) examinations, vital sign
      measurements, hematology and clinical chemistry tests. Karnofsky performance status and
      FACT/GOG-Ntx will also be assessed. Efficacy evaluations of serum and urine M-protein levels
      together with extramedullary plasmacytoma evaluations will be done at the beginning of each
      cycle. Investigator reported TTP and subsequent therapy will also be captured.

      The secondary objectives are to assess neurotoxicity using the FACT/GOG-Ntx questionnaire,
      and to capture investigator reported time to progression (TTP) data. STUDY POPULATION: The
      patient population comprises a maximum of 150 male and female patients, who have symptomatic
      multiple myeloma or asymptomatic multiple myeloma with related organ or tissue damage,
      presence of measurable disease, Karnofsky performance status score greater than or equal to
      60 points, and clinical hematology and chemistry laboratory values that meet predefined
      criteria. It is expected that approximately 150 patients will be enrolled. Potential patients
      will be excluded who are candidates for HDT/SCT; have a diagnosis of smoldering multiple
      myeloma, monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), or Waldenström's disease;
      have had prior or current systemic therapy for multiple myeloma; have had radiation therapy,
      plasmapheresis, or major surgery within 30 days before study entry; or have peripheral
      neuropathy or neuropathic pain Grade 2 or higher. EFFICACY EVALUTIONS: Measurements of
      M-protein will be followed in serum and 24-hour urine at baseline (prior to treatment on Day
      1 of Cycle 1), prior to treatment on Day 1 of Cycles 2-9, and at the Final Visit. The Final
      Visit/Early Termination Visit will occur 30-42 days after the last dose of Bortezomib. It is
      recommended that patients who have 100% disappearance of the original monoclonal protein from
      serum and urine will have the result confirmed by immunofixation. Investigators will also be
      asked to complete a CRF follow-up form every 6 months for up to 2 years after the Final/Early
      Termination Visit to capture TTP.

      SAFETY EVALUATIONS: A physical examination (including neurological/peripheral neurological
      examination, vital signs, blood pressure, pulse, respiratory rate, and temperature),
      karnofsky performance status, hematology, and clinical chemistry tests will be obtained at
      screening; on Day 1 of each cycle prior to dosing with Bortezomib; and at the Final
      Visit/Early Termination Visit to occur 30-42 days after the last dose of Bortezomib is
      administered. Hematology tests will also be obtained prior to dosing during cycles 1 and 2
      and every week thereafter. Safety will also be assessed by the reporting of adverse events
      starting with the signing of the ICF, during treatment, and until the last study related
      procedure at the Final Visit/Early Termination Visit. The intensity (severity) of the adverse
      events will be assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) common toxicity criteria (CTC)
      Version 3.0. All adverse events (excluding grade 1 and 2 lab abnormalities) starting with the
      signing of the ICF, during and until the Final Visit/Early Termination Visit will be recorded
      on the case report forms (CRFs). Clinically relevant changes in laboratory safety tests,
      vital signs, and physical/neurological examinations will be recorded as adverse events.
      Serious adverse events will be reported within 24 hours of knowledge of the event by any
      member of the investigational site to the sponsor by facsimile (fax), using an SAE form,
      which will be provided by the sponsor.

      STUDY ANALYSIS: Adverse events, serious adverse events, M-protein, extramedullary
      plasmacytoma measurements, FACT/GOG-Ntx and Karnofsky performance status data will be
      summarized. Response to study treatment based on M-protein and extramedullary plasmacytoma
      reduction will also be assessed in the analysis. Patients will receive BMP treatment,
      consisting of Bortezomib IV bolus infusion 1.3m^2 (twice weekly [Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29
      and 32] for four 6-week cycles [8 doses per cycle]) followed by once weekly [Days 1, 8, 22,
      and 29] for five 6-week cycles [4 doses per cycle]) in combination with oral melphalan
      9mg/m^2 and oral prednisone 60 mg/m^2 once daily on Days 1 to 4 of each 6-week cycle. The max
      total treatment duration of the study is 54-weeks (9 six-week cycles).
    
  