
    
      This is a Phase II, randomised, multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      proof-of-concept study to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of oral Xanamem™ once
      daily in adult subjects with mild dementia due to AD.

      Based on Xanamem™'s mode of action on hippocampal function, amnestic symptoms may respond
      best, thus favouring the inclusion of mild dementia due to AD, with given evidence of disease
      progression. Subjects will be treated in a double-blind fashion, where both the investigators
      and subjects will be unaware of the treatment assignments, to minimise any subjective or
      unrecognised bias carried by the investigators and subjects. Placebo will be used as the
      comparator in this study.

      It is planned to randomise approximately 174 subjects at approximately 25 study sites in
      three countries (Australia, United Kingdom, and United States), with the aim to enrol 7 to 10
      subjects at each study site. Subject enrolment will be competitive but a cap of 20 subjects
      per study site is to be established to avoid any site effects. In case the sample composition
      at one study site is creating concerns, an enrolment stop can also occur at fewer than 20
      subjects.

      The data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will periodically meet for the review of accumulating
      safety study data and will also be involved in the interim analysis.

      At the Baseline visit (Week 0), eligible subjects will be randomised on a 1:1 ratio to
      receive either Xanamem™ administered orally QD (treatment group) or matching placebo (placebo
      group). Subjects will return to the study site for visits at Week 4 and Week 8, End of
      Treatment (Week 12) and Follow-up (4 weeks post last dose of study drug) visits, at which
      study assessments will be performed.

      Ad hoc telephone contact may also occur at any other time-point throughout the study, if
      deemed necessary by the investigator/study nurse, or if the subject wishes to report an AE.

      Subjects will be interviewed and examined at the study site at each visit, and will complete
      a variety of questionnaires and routine safety evaluations.

      Optional PD sampling will be performed at specific visits. Subjects who do not provide
      consent for this optional sub-study will still be eligible for the main study.

      The overall study duration for an individual subject will be 17 to 20 weeks, including a
      screening period of one to 4 weeks, a double-blind treatment period of 12 weeks, and a
      follow-up period of 4 weeks. The total duration of the study is expected to be 2 years.
    
  