
    
      Study Design/Procedure: The proposed study uses a double blind, parallel, placebo control
      design to test the hypotheses that augmentation of suppressed NMDA receptor function
      following pediatric msTBI with D-cycloserine (DCS) will increase neural activation, and when
      used in conjunction with cognitive training will enhance the effect of cognitive training on
      working memory (WM). Participants who show WM weaknesses within 12 to 24 months post-injury
      will be randomly assigned to one of two arms in the proposed study. Weakness in WM is
      operationally defined as a working memory index (WMI) standard score below 90 or evidence of
      at least a 10-point discrepancy between IQ and WMI. Given the purpose of the study (improving
      working memory), there is little utility in including children who do no demonstrate
      weaknesses in WM. Participants in both treatment arms will complete baseline evaluations on
      the WM and executive functioning (EF) tests that assess generalization, and parents will
      complete questionnaires that assess WM and attentional functioning. (Note: participants who
      completed their 12-month RAPBI visit within three months of enrollment in the current project
      will complete only novel measures). All participants will then receive their first Cogmed
      training session. During this first visit, participants will be also complete our MRI
      protocol immediately before and two hours after the first dose of DCS or placebo to measure
      the acute physiological response to DCS. Both groups will then complete six weeks of Cogmed
      training and in addition either DCS or placebo. Cogmed training will be completed in the
      home, with the parent/guardian supervising completion. During the six weeks of training, both
      you and your child will speak with a coach once a week, who will guide your child through the
      program and help to monitor his/her progress. Participants will travel to UCLA half-way
      through their training to consult with one of the medical personnel regarding the medication
      and to note any side effects. At the end of the sixth week, participants will be retested on
      our MRI protocol and non-trained measures of WM and EF. Parents will complete the
      questionnaires that assess WM and attention. Three months after the termination of treatment,
      participants will again return to UCLA to complete one session of Cogmed training and will be
      retested on the non-trained measures of WM and EF. Their parents will complete questionnaires
      to assess the maintenance of training.

      Intercurrent events: Participants in the proposed project will be at least 12 months
      post-TBI. It is unlikely that new treatments will be initiated during the 4.5 months they are
      enrolled in the proposed project. Nevertheless we will monitor the medical and behavioral
      treatments outside of our study to ensure that they are not confounds.

      Cogmed Training: Participants will perform the Cogmed WM training program via web-based
      software on a personal computer. If they do not have a personal computer, we will provide
      them with a laptop to borrow for the six weeks of training. Participants will train for 45
      minutes per day, five days per week, for six weeks. Memory stimuli are presented in a
      computerized system in a total of eight visuospatial and verbal WM training exercises. Each
      training exercise consists of 15 trials. The exercises are in a video game format-with
      colorful graphics and crisp sound. In one spatial WM exercise the child remembers the
      sequence in which rows of lights turn on; in a verbal WM exercise the child recalls numbers
      in the reverse order in which they are given. The child uses a computer mouse to click the
      answers and earns points for performing well. The exercises train the child to attend to the
      screen and to visualize the location and remember the stimuli. For each of the eight WM
      training exercises difficulty is adjusted by changing the number of stimuli to be remembered.
      Training is performed close to the capacity of the individual by using an adaptive staircase
      method that adjusts difficulty on a trial-by-trial basis. At the end of each training day an
      Improvement index is calculated that measures improvement during the training period. The
      Improvement index is based on the person's results on three exercises.

      On the first visit to UCLA, a coach will meet with the child and parent/guardian to teach
      them how to use the Cogmed program. The coach may encourage use a reward system to motivate
      and reinforce the child for training. The coach set up weekly times to contact the family.
      During these calls, the coach will review the child's progress, offer encouragement, and
      download performance data. The results of the improvement index will be shared with parents
      or adult participants, similar to how standardized paper and pencil neurocognitive test
      results are shared in clinical settings.

      DCS treatment: DCS can have opposing effects at low dose vs. high dose. In mouse cerebellar
      tissue there is an inverted U-shaped dose-response relationship. At low DCS concentrations,
      agonist activity may reflect binding to NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunits. In contrast, at
      higher DCS concentrations antagonist effects may become prominent. Consistent with the above
      research, in both animal models and clinical applications, isolated low dose DCS treatments
      appear to have significant advantages over chronic treatment at higher doses. In animal
      models, a single dose of DCS reversed cognitive impairment produced by hippocampal lesions,
      anticholinergic agents, and early social deprivation. In healthy animals, a single dose of
      DCS enhanced extinction of conditioned fear performance on maze tasks, and visual recognition
      memory. Mice treated with a single, low-dose of DCS 24 or 72 hours after TBI exhibited
      significantly more rapid and complete recovery of motor and memory function compared with
      untreated controls. Tachyphylaxis rapidly develops with repeated dosing of DCS. A single dose
      of DCS administered within 30 minutes of extinction training increases 24 hour retention of
      fear extinction approximately 3-fold, whereas this effect was completely attenuated by 5
      doses of DCS administered over 10 days preceding the extinction training.

      We will use isolated, low doses of DCS in the proposed project. When used to treat
      psychiatric symptoms or cognitive impairments in children the typical dose is 50-100mg. A
      meta-analysis of the effect of DCS augmentation of fear extinction and exposure therapy did
      not find significant dose related effects across studies but in the one clinical study that
      systematically investigated doses, there was some evidence of greater efficacy with a higher
      dose. In the proposed study participants will receive 100 mg of DCS. The same meta-analysis
      found that the best effects were evident when DCS was administered either immediately before
      or after exposure training compared to a four hour delay. Animal models and human studies
      suggest that DCS does not affect performance during training; instead, it selectively
      improves memory consolidation for new learning typically assessed 24 hour after training. The
      acute physiological effects of DCS on brain activation, however, can be observed two hours
      after DCS administration on fMRI.

      In the proposed study children will take a pill (DCS or placebo) every other day immediately
      prior to Cogmed training. Over six weeks of Cogmed training they will train 18 days after
      taking a pill and 12 days without taking a pill. This intermittent, isolated dosing should
      minimize tachyphylaxis and reduce the possibility that Cogmed training results in state
      dependent learning.

      Double Blind: The UCLA pharmacy will fabricate identically appearing capsules for 100 mg of
      DCS and placebo. Only the research pharmacist will know whether a child is receiving DCS or
      Placebo. The child and parent, the Cogmed coach, research psychologists, and the clinicians
      monitoring side effects will not know what drug the child is receiving. If there are
      clinically significant side effects, the blind will be broken.

      Safety monitoring: Children in the DCS and placebo arms will be seen by Drs. Giza or Choe,
      who are pediatric neurologists, or their nurse practitioner three to four weeks after the
      initiation of treatment. In addition, the Cogmed coach will probe for side effects on each
      coaching call. Side effects will be assessed using a structured instrument and open-ended
      clinician inquiry. While there are scales for rating stimulant-related adverse events, we are
      not aware of a broadly accepted tool for glutamatergic agonists. Therefore, we will modify
      the Physical Symptom Checklist developed for the Research Units on Pediatric
      Psychopharmacology, which includes a range of potential adverse events.

      Maximizing compliance/minimizing attrition: Weekly phone calls will be used to check on
      progress with Cogmed and assess motivation/compliance. As noted above, the coach may
      recommend use of a reward system to motivate and reinforce training. Any problems or issues
      will also be discussed during this call, with regards to both Cogmed and medication side
      effects. Participants will also meet with medical personnel during the third or fourth week
      of training to discuss possible side effects.
    
  