
    
      This is a parallel cluster randomized controlled single-blind trial of consumer-directed
      financial incentives paired with provider-directed financial incentives (intervention),
      compared to provider-directed financial incentives alone (control) on the completion of ACP
      among Partnership HealthPlan of California (PHC) Medi-Cal patients. PHC is a county-organized
      health system contracted by the State of California to provide a health care delivery system
      for 360,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries in Northern California. PHC has 400 contracted Primary
      Care Provider (PCP) entities, representing over 2000 individual physicians, working in solo
      practice, small groups, community health centers, large groups, and integrated health
      systems. The rationale for using PHC is their commitment to experimenting with strategies to
      improve ACP, including their current quality improvement program incentive payment to PCPs to
      discuss and document ACP with patients 65+ and <65 with a serious chronic illness.

      The investigators will randomize 40 PCPs to one of two different patient education packets
      for their patients. Each PCP is eligible for financial incentives for documenting ACP (usual
      care), regardless of the randomization group.

      Each PCP will be responsible for identifying and enrolling 10 eligible subjects during
      routine clinic visits, for a target enrollment of 400 patient subjects.

      The investigators will stratify randomization based on salience of the financial incentive
      (e.g., accrues directly to non-salaried provider, such as in a private practice, or accrues
      to the organization of a salaried provider, such as in a Federally Qualified Health Center or
      multispecialty group).

      All enrolled patients will receive access to the patient education tool, Prepare for Your
      Care (www.prepareforyourcare.org), developed by Dr. Sudore for low-literacy Medi-Cal
      populations, in their education packets. The intervention group patients will additionally be
      offered a consumer (patient) financial incentive. the primary outcome of the study is having
      a conversation with the PCP about ACP. Secondary outcomes include: 1) website use metrics and
      2) attitudes about providing financial incentives for ACP (among a purposively sampled subset
      of participants).
    
  