
    
      The investigators invite all Indonesian Hajj Health Officers candidates to participate in
      research on physical fitness (VO2max) which is an important part of providing Hajj health
      services in Saudi Arabia while they are on duty. I was involved in the RT-PCR examination and
      physical fitness test (VO2max) that was carried out before the intervention program and was
      briefed on the examination protocol before being tested. The consent form was given to me
      first to be handled. I was informed about the intervention process and the purpose of the
      research, as well as the confidentiality of the data, collected. And it was also stated that
      I would be allowed to withdraw from the research at any time without pressure and coercion
      from any party. The procedure investigators will do is take samples from prospective
      Indonesian Hajj Health Officers undergoing a series of anamneses and physical examinations by
      doctors, in the form of personal data, physical activities, general physical examinations
      including TB, BB, HR, RR, then performed the physical activity eligibility forms. Next, a 1
      ml blood sample is taken into a purple test tube containing EDTA to prevent lysis. The blood
      sample is taken to the HUM-RC Makassar Biomolecular Biology laboratory and stored in a frozen
      cupboard, after which an initial physical fitness measurement (VO2max) test is carried out
      using the Multi Fitness Test (MFT) or Bleep Test to PRE TEST at the Health Training Center
      (Health Training Center) BBPK) Makassar, followed by running exercises intervention as far as
      1600 meters 3 times a week duration of 20-30 each training session with a frequency of
      exercise 16 times 5 weeks according to a predetermined schedule, then conducted a physical
      fitness test (VO2max) using the same method when PRE TEST to POST TEST I, followed by 1 ml
      blood sampling at Sudiang Embarkation Hajj Makassar, then 1 week later physical fitness test
      (VO2max) to POST TEST II without blood sampling is taken again.

      Participants (n = 30), measured physical fitness level (VO2max) using the Multistage Fitness
      Test (MFT) Bleep Test (level and feedback) method before being given intervention
      (pre-exercise), after that given a running intervention 1600 meters duration 20 -30 minutes
      each training session 3 times a week with a frequency of exercise16 times for 5 weeks, then
      physical fitness measurements (VO2max) → (post-exercise 1), then intermittent 1-week duration
      of physical fitness measurements (VO2max) again without intervention and blood sampling
      (post-exercise 2).

      Participants only joined in one group will be given intervention for 5 weeks in the form of
      running 1600 meters duration of 20-30 minutes 3 times a week. It is important for the
      participants as well as for us to know which training methods are given. this information
      will be documented in our file, but the investigators will not see these files until after
      the research is complete. this is the best way the investigators have for testing without
      being influenced by what the investigators think or expect might happen.

      The doctor in charge of research will always look after the participants very carefully
      during the study. If the investigators are worried about what is done, the investigators will
      find out how the level of physical fitness that participants get and make changes. If there
      is something the participant is worried about or is disturbing the Participant about the
      research, please talk to me or one of the other researchers.

      In this study, the investigators did not use a placebo term, but the investigators still
      explained to participants in the world of research that the term placebo is known as clinical
      trials or interventions given to participants that are not genuine but fake. For good
      research, participants mustn't know whether the participants have been properly measured
      according to the criteria or not. This is one of the best ways the investigators have to find
      out what level of physical fitness the investigators are testing. No side effects might occur
      because the previous sample was very rigorously selected through analysis, physical
      examination and physical activity feasibility testing. If Participants find that Our
      interventions are very uncomfortable for participants, the investigators can use other
      exercise options more comfortably according to the available exercise choices.

      The possibility of danger, risk, or side effects in this study is very small because the
      selection of samples is done very closely starting with anamnesis and head-to-toe physical
      examination and continued with a physical activity feasibility test (PAR-Q). If the physical
      fitness test occurs when there is suffocation, the researcher has prepared 2 medical staff
      who accompanied the subjects during the physical fitness test and also in this study the
      investigators prepared 2 clinics namely the Makassar BBPK Health Clinic which was used during
      the physical fitness pre-test and the Clinic Musytasyfa Health Makassar Haji Sudiang
      Dormitory that was used at the time of physical fitness post-test.

      During the study, the investigators carried out a series of research processes as follows:
      Pre-exercise

        -  In the first stage: Conducting anamneses and physical examinations by doctors, in the
           form of personal data, physical activity, general physical examination including Height,
           Weight, Heart Rate, Respiratory Rate, Blood Pressure (BP)

        -  In the second stage: Completion of physical activity eligibility forms.

        -  In the third step: a 1 ml blood sample is taken into a purple test tube containing EDTA
           to prevent lysis. The blood samples were taken to the Makassar HUM-RC Biomolecular
           Biology laboratory and stored in a frozen cupboard.

        -  In the fourth step: Measurement of the initial physical fitness test (VO2max) using the
           Multi Fitness Test (MFT) or Bleep Test to PRE TEST at the Makassar Health Training
           Center (BBPK) Endurance Exercise

        -  In the first stage: Selecting an exercise schedule according to the provisions of the
           study

        -  In the second stage: Exercise choice I: Monday-Wednesday-Friday; Exercise choice II:
           Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday; Exercise choice III: Wednesday-Friday-Sunday

        -  In the third stage: Document endurance exercises in the form of a video exercise Post
           Exercise I

        -  In the first stage: Initial physical fitness test (VO2max) measurement using the Multi
           Fitness Test (MFT) or Bleep Test to POST TEST I at the Haji Sudiang Makassar Dormitory
           In the second stage: Recovery 1 hour after the physical fitness test In the third stage:
           Taking 1 ml of blood sample inserted in a purple test tube containing EDTA to prevent
           lysis. The blood samples were taken to the Makassar HUM-RC Biomolecular Biology
           laboratory and stored in a frozen cupboard.

      Post Exercise II Measurement of the initial physical fitness test (VO2max) using the Multi
      Fitness Test (MFT) or Bleep Test to POST TEST II at the Makassar Sports Hall
    
  