
    
      In STEMI patients undergoing PPCI there is a delayed onset of action of oral P2Y12 receptor
      inhibitors, including prasugrel and ticagrelor, which require more than 2 hours to exert
      their full antiplatelet effects, and thus exposing these high-risk patients to an increased
      risk of early thrombotic complications. The mechanism of this delayed onset of antiplatelet
      effect is likely multifactorial due to the presence in the setting of STEMI of specific
      conditions that translate into delayed drug absorption which in turn affect the
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of oral P2Y12 receptor inhibitors.
      Crushing prasugrel and ticagrelor improves their PK and PD profiles as it favors drug
      absorption and onset of antiplatelet effects and because of this, it is commonly used in
      STEMI patients undergoing PPCI. However, despite the use of crushed tablets, up to one-third
      of patients may still have high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR) within the first 2
      hours after loading dose (LD) administration of these oral agents. Cangrelor is a potent
      intravenous P2Y12 receptor inhibitor with rapid onset and offset of action associated with a
      greater reduction in ischemic events compared with clopidogrel in P2Y12 receptor naïve
      patients undergoing PCI. To date most studies have explored cangrelor in the setting of PCI
      subjects treated with clopidogrel and the clinical profile of cangrelor among patients
      treated with prasugrel or ticagrelor is currently unknown. This is noteworthy because ACS
      patients, in particular STEMI undergoing PPCI, are commonly treated with either prasugrel or
      ticagrelor. PD investigations conducted in vitro or ex vivo in stable patients have shown
      cangrelor to be associated with enhanced platelet inhibition compared with that induced by
      prasugrel and ticagrelor. However, the PD effects of cangrelor in STEMI patients undergoing
      PPCI treated with a newer generation P2Y12 receptor inhibitor and how this compares with a
      crushed formulation of the oral drug is unexplored. The aim of this prospective randomized
      study is to investigate the PD effects of cangrelor in STEMI patients undergoing PPCI treated
      with crushed ticagrelor.
    
  