
    
      1. MAIN GOAL To evaluate through a pilot study the viability of establishing and
           maintaining for one year in selected Spanish centers the set of standards for measuring
           results in patients with heart failure proposed by ICHOM (International Consortium for
           Health Outcomes Measurement). (International Consortium for Health Outcomes
           Measurement).

        2. SPECIFIC GOALS To identify factors that hinder the use and applicability of this group
           of standards in real life, where appropriate, defined as the variables not filled in and
           the reason for the absence of such information To estimate the workload necessary to
           implement this set of variables within everyday clinical practice.

        3. STUDY DESIGN Observational pilot study with prospective follow-up with data collection
           at 30 days, 6 months and 1 year.

      Due to the defined objective, the methods used are, to a large extent, those proposed by
      ICHOM, except in those sections that may be slightly modified to adapt to the local
      situation.

      3.1. Selection of centers and patients Six centers with experience and adequate organization
      (heart failure unit) and with a sufficient size have been selected to guarantee the
      recruitment of patients in a short period of time (around three weeks). The main
      justification was to seek, within the usual clinical practice, centers where, due to the
      organization and interest in heart failure, the chances of success of this initiative were
      greater.

      100 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of heart failure who meet inclusion criteria and
      with no exclusion criteria will be selected in each center.

      3.2. Sample size considerations For the main outcome, success is considered if the proportion
      of patients followed is ≥ 70%. A random sample of 588 individuals is sufficient to estimate,
      with 95% confidence and a precision of +/- 3.5 percentage units, a population percentage that
      is expected to be around 75%. Six Spanish centers will participate and a recruitment target
      of 100 consecutive patients is set, for a total of 600 patients in the study. In addition,
      these sizes in each center offer, accepting an alpha risk of 0.05, a power greater than 80%
      to detect statistically significant differences between two centers, assuming that a
      follow-up of 75% of patients is achieved in one and 55% in the other.

      3.3. Follow-up From the baseline or inclusion visit and afterwards, in newly diagnosed
      patients or in those recruited in an acute situation, follow-up visits at 30 days, 6 months
      and 1 year [Hospitalized patients (1. A recent diagnosis, that is, they did not previously
      have the diagnosis of HF and 2.Patients with a previous diagnosis of HF and who are admitted
      for an episode of decompensation of HF) and Outpatients (1. A recent diagnosis that is in the
      process of titration and/or compensation and 2.A previous diagnosis, that they have suffered
      a decompensation, either defined because they have had to go to the emergency room or have
      been seen in the outpatient clinic for that reason)].

      In patients who were included in a stable situation, the 30-day visit will not be carried out
      (Outpatients: "Stable" patients attending a follow-up visit. A simple follow-up) since doing
      so would unjustifiably complicate the follow-up, giving more work and discomfort to patients
      and health professionals. The outcomes reported by the patient (PROMs) in the visits every
      six months may be collected by telephone contact if the doctor, due to the stable situation
      of the patient, does not consider the face-to-face visit necessary. Information will be
      collected at in the case of hospital admissions during follow-up, these admissions also set
      the "counter to zero" with regard to time for the following visits (30 days, six months…).

      4. DATA COLLECTION AND MANAGEMENT A data entry application will be enabled that will include
      filters to detect inconsistencies and anomalous data and alarms for patient monitoring. The
      data will be anonymized for all the people involved in the study except for the person in
      charge in each center, who will be able to identify their patients to enable follow-up.

      5. PLAN FOR DATA ANALYSIS Two data analyses are planned, one that includes the information
      from the baseline visit and the 30-day visit (in patients for whom it is indicated in the
      protocol) and the final one with all the information collected. In both cases, a global
      analysis and a comparison between centers (benchmarking) will be carried out.

      In line with the main objective of this pilot study, the main variables are the proportion of
      patients who remain in follow-up, the proportion of patients in whom follow-up is carried
      out, in terms of time, as planned, and the proportion of missing data in each one of the
      defined outcomes.

      The pilot's success criteria will be a follow-up> 70%, a proportion of missing data in the
      outcomes <10%.
    
  