
    
      This will be a randomized crossover clinical trial, double blind, in which individuals will
      be randomly assigned into two different treatments: daily mouthrinse of chlorhexidine
      gluconate (0.12%) or daily mouthrinse of a nanoparticle solution of M. alternifolia (0.3%)
      during a period of oral hygiene withdrawal.

      The test panel will consist of 59 students from the Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa
      Maria, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. All subjects will receive written and oral explanations
      regarding the purpose and design of this study. Those who met the inclusion criteria will be
      selected for a dental screening appointment, being removed in the presence of any exclusion
      criteria. All volunteers will be asked to sign an informed consent before the experimental
      period.

      The following clinical parameters will be assessed:

        -  Plaque index (PI) Quigley and Hein modified by Turesky.

        -  Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) will be measured with an electronic gingival fluid
           measuring device (Periotron®).

        -  Gingival abrasion (GA) using 2-Tone disclosing solution.

        -  Perception of appreciation (Questionnaire-VAS scale). Descriptive analysis of PI data
           will be performed using averages, standard deviations and average percentage of sites
           with different PI scores. The normal distribution of the data will be evaluated by the
           Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures will be
           used to test for differences between groups. Paired student's t-test will be conducted
           to test whether there were significant differences between the baseline measurements of
           PI, GA, GCF and perception of appreciation after the use of mouthwash. The statistical
           tests will be performed using the program SPSS 20.0 (Statistical Package for the Social
           Sciences, Chicago, USA).
    
  