
    
      Rib fractures represent a common injury pattern with high associated morbidity and mortality.
      Effective pain control in both the acute and long term periods remains a challenge. Surgical
      stabilization of rib fractures (SSRF) is now a recommended treatment for patients with severe
      chest wall injuries. In addition to stabilization of the chest wall, SSRF offers a unique
      opportunity to deliver directed, loco-regional anesthesia. Loco-regional anesthesia is a
      recognized, essential component of multi-modal anesthesia for patients with rib fractures in
      order to both decrease pain and minimize the use of opioids and their associated side
      effects.

      Delivery options for loco-regional anesthesia to patients with rib fractures share in common
      the intention of anesthetizing the intercostal nerves. Moving from the spinal cord laterally,
      modalities include thoracic epidural catheters, paravertebral blocks or catheters, and
      rib/intercostal blocks. Although rib blocks may be accomplished via a variety of techniques,
      the two most common intra-operative techniques are video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery
      (VATS) intercostal nerve blocks and indwelling, subscapular catheters In general, neuraxial
      modalities such as thoracic epidural and para-vertebral injections/catheters are subject to a
      wide array of limitations, including patient coagulopathy (International Normalized Ratio >
      1.5), co-existing spine fractures, peri-insertion, peri-removal withholding of venous
      thromboembolism pharmacoprophylaxis, and provider availability. For these reasons, our
      current practice is to insert a subscapular "pain catheter" at the conclusion of the SSRF
      operation; this catheter is able to deliver a continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine and
      may be left in place for several days.

      Although favorable results using the pain catheter have been published in patients with rib
      fractures who have not undergone SSRF, we have noticed several limitations to this treatment
      modality. First, position is highly variable; and, because the catheter is not truly in the
      space of the intercostal nerves, drug delivery is likely irregular. This variability may be
      particularly relevant in obese patients; and the median body mass index of patient who
      underwent SSRF at Denver Health is 29 kg/m^2. Beyond catheter placement, we have also
      experienced issues with leakage of drug from the skin entry site of the catheter. Moreover,
      catheters frequently become dislodged or inadvertently removed during patient transport.
      Further, the indwelling foreign body likely introduces some risk of infection. Finally, the
      presence of the catheter is distressing to many patients.

      Liposomal bupivacaine (Exparel, Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Parsippany, NJ, www.pacira.com)
      has been shown to provide sustained analgesia for up to 72 hours following a single injection
      of the drug delivery system. The safety and efficacy of liposomal bupivacaine has been
      evaluated in over 1,300 subjects and 21 clinical trials. Although many of these trials have
      included thoracic surgery patients, no trial has evaluated the efficacy and safety of
      liposomal bupivacaine administered to patients with rib fractures undergoing SSRF. Potential
      benefits as compared to current practice include directed injection immediately adjacent to
      the intercostal nerve using a VATS approach, as well as obviation of the need for an
      indwelling catheter. The hypothesis of the current clinical trial is that, among patients
      undergoing SSRF, liposomal bupivacaine delivered via video assisted thoracic surgery (VATS)
      is an intercostal nerve block that provides comparable analgesia to the pain catheter, as
      measured by pulmonary function, numeric pain scoring, and postoperative narcotic use.
    
  