
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the biologically effective and tolerable dose (BETD) of the
      bortezomib/sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) combination in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with
      biological activity defined as the dose(s) that induce a 100% increase (i.e. a doubling) in
      the level of microRNA-29b (miR-29b) in bone marrow (BM) after bortezomib/sorafenib treatment
      from pretreatment levels in at least 5 out of 6 patients at a given dose levels.

      II. To recommend a dose level for a Phase II study using this agent combination in patients
      with AML.

      III. To define the specific toxicities and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of bortezomib in
      combination with sorafenib and decitabine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of this combination. II. To determine the
      rate of complete remission (CR) of this combination. III. To conduct pharmacodynamic studies
      by measuring the effect of this chemotherapy combination on the micronome, kinome and
      epigenome.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib and sorafenib tosylate.

      STEP A: Patients receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) on days 1 and 4, sorafenib tosylate
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14, and decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on
      days 5-14.

      STEP B: Patients receive bortezomib SC on days 1, 4, and 8 or 1, 4, 8 and 11, sorafenib
      tosylate PO BID on days 1-14, and decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 9-18 or 12-21.

      STEP C: Patients receive bortezomib SC on days 1, 4, and 8 or 1, 4, 8 and 11, sorafenib
      tosylate PO BID on days 1-14, and decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 5-14.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients achieving complete response (CR) or incomplete CR (CRi) receive maintenance therapy
      comprising decitabine IV on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 30 days.
    
  