
    
      After Theodor Bilharz Research Institute (TBRI) Ethics Committee approval, sixty patients
      scheduled for ERCP procedures will be informed about the study and written consents will be
      obtained.

      Patients will be allocated into two groups, thirty patients each, Magnesium (M) and
      Dexmedetomidine (D). Group (M) will receive 40 mg.kg-1 of magnesium sulphate bolus followed
      by IV infusion of 10 mg.kg-1.h-1. Group (D) will receive dexmedetomidine bolus (1μg.kg-1)
      followed by infusion of 0.5μg.kg-1h-1 all through the procedure.

      Randomization of the patients will be established by computer generated random number table
      utilizing sealed envelope technique.

      On arrival to the ERCP suit, two IV cannulae will be inserted in both hands of each patient
      in both groups. One for isotonic saline infusion and propofol administration and the other
      will be preserved for the study drug administration. IV fluid will be started at a rate of
      8-12 ml.kg-1.h-1 continued throughout the procedure. All patients will be premedicated with
      intravenous pantoprazole 40mg and ondansetron 8mg.

      Routine monitoring of ECG, pulse oximetry, non-invasive blood pressure will be established
      before induction of sedation. BIS three electrodes sensor will be applied over the patient's
      forehead using fronto-temporal montage for the monitoring of level of sedation . The baseline
      variables will be recorded and documented as well as continuous monitoring and documentation
      every 5 min for the first 30 min and every 10 min till the end of procedure. Supplemental
      oxygen will be administered with nasal prongs at 3 l.min-1. The total duration of the
      procedure, defined as the time taken from insertion of the endoscope to its removal, will
      also be documented.

      Each study drug will be loaded in 50 ml syringes (for both bolus and infusion) & labeled as
      "study drug bolus" and "study drug infusion". The identity of the constituted drug in the
      syringe is not revealed to the anesthetist handling the patients and the observer recording
      the post procedure variables. Depending upon the body weight, each patient will receive a
      bolus of the study drug, diluted up to 50 ml with saline (direct IV)followed by infusion of
      the same drug in another 50 ml using a syringe pump. Each bolus will be given and the rate of
      drug infusion will be adjusted by the anesthesia resident not involved in the study.

      The study drugs IV infusions will be administered using injector pumps with unidentified
      screen to assure that the observer remains blinded.

      For each patient, bolus dose of the each study drug will be administered slowly over 10 min,
      after mouth gag insertion and patient positioning (either lateral or prone position) followed
      by induction with propofol in a dose of 0.5-1.5 mgkg-1, targeting BIS between 60-70.Once the
      target BIS is attained, the infusion of the study drug is started with the pre-adjusted rate
      (discussed before) along with the propofol maintenance infusion starting at a rate of 3
      mg/kg/hr to be adjusted to maintain a BIS value between 60-70.At the end of the procedure,
      propofol and study drug infusions will be stopped. BIS values will be allowed equilibrating
      above 80. Patients oropharynx will be thoroughly suctioned and patients will be turned supine
      with head up tilt (15 degrees), to allow for complete recovery with eye opening on command,
      ability to handle secretions, follow simple commands, hemodynamic stability, maintaining O2
      saturation at room air >95% and attainment of BIS value >90 as end points
    
  