
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia encountered in clinical practice, and
      is increasing in both incidence and prevalence. Almost two hundred thousand Catalonian people
      over 60 year-old currently have AF, and estimates project that between 250.000 and 300.000
      will be affected by 2050. Perhaps the most important consequence of AF is the risk of embolic
      stroke.

      It has been estimated that around one in five strokes are attributed to AF overall, and one
      in three strokes in people over the age of 80 are attributed to AF. AF-related strokes are
      associated with significant morbidity, mortality and healthcare costs, yet they are highly
      preventable. Unfortunately, AF is often undiagnosed or untreated when stroke occurs.

      In addition, the absolute prevalence of undiagnosed atrial fibrillation in individuals over
      60 years of age is 2.2%, equivalent to 20.1% of the overall prevalence of AF. This is higher
      than in the reports of other studies, which range from 0.49% to 1.7% when diagnosed by means
      of standard ECG, but lower than the AF incidence (30%) detected by continuous monitoring in
      patients with risk factors for stroke. The prevalence of AF in the community is probably
      underestimated, as a consequence of the failure to detect and diagnose it and may be
      responsible for an additional subset of the 25-40% of strokes of unknown cause. It has been
      suggested that asymptomatic AF represents a third of the total AF population, a result
      confirmed in pacemaker studies. Around thirty eight thousand Catalonian people over 60
      year-old currently could suffer unknown AF, and consequently non-treated, and estimates
      project that between 1,350-2,475 stroke/year could be related to this untreated condition.

      While the data confirm the evident age-related increase in the prevalence of persistent AF
      and demonstrate that hypertension is the most frequently associated cardiovascular risk
      factor together with the presence of cardiovascular disease there is not sufficient evidence
      regarding the procedures that may be most effective for achieving an early diagnosis of AF
      and reducing the associated risks. A significant proportion of people with AF are diag¬nosed
      by chance during health assessments carried out for other reasons, or due to having a stroke.
      There may be multiple reasons for under-diagnosis, including the fact that AF can be
      asymptomatic and a lack of awareness about the condition and its symptoms. There is
      considerable interest in developing AF screening programs

      Opportunistic screening, where patients are checked for AF when they visit doctors for other
      reasons, is widely supported as a means to achieve higher rates of detec¬tion to enable early
      intervention. Screening for AF anyone >65 years or at high risk of stroke has been
      recommended by Mention of European Society of Cardiology (ESC), Stroke Alliance for Europe
      (SAFE), European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA), Royal College of Physicians of Edinburg
      (RCPE), World Healthcare Forum (WHF), European Primary Care Cardiovascular Society (EPCCS),
      Health Information and Quality Authority (HIQA), and AF-SCREEN. Currently, routine mass
      screenings are not carried out in any countries at a national level. Opportunistic screening
      was tested against routine screening by the SAFE study, which found that opportunistic
      screening improved on routine practice and out¬reach campaign in Spain[23] was found to have
      had little effect on diagnosis of previously undetected AF and it was concluded that
      opportunistic screening is thus a better strategy for early detection.

      It is important to note that, for many patients with AF, the condition is often asymptomatic
      - or associated with minor symptoms that are ignored or unrecognized by patients - and some
      type of AF screening is needed. Until the new external devices can be used more widely, ECG
      combined with reviews of medical history will continue to be the most feasible noninvasive
      strategy for identifying individuals with AF in epidemiological studies. The key issue,
      however, is not which test is best for diagnosing AF or how to undertake an effective
      screening procedure, but it is rather the appropriate measurement of results and achieving
      optimal effectiveness.
    
  