
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common problem among women and its incidence is rising due
      to population aging. Approximately 11-19% of women will undergo surgery for pelvic organ
      prolapse (POP) or urinary incontinence during their lifetime and approximately 30% will need
      repeat surgery during their lifetime .Apical prolapse (AP) is a prolapse of the uterus, or
      vaginal cuff, in women post hysterectomy. The severity of the prolapsed organ can be graded
      according to the POP-Q classification .There are several approaches to apical fixation, some
      of which are done vaginally and include fixation by sutures to the uterosacral ligament
      (USLF) or the sacrospinous ligament (SSLF). A mesh can be used for ligament fixation as well.
      The abdominal approach is also an option, the sacro-colpo-pexy fixation using a Y mesh.
      Apical fixation to the SSL was first introduced in 1968 by K.RICHTER. medical devices such as
      the Capio that assist in performing SSLF were also developed with ease.

      In a review article that included 2,390 women undergoing SSLF subjective cure rate ranged
      from 70 to 98%, while objective cure rate was 67-97% .Such fixation in combination with
      posterior or anterior wall repair, especially after hysterectomy, showed a 94% objective cure
      rate at 7-year postoperative follow-up. A randomized study (The "OPTIMAL randomised trial")
      comparing SSLF with USLF found no preference for either method. Success rates were measured
      according to three criteria - 1) no significant vaginal dome or one of the vaginal walls 2)
      no vaginal bulge symptoms 3) no need for repeated surgery within two years of the original
      surgery. According to this study, the success rates of SSLF after two years were 63.1%.

      Among women with anterior vaginal wall prolapse and AP, SSLF can be performed in two ways:
      anterior access, ie dissection through the anterior wall of the vagina or fixation through
      the posterior wall of the vagina. A retrospective comparison of the two methods was
      performed, demonstrating some efficacy in anterior approach in terms of vaginal length and
      postoperative apical fixation with less reference to healing rates or impact on the anterior
      compartment, compared with a posterior approach.

      From the literature review to date, no comparisons were made between the methods in a
      randomized controlled trial.

      Objective: To compare the success rates of two approaches (anterior and posterior) for SSLF
    
  