
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. The Phase I portion of this clinical trial tests the
      safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of
      the investigational intervention to use for further studies. The Phase II portion of the
      study tests the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether
      the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the
      intervention is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of
      Palbociclib, Everolimus, and Exemestane as a treatment for any disease.

      This is the first time that the combination of Palbociclib, Everolimus, and Exemestane will
      be given to humans.

      Palbociclib is a drug that may stop cancer cells from growing. Palbociclib blocks activity of
      two closely related enzymes (proteins that help chemical reactions occur in the body), called
      Cyclin D Kinases 4 and 6 (CDK 4/6). These proteins are part of a pathway, or a sequence of
      steps, which is known to regulate cell growth. Laboratory testing has suggested Palbociclib
      may stop the growth of HR+ breast cancer.

      Everolimus is a type of drug called an mTORinhibitor that treats breast cancer by preventing
      the cells from multiplying by inhibiting the pathway, or a sequence of steps, known to
      regulate cell reproduction. Everolimus also may stop the growth of cancer cells by decreasing
      blood supply to the cancer cells.

      Exemestane is an anti-hormone therapy that prevents breast cancer cell growth by blocking
      estrogen receptor stimulation. Premenopausal women will also receive an injection drug called
      an LHRH (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone) agonist to shut down ovary function. It is
      standard of care for people with breast cancer, specifically with HR+ breast cancer, to take
      anti-hormone therapy.

      The combination of everolimus and exemestane is FDA approved to treat this type of breast
      cancer.

      The purpose of the Phase I portion of this research study is to determine a safe and
      tolerable dose of the combination of Palbociclib, Everolimus, and Exemestane for participants
      with ER-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer.

      The purpose of the Phase II portion of this research study is to determine whether the
      combination of Palbociclib, Everolimus, and Exemestane is an effective treatment for
      participants with ER-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer.
    
  