
    
      Research Design A prospective randomized controlled interventional study

      Methodology /Technical Approach A total of up to 60 subjects will be recruited to allow for
      completion of the study by a minimum of 17 subjects per arm. Subjects will be randomized to
      one of two groups in a 1:1 ratio. Recruited subjects will be adult coffee drinkers between
      the ages of 18-45 without hyperlipidemia and without criteria for diabetes or pre-diabetes.
      Subjects will have baseline weight, waist circumference (WC), and blood-pressure (BP)
      measurements obtained. Subjects will have baseline fasting lipids,, CMP,HbA1c,TSH,and hsCRP.
      The subjects will be stratified by gender and randomized to receive one of two dietary
      regimens: 1) coffee (< 50 kcal of added creamer/sweetener) or 2) coffee with butter +
      medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) oil combination (2 tbsp. MCT containing 230kcal and 28gm fat+
      2 tbsp butter containing 200kcal and 22gm fat). The drink will be consumed daily over a 4
      week period. Dietary history will be evaluated by via the ASA24website
      (http://appliedresearch.cancer.gov/asa24/). At 6 and 12 weeks post-consent, baseline labs
      will be repeated. The primary outcome is change in apolipoprotein B between groups. Secondary
      outcomes include changes in lipids, WC, BP, HbA1c, and FBG. Exploratory analysis will include
      changes in dietary macronutrient load and subgroup analysis of effects related to dietary
      patterns.

      Primary objective:

      1. Evaluate clinically and statistically significant changes of apoB number in healthy adults
      who consume coffee with butter and MCT oil.

      Secondary objectives:

      1. Evaluating change in:

        1. non-HDL-c

        2. LDL-c

        3. triglycerides

        4. BP

        5. waist circumference

        6. FBG

        7. HbA1c

      Exploratory objective:

      1. Change in macronutrient profiles of dietary patterns.

      Our null hypothesis is that the addition of butter and medium-chain triglyceride oil at
      proposed doses has no clinically significant effects on atherogenic lipoproteins, namely apo
      lipoprotein B particles (apoB).
    
  