
    
      Scientific background:

      Preeclampsia is an idiopathic maternal, multi organ, specific pregnancy disorder, associated
      with significant maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. Preeclampsia complicates
      approximately 2-8% of all pregnancies. The disorder is characterized by new-onset of
      hypertension and proteinuria developing after gestational week 20. While the pathogenesis of
      the disease remains not completely understood, a possible explanation is endothelial cell
      dysfunction in which placenta-derived mediators causes multisystem organ dysfunction .

      Preeclampsia increases the risk for acute cerebrovascular complications such as intracerebral
      hemorrhage, cerebral edema and eclampsia. Treatment with magnesium sulfate reduces the risk
      for seizures and treatment with antihypertensive therapy reduces the risk for a stroke ,
      however the only effective treatment for the syndrome is prompt delivery of the fetus .

      When considering the optimal anesthetic method for a preeclamptic parturient undergoing
      cesarean delivery, neuraxial anesthetic techniques, when feasible, are strongly preferred to
      general anesthesia (GA) . Spinal anesthesia (SA) is favored over general anesthesia since it
      is associated with increased benefits and reduced risks compared with general anesthesia.
      Increased benefits of SA include higher patient satisfaction, decreased pain and favorable
      neonatal outcomes. GA has been associated with increased risk for aspiration, unstable
      hemodynamics and difficult airway management . In addition GA has been shown to increase the
      risk for a stroke in women with preeclampsia . Nevertheless GA is sometime used in the
      preeclamptic parturient due to maternal or fetal indications with an incidence as high as 44%
      in some European countries .

      Accumulative evidence from animal studies indicate that general anesthetic agents are
      neurotoxic and can induce subsequent behavioral abnormalities in the developmental mind .
      However the fetal and pediatric implications remain inconclusive. In a population-based birth
      cohort study fetal exposure to general anesthesia during cesarean delivery was not associated
      with increased risk for learning disabilities compared to delivering vaginally . In contrast
      in a population-based birth cohort study conducted in Taiwan the incidence of autism was
      increased in neonates who were delivered by cesarean delivery under general anesthesia
      compared with regional anesthesia .

      Despite experts favoring neuraxial anesthesia for the preeclamptic population, to date
      research remains inconclusive regarding which anesthetic method is neuroprotective.

      In recent years numerous biochemical tests have become usual clinical cerebral damage
      biomarkers, amongst them is the Neuron specific enolase (NSE). The NSE is an intracytoplasmic
      glycolytic enzyme enolase . The enzyme is expressed in neurons and neuroendocrine tissue .
      Increased levels of NSE are released into the blood circulation according to the death rate
      of those cells . Elevated levels of NSE have been observed after severe head trauma and in
      association to postoperative cognitive dysfunction .

      S100B Protein, an additional neuronal injury biomarker, is an acidic calcium-binding protein,
      and physiological serum levels of S100B protein are low . The protein is found primarily in
      astrocytes and Schwann cells and has both intracellular and extracellular targets.

      Elevated serum and CSF levels of S100B indicate neural damage . Research evaluating cerebral
      damage biomarkers in parturients with preeclampsia has found increased levels of neuronal
      injury biomarkers compared with healthy parturients . Furthermore increased plasma levels of
      S100B have been correlated with neurological symptoms in the form of visual disturbances .
      Lisa et al demonstrated persistent increased levels of NSE up to one year postpartum .

      Additionally, various studies have examined the correlation between cerebral biomarkers
      levels in umbilical cord blood, amniotic fluid and fetal pathological conditions: intra
      uterine fetal death, preterm delivery, cerebral palsy and preeclampsia . Tskitishvili, et al
      showed increased levels of cerebral injury damage in amniotic fluid of parturients with
      preeclampsia .

      In this study we aim to evaluate the effect of anesthetic method on neural outcomes in the
      preeclamptic population undergoing cesarean delivery.

      Specific Aims:

      Our primary objective is to examine which anesthetic method (GA versus RA) is associated with
      reduced neural damage as measured by NSE and S100B serum levels in preeclamptic parturients
      undergoing cesarean delivery.

      Our secondary objective is to examine the effect of anesthetic method on fetal cerebral
      outcomes as measured by NSE and S100B umbilical cord blood levels in parturients with
      preeclampsia.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, single center, observational trial to assess the effect of anesthetic
      method on cerebral outcomes. The study will be conducted at the Rabin Medical Center
      (Beilinson Campus), Petach Tikva, Israel, a tertiary university hospital.

      Fifty preeclamptic parturients aged 18 and above, undergoing cesarean delivery under SA or
      GA, will be included in the study.

      This study is a purely observational study, it will not have any clinical intervention nor
      will it interfere with standard cesarean delivery protocols in any way. Inclusion criteria
      Fifty preeclamptic parturients age 18 and above presenting for cesarean delivery under SA or
      GA, with ability to comply with study requirements will be enrolled in the study.

      Exclusion criteria

      The following parturients will be excluded:

        1. Parturients under age 18

        2. Parturients undergoing a vaginal delivery.

        3. Parturients unable to sign an informed consent forum.

      Study enrollment:

      All preeclamptic parturients will be recruited upon admission to the women's emergency room.
      All participating patients will undergo an informed consent process, which will include a
      through explanation of the study design and patient requirements, by the study investigator.
      Following which patients will be requested to sign the informed consent document.

      Index procedure:

      Following obtaining approval from parturients 5 cc of venous blood will be drawn from each of
      the participants and will be examined for NSE and S100B serum levels at the following time
      points:

        1. Upon hospital admission following obtaining informed consent approval.

        2. Upon fetal delivery, umbilical cord blood will be examined for NSE and S100B.

        3. 1 day postpartum. The blood samples will be collected in heparin containing tubes, the
           samples will be kept in room temperature for no longer than an hour before being sent to
           the laboratory for centrifugation. Following centrifugation the samples will be frozen
           at -70 °C until levels of NSE and S100B can be analyzed. Plasma levels will be tested to
           detect NSE and S100B levels using commercially available kits (Liasion Sangtec 100)
           according to the manufacturer's recommendations.

      Intraoperative anesthetic technique will be administered at anesthesiologists' discretion.
      The study cohort will be divided into two groups: women undergoing cesarean delivery under
      general anesthesia, and women undergoing cesarean delivery under regional-spinal anesthesia.

      NSE and S100B levels will be compared for both groups in order to evaluate which anesthetic
      method is associated with reduced neuronal injury Additionally, umbilical cord blood NSE and
      S100B levels will be compared for both groups, in order to assess the fetal outcomes of each
      anesthetic method.

      Data collection:

      For each participant the following additional data will be collected and documented:

        1. Demographic data obstetric age, weight, height,

        2. Obstetric data; gravidity and parity, obstetric history comorbidities, regular
           medication and preeclampsia management protocols and more.

        3. Anesthetic and analgesic data: type of anesthesia / analgesia, anesthetic drug solution,
           anesthetic drug doses, vasopressor treatment, hemodynamic data, and other anesthetic
           data.
    
  