
    
      This is a continuation of a community-based participatory research program focusing on
      pesticide contamination in migrant farmworker communities. Oregon Health Sciences
      University's Center for Research on Occupational and Environmental Toxicology and the Oregon
      Child Development Coalition propose to extend the participatory research model that has been
      developed to increase community capacity and to build knowledge on the nature and extent of
      childhood exposures to pesticides and resulting health effects. The project includes
      involvement from representatives of academic institutions, child and family educational,
      health, and social services, and the agricultural community. We propose to extend our program
      of research beyond the state of Oregon to accomplish the following specific aims:

        1. Develop and validate a pathway model of organophosphate pesticide exposure for children
           residing near tree fruit orchards,

        2. Conduct a longitudinal investigation of pesticide residue analysis, work practices, home
           characteristics and biological markers of exposure in migrant families residing in
           multiple homes and communities throughout a year,

        3. Evaluate specific neurobehavioral outcomes in Latino children who speak Spanish and
           indigenous languages, living in homes with measured pesticide residues and in children
           living in homes with minimal measurable pesticide residues, and

        4. Assess effectiveness of accepted methods of intervention including health education and
           environmental exposure reduction on changing behavior and reducing pesticide exposure in
           the migrant agricultural community.

      The project also includes mechanisms to strengthen and expand the partnerships among migrant
      farmworker communities to increase the capacity of the community to address issues of
      environmental exposures and health. Training opportunities are provided for youth from the
      Latino farmworker community in environmental issues in affected communities. In addition to
      measuring the outcome of our research interventions in modifying exposures to pesticides and
      resulting health effects we have incorporated a comprehensive evaluation plan including
      measures to document increased research capacity in the community, leveraging by obtaining
      additional funding for further efforts, sustainability, culturally appropriate tools, policy
      or systems change, and impact on the field.
    
  