
    
      Paravertebral block (PVB) has been shown to provide excellent analgesia for major breast
      surgery. Advantages of a PVB technique include reduced postoperative pain, analgesic
      consumption, opioid-related side effects, and shorter post anesthesia care unit (PACU) stay.
      There is also evidence to suggest that PVB may have a favorable impact on cancer recurrence
      after mastectomy. Paravertebral blockade results in somatosensory and sympathetic blockade
      after injection of local anesthetic solution to the paravertebral space posterior to the
      pleura. Erector spinae plane (ESP) block is a recently described technique which may be an
      alternative to PVB for providing thoracic analgesia. Numerous case reports and case series
      describe ESP block for the management of acute and chronic thoracic pain. It involves
      injection of local anesthetic into the fascial plane deep to erector spinae muscle.
      Radiological imaging in a cadaver model has demonstrated that a single injection at the level
      of the T5 transverse process produced cranio-caudal spread between C7 and T8. This accounts
      for the extensive sensory block that has been observed in case reports and is at least as
      extensive as the spread seen with PVB.

      ESP is a more superficial block with a better defined end-point - injection between the bony
      transverse process and erector spinae muscle. A more superficial ultrasound-guided block will
      be faster to perform and less painful for the patient. Furthermore, ESP does not have the
      same risk of pneumothorax as PVB.There have been no randomized controlled trials involving
      ESP to date. All descriptions of the technique have been in case report / series format.

      The investigators hypothesize that ESP block efficacy is not inferior to PVB with reference
      to dermatomal sensory spread and analgesic efficacy, while being easier to perform, has less
      associated discomfort and fewer complication risks.

      All eligible participants will be randomized to the PVB arm or the ESP arm after fully
      informed consent has been obtained. Subjects randomized to the PVB arm will have an
      ultrasound-guided paravertebral block performed pre-operatively in the anesthesia block room
      with 20ml of a ropivacaine / bupivacaine mixture. Subjects randomized to the ESP arm will
      have an ultrasound-guided erector spinae plane block performed pre-operatively in the
      anesthesia block room with 20ml of a ropivacaine / bupivacaine mixture. Conduct of
      intra-operative anesthesia will be at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist.

      The primary outcome is equivalent dermatomal spread for ultrasound-guided single-injection
      ESP block performed at T4-T5 level and ultrasound-guided single-injection PVB block at the
      same level.

      Secondary outcomes are NRS pain scores in the first 24 post-operative hours, opioid analgesia
      use intra-operatively and in the first 24 post-operative hours, block procedural time and
      patient discomfort during block insertion.

      The primary outcome will be collected by a research associate who is blinded to the study
      group allocation. The secondary outcomes will be collected by the study team from the patient
      chart and through patient interview. Continuous variables will be analyzed using t-tests and
      categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-squared test. Markers of intervention safety
      will be monitored included local anesthetic toxicity, nerve injury, infection and
      pneumothorax.

      A test of equivalence will be performed for the primary outcome of dermatomal spread between
      the 2 groups. If the equivalence is not established for the block extent, a 2-way superiority
      will be conducted. Secondary outcomes will be analyzed using Mann-Whitney U test and the
      Hodges-Lehmann method for calculating 95% confidence intervals (CIs) around the median
      difference. This is designed as a non-inferiority trial. Assuming a median difference of 1.5
      dermatomal segments, and a pooled standard deviation (SD) of 1.65 segments, α of 0.05, and
      90% power, a total sample size of 42 patients is estimated (21 patients in each group).
    
  