
    
      Fabry disease is an X-linked lysosomal disorder that leads to excessive deposition of neutral
      glycosphingolipids in the vascular endothelium of several organs in the body. Progressive
      endothelial accumulation of glycosphingolipids accounts for the associated clinical
      abnormalities of skin, eye, kidney, heart, brain, and peripheral nervous system. Fabry
      disease manifesting predominantly in men. Female heterozygotes also present with features of
      Fabry disease. In Europe the prevalence of Fabry disease seems to be massively
      underrepresented.

      Multiple Sclerosis (MS, Encephalomyelitis disseminata) ist the most common inflammatory
      disease of the central nervous system (CNS). The first clinical manifestation peaks in the
      3rd-4th decade. 2.5 million Young adults are affected worldwide. In Germany the prevalence
      rate reaches approx. 100 patients per 100,000 inhabitants. Females are more frequently
      affected (2-3:1). The underlying causes of the disease are not sufficiently explored yet. The
      genetic backgrounds as well as environmental factors are involved. An autoimmune mediated
      process, driven by activated T-lymphocytes and macrophages, leads to inflammatory
      demyelination and axonal loss.

      Magnetresonance imaging of the brain and spinal cord, evaluation of the cerebrospinal fluid
      to detect intrathecally derived immunoglobulin production (IgG) and a comprehensive
      diagnostic workup on other possible causes of the symptoms. The modern diagnostic criteria
      (McDonald criteria, 2001 + revisions 2005) demand the proof of the dissemination of the
      inflammatory process in space and time, either by clinical or radiological terms.

      The evaluation of the cerebrospinal fluid aims at the confirmation of an intrathecally
      derived synthesis of IgG. In 98% of the patients oligoclonal bands can be detected during the
      course of the disease. This parameter is highly sensitive but only low specific. The
      diagnostic criteria allow making the diagnosis of "certain" or at least "probable" MS without
      the confirmation of oligoclonal bands.
    
  