
    
      We have shown an association between high intraoperative blood loss in children and young
      adults undergoing posterior spinal fusion and a subsequent clinical course characterized by a
      high rate of acute pancreatitis - a rare illness in children. Other complications include
      sepsis, deep wound infections, and prolonged length of stay. Although it has been reported in
      children and young adults with idiopathic scoliosis we have shown a significantly higher
      blood loss and rate of pancreatitis in patients with neuromuscular scoliosis, especially in
      cerebral palsy. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of Aprotinin, a serine
      protease inhibitor, in reducing intraoperative blood loss and subsequent clinical
      pancreatitis and other associated complications in patients with cerebral palsy who undergo
      posterior spinal fusion. Aprotinin is currently approved for use in adults to reduce major
      blood loss during cardiac surgery, and it is used in children at virtually all major
      pediatric cardiac centers. In these populations, blood loss is consistently diminished by
      50%. Safety and efficacy in adults and children is well documented, and use of this drug is
      familiar to most anesthesiologists. In addition, it has been shown to reduce blood loss
      effectively in large controlled-studies in adults who undergo major orthopedic surgeries,
      including spinal fusion. Recently one published study has also suggested that Aprotinin may
      reduced blood loss in children undergoing idiopathic scoliosis surgery, but the study did not
      have the adequately statistical power due to a small sample size. Since intraoperative blood
      loss and cytokine elevations are significantly correlated with the incidence of acute
      pancreatitis, we hypothesize a major role for ischemic injury in the development of
      pancreatitis and other complications. We expect that Aprotinin by reducing blood loss will
      prevent ischemic injury hence, decrease the incidence of acute pancreatitis in these children
      and young adults. While safety and efficacy have been established for cardiac surgery in
      adults and children, we propose to conduct a double-blind, randomized trial of Aprotinin in
      children with cerebral palsy who undergo posterior spinal fusion surgery to answer the
      following specific questions.

      Specific Aim 1: To assess whether intraoperative Aprotinin infusion can reduce intraoperative
      blood loss, and whether this lowers the incidence of postoperative pancreatitis and
      associated complications of sepsis, wound infection and prolonged length of stay.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess by indirect methods whether Aprotinin infusion can alter the degree
      of ischemic injury concomitantly with the reduction of blood loss and the incidence of
      postoperative pancreatitis.
    
  