
    
      The overall goal of this project is to develop a novel ultrasonographic method to
      characterize the subsynovial connective tissue (SSCT) and detect differences between SSCT,
      median nerve and tendon motion for the evaluation and diagnosis of patients suspected of
      having carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). CTS is usually diagnosed late in its evolution, by
      measuring electrophysiological changes in median nerve function. Once these changes have
      occurred, surgery is often the only effective treatment. At an earlier stage of evolution,
      non-surgical treatment might be more effective. Although ultrasonography and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) have recently been used to measure changes in median nerve shape in
      CTS, such approaches also only capture late changes. Thus, a method for detection of CTS that
      could identify pathology before function or structure of the nerve is compromised could
      prevent significant morbidity and transition to a permanent neuropathy. One promising
      opportunity is presented in the subsynovial connective tissue (SSCT), which surrounds the
      tendons in the carpal tunnel. One of the most characteristic findings in surgically treated
      patients with CTS is a non-inflammatory fibrosis of the SSCT. Some investigators have
      suggested that the SSCT may be the cause of the nerve compression in CTS. In our previous
      work, the investigators have demonstrated differences in the mechanical properties, motion
      and thickness of the SSCT in patients with CTS compared to normals. More recently, an animal
      model has been described in which the structural changes in the SSCT have been shown to
      precede the changes in nerve function.

      The investigators have demonstrated in cadaver studies that the normal SSCT can be imaged by
      ultrasound, and its motion, velocity, and thickness distinguished from that of the nearby
      tendon and nerve. Here the investigators propose to leverage this work, and study the ability
      of ultrasound to detect SSCT thickness and motion in individuals with and without CTS. Based
      on our preliminary research, the investigators formulate the following central hypothesis: An
      increase in SSCT thickness and changes in sliding velocities of the SSCT with respect to the
      corresponding tendon are indicative of CTS. In addition, this material property change at
      SSCT affects median nerve motions and transformations. This is because the SSCT becomes
      fibrotic in CTS, and the fibrosis alters the normal SSCT-median nerve-tendon functional
      relationship.
    
  