
    
      Rationale: COPD exacerbations considerably affect patients' health status and contribute to
      COPD related costs. Patients often have problems in recognizing and responding promptly to
      exacerbations. Tools that support patients in exacerbation self-management such as paper
      exacerbation action plans and telemonitoring systems have shown some positive results on
      exacerbation related outcomes. However, many patients appear not to adhere to their action
      plan instructions. Besides, existing telemonitoring tools rely heavily on the input of
      healthcare professionals which makes it difficult to assess the true effects and cost
      effectiveness of telemonitoring systems.

      Recently, the Radboud University has developed the "Adaptive Computerized COPD Exacerbation
      Self-management Support" (ACCESS) system. This software application integrates objective
      parameters, such as spirometry, pulse-oximetry, temperature, and self-reported symptom
      worsening into a Bayesian network model resulting in a weighted exacerbation risk prediction.
      Patients are able to monitor themselves at any given moment. The ACCESS system not only
      predicts whether an exacerbation is imminent, but also provides ad hoc tailored advice
      without interference of a healthcare professional.

      Objective: In this project the primary aim is to assess the (cost-)effectiveness of the
      ACCESS system in the support of exacerbation self-management in patients with COPD.

      Study design: A multicenter, pragmatic, two-arm, randomized controlled trial with a follow-up
      of 12 months per participant.

      Study population: Patients with COPD, > 40 years old, with 2 or more self-reported symptom
      based exacerbations in the previous year.

      Intervention: After a short self-management educational session on exacerbations,
      participants are randomized to either 1) exacerbation self-management support through the use
      of a paper exacerbation action plan (control group); or 2) exacerbation self-management
      support through the use of the ACCESS system (intervention group).

      Participants in the intervention group are instructed to use ACCESS when they notice a change
      in COPD symptoms. Participants in the control group are instructed to use their paper action
      plan when they notice a change in COPD symptoms.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary aim: to increase the number of exacerbation-free weeks. Secondary aims: to improve
      exacerbation self-management, exacerbation-management related self-efficacy, and quality of
      life. To decrease ER visits, hospital admissions and COPD related costs.
    
  