
    
      Study Aim: The overall aim of this study is to identify a feasible, easily adopted, early
      screening method for excessive fetal weight gain; a known risk factor for childhood obesity
      and type 2 diabetes.

      Primary objective: To examine the effect of increased (39-48mmol/mol) maternal HbA1c,
      measured before 14 weeks gestation, on the ultrasound finding of fetal abdominal
      circumference greater than the 90th percentile at 28 weeks gestation. We hypothesise that
      women with a high early pregnancy HbA1c (39-48mmol/mol) will have a significantly increased
      risk of excessive weight gain in their babies.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To establish ability of maternal HbA1c in early pregnancy (< 14 weeks) to predict the
           diagnosis of GDM in the late second trimester (28 weeks)

        2. To determine the effect of an increased (39-48mmol/mol) maternal HbA1c, measured before
           14 weeks gestation, on fetal, maternal and neonatal complications of pregnancy
           (stillbirth, preterm delivery, birth weight >90th percentile, shoulder dystocia, birth
           injury, neonatal hypoglycaemia, neonatal intensive care, caesarean delivery,
           preeclampsia, gestational hypertension) taking account of any GDM intervention.

        3. To determine dietary patterns among women with and without a diagnosis of GDM.

      Study Outline: Prospective cohort study of women at increased risk of GDM presenting for
      obstetric care at the Royal Jubilee Maternity Hospital Belfast; the largest maternity unit in
      Northern Ireland with some 5000-6000 deliveries per year. The study will be conducted over
      three years by healthcare staff with support from the research team. The study will largely
      be integrated into routine clinical practice thus enabling a large number of women to take
      part in the study.

      Participants: 1,828 women in early pregnancy (≤ 14 weeks gestation) will be recruited,
      following informed consent, during their booking visit at the Royal Jubilee Maternity
      Hospital, Belfast. Inclusion criteria include age ≥ 18yrs, and NICE risk factors for glucose
      intolerance namely body mass index ≥ 30kg/m2, family history of diabetes (first-degree
      relative), previous macrosomic baby (>4.5kg) and minority ethnic family origin with a high
      prevalence of diabetes14. Exclusion criteria will include pre-existing type 1 or type 2
      diabetes mellitus, a previous history of GDM, booking HbA1c ≥ 48mmol/mol (6.5%), anaemia
      diagnosed on booking full blood count, booking diagnosis of a multiple pregnancy, and use of
      corticosteroids or metformin within two weeks of booking.

      Booking visit: Participants at 10-14 weeks gestation will be consented at their booking
      visit. At this visit patient demographics such as height, weight and blood pressure, are
      recorded on the Northern Ireland Maternity Information System (NIMATS) by the booking
      midwife. Study blood samples (14 mls) will be taken alongside routine antenatal bloods by the
      booking midwife, and plasma analysed for HbA1c (4mls) in the Regional Haematology Laboratory
      as outlined below. Serum and urine will also be collected (10mls whole blood, 10mls urine),
      processed and stored at -80°C for future work. Sample processing (as outlined below) will be
      carried out immediately following venesection/urine collection. Women with HbA1c ≥ 48mmol/mol
      (6.5%) will informed of their result by telephone (RD); referred for ongoing care at the
      Diabetes Antenatal Clinic and excluded from the study. Women with HbA1c < 48mmol/mol (6.5%)
      will be recruited to the study but will continue to be managed according to their routine
      obstetric care pathway. Women booking at the Royal Jubilee Maternity Hospital will also be
      offered ultrasound measurement of visceral/subcutaneous fat depth. This will be performed at
      the end of their routine booking ultrasound (RD) and measurements will be recorded in the
      study database.

      Nested Observational Study In a subset of women, visceral adipose tissue depth and
      subcutaneous adipose tissue depth will be measured using the technique described by Martin et
      al following booking ultrasonography. Measurements will be taken with the participant
      recumbent and measurements taken approximately 1cm above the umbilicus in triplicate. These
      measurements will be added to the dataset.

      28 weeks: Oral Glucose Tolerance Test: All participants will be invited to attend for a 75g
      oral glucose tolerance test at 28 weeks gestation as part of their routine clinical care14.
      Testing will be performed by clinical midwives in the Day Obstetric Unit. The test will take
      place in the morning following an overnight fast from 10pm the evening before. Maternal
      weight will be recorded at this visit. Baseline bloods (24mls in total) will be taken for
      glucose (4mls) and storage (20mls). Following a drink containing 75g glucose, blood will be
      taken after 60min and 120mins for glucose (4mls) and storage (4mls). Samples for storage will
      be processed following collection. Glucose will be analysed in the Regional Biochemistry
      Laboratory immediately.

      Plasma glucose results will available within 4 hours of each OGTT. World Health Organisation
      criteria will be used to diagnose GDM (fasting glucose ≥ 5.1mmol/l; 1-hr ≥ 10.0mmol/l; 2-hr
      8.5mmol/l)15. Each woman will be contacted with the results of their OGTT as per our routine
      practice with immediate referral to the Diabetes Antenatal Clinic for those diagnosed with
      GDM. Glucose results will be inputted to the study dataset on a daily basis using a unique
      patient identifier. Samples for storage will be processed as outlined below. Participant
      weights will also be entered into a database on a daily basis and linked to
      clinical/biochemical data via a unique patient identifier.

      28 weeks: Fetal ultrasound: At the time of their OGTT, participants will also attend the
      study ultrasonographer for their study ultrasound scan. Abdominal circumference, head
      circumference, femur length and estimated fetal weight will be measured using the ellipse
      function on a Voluson E8 ultrasound scanner at the recommended anatomical sites25. The
      ultrasonographer will be experienced in fetal ultrasound and blinded to early pregnancy HbA1c
      results. The same scanner will be used for all study participants. Ultrasound measurements
      will be recorded initially on a study case report form and transferred daily to the
      electronic study database.

      28 weeks: Food Frequency Questionnaire: Each participant will be asked to complete a food
      frequency questionnaire whilst waiting for blood sampling during their OGTT. This is to
      evaluate dietary patterns of women with and without GDM and will provide a basis from which
      future dietary interventions can be formed. The questionnaire used is a validated
      questionnaire used recently in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Pregnancy and Children
      (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/alspac)

      Delivery: Each participant will continue their usual obstetric care following their 28 week
      appointment. At the end of the study, obstetric outcome information will be extracted from
      the Northern Ireland Maternity Information System (NIMATS) and, if necessary, paper records.
      This will include gestational age at delivery, mode of delivery and the fetal, maternal and
      early neonatal complications as outlined above in the objectives. Delivery outcomes will be
      linked to the study data using matched unique participant identifiers.
    
  