
    
      Patients referred to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for invasive exercise stress
      testing will be prospectively recruited. Standard right heart catheterization using high
      fidelity micromanometers (Millar Instruments) will be performed at rest and during supine
      exercise with simultaneous expired gas analysis (Medgraphics) as is the investigator's
      current practice. The protocol is rest-passive leg elevation--20 Watts exercise x 5 minutes,
      and then graded workload increases in 10Watt increments (3 minute stages) to exhaustion.
      Hemodynamic, arterial and mixed venous blood gas and expired gas data are acquired at rest,
      during each exercise stage and at peak exercise. Venous blood samples will be obtained at
      rest and at peak exercise. Perceived symptoms of dyspnea and fatigue will be quantified using
      the Borg dyspnea and effort scores at each stage of exercise.

      After the initial exercise study and hemodynamics have returned to baseline, previously
      prepared study drug (normal saline placebo or Sodium Nitrite Inhalation Solution (AIR001)
      90mg placed into the medication chamber) will be nebulized utilizing the Aerogen
      Solo-Idehaler over 10-15 minutes. After a 15 minute observation period post completion of
      nebulization, resting hemodynamic and expired gas data will be acquired exactly as in the
      initial run. Subjects will then repeat the leg elevation-20 Watt x 5 minutes exercise phase.
      Blood samples will be again obtained at rest and with exercise. Subjects will repeat exercise
      only at the 20 Watt stage, rather repeating the entire study. This is done to increase the
      feasibility and shorten the time of the case. The investigators have previously observed that
      the vast majority (>85%) of the elevation in cardiac filling pressures and reduction in
      venous oxygen content in people with HFpEF occurs at the low 20 Watt workload, so repeating
      exercise hemodynamic assessment at this load should be sufficient to detect any clinically
      meaningful treatment effect.
    
  