
    
      We propose an RCT based on a non-randomized pilot study conducted at UCSF that included 115
      patients who were referred for evaluation of hip and knee OA. The results of this pilot study
      suggested that DESI's were associated with greater patient knowledge, higher decision
      quality, higher patient and surgeon satisfaction, and no substantial impact on length of
      office visit or treatment decision. As in the pilot study, the RCT intervention will include
      a package of decision and communication aids shown in prior studies to increase patient
      knowledge, question-asking, and information recall. The intervention includes digital video
      discs and booklets produced by the Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making and Health
      Dialog; a question-prompting phone call with a trained health coach; audio-recordings of the
      patient-surgeon consultation; and a copy of the surgeon's dictated note. The control arm will
      consist of usual care. Our primary outcome is the proportion of patients who arrive at an
      informed decision during the first visit. This outcome is of interest to patients, surgeons
      and healthcare purchasers, all of whom value efficiency and quality in delivery of care. Our
      hypothesis is that a higher proportion of patients in the intervention group will arrive at
      an informed decision during the first visit, as a result of being more knowledgeable and
      prepared for their visit, thus conserving resources while advancing quality. Secondary
      outcomes of interest will include treatment decision (e.g., surgical vs. non-surgical);
      patient and provider satisfaction; length of office visits; and adherence to treatment
      recommendations.

      We will assess whether patients are informed or not using a survey instrument testing 19
      consensus "key facts" developed by FIMDM based on evidence and expert opinion. We will
      measure whether patients arrive at a decision using the Stage of Decision Making instrument.
      We will administer both instruments immediately after the patient's first consultation with
      their surgeon.
    
  