
    
      In 1974 the Respiratory Rehabilitation (RR) Committee of the American College of Chest
      Physicians defined RR as an art. It took almost 20 more years for another group of experts to
      describe it as a service. Moving forward in our reasoning, it is important to remember that
      all physical activity produces an increase in metabolic energy expenditure, as a result of
      body movement carried out in a specific period of time. The current literature through
      various organizations has been oriented to promote activities that arouse interest in
      generating movement and thus obtain benefits in improving health and quality of life. The
      respiratory physiotherapy techniques are basically divided into 2 types: facilitating
      techniques for expectoration and respiratory exercises. The former are indicated in
      hypersecretory processes, in alterations in the properties of mucus, ciliary dysfunction and
      alterations in the cough mechanism, to keep the airway free of secretions. The second is
      focused on improving a respiratory pattern, a respiratory reeducation, strengthening of
      respiratory muscles, preventing and / or reducing dyspnea and fatigue through the use of the
      inspirometer, respiratory exercises and specific techniques. In addition, it helps to
      decrease the hospital stay. Which, when prolonged, generates negative effects on the health
      system, such as: increased costs, poor accessibility to hospitalization services, saturation
      of emergencies and risks of adverse events. Plus all the negative effects it can generate in
      a hospitalized patient.

      Different diseases worldwide have repercussions at the level of multiple systems; but without
      a doubt a higher prevalence in the cardiopulmonary system. When a patient is hospitalized, he
      enters a continuous and often prolonged rest stay. Wherein, this physical inactivity plus its
      base pathology negatively impact its lung capacity. And low lung capacity has been shown to
      increase the risk of mortality, hospital stay, and complications. That said, the use of the
      device known as the "incentive inspirometer" is important, which to some extent there is no
      standardization of its use or applicability in a structured and planned manner. For this
      reason, the Japer method emerges as an idea; which, pretending through an exercise
      prescription through the incentive inspirometer according to 50% to 80% of the maximum
      inspiring capacity of the patient, improves their inspiring capacity. Having said this, the
      general objective was to analyze the effects of the JaPer method to improve lung capacity
      versus the traditional use of an inspirometer in hospitalized patients.
    
  