
    
      Bleeding is expected during major surgeries. In patients who undergo CABG, the risk for
      bleeding is increased because of the need for intra-operative anticoagulation, or thinning,
      of patient blood. This anticoagulation is necessary to reduce the risk of thrombosis
      potentially precipitated by the cardiopulmonary bypass machine, which pumps blood throughout
      the body while the surgeon operates on the heart.

      Strategies are currently used in the operating room to minimize blood loss and the need for
      allogenic blood transfusion during and after cardiac surgeries. These strategies include the
      use of intravenous antifibrinolytic agents, intra-operative red blood cell salvage devices,
      and topical fibrin sealants. Although the risk of infection from a blood transfusion is very
      small with modern methods of blood screening, the risk of developing a transfusion reaction
      is possible and not predictable. Therefore, it is preferred to avoid administering a blood
      transfusion unless absolutely necessary.

      The use of topical antifibrinolytic agents has been explored to further reduce blood loss in
      cardiac surgery. Several trials have been published in the literature since 1993 evaluating
      the efficacy of various antifibrinolytic medications applied topically, as a cardiac bath,
      prior to chest closure in CABG patients to reduce post-operative blood loss and potential
      need for blood transfusion.

      The applicability of the methodology utilized in these studies, however, is limited in the
      context of the current Canadian practices of cardiac surgery. Considerable differences in the
      perioperative strategies of these trials are seen, in comparison to current North American
      practices of cardiac surgery. These trials also compared use of topically applied
      antifibrinolytic agents, including the lysine analogue tranexamic acid, to a control in the
      absence of intravenous antifibrinolytic agents. The use of intravenous lysine analogues to
      reduce peri-operative bleeding has now become a near-standard of care in CABG patients.

      Currently, the only available antifibrinolytic agent in Canada is the lysine analogue
      tranexamic acid. This drug is widely used administered as an intravenous preparation in
      cardiac surgery because its safety profile and reduction in blood loss and frequency of blood
      transfusion.

      There is presently no published randomized controlled trial evaluating blood loss in CABG
      patients who have received intravenous tranexamic acid, plus topical tranexamic acid or
      placebo.
    
  