
    
      Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a venous reflux disorder caused by abnormal blood coagulation
      in the deep vein, which usually occurs in the lower extremities. DVT is common in patients
      with limb immobilization (such as after major orthopedic surgery), severe trauma, tumor, coma
      or long-term bedridden patients. After thrombosis, venous valve function is often destroyed,
      causing lower limb swelling, ulcers and other congestive diseases, affecting the quality of
      life of patients; thrombus shedding is also easy to cause pulmonary embolism, serious cases
      can lead to sudden death.

      In the process of thrombosis, the components of thrombus are different in different stages.
      in the acute stage of thrombosis, the consumption of blood fibroses is less, mainly in the
      thrombolytic therapy of activating plasminogen; in the subacute and chronic phase of
      thrombosis, the consumption of fibrinolytic enzyme is more, anticoagulant therapy is needed
      to prolong the clotting time. Therefore, defining the staging of thrombus is the key to make
      a reasonable treatment plan and improve the therapeutic effect of DVT. The guidelines
      recommend that for patients with moderate or high likelihood of DVT, if two consecutive
      ultrasound examinations are negative, further X-ray venography, CT venography or magnetic
      resonance venous thrombosis direct imaging are recommended. Among them, magnetic resonance
      thrombus direct imaging depends on the content of methemoglobin in the body and will not
      produce radiation to the human body. it can not only accurately judge the thrombus in the
      pelvic and inferior vena cava, but also show the details of the changes in the vein wall or
      lumen. Therefore, magnetic resonance thrombus direct imaging has a certain potential in the
      differential diagnosis of acute, subacute and old thrombus. In this study, we will use
      magnetic resonance thrombus direct imaging to stage and judge the efficacy of drug treatment,
      in order to provide help for clinic.
    
  