
    
      Intervention clinics (FPE Contraceptive Access Program [FPE CAP]) receive a multifaceted
      contraceptive intervention, including:

        1. Training and technical assistance on contraceptive counseling and provision for FPE CAP
           providers, administrators, and health center support staff. FPE CAP staff will be
           required to attend an annual contraceptive training conference and receive additional
           remote and on-site technical support on counseling and provision of contraceptive
           methods. Methods include emergency contraception, oral contraceptive pills,
           contraceptive patch, vaginal ring, contraceptive injection, fertility awareness methods,
           condoms, contraceptive implant, hormonal IUDs, and non-hormonal IUD and other
           contraceptive methods, as feasible.

        2. FPE will provide FPE CAP members a cash grant to offset personnel and equipment costs
           associated with FPE CAP start-up and implementation.

        3. Monthly reimbursement for FPE CAP contraceptive services. As a result of the Medicaid
           Family Planning Waiver effective January 1, 2019, Utah health centers may claim Medicaid
           reimbursement for contraceptive services provided to Medicaid enrolled clients at ≤100%
           Federal Poverty Level. FPE CAP seeks to expand this coverage by providing reimbursement
           to FPE CAP health centers for contraceptive services provided to clients at 101% - 250%
           FPL (or 0% - 250% FPL for undocumented clients). Clients must be of reproductive age
           seeking female-user dependent methods and not be eligible for Medicaid/PCN.

        4. Contraceptive method stock. The high upfront cost of some contraceptive methods,
           particularly IUDs and implants, is often a barrier for health centers to maintain
           adequate contraceptive inventory. During the FPE CAP project period, members will be
           provided a stock of IUDs and implants to provide to eligible FPE CAP clients. Health
           centers will be also be reimbursed or provided vouchers for short-acting methods
           including oral contraceptive pills, vaginal rings, contraceptive injections, condoms,
           cycle beads, and emergency contraception. FPE will provide technical assistance to
           members to build a sustainable inventory of contraceptive methods for the post-FPE CAP
           project period. This will include training on drug forecasting and stocking, 340B Drug
           Discount Program, group purchasing organizations, and patient assistance programs.

        5. Evaluative Support: FPE CAP members will be responsible for providing routine data to
           FPE to help us assess the impact of the program. As part of this effort, FPE CAP members
           will receive evaluative support in developing and reporting data requirements both for
           the program and to fill existing clinical data needs around contraception. Additionally,
           data provided to the FPE team will be analyzed and returned back to the individual
           health centers as part of the dissemination strategy.

        6. Marketing campaign: FPE will produce a targeted media campaign to increase public
           awareness of expanded eligibility for contraceptive services, improve demand for
           contraceptive services at community health centers, and provide client education on
           available contraceptive options. FPE will support FPE CAP members by creating customized
           media campaigns for community outreach and education.

      Control clinics are similar clinics (matched by clinic size, geography, and serving Medicaid
      clients) who are not interested in participating in Family Planning Elevated, but are willing
      to provide the monthly service delivery data for the same time periods as their matched
      intervention clinic.
    
  