
    
      First, to find out if HER2 is expressed in the patient's brain cancer, the investigators will
      need to obtain the tissue block or tissue specimen that was used to make the original
      diagnosis. If there is enough material, investigators may also look for other proteins that
      may be targets for this sort of immune therapy in the future. Up to 90mls (18 tsp) of blood
      will be drawn on two occasions for a total of 180mls (36tsp). The total amount of blood drawn
      will not be more than 3 ml (less than 1 teaspoon) per 2.2 lbs of body weight.

      To make HER2 CAR T cells the investigators will introduce the HER2 CAR gene into patient's T
      cells. To get the HER2 antibody to attach to the surface of the T cells, investigators will
      insert the antibody gene into the T cells. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that
      has been made for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus
      also helps the investigators find the T cells in patient's blood after they inject them. Most
      of the cells generated will be frozen and stored to give back to the patient.

      This is a dose escalation study. This means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest dosing schedule (1 of 3 different levels) of T cells. Once that dose schedule
      proves safe, the next group of patients will be started at a higher schedule. This process
      will continue until all 3 dose schedules are studied. If the side effects are too severe, the
      dose will be lowered or the T-cell infusions will be stopped.

      The patient will be given three injections of cells two weeks apart into a special catheter
      that a neurosurgeon will implant into the tumor or the cavity left in the brain after
      surgical removal or into the fluid-filled space in your brain. The first injection of cells
      you receive will be the lowest dose. The subsequent injections, depending on the patient's
      assigned dosing schedule, may be higher than the first. Before the patient receives each
      injection, they may be given a dose of Tylenol. Each injection will take between 1 and 10
      minutes. The patient will be admitted for overnight observation after each T-cell injection.
      Injections of T cells will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas
      Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital.

      If the patient has stable disease (the tumor did not grow), a reduction in the size of the
      tumor on imaging studies, or if the patient's disease has progressed but his health status is
      stable after the start of T-cell injections (at least 6 weeks after), they can receive
      additional doses of the T cells at 2 to 4 week intervals if they wish. Additional doses of T
      cells will be given at the highest cell dose the patient receives during the initial three
      cell infusions. Therefore, the dose the patient receives for additional doses may be higher
      than the initial dose they received.

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:physical
      exam, blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function,' pregnancy test if the
      patient is a female who could potentially become pregnant or might be pregnant, measurements
      of patient's tumor by routine imaging studies.

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and
      after: physical exams, blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function,
      measurements of patient's tumor by routine imaging studies 6 weeks after the infusion.

      To learn more about the way the HER2-CAR T cells are working and how long they last in the
      body, an extra amount of blood, based on patient's weight, up to a maximum of 60 mL (12
      teaspoons) of blood will be taken on the day of the T-cell infusion (before and 1 to 4 hours
      after the T-cell infusion), 3-4 days after the infusion (this one is optional), 1, 2, 4 and 6
      weeks after the T-cell infusion and every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years,
      then yearly for a total of 15 years. This volume is considered safe, but may be decreased if
      the patient is anemic. This sample will be kept in a coded manner so that only the study
      staff may identify the patient.

      During the time points listed above, if the T cells are found in patient's blood at a certain
      amount, an extra 5ml of blood may need to be collected for additional testing.

      To see if there are any long-term side effects of gene transfer, the investigators will
      follow the patient up to 15 years.

      If the patient receives additional T-cell infusions after the first one, s/he will have the
      same tests and blood draws as described above.

      If the patient has a tumor biopsy or lumbar puncture to obtain CSF performed any time while
      s/he are on the study, a sample of this will be requested for research purposes.

      If the patient develops a second abnormal growth, significant blood or nervous system
      disorder during the trial, a biopsy sample of the tissue will be tested for research purposes
      (if a sample can be obtained).
    
  