
    
      Myeloproliferative Neoplasms are chronic diseases; they encompass Polycythemia Vera,
      Essential Thrombocythemia, and Primary Myelofibrosis with shared mutations that
      constitutively activate the physiologic signal-transduction pathways responsible for
      hematopoiesis. Myelofibroses may arise either as primary or antecedent to Polycythemia Vera
      and Essential Thrombocythemia. Myelofibrosis is the least common and the most aggressive of
      these diseases leading to death in 5 to 7 years due to bone marrow failure, massive
      splenomegaly related to extra medullary hematopoiesis, constitutional symptoms and cachexia.

      Until recently, treatment of Myelofibrosis consisted of supportive care only, especially
      transfusions.

      Since 2005 driver mutations have been identified in more than 90% of patients with
      myeloproliferative neoplasms, providing substantial insight into their pathogenesis and
      leading to the development of JAK inhibitor drugs. Ruxolitinib, the first one available, has
      shown activity whatever the presence of Janus Kinase 2 mutation, in reducing splenomegaly,
      improving cytopenias, alleviating constitutional symptoms and finally improving survival
      (COMFORT I and II studies). In France, access to ruxolitinib has been possible since April
      2011, before wider availability in November 2012.

      Anemia is a frequent issue in Myelofibrosis, which may be managed by the use of
      Erythropoiesis-stimulating Agent, leading to a 40-50% response rate in small studies.

      Consistent with its Janus Kinase 2 signalling inhibition, ruxolitinib therapy has been shown
      to be detrimental on the hemoglobin level, increasing the depth of anemia or transfusion
      need, especially during the first 12-24 weeks of treatment in the COMFORT studies.

      Despite potential antagonistic mechanisms of action on Janus Kinase 2, some responses on
      anemia have been reported with the addition of Erythropoiesis-stimulating Agent to
      ruxolitinib in a small subset of patients in the COMFORT II study.

      Ruxo-EPO is an observational study aimed to better assess the combination of
      Erythropoiesis-stimulating Agent and a Janus Kinase 2 inhibitor for therapeutic efficacy on
      anemia, Myelofibrosis evolution and for tolerance, in a larger cohort of patients treated for
      myelofibrosis in general practice.
    
  