
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intensity-modulate total marrow
      irradiation (IMTMI) in combination with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate)/melphalan as
      conditioning for second allogeneic stem cell transplantation for patients with hematologic
      malignancies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall toxicity and day 100 transplant related mortality after second
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation conditioned with increasing doses of
      intensity-modulate total marrow irradiation (IMTMI) in combination with
      fludarabine/melphalan.

      II. To determine the time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment after second allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation conditioned with increasing doses of
      intensity-modulate total marrow irradiation (IMTMI) in combination with
      fludarabine/melphalan.

      III. To determine the overall survival (OS) and event-free-survival (EFS) in patients with
      hematologic undergoing second allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) after
      conditioning with fludarabine/melphalan and IMTMI.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of IMTMI.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes daily on days -7 to -3 and melphalan IV on day -2. Patients also undergo IMTMI twice
      daily (BID) for 2 to 5 days between days -7 to -3.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) or bone
      marrow transplant (BMT) on day 0.

      GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously
      over 24 hours or orally (PO) BID on days -2 to 180 with taper thereafter and mycophenolate
      mofetil IV every 8 hours or PO on days 0-28 (for matched donors) or days 0-40 (for
      alternative donors) with taper to day 60.

      After completion of treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 1 year and then
      yearly for 2 years.
    
  