
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) due to a ventricular arrhythmia is a serious cause of
      cardiovascular death in Canada. The implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) can reduce
      the incidence of SCD in high-risk patients by delivering an internal shock to restore a
      normal rhythm. The life expectancy of an ICD generator is estimated between four and seven
      years, and must be surgically replaced to ensure ongoing function. Implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) replacement is becoming increasingly common constituting
      nearly 40% of all ICD procedures. For the most part, ICDs are automatically replaced. With
      every ICD replacement, the net benefit of continued ICD therapy should be assessed
      individually in view of the procedural risks, inappropriate shocks, psychological risks,
      changes in health status, and the potential for harm and suffering at end-of-life. Some
      studies have shown that the mortality benefit of an ICD attenuates with advancing age and
      comorbidities.

      There are many legitimate reasons for declining ICD generator replacement. The chronic nature
      of a cardiac condition and/or the diagnosis of a life-limiting disease since initial
      implantation may compel a patient to reconsider their health care goals from supporting
      quantity of life, to prioritizing one of quality. This is an important distinction as the ICD
      can prolong the dying process by delivering shock(s) which can result in pain and discomfort
      for the patient, and helplessness for witnesses. Other patients have reported psychological
      distress, while others report only truly understanding the effects of living with an ICD
      after receiving one, possibly leading to changes in treatment preference when they are faced
      with the decision to replace. Also, the replacement procedure includes a substantially
      greater risk for infection and reoperation as compared to the initial implantation.

      These complexities warrant decision support to prepare patients to make decisions. Yet, no
      means exists to support patients' decision-making in the context of ICD replacement. A
      decision support intervention (including a patient decision aid with decision coaching) was
      developed using a user-centered design with various stakeholders and potential end-users,
      which could moderate treatment related uncertainty and prepare patients to make high quality
      decisions that are informed and based on their personal preferences and values.

      Objectives:

        1. Conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine the feasibility of
           conducting a larger trial.

        2. To determine the effect of the decision support intervention for adults faced with ICD
           replacement on attributes of decision quality and decision-making processes
    
  