
    
      The Oklahoma Family Health Patterns project is an intensive study of psychological,
      behavioral, and stress reactivity characteristics in healthy young adults with a family
      history of alcoholism (FH+) with a goal of identifying characteristics that place these
      persons at elevated risk for the disorder. The investigators have recently identified early
      life adverse experience (ELA), including physical and sexual abuse and separation from
      parents, as occurring with disproportionate impact in FH+, and the investigators have shown
      that ELA accounts for diminished stress reactivity, behavioral impulsivity, and poor mood
      regulation, all of which are risk factors for alcohol and other substance use disorders. The
      impact of ELA in the FH+ population demands to be studied further in a Gene x Environment
      interaction given the known positive feedbacks between FH+ and ELA. The investigators' goal
      is to carry out a G x E interaction study by genotyping the investigators' FH x ELA and
      examining the impact of genotype on the broad range of personal characteristics currently
      under study in this project. Aim 1. Examine the differential impact of ELA on psychological
      and behavioral characteristics of FH+ vs. FH- groups using an expanded sample of volunteers.
      Aim 2. Use the investigators' larger sample to carry out a Gene x Environment analysis to
      test specific alleles that are strongly suspected of influencing activity in brain
      motivational systems, expanding on work the investigators initiated with NIAAA thanks to a
      supplement to this R01 (AA012207-S1). Aim 3. Test specific aspects of temperament as
      endophenotypes linking FH and ELA to behavioral, cognitive, and stress reactivity as aspects
      of the person's phenotype. Aim 4. Increase the investigators' recruitment base by screening
      and testing volunteers at a second site, the University of Texas HSC, San Antonio, where the
      investigators currently conduct our neuroimaging studies. Alcoholism is a costly burden to
      society, but risk factors for alcoholism are poorly understood. The vast majorities of
      studies focuses on alcoholic patients but are unable to disentangle preexisting influences
      from the effects of alcohol intake history. The investigators' high-risk study design can be
      of value by contrasting FH+ and FH- with regard to environmental contributors and genetic
      vulnerabilities that contribute to behavioral risk factors.
    
  