
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Phase I

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of AZD0530 when given in combination with
           gemcitabine in patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic
           cancer.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine toxicity profile and dose-limiting toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine pharmacokinetic profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate the toxicity profile with the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these
           patients.

      Phase II

        -  Determine the objective response rate (partial and complete response) and prolonged
           stable disease rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the median survival, 1-year survival, response or stable disease duration,
           time to disease progression, clinical benefit response, and progression-free survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate changes in serum CTX levels (post-treatment vs baseline) with response and
           other clinical outcomes in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of AZD0530
      followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral AZD0530 once daily on days 1-28 and gemcitabine IV over
           30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive 2
           additional courses after achieving complete response or stable partial response.
           Patients with ongoing stable disease receive up to 6 courses. Patients who discontinue
           gemcitabine due to unacceptable toxicity or who complete 6 courses of therapy may
           continue to receive AZD0530 alone in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of AZD0530 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive AZD0530 at the MTD determined in phase I and gemcitabine as
           in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  