
    
      Based on the evidence that BCG vaccine

        1. can potentiate immune responses to other vaccines through induction of trained innate
           immunity and heterologous adaptive immunity and

        2. can reduce the incidence of respiratory infections, exert antiviral effects in
           experimental models, and reduce viremia in an experimental human model of viral
           infection,

      it is hypothesized that BCG vaccination may induce (partial) protection against the
      susceptibility to and/or severity of SARS- CoV-2 infection.

      VPM1002 is being developed with the aim to replace BCG by a vaccine that has a better safety
      profile and superior efficacy. Evidence from pre-clinical and clinical studies demonstrate
      that VPM1002 is safer and is more immunogenic than the existing BCG vaccine. It is therefore
      anticipated that VPM1002 will also perform better in reducing the severity of the symptoms of
      an infection with the SARS CoV-2 than the BCG vaccine. Further, manufacturing of VPM1002
      using state-of-the-art production methods will help hasten the production of millions of
      doses in a very short time and thus would be beneficial in the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic
      situation.

      The current trial will assess the efficacy and safety of VPM1002 to reduce health care
      professionals ' absenteeism in the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic by modulating the immune system.

      A total of 1200 health care professionals (doctors, nurses and paramedical staff) with high
      expected exposure to SARSCoV-2 infected patients (e.g. those employed in emergency
      departments, intensive care unit, infectious disease ward, COVID-19 isolation wards,
      respiratory wards, etc.) will be enrolled, across hospitals in Germany. Informed consent will
      be obtained from the subjects willing to take part in the trial. This will be followed by
      assessment of the eligibility criteria. Subjects who fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      will be centrally randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive a single dose of either VPM1002 or
      Placebo.

      All subjects will be requested to sign into a web-based tool designed for this trial. All
      subjects will be followed-up entirely remotely. The web-based questionnaires will be designed
      to collect data regarding absenteeism, adverse events / serious adverse events,
      hospitalizations, intensive care unit admissions and other secondary endpoints. The
      investigators will review the outcome and safety data.
    
  