
    
      Site assessment: Each site will be assessed as to their current bowel assessment and
      documentation methods, and their current bowel management strategy. Clinical practice leaders
      (nursing and physician) will be interviewed, and as many of the nurses as can be contacted
      will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire about bowel care at their site, with some
      focus groups being held in order to allow all staff to have input.

      A retrospective chart review will be carried out to include at least 30 patients to establish
      the current documentation standard and outcomes.

      The impact of bowel care on nursing practice will be assessed.

      Intervention: As a result of the assessments at all the sites and in collaboration with the
      site leaders, the research team will devise a common reporting and documentation system which
      will enable systematic collection of bowel outcomes data. It is intended that the Victoria
      Bowel Performance Scale will be introduced, in combination with other reporting tools
      specific to bowel management. The tools may vary from site to site depending on the context
      of care, for example an inpatient unit will have differing requirements to an outpatient
      clinic. However the goal is for required outcome data to be retrievable from charts from all
      settings in a consistent, complete and reliable way.

      Evaluation: Medical and nursing staff will be surveyed in the same way as in the initial
      assessment (interviews, questionnaires and focus groups), to assess the performance and
      acceptability of the modified reporting process. A second chart review will be undertaken
      when at least 30 patients have passed through the service. Outcomes from the chart reviews
      will be communicated back to care providers in order to give them feedback as to the quality
      of bowel care they are providing. Any further modifications to the data tracking system will
      be made so that by the end of the project the system is acceptable to all sites and
      functioning effectively, allowing the network of collaborating sites to proceed to the next
      step: clinical trials of different bowel care treatments.

      Demographic data recorded will be that required to determine comparability of cohorts with
      respect to risk for constipation and will include the following variables.

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Palliative Performance Status (PPSv2) on admission

        -  Diagnosis (if cancer, which tumour type)

        -  Major comorbid diagnoses

        -  Reason for admission

        -  Presence or absence of abdominal cancer

        -  Presence or absence of ascites

        -  Radiotherapy during admission (if yes, to abdomen or not)

        -  Medications taken during admission

        -  Duration of admission

        -  Number of days on bowel protocol

        -  Discharge or death

      The primary outcome measures for bowel function for each patient will be the proportion of
      days with at least one bowel movement a day, and the proportion of patients with a bowel
      movement at least 40 % and at least 50% of days. The secondary outcome variables of the study
      will be use of enemas, suppositories or lactulose, and reported cramping and/or diarrhoea.
      Diarrhoea will be defined as either passage of watery stool at least once a day, or more than
      3 bowel movements a day. These were the same outcome variables used in the docusate study.
      Sites will be grouped according to type of setting (hospice, PCU, home etc). Sites with very
      similar patients will be combined for statistical analysis (for example the two Vancouver
      residential hospices to which patients are referred through a common process and assigned to
      according to bed availability).

      Acceptability of the BPS will be assessed through a combination of questionnaires and focus
      groups with staff at sites which elect to pilot it after reviewing the results of the initial
      assessment. Their responses will be analysed using qualitative methodology. Staff will also
      be asked at the end of the study whether or not they would prefer to continue to use the BPS
      for routine clinical assessment or to revert to their previous method.

      The utility of the BPS as a suitable outcome measure for clinical trials of bowel management
      treatments will be explored by correlating the single item BPS score with the primary and
      secondary outcome variables. As scoring of the BPS is essentially a composite of multiple
      outcome variables, (bowel movement frequency, consistency, degree of sphincter control and
      associated symptoms such as cramping etc.) it is anticipated that the BPS will provide at
      least the same outcome information as the multiple individual variables, which are rarely
      fully documented. We hope that the BPS will provide more patient-centred and useful
      information to guide laxative treatment, as the tool is centred around the individual's
      "normal" bowel habit, rather than relying on arbitrarily defined norms. Data from all sites
      will be able to be pooled for this analysis.
    
  