
    
      Randomize interns into three groups. The control group has been described above. Two more
      groups will randomized to one of two interventions: Intervention Group #1: will have a
      focused, interactive power point lecture on the background, content and guidelines for a good
      handoff (focus on a standardized electronic hand-off tool). They will have an exercise to
      complete. Intervention Group #2: will undergo the same power point lecture ( as in Group #1)
      with an additional intervention focused not only on the hand-off tool, but on a standardized
      hand-off process using an OSCE exercise (objective structured clinical exam). This group will
      be trained about the effective implementation of the hand-off tool. They will be taught how
      to standardize the hand-off process and will be given an opportunity to practice with their
      peers in the HFH simulation center. Up to 12 residents will be taken in pairs to practice
      written and verbal handoff skills in the simulation center under peer observation and by
      faculty (investigators, PI). Each intern will be given a simulated patient history and
      physical and any relevant information related to the patient's hospital course. The intern
      will be given five minutes to create a handoff. Each pair will go into a separate room that
      will be recorded and viewed by their peers and instructor. They will be observed giving a
      handoff and receiving a handoff. When they exit the room, they will provide feedback to one
      another regarding the quality of the handoff. Then the peers will give additional feedback.
      Each intern will go through the process of giving a handoff and the one accepting the
      handoff. After the simulation, they will complete a short survey on the intervention. At the
      completion of the educational interventions, throughout the year as part of regular intern
      evaluations, night residents will be asked on a weekly basis to evaluate the efficacy of
      intern handoffs. In addition, de-identified written handoffs will be evaluated by the
      investigators and scored for completeness and accuracy. The resident cross covering will be
      blinded to the intern group. They will evaluate the handoff process. During this process,
      content omission can be measured, as well as time taken to cross cover a patient.

      All interns participating in the study will do a self-assessment of their handoff skills.
      Interns will then be randomized into one of three groups as described above and undergo the
      educational intervention (#1 or #2) or standard education (control). Educational
      interventions will be completed within 10 days of the start of the study (Specific Aims
      #1,2). Following the interventions interns will be assessed throughout the year using a
      standardized grading form that evaluates written and verbal handoff skills, and perceived
      effectiveness of handofffs and it pertains to patient care for interns on inpatient rotations
      that month (Specific Aim #3,4). This will be completed on a weekly basis by night residents
      (second and third year residents not involved in the study, and blinded to the intervention
      groups). Educational endpoints: perceived improvement in handoff skills by interns involved
      in the study over a 6 month period of time as compared among the intervention groups.
      (Surrogate) Clinical Endpoints: 1) Objective handoff skills evaluation of interns by more
      senior residents using a standardized grading form 2) Review of electronic handoff forms by
      investigators, forms by individual interns will be blinded to the investigators to reduce
      bias
    
  