
    
      Rationale: repetitive electrostatic pressurised intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy with
      oxaliplatin (ePIPAC-OX) is offered as a palliative treatment option for patients with
      isolated unresectable colorectal peritoneal metastases (PM) in several centres worldwide.
      However, little is known about its feasibility, safety, tolerability, efficacy, costs, and
      pharmacokinetics in this setting.

      Objectives: to prospectively explore the feasibility, safety, tolerability, preliminary
      efficacy, costs, and pharmacokinetic profile of repetitive ePIPAC-OX as a palliative
      monotherapy for isolated unresectable colorectal PM under controlled circumstances.

      Study design: multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase II study.

      Setting: two Dutch tertiary referral hospitals for the surgical treatment of colorectal PM.

      Study population: adults who have a World Health Organisation (WHO) performance status of 0
      or 1, adequate organ functions, histologically or cytologically confirmed unresectable PM of
      a colorectal or appendiceal carcinoma, no systemic metastases, no symptoms of
      gastrointestinal obstruction, no contraindications for the planned intervention, and no
      previous pressurised intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC).

      Intervention: instead of standard palliative treatment, enrolled patients receive
      laparoscopy-controlled ePIPAC-OX (92 mg/m2 body-surface area [BSA]) with intravenous
      leucovorin (20 mg/m2 BSA) and bolus 5-fluorouracil (400 mg/m2 BSA) every six weeks. Four
      weeks after each procedure, patients undergo clinical, radiological, and biochemical
      evaluation. ePIPAC-OX is repeated until clinical, radiological, or macroscopic disease
      progression, after which standard palliative treatment is (re)introduced.

      Outcomes: the primary outcome is the number of patients with major toxicity (grade ≥3
      according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0) up to four weeks after
      the last procedure. Secondary outcomes are the environmental safety of ePIPAC-OX,
      procedure-related characteristics, the number of procedures in each patient and reasons for
      discontinuation, minor toxicity, organ-specific toxicity, postoperative complications,
      hospital stay, readmissions, quality of life, costs, progression-free survival, overall
      survival, and the radiological, histopathological, cytological, biochemical, and macroscopic
      tumour response. Atomic absorption spectrophotometry is used to measure concentrations of
      oxaliplatin in plasma, plasma ultrafiltrate, urine, ascites, PM, and normal peritoneum during
      and after ePIPAC-OX.
    
  