
    
      Recently there has been a growing interest in measuring hair cortisol and testosterone
      levels. Hair grows approximately 1 centimeter per month, and hair analysis accurately
      reflects long-term endogenous production of these hormones. The association of elevated hair
      cortisol levels with chronic stress has been reported in several studies. Furthermore, we
      have recently demonstrated higher hair cortisol levels in patients admitted with acute
      myocardial infarction compared with patients admitted for other indications (the manuscript
      has recently been submitted for publication). Nevertheless it is still not clear whether hair
      cortisol levels are a risk factor for acute coronary event or for chronic cardiovascular
      diseases. In order to address this issue, further comparison of hair cortisol levels between
      patients with acute MI and a control group of patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases
      is needed.

      Several studied have reported that endogenous testosterone concentrations are inversely
      associated with cardiovascular mortality and progression of atherosclerosis both in the
      coronary and the peripheral arteries. However these studies used a single serum testosterone
      level and therefore may not accurately represent the chronic endogenous production of this
      hormone. It may be that the association of testosterone levels and cardiovascular disease may
      be better evaluated using the hair technique. Nevertheless this association has not been
      studied yet.

      Aim of the study:

      To compare hair cortisol and testosterone levels in patients admitted with acute MI to stable
      patients with prior cardiovascular diseases or diabetes and patients with no history of
      cardiovascular diseases.

      Secondary endpoint:

      To evaluate the association between hair cortisol and testosterone with the burden of
      coronary atherosclerosis. The latter will be quantified only in the AMI patients undergoing
      coronary angiography by assessing the non culprit coronary arteries.
    
  