
    
      Preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with placental insufficiency
      and is one of the major important of prematurity and maternal mortality worldwide. It
      complicates 2 to 7% of pregnancies. It is currently considered that preeclampsia is
      associated with maternal endothelial dysfunction induced by the release into the maternal
      circulation of excess placental factors (such as sFLT-1 a soluble receptor for VEGF and
      PlGF). There is currently no curative treatment, and only childbirth and delivery of the
      placenta alleviate the mother's symptoms. Moreover, the evolution from case with mild
      symptoms to a severe case of preeclampsia is often is often rapid and difficult to
      anticipate. Therefore, it is recommended to manage patients with preeclampsia in hospital and
      cases of suspected preeclampsia are usually admitted in prenatal units. Each year thousands
      of patients are hospitalized for surveillance and blood/urine analysis to rule out the
      diagnosis of preeclampsia. A biological test to predict preeclampsia would therefore be of
      particular interest in order to:

        -  identify patients without preeclampsia and therefore void costs and iatrogenic
           complications related to unnecessary hospitalization

        -  identify patients at high risk of maternal and perinatal complications in order to
           anticipate in utero transfer, optimize maternal and fetal surveillance and administrate
           steroids.

      It has recently been demonstrated that sFLT-1 and PlGF have a high predictive value for the
      diagnosis and the prediction of preeclampsia, but the interest of introducing these markers
      in clinical practice has not been demonstrated yet. The diagnostic and predictive value of
      the sFlt-1/PlGF ratio in patients at risk of placenta-related disorders has been shown in the
      recent literature and estimation of the sFlt-1/PlGF ratio has become an additional tool in
      the management of these disorders, primarily PE. This ratio can distinguish the patients that
      develop maternal or perinatal complications in the next 7-14 days from those with
      uncomplicated pregnancy. Women with an sFlt-1/PlGF ratio<38 do not have PE at the time of the
      test and in all likelihood will not develop PE for at least 1week; it is thereby of great
      value for reassuring the clinician and the patient. Up to 80% of patients are supposed to be
      in this patient group; therefore, clinicians are able to exclude the majority of patients and
      focus on those who need more attention and care. On contrary women with a sFlt-1/PlGF ratio >
      38 and more specifically those with a ratio over 85 are highly likely to develop preeclampsia
      and should be managed according to local practice/guidelines. Thus the use of such predictive
      tool appear very promising but its interest has not been demonstrated in prospective
      intervention studies.

      The aim of the PRECOG study is to determine in a prospective interventional randomized study
      whether the implementation of a predictive test based on the sFLT-1/PlGF ratio improves
      perinatal care and reduces costs, in patients with suspected preeclampsia before 35 WG.
      costs, in patients with suspected preeclampsia before 35 WG.
    
  