
    
      Lay Summary

      Introduction: The World Health Organization estimates that 270-360 million operations are
      performed every year worldwide. Death and complications after surgery are a big challenge. In
      Canada, out of every 1000 major surgeries, 16 patients die in hospital after surgery. In the
      United States, for every 1000 operations, 67 patients unexpectedly need life support in the
      Intensive Care Unit. With population aging and limited resources, strategies to improve
      health after surgery are ever more important.

      Vital signs, such as blood pressure and heart rate, show how the body is doing. Vital signs
      change during surgery because of patient, surgical, and anesthetic factors. Anesthesiologists
      can change vital signs with medications. However, medical professionals are only starting to
      understand which, and what ranges of, vital signs under anesthesia are associated with better
      health. Machine learning is a tool that can provide new ways to understand data. With better
      understanding, medical professionals can work to improve outcomes after surgery.

      Objective: This study will analyze vital signs during surgeries for their links to death,
      complications (heart, lung, kidney, brain, infection), Intensive Care Unit admission, length
      of hospital stay, and hospital readmission. This study will determine which, and what levels
      of, vital signs may be harmful. The investigators predict that blood pressure, heart rate,
      oxygen level, carbon dioxide level, and the need for medications to change blood pressure
      will interact to be associated with death after surgery.

      Methods: After obtaining Research Ethics Board approval, the investigators will analyze data
      from all patients who are at least 45 years old and had an operation (with the exception of
      heart surgery) with an overnight stay at the Queen Elizabeth II health centre (Halifax,
      Canada) from January 1, 2013 to December 1, 2017. There are approximately eligible 35,000
      patients. The investigators will use machine learning to model the data and test how well our
      model explains outcomes after surgery.

      Significance: The use of machine learning in a large, broad surgery population dataset could
      detect new relationships and strategies that may inform current practice, and generate ideas
      for future research. A better understanding of the impact of vital signs during surgeries may
      unveil methods to improve outcomes and resource allocation after surgery. The results may
      suggest ways to identify high-risk patients who should be monitored more closely after
      surgery. If the model performs well, it may motivate other researchers to use machine
      learning in health data research.

      Please see full protocol for details.

      May 2020 update (prior to dataset aggregation and analysis)

        1. Added secondary outcome (days alive and out of hospital at 30 days postoperatively)

        2. Improved hemodynamic variable artifact processing algorithm

        3. Added sub-study: machine learning for invasive blood pressure artifact removal algorithm
    
  