
    
      Constrictive (or obliterative) bronchiolitis is a rare pulmonary disease characterized by
      subepithelial inflammatory and fibrotic narrowing of the bronchioles on histologic analysis,
      which often presents with nonspecific symptoms such as progressive dyspnea on exertion and
      nonproductive cough over weeks to months. Constrictive bronchiolitis may be triggered by
      autoimmune disease, chronic allograft rejection in lung transplant recipients, graft versus
      host disease in stem cell transplant recipients, viral illness, or inhaled toxins. Although
      pulmonary function tests (PFTs) may be helpful for the diagnosis of constrictive
      bronchiolitis, a study performed by King and colleagues in 2009 found that many Veterans with
      biopsy-proven constrictive bronchiolitis had normal PFTs. Thus, for these patients, more
      sensitive methods of noninvasive testing are needed.

      4Dx XV Ventilation Analysis is a new imaging analysis algorithm which utilizes standard
      fluoroscopy to quantify ventilation with sufficient fidelity to identify regional
      differences. Fluoroscopic images of a single tidal breath are obtained at 5 distinct angles
      (direct AP, +/- 36 degrees, and +/- 72 degrees). Readouts from the 4Dx XV Ventilation
      Analysis include absolute value of total lung ventilation, heterogeneity of lung ventilation,
      a frequency distribution of lung ventilation as a line plot, and a regional map of lung
      ventilation. In addition, an expiratory time constant (time to exhale 63% of the tidal
      volume), heterogeneity of the expiratory time constant, frequency distribution of expiratory
      time constant as a line plot, and a regional map of expiratory time constant are also
      calculated. Pilot studies performed by 4D Medical show data generated by the 4Dx XV
      Ventilation Analysis software applied to fluoroscopy is reproducible in individuals with
      normal lung function and the heterogeneity index increases in individuals undergoing
      radiation therapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that the 4Dx XV Ventilation Analysis program, when applied to
      standard fluoroscopic images, is more sensitive for the diagnosis of constrictive
      bronchiolitis than PFTs in Veterans with constrictive bronchiolitis. Specific metrics that
      will be evaluated with the software include ventilation heterogeneity and expiratory phase
      constants, among other metrics. Endpoints will be compared during tidal breathing and a full
      exhalation to residual volume from functional residual capacity.
    
  