
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the complete remission rate in patients with high-risk follicular lymphoma
           receiving induction therapy comprising bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab with vs
           without bortezomib.

        -  To compare the 1-year post-induction disease-free survival rate in patients receiving
           continuation therapy comprising rituximab with vs without lenalidomide.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the 3-year progression-free survival and the 5-year overall survival of
           these patients.

        -  To evaluate patient-reported outcomes at baseline and during treatment to determine
           differences in symptom palliation, treatment-related symptoms, and overall
           health-related quality of life.

        -  To examine the association between baseline Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic
           Index (FLIPI) information and outcome of these patients.

        -  To examine the association between baseline and end-of-treatment patient comorbidities
           assessed by the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS) and outcome.

        -  To create an image and tissue bank including serial PET/CT scans, diagnostic
           paraffin-embedded tissue, germline DNA, and serial blood and bone marrow samples
           sufficient to support proposed and future studies of tumor and host characteristics that
           may predict for clinical outcome, including treatment arm effects, and enhance existing
           prognostic indices. (exploratory)

        -  To evaluate the rate of peripheral neuropathy associated with subcutaneous and
           intravenous bortezomib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to FLIPI-1score (0-2 vs 3 vs 4-5) and Groupe
      d'Etude des Lymphomes Folliculaires (GELF) tumor burden (low vs high). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A then Arm D

             -  Arm A (induction): Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and
                bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every
                28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Arm D (continuation): Beginning 4 weeks after the completion of induction therapy,
                patients who have stable disease or better at time of post-induction restaging
                receive rituximab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 2 years in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm B then Arm E

             -  Arm B (induction): Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1; bortezomib IV on days 1,
                4, 8, and 11; and bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 4.
                Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm E (continuation): Beginning 4 weeks after the completion of induction therapy,
                patients who have stable disease or better at time of post-induction restaging
                receive rituximab as in arm D.

        -  Arm C then Arm F

             -  Arm C (induction): Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and bendamustine
                hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm F (continuation): Immediately after completing induction therapy, patients who
                have stable disease or better at time of post-induction restaging receive oral
                lenalidomide on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 13 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 4 weeks after
                the completion of induction therapy, these patients receive rituximab IV on day 1.
                Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life (including fatigue, neurotoxicity, anxiety, and depression) is assessed by
      questionnaire at baseline and periodically during study therapy.

      Blood, bone marrow, and tissue samples may be collected periodically for correlative studies
      and for a repository.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for 15 years.
    
  