
    
      60 pregnant women with singleton living healthy fetus diagnosed as having placenta previa by
      grey scale ultrasound and candidate for repeated elective cesarean section (CS) or elective
      cesarean hysterectomy (if the diagnosis of placenta accreta is confirmed) will be included in
      the study. Inclusion criteria include: maternal age between 20 & 40 years old, gestational
      age more than 28 weeks (confirmed by a reliable date for the last menstrual period and 1st
      trimester ultrasound scan), one or more cesarean section scar & the presence of placenta
      previa with high possibility of being placenta accreta when scanned by grey scale ultrasound.
      Women who had chronic or pregnancy induced diseases or any emergency or unplanned CS will be
      excluded. Informed consents will be obtained from all patients after explanation of the aim
      of the study & the potential risks. For all patients, full history will be taken followed by
      complete physical examination & routine obstetric ultrasound (to confirm the presence of
      placenta previa i.e. placental tissue covers the internal cervical os or within 2 cm from
      it). For all Participants, the placentae will be reexamined in systematic manner by
      gray-scale & color Doppler ultrasound via transabdominal and/or transvaginal approach using
      Volusion Pro-V ultrasonography machine (GE Healthcare Austria GmbH, Seoul, Korea). All exams
      will be done by expert sonographer & the possibility of concomitant placenta accreta will be
      checked. The placenta will be scanned with adequate bladder volume to visualize the bladder-
      uterine serosal interface correctly & the angle of insonation will kept as low as possible.
      The presence of one or more of the following features in grey scale ultrasound will be
      indicative of placenta accreta (presence of abnormal placental lacunae / complete loss of
      retroplacental sonolucent zone / myometrial thinning / disruption of the uterine
      serosa-bladder interface / presence of mass invading the urinary bladder). Similarly,
      placenta accreta will be diagnosed by the presence of at least one of the following features
      in color Doppler scan: diffuse or focal lacunar flow - sonolucent vascular lakes -
      hypervascularity of the utero-vesical interface with bridging vessels connecting the placenta
      to the bladder). The sonographic provisional diagnosis (i.e placenta previa, focal accreta,
      accreta , increta or percreta) with the concomitant invasion of adjacent structures (e.g.,
      the urinary bladder) will be documented. For all participants, termination of pregnancy will
      be by elective CS or elective cesarean hysterectomy. Furthermore, operative findings as
      regard the placenta and the invasion of adjacent structures will be documented. All operative
      procedures will be done by senior staff obstetrician with special interest in placenta
      accreta. For hysterectomy specimens, histopathological examination will be done to assess the
      degree of myometrial invasion & to confirm the diagnosis of placenta accreta. Maternal
      morbidities (i.e. massive bleeding with the need of blood transfusion, pelvic organ injury or
      ICU admission) or mortalities will be documented. Neonatal morbidities (i.e. prematurity or
      NICU admission) or mortalities will be documented. The ultrasonographic findings will be
      compared to operative details and histopathological reports. The aim of the study is to
      evaluate the efficacy of ultrasound in predicting operative findings and associated
      co-morbidities among cases of placenta accreta.
    
  