
    
      This will be a 2-stage, open-label, three-arm, Phase II study. It is designed to evaluate the
      efficacy of immunization with increasing doses of an allogeneic tumor cell vaccine, Lucanix™,
      in patients with non-curable NSCLC. Patients will be followed for clinical response,
      immunogenicity and safety.

      Eligible patients will receive 4 monthly intradermal injections with a cell cocktail
      comprised of equal numbers of four irradiated allogeneic TGF-beta2 antisense gene modified
      NSCLC cell lines. Patients will be randomized to one of the three study cohorts. Patients
      will receive 12,500,000, 25,000,000, 50,000,000 gene modified cells respectively. Treated
      patients will be evaluated four months after they enter therapy. Patients that respond to
      therapy will receive an additional four to twelve injections to evaluate whether their
      response to therapy can be amplified. Response, time to tumor progression, and tumor free
      survival will be monitored in patients and compared with historical controls and patients
      receiving other forms of therapy. Patients will be monitored and evaluated according to
      standard evaluation criteria of no response, stable disease, partial response and complete
      response.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

      -Evaluate the ability of increasing doses of Lucanix™, a gene-modified tumor cell vaccine, to
      induce tumor response in patients with non-curable NSCLC

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  Evaluate the ability of the Lucanix™ vaccination regimen to induce an immune response
           (cellular and humoral)

        -  Estimate the response duration for the Lucanix™ regimen

        -  Evaluate the effects of repeated inoculations on immune infiltrates

        -  Evaluate the safety of the Lucanix™ regimen

      INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Signed informed consent

        -  18 years

        -  Histologically confirmed non-curable NSCLC with an estimated total tumor burden volume
           of less than or equal to 125 cc, confirmed to be stage II, III, or IV.

        -  Must have completed or refused conventional therapy

        -  Performance status (ECOG) less than 2.

        -  Absolute granulocyte count greater than or equal to 1,500/mm3

        -  Platelet count greater than or equal to 100,000/mm3

        -  Total Bilirubin less then or equal to 2 mg/dL

        -  AST and ALT less than or equal to 2x Upper Limit of Normal

        -  Creatinine less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Concurrent systemic steroids greater than 2 mg prednisone/day

        -  Prior splenectomy

        -  Any surgery involving general anesthesia, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, steroid therapy or
           immunotherapy less than 4 weeks of study entry

        -  Brain metastases or meningeal lymphomatosis unless treated and stable for greater than
           or equal to 2 months

        -  Known HIV positive

        -  Serious non-malignant disease (e.g., congestive heart failure, or active uncontrolled
           bacterial, viral, or fungal infections), or other conditions which, in the opinion of
           the investigator would compromise protocol objectives.

        -  Prior malignancy (excluding nonmelanoma carcinomas of the skin) unless in remission for
           greater than or equal to 2 years

        -  Treatment with an investigational drug within 30 days prior to study entry

        -  History of psychiatric disorder that would impede adherence to protocol

        -  Pregnant or nursing women or refusal to practice contraception if of reproductive
           potential
    
  