
    
      Zhineng Qigong is a self-training method which enables the participant to take an active part
      in a possible recovery process.

      The aims of this study are: 1) evaluate a Zhineng Qigong intervention regarding health
      aspects (both subjective and objective outcomes) in patients with chronic low back pain
      and/or leg pain; 2) test different aspects of feasibility including recruiting from different
      patient populations and testing outcome measurements; and, 3) get a basis for power
      calculation for a future Randomised Controlled Trial.

      Based on previous experiences after Zhineng Qigong training with European Zhineng Qigong,
      this study is based on the following hypotheses:

        1. Zhineng Qigong training gives pain reduction and reduced consumption of analgesics.

        2. Zhineng Qigong training reduces lumbar spine-related symptoms (other than pain).

        3. Zhineng Qigong training reduces healthcare utilisation, including lumbar spine surgery.

        4. Zhineng Qigong training improves walking ability, mobility, and functional capacity.

        5. Zhineng Qigong training improves Health-Related Quality of Life, including perceived
           concentration ability, distress, sleeping quality, vitality, depression, mood, and
           anxiety.

      The investigators´ idea was to give patients with chronic low back pain and/or leg pain the
      opportunity to practise Zhineng Qigong in an intervention arranged by European Zhineng
      Qigong. To this prospective interventional study without control group, patients were
      recruited from the Swedish spine surgery register (SweSpine), Orthopaedic clinic, and Primary
      Healthcare. The intervention period was 12 weeks, with measurements once before and once
      after intervention. However, because of difficulties in recruiting, 15 of the respondents
      were enrolled to 3 weeks shorter intervention, joining respondents who already started the 12
      weeks intervention. Totally, 55 respondents were enrolled.

      Background data:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Marital status

        -  Children at home (number and age)

        -  Duration of symptoms in the lumbar spine and/or leg (year-month when the symptoms
           started)

        -  Lumbar spine diagnosis (name and year-month of the diagnosis)

        -  History of lumbar spine surgery (number of times and which years)

        -  Type of surgery and surgery level(s) (for postoperative patients)

        -  Sick- or disability pension (since which year-month and main reason)

        -  Treatments and/or training methods already tried (also for how long time)

        -  Educational level

        -  Occupation or living situation

        -  Smoking habits

        -  Financial difficulties

      The same physiotherapist examined the respondents once before and once after the intervention
      period. Two weeks before and two weeks after the intervention period, a "pain diary" was
      filled in by the respondents. Also, they filled in questionnaires once before and once after
      the intervention.

      During the intervention period participation in the group activities was registered on an
      attendance list. Every day during the intervention period and two weeks after, the
      respondents filled in a "training diary" with information about how much Zhineng Qigong was
      practised besides the group activities.

      The respondents that were on waiting list for lumbar spine surgery were asked by telephone if
      lumbar spine surgery was performed or not. This was done six months after the intervention
      was completed.

      Descriptive and analytical statistics are used to present the results.
    
  