
    
      The VA research team has played a prominent role in documenting the significant skeletal
      muscle atrophy that accompanies chronic hemiparesis after disabling stroke. Muscle volume is
      reduced by 24% in paretic vs. non-paretic legs, having significant implications for strength,
      function, fitness, metabolism and general health. The investigators' previous work
      establishes progressive, high-intensity resistive training (RT) as an effective
      rehabilitation strategy for older stroke survivors, producing thigh muscle hypertrophy on
      both the paretic and non-paretic sides. Protein supplementation can significantly augment
      gains in muscle mass after RT in healthy populations, but no experiments have yet been
      conducted in stroke. New preliminary data from the investigators' group indicates that stroke
      participants consume 20% less protein than the recommended daily amount for older individuals
      (0.80 vs. 1.0 g/kg/day) suggesting that relative gains in skeletal muscle could be
      significantly better in the presence of adequate protein intake. New data also indicates that
      leg muscle mass predicts resting metabolic rate (RMR) in stroke, implying that a combined
      nutrition and RT therapy aimed at maximizing muscle gains would translate into improved
      energy balance, a key factor in rehabilitation success. A better understanding of the true
      potential for aggressive RT interventions to address stroke-related atrophy and related
      problems for maximum benefit awaits clinical trials directly comparing RT with and without
      nutritional therapy. The investigators propose to conduct a 12-week randomized placebo
      controlled clinical trial comparing the effects of RT+ protein supplementation at 1.2
      g/kg/day (RT+PRO) vs. RT+isocaloric placebo (RT+PLA) on body composition, hypertrophy,
      strength, functional mobility and energy expenditure in chronic stroke.
    
  