
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and adenoviruses infections are a major source of morbidity and
      mortality after allogenic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSC). Conventional
      antiviral therapy have sometimes insufficient efficiency and a significant potential
      toxicity. Over the last ten years, adoptive immunotherapy has demonstrated its efficiency in
      treatment of viral infections in this context. Different methods have been used but
      organizational and technological barriers have prevented a wide use of this therapeutic
      approach.

      This protocol aims to assess the efficiency of treatment by injection of donor CD4 + and CD8
      + T cells specifically directed against cytomegalovirus or adenovirus, to patients receiving
      allogenic transplant with infection of one of these two viruses, and in conventional
      antiviral treatment failure. Donor memory T cells will be obtained from an aphaeresis of
      mononuclear cells and will be selected on the basis of their ability to produce
      interferon-gamma (IFN-g) after stimulation with viral peptides. The speed (48 hours) and the
      reproducibility of this method let hope a better feasibility for clinical use compared to
      previously developed technologies. Given epidemiology different after allogenic transplant of
      HSC of these two viruses, and the relative low expected number of patients with adenovirus
      infection, statistical analysis will focus exclusively on patients who received T cells for
      CMV infection. The study of efficiency and tolerance of this adoptive immunotherapy for
      adenovirus will be considered as a secondary purpose.

      This is a multicenter non-comparative phase I/II protocol, which predicts the inclusion of 30
      patients with 25 patients infected with CMV, to demonstrate efficiency of 55% with a minimum
      required efficiency of 30%, an alpha risk of 10% and a strength of 90%. The main purpose of
      the study is to evaluate the efficiency of this treatment on the level of CMV viral
      replication 21 days after the first injection. A positive response is defined by a viral load
      became undetectable or reduced by at least 2 log10. A negative response is defined on the
      basis of unchanged or increased viral load after injection of T cells; a partial response is
      defined as a significant decrease (greater than 0.3log10 copies / ml but less than 2 log10)
      of the viral load, which still remains above the detection threshold. For patients with an
      isolated organ damage (patient without PCR), a positive response is defined by the healing of
      the affected organ. In case of negative or partial response 21 days after the first
      injection, a second injection if available can be programmed in the absence of clinical signs
      of graft versus host or aggravation of pre-existing GVHa. The secondary purposes are: a)
      assess the tolerance, in terms of occurrence of acute reaction graft versus host (GVHa)
      directly due to the injection of T cells ; b) evaluation of indirect biological parameters of
      efficiency such as injected T cells expansion studied using tetramers specific secretion of
      IFN-g; c) the study of efficiency and tolerance of this immunotherapy against adenovirus.
      Inclusion criteria concern children and adults who have received allogenic transplant of HSC,
      which donor is CMV + and having an active viral infection: 1) in conventional antiviral
      treatment failure, with a persistent viral load and/or increased after 15 days of treatment
      or with CMV or ADV disease with organ damage documented without systemic replication (if
      possible, with a CMV PCR or ADV PCR positive in the organ), or 2) in intolerance or toxicity
      situation of this treatment which prevents its pursuit. Donor T cells will be injected if the
      following conditions are observed : 1) donor chimerism > 10%, 2) absence of GvHa ≥ grade II
      3) absence of severe organ failure. The antiviral drug therapy may eventually be continued
      jointly with cellular immunotherapy.

      Number of participating centers: grafter centers of Ile-de-France and Hospital Edouard
      HERRIOT to Lyon, CHU of Nantes, CHU of Poitiers (so 10 centers). The study duration will be
      42 months, with an inclusion period of 36 months and a follow-up period of 6 months from the
      last inclusion. If the study gives expected results, a compared phase III trial will be
      considered for the treatment of CMV infections and a Phase I/II for the treatment of
      adenoviral infection.
    
  