
    
      Magnetic susceptibility is an important source of contrast in MRI, which arises from the
      subtle field perturbations generated by inter-molecular interaction in response to an
      external magnetic field. The DRT tract consists mainly of axon fibers covered by myelin
      sheaths that cause magnetic susceptibility variations. In addition, magnetic susceptibility
      of fiber bundle is in fact anisotropic. Such distinctive features of the DRT can generate a
      unique type of susceptibility contrast with respect to its neighboring thalamic tissues, yet
      clinically practical protocols are lacking. This study will utilize a novel MR
      susceptibility-based method, termed 'MR Susceptibility Imaging with Short Echo Time
      (MR-SISET)' which leverages short echo times to realize high contrast for direct and
      individualized DRT targeting. Combined with machine learning (ML) approaches, an automatic,
      operator-independent DRT-recognition will be achieved. This could provide a valid support to
      operators in the surgical planning and significantly improve the current operative
      methodology.

      MR imaging will be done on a 3T MRI Magnet at the NYU Langone Health. All patients will
      undergo a routine clinical preoperative MRI of the brain under general anesthesia to reduce
      movement artifacts. The proposed sequence (<15 minutes) will be added as a supplementary
      sequence only for the preoperative imaging for subjects who agree to participate. The
      operator/clinician will be blinded to the results of this study for the MRgFUS treatment. A
      routine clinical postoperative MRI will be performed prior to discharge by the clinician,
      typically the following day of the MRgFUS treatment. The severity of tremor will be assessed
      before and after the treatment (~6 weeks). Postoperative clinical data will be retrieved to
      get a surgical target lesion and clinical outcome after treatment in order to confirm our
      method.
    
  