
    
      To determine whether or not children and adolescents with ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma are
      eligible to participate in this study, screening tests will be performed, which may include
      the following: medical history, bone marrow tests, assessment of your tumor, blood tests
      and/or an EKG.

      Participants who enroll in this study will receive with anti-leukemia drugs called
      chemotherapy. During study treatment, the study doctors will continue to perform tests on
      blood, bone marrow and spinal fluid to assess how the disease is responding to the study
      treatment and to look for possible side effects. Scans (for example, x-ray, CT scan or MRI
      scan) may also be done after beginning study treatment to look for possible side effects. If
      the disease was initially diagnosed by a scan, it will also be repeated during the study
      treatment to assess how it is responding.

      There are three different treatment groups in which leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma can
      be divided and they differ slightly in the types and amounts of chemotherapy drugs used
      during the 2-years of therapy. Participants are assigned to the different categories based on
      the features of their leukemia or lymphoma, such as their age, white blood cell count, and
      results of other tests. The three different treatment groups are called "Standard Risk",
      "High Risk" and "Very High Risk".

      Participants will be given several different chemotherapy drugs during many periods of
      treatment (called "phases"). These drugs are known to kill lymphoblastic cancer cells. Some
      of the drugs are given by mouth, some into the veins (intravenously), and others as an
      injection (a shot) into the muscle. Some chemotherapy drugs will be given directly into your
      spinal fluid (called intrathecal chemotherapy) during a lumbar puncture (spinal tap). This
      treatment helps prevent the cancer cells from coming back in the spinal fluid and brain.

      The first phase of treatment is steroid prophase. This phase of treatment is typically given
      in the hospital. This phase of treatment will begin immediately.

      after enrolling on the study.

      The second phase of treatment is remission induction. This phase will begin immediately after
      the steroid prophase and will last four weeks. Participants typically remain in the hospital
      for most (sometimes all) of this phase.

      At the end of the remission induction phase, participants will undergo tests to determine if
      they are in remission. This testing will involve getting samples of blood, bone marrow and
      spinal fluid to look for cancer cells under the microscope. This testing will also involve
      getting repeat scans if these were not normal at the time of diagnosis. Remission means that
      cancer cells cannot be detected under the microscope in the blood, marrow and spinal fluid,
      and that any cancer previously seen on a scan has significantly improved or is no longer
      seen. Participants must be in remission to go onto the next phases of treatment; alternative
      treatments will be discussed with participants who are not in remission at the end of the
      induction phase.

      The Consolidation I phase begins once it is determined that a participant is in remission.
      This phase lasts about three weeks. This phase of treatment is given in the hospital, but
      participants may be able to leave the hospital after the first week of the phase. The purpose
      of this phase is to further reduce the number of cancer cells in the body.

      The next phase is the Central Nervous System (CNS) phase, and is usually given in the
      outpatient setting. Participants may need to be admitted to the hospital during this phase of
      treatment if a complication develops, such as infection. This phase of therapy begins
      immediately after the Consolidation I phase and lasts about 3 weeks. Treatment involves a
      series of lumbar punctures with anti-leukemia drugs given intrathecally over a two week
      period. Anti-leukemia drugs will also be given by mouth and by vein during this phase as
      well. Some participants may receive radiation therapy during this phase, although most do
      not. The decision to treat with radiation or not is based on characteristics of the cancer at
      diagnosis and whether or not cancer cells were seen in spinal fluid at that time. Radiation
      therapy is a painless procedure, the purpose of which is to prevent leukemia from coming back
      in the brain. For participants who receive radiation therapy, it will be given in either 8 or
      10 daily treatments, depending on how many leukemia cells were seen in the spinal fluid under
      the microscope at diagnosis.

      The next phase of the study is Consolidation II. This phase begins about 3 weeks after
      starting the CNS phase and lasts for about 27 weeks. During this phase, chemotherapy is given
      in three-week cycles, with some drugs given in clinic and some drugs given by mouth at home.
      Participants are typically treated as outpatients during this phase.

      The last phase is called Continuation. This is also usually given as an outpatient. The goal
      of this phase is to rid the body of all remaining cancer cells. The cycles of chemotherapy
      during this phase are repeated every 3 weeks, with some drugs given in clinic and some drugs
      given by mouth at home. This phase will ends two years after remission was documented.

      The randomization in this study involves the two forms of asparaginase, Oncaspar and SC-PEG
      asparaginase. Because no one knows which of the study options is best, participants will be
      "randomized" into one of the study groups: to receive Oncaspar or to receive SC-PEG.
      Randomization means that participants are put into a group by chance. Participants who are
      placed in the Oncaspar group will receive a single dose of Oncaspar on Day 7 of the Remission
      Induction phase, and then every 2 weeks for 30 weeks starting in the CNS phase (16 total
      doses of Oncaspar). Participants placed in the SC-PEG group will receive SC-PEG asparaginase
      on Day 7 of the remission induction phase and then every 3 weeks beginning in the CNS phase
      (11 total doses of SC-PEG).

      Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) testing is a way to look for very low levels of leukemia in
      the body that cannot be seen under the microscope. These test will be done in a laboratory at
      Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. If the MRD results are in the low range on Day 32, thre will be
      no change to the treatment program described above. If the MRD results are in the high range,
      then it will be recommended that treatment be changed.

      Participants will receive a fluoroquinolone antibiotic beginning during the first phase of
      treatment and continuing until the neutrophils and monocytes (two types of white blood cells
      in the blood that help fight infection) have increased. The goal of giving the antibiotics is
      to prevent infection during the first few weeks of treatment.

      Participants who agree to have extra blood drawn to test for vitamin D levels in the blood
      will have 1 teaspoon of blood drawn at the following times: start of treatment, at the end of
      the first month of treatment, at the start of the continuation phase, and at the end of
      treatment. Participants will receive the results of these tests. If the vitamin D level is
      low, the study doctor will recommend that the participant take a vitamin D supplement.
      Participants may choose not to have blood drawn to check vitamin D levels, or may choose not
      to take the vitamin D supplement.

      Participants will be asked at the time of study entry if they agree to provide additional
      blood and bone marrow samples for research. These additional samples will be used to learn
      more about the biology of ALL and lymphoblastic lymphoma. Stored specimens may also be used
      for future research regarding leukemia.

      After completing all treatment, participants will be asked to come in for physical exams and
      blood work every month for the first six months after the final treatment, then every two
      months for the next 6 months, then every four months for the next year, and then every six
      months for the next year. After that we will ask you to come in once a year.

      The investigators would like to keep track of the medical condition of all participants for
      the rest of their lives. This will be done by reviewing medical records of participants. The
      investigators may telephone participants who have finished treatment to see how they are
      doing if they have not been seen by their doctor for at least a year.
    
  