
    
      A total of 20 patients will be enrolled for this feasibility study. Included in this study
      will be female adults at least 18 years of age with

        1. A BMI of 35-39.99 and 1 or more severe obesity-related co-morbidities (including T2D,
           hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), obesity-hypoventilation
           syndrome (OHS), Pickwickian syndrome (a combination of OSA and OHS), nonalcoholic fatty
           liver disease (NAFLD) or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), pseudotumor cerebri,
           gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), asthma, venous stasis disease, severe urinary
           incontinence, debilitating arthritis, or considerably impaired quality of life) OR a BMI
           ≥ 40.

        2. AND a tissue diagnosis (usually endometrial biopsy) of endometrial carcinoma or EIN.

      Excluded in this study will be patients younger than 18 years old, with a BMI < 35, those
      without a tissue diagnosis, or with a grade 2 or greater endometrial cancer tissue diagnosis.
      Patients with contraindications to bariatric surgery will also be excluded. This includes
      active smokers, prior bariatric surgery, active substance abuse, recent suicide attempt,
      bulimia nervosa, or poorly controlled psychiatric illness. Exclusion criteria will also
      include inability to read an English informed consent form, and unwillingness to provide
      informed consent.

      Appropriate candidates will be selected from the outpatient clinic schedule of gynecologic
      oncologists at BWH as well as the satellite offices where gynecologic oncologists see
      patients. Before enrollment, an attending gynecologic oncologist, who is known to the
      potential subject and has first-hand knowledge of the patient's medical history must (1)
      initially introduce the study to the patient AND (2) obtain the patient's consent AND (3)
      give approval for his/her patient to be contacted for research purposes. The surgeons will
      use the following standardized prompt, "Have you ever considered surgery to address your
      weight?" to recruit patients. If the patient answers in the affirmative, then the study
      protocol will be presented to them using a standardized script to ensure all discussion
      points are discussed.

      After informed consent is signed, the subject will be referred to the Brigham Center for
      Weight Management and Metabolic Surgery. The co-investigators on this study have discussed
      expedited patient referrals to the Brigham Center for Weight Management and Metabolic Surgery
      in the interest of not delaying their surgery for endometrial cancer or EIN. Both patients
      that successfully undergo concurrent laparoscopic hysterectomy and weight loss surgery as
      well as any other patients that receive a referral to a bariatric surgeon will be included in
      this study. If it becomes apparent that the concurrent surgery cannot be scheduled within 8
      weeks of the initial visit with her gynecologic oncologist, then the patient will proceed
      with hysterectomy alone. Though there is no literature on survival outcomes based on time to
      curative surgery in EIN patients, it is presumed that women might be able to wait slightly
      longer for their combined surgery. For that reason, the cutoff for time to surgery in EIN
      patients will be 10 weeks.

      Patients must see the bariatric surgeon within 1-2 weeks as the concurrent surgery must be
      performed within 8 weeks (or 10 weeks for EIN) of the patient's initial visit with the
      gynecologic oncologist. If patients are deemed eligible for WLS, patients will be scheduled
      immediately for a nutrition consultation and psychologic evaluation at the Brigham and
      Women's Center for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (CMBS). CMBS will simultaneously help
      patients undergo the process of obtaining insurance approval for concurrent procedure. Once
      approved by CBMS staff as well as their insurance provider, patient will be scheduled for
      laparoscopic hysterectomy and WLS. The concurrent surgeries will be performed in the same
      manner the procedures have been performed in the past.

      Their post-operative appointments with each surgeon will be coordinated, to the best of the
      study staff's ability, on the same day within a 2-3 week post-operative period. Per NCCN
      surveillance guidelines, patients with endometrial cancer will also be seen again by the
      gynecologic oncologist at 6 months and 1 year before transferring care back to their primary
      gynecologist for pelvic exams q6 months for 2-3 and then annually [16]. EIN patients will
      only have to be seen at their 2 week post-operative follow up visit. All subjects will also
      follow up at the CMBS per standard protocol.

      All of the variables required for this study will be collected as part of clinical care. It
      is anticipated all data is available in the EMR. The investigators will obtain demographic
      data such as age, race, and sex. The investigators will also collect clinical data such as
      medications, past medical history, and lab details. Details of the operation and
      post-operative laboratory data will be abstracted from clinical records and entered it into
      the electronic database. Data collected will include: patient's demographics, co-morbidities
      and baseline lab values (i.e., Hgb A1c, lipid panel); timing of the referral process,
      insurance barriers, intraoperative data (i.e., anesthesia time, length of case,
      complications, etc.), post-operative data (length of inpatient stay, weight changes, follow
      up compliance, etc.); quality of life survey (Short Form Healthy Survey) responses pre- and
      post-operatively.
    
  