
    
      Based on 8 years of experience recruiting alcohol users into studies of comparable length and
      complexity, the investigators anticipate that 92% of consented participants will be eligible
      (i.e., randomized) and 97% of those individuals will complete Aim 2b. Thus, to achieve a
      final sample size of 100, the investigators anticipate consenting 111 participants. This
      study will include 50 real time fMRI (experimental group) participants and 50 "idealized"
      neurofeedback (control) participants. Participants will be randomly assigned to experimental
      or control groups, stratified by AUDIT scores, SES, age, and sex. All study procedures will
      take place during a single study visit. Before the imaging session, a research assistant will
      aid the participant to select salient images related to individualized future goals as well
      as alcohol images which elicit self-reported craving. All participants will complete two fMRI
      runs within a single session. In run 1 of the scan (offline classifier training),
      participants will perform an image viewing task displaying alternating blocks of these goal-
      and alcohol-related images. Between the image viewing blocks we will assess reinforcer
      pathology with brief in-scanner measures of delay discounting and alcohol valuation (BAAD).
      In total, there will be six blocks each of the goal-oriented images, alcohol-related images,
      delay discounting, and BAAD (24 blocks total). Since this is a proof-of-concept experiment,
      the interspersed delay discounting and BAAD blocks will enable monitoring and validating
      changes in the participant's temporal window and alcohol valuation after the image viewing
      blocks. Only the fMRI measures of goal- and alcohol-related image viewing will be used to
      build a support vector classifier (SVC) of decreased vs. increased delay discounting. If
      participants are allocated to the real time fMRI group, in run 2 the SVC model from run 1
      will be used to provide participants with real-time neurofeedback while they attempt to
      modulate their temporal window. The participants will see a dial with a needle on the screen
      along with instructions to think of either future goals or alcohol cues. The dial will be
      directly controlled by ongoing output from the SVC, updating the needle position as
      participants imagine immediate (alcohol-related) or delayed (goal-related) cues. Control
      participants ("idealized" neurofeedback group) will undergo the same procedures, but in run 2
      neurofeedback, will be presented with an "idealized" dial (perfect needle movements in both
      alcohol and goal directions) and will be specifically instructed that they are not
      controlling the interface. The investigators have used this type of sham needle movement as a
      control condition in previous experiments. Based on this, it is expected that experimental
      group will have increased whole brain signal to noise for alcohol vs. goal fMRI analyses and
      increased recruitment of frontal-parietal networks from enhanced visual attention to the
      task.
    
  