
    
      The prevalence of obesity in both adults and children in the United States has increased
      significantly over the past 50 years. More than 66% of adults in the US are now overweight or
      obese and at least 17% of children in the population at large are now considered overweight.
      Obesity may be a factor predisposing patients to a myriad of different comorbidities that
      increase the associated mortality rate. Several large prospective trials have documented that
      obesity is an independent risk factor for all-cause mortality from cardiovascular disease
      (CVD). Considering the major metabolic and biochemical changes that occur in obesity, such as
      atherogenic dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia, endothelial dysfunction,
      and chronic inflammatory and prothrombotic states, obesity plays a role in the pathogenesis
      of systemic atherosclerosis and its clinical complications. Antioxidants are thought to help
      preserve the endothelium's capacity to generate NO, which acts to promote vasodilation,
      stabilize platelets, and promote the anti-inflammatory abilities of the endothelium. Juice
      Plus+® Capsules containing Orchard, Garden and Vineyard blends are rich in the traditional
      antioxidants β-carotene, Vitamin E and Vitamin C along with other carotenoids and
      phytonutrients. There is increasing attention to the possibility that micronutrients may
      exert health effects in concert. Outcomes in studies of isolated micronutrients, such as
      vitamin E, have often been often disappointing. Plant-derived micronutrients have the
      potential to contribute to vascular health by offering the endothelium protection from
      oxidative stress. Evidence of this anticipated effect would have implications for strategies
      to prevent or retard cardiovascular disease. Endothelial function testing using
      high-frequency ultrasound imaging of the brachial artery to assess endothelium-dependent
      flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) offers a non-invasive, uniquely valuable means of assessing
      aggregated influences on cardiac risk by gauging a physiologic response of the vascular
      endothelium. Proposed, therefore, is a randomized, double-blinded and placebo-controlled
      clinical trial of Juice Plus+® on endothelial function in overweight men with central
      adiposity.
    
  