
    
      Rationale: Delirium is highly prevalent in the ICU. It may cause significant morbidity and
      mortality. One of the factors that may provoke a delirium is the use of GABA-ergic
      anaesthetics. Recent studies have shown that sedation with alpha-2-adrenergic agonists may
      lead to a reduction of the total amount of GABA-ergic anaesthetics and reduction of delirium.
      In clinical practice the alpha-2-adrenergic agent clonidine is used as an add-on sedative in
      mechanically ventilated patients who suffer from delirium, but there are no large studies
      proving that this therapy is effective and safe.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to compare the effect of clonidine with placebo on
      the occurrence and duration of delirium in mechanically ventilated ICU patients.

      Study design: Prospective randomised double-blind placebo controlled intervention study in
      115 patients.

      Study population: All patients >18 years old, intubated mechanically ventilated and sedated
      at inclusion.

      Intervention: Clonidine infusion of 0,25 mcg/kg/h added to the standard sedation regimen.
      Comparison: NaCl 0,9 % infusion as placebo.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is the total number of awake and
      delirium-free observation periods the first 7 days after randomisation. An observation period
      is a nursing shift of 8 hours.. A delirium-free period is a shift in which the CAM-ICU score
      is negative.

      Secondary endpoints: RASS sedation score, total number of delirium positive observation
      periods, total amount of sedatives, analgesics and antipsychotics used, organ failure score,
      ventilation and sedation free days at day 30, mortality.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The burden associated with participation is minimal. All blood samples, CAM-ICU
      scores and physical examinations required for the study are routine daily practice on the
      ICU. Adding clonidine for sedation of critically ill patients is common practice in many
      ICU's in the Netherlands.. Its use is also suggested in the NVIC guideline delirium on the
      ICU. It is however an off-label treatment. The major side effects of the study medication
      clonidine are hypertension, hypotension and bradycardia. Smaller studies have shown that
      these side effects are comparable to midazolam. Hypotension is a phenomenon that occurs very
      often in ICU patients, and is caused by different conditions, not only by the use of sedative
      medication. The benefit of participation is the possibility to reduce the period of delirium
      during ICU stay. Because of the widely off label use of clonidine in sedated and ventilated
      critically ill ICU patients this study is relevant to test the hypothesis that sedation with
      clonidine leads to a lower incidence and shorter duration of delirium.
    
  