
    
      Near-infrared-fluorescence by indocyanine green (ICG-NIRF) utilises the fluorescent property
      of intravenously injected indocyanine green (ICG) as an intravascular indicator of tissue and
      bowel perfusion.

      The investigators hypothesise that ICG-NIRF is a suitable, reliable and precise method of
      visualisation of the blood supply and bowel perfusion in the area of ileal pouch formation
      and the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis.

      In this prospective, non-randomized cohort study, restorative proctocolectomy with ileal
      pouch reconstruction and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is performed according to standard of
      care for medically-refractory ulcerative colitis (UC), UC-associated neoplasia,
      medically-refractory Crohn´s colitis, colorectal carcinoma or familial adenomatous polyposis
      (FAP) in open or laparoscopic surgery, according to the surgeon's choice.

      Written informed consent for participation and ICG-administration is obtained one day before
      surgery.

      Intraoperatively, Indocyanine Green (VerDye, Diagnostic Green GmbH, Aschheim Germany, 25 mg
      vials) is dissolved in 5 mL sterile water to yield a 5 mg/mL concentration. It will then be
      administered intravenously at three consecutive time points as a bolus of 2 ml per time point
      at the most. The overall dose of ICG will amount to no more than 30mg of ICG per patient.

      Real-time intraoperative visualization is performed with the SpectrumTM Fluorescence Imaging
      Platform (Quest Innovations, Middenmeer, The Netherlands) directly after each ICG injection
      assessing bowel perfusion at three different time points respectively: before and after
      J-Pouch construction by stapler anastomosis and after ileoanal anastomosis formation.

      Clinical data and follow-up Clinical data is be collected from all patients regarding
      anastomotic leak, bowel ischemia and necrosis as well as 30 day postoperative morbidity,
      mortality and length and cost of hospital stay.

      Subjective data analysis will performed using Microsoft Excel® and IBM SPSS®.
    
  