
    
      Although the positive effects of continuous aerobic training are already well documented in
      the literature on health aspects. The weight loss induced by physical training is still very
      discrete when compared to other antiobesity means. Studies demonstrate an important
      variability in responses to physical exercise, indicating that individuals respond more or
      less to weight loss. Among these aspects, the factors that may influence exercise-induced
      weight loss have not yet been elucidated. Thus, the objective of the study is to analyze the
      influence of polymorphism in the genes FTO rs9939609 and PPARᵧ Pro12Ala, oxidative stress and
      systemic inflammation on changes in body composition and rest metabolism induced by
      continuous and continuous aerobic programs. Healthy individuals with overweight and / or
      obesity, aged 20-45 years, were randomly assigned to three groups: Continuous Aerobic (AC),
      Intermittent High Intensity Training (HIIT) and Control Group (CG). Groups (AC) and (HIIT)
      engaged in a 12-week program. Before the start of the program, at the sixth week and 48 hours
      after the intervention, they performed blood collections, ergospirometry, dual X-ray
      densitometry (DEXA), nutritional assessments. In addition, collection of buccal mucosa was
      performed for genotyping of polymorphisms studied. Initial differences between the groups, as
      well as between the dependent variables studied will be assessed using the two-way ANOVA test
      or its non-parametric equivalent. Correlation and regression tests will be performed to
      verify the influence of the independent variables and the magnitude of the exercise-induced
      weight loss, according to the normality of the data or differences between the standard
      deviations. The hypothesis tested is that genetic and physiological factors influence the
      weight loss independent of the training modality.
    
  