
    
      Method PART 1 For the first part of the study, patient preference between TIC, CISC, SPT will
      be assessed during a face-to-face interview after the patient has had sufficient time to read
      the information sheet about the three options available and has had the opportunity to ask
      questions. This will ensure that every patient will receive the same information. The
      face-to-face interview will be performed by the patient's physician or by one of the two
      urogynecology nurses working at the St. Michael's Hospital Women's Health Care Centre. The
      patient's choice will be recorded in the pre-operative record and then in the study database
      by one of the study personnel.

      Other data collected will include patient demographics (age, education level, level of home
      support, current or past occupation), clinical characteristics (BMI, parity, International
      Continence Society (ICS) stage of prolapse, and any pre-operative urinary diagnoses)
      (Appendix 4).

      Peri-operatively, data collected will include the surgery performed, the length of hospital
      stay, and the occurrence of any peri-operative complications. At our institution we have
      defined normal voiding function as having a voided volume of > 200 mL with a post-voided
      residual (PVR) of < 100 mL or having a voided volume of > 400 mL with a PVR of < 33% (1/3) of
      the total voided volume. Patients have to meet these criteria on two separate voids while in
      hospital or they will be classified as having post-operative voiding dysfunction. Once they
      meet the criteria for voiding dysfunction, then the method of bladder drainage used (TIC,
      CISC and SPT) and the length of time it was used for will be recorded.

      To reduce the rate of bacteriuria and other signs of bladder infection [25], antibiotic
      prophylaxis will be administered as usual to all patients that require bladder drainage for
      more than 24 hours. The antibiotic regimen consist of: Macrodantin 100 mg PO daily for the
      time of the bladder drainage, or Trimethoprim 100 mg PO daily if allergic. This is the
      regimen currently being used in our department.

      For those patients that underwent catheterization in the post-operative period, satisfaction
      with regard to catheter management will be assessed using a visual analog scale based on a
      previously published questionnaire. This questionnaire will be administered on the day of
      discharge, on post-operative day seven, and six weeks after surgery. Post-operative bladder
      function in those that required catheterization will be assessed on post-operative day seven
      and six weeks after surgery using uroflowmetry testing, PVR measurement, and a specimen for
      urine culture.

      PART 2 Women that were consented for the second part of the study will be randomized to
      either pre-operative CISC teaching in the clinic or post-operative CISC teaching in the
      hospital. A computer-generated list of random numbers will be used to allocate participants
      into 2 groups of equal size. To ensure consistency in teaching patients on CISC, nurses in
      the clinic and in the hospital will use the same protocol for instruction of CISC.

      Patients allocated to the pre-operative CISC teaching group will be taught how to perform
      CISC by one of urogynecology nurses working at the Women's Health Care Centre. Patients will
      be allowed to practice until they feel comfortable with the technique. This should take
      approximately 30 minutes. The session will take place on the day of their pre-operative
      medical appointment (PAF), which normally occurs less than a month before the surgery. If a
      patient is not seen in PAF or is seen more than a month before her surgery, a separate
      appointment for CISC teaching during the month preceding the surgery will be organized.
      Post-operatively, a nurse from the hospital gynecology unit will review the technique to make
      sure the patient is still comfortable with performing CISC.

      Patients allocated to the post-operative CISC teaching group will be instructed on CISC after
      surgery, starting on post-operative day one. One of the nurses from the hospital gynecology
      unit will teach and supervise the patients until they feel comfortable with the technique or
      until catheterization is no longer required (e.g. when the patient passes her voiding trial
      on two separate occasions). This is the protocol currently in use at our institution.

      Patients in both groups will have to be comfortable and independent in performing CISC prior
      to being discharged from the hospital. Following their discharge, a nurse from the Women's
      Health Care Centre will be available to answer any questions by telephone.

      For both groups, satisfaction will be assessed with a questionnaire that will be administered
      on the day of discharge, on post-operative day seven, and six weeks after surgery. Assessment
      of post-operative bladder function in those that required catheterization will occur on
      post-operative day seven and six weeks after surgery using uroflowmetry testing, PVR
      measurement, and a specimen for urine culture.

      Patients with no post-operative voiding dysfunction will be withdrawn from the study. Since
      it is impossible to predict who will experience post-operative voiding dysfunction, it is
      essential to recruit all potential participants prior to surgery so that they can receive
      pre-operative CISC teaching if allocated to this group. Pre-operative data, however, will be
      kept for all recruited patients for the purose of study analyses.

      Data analysis PART 1 Demographic measures, catheterization choice, and clinical data will be
      summarized using descriptive statistics. Patient satisfaction will be assessed using
      questionnaires that will be reviewed and scored. The questionnaire has 6 items and each item
      consist of a 10 cm line visual analogue scale. Patients will be asked to put an "X" on this
      line between the 2 extremes. The distance from the beginning of the line to the patient's X
      will be measured and the score will be obtained. Scores will be calculated by adding the
      scores of the 6 items (range 0 to 60), then dividing by 6 and multiplying by 10. Missing
      items are dealt with by using the sum from answered items only, dividing by the number of
      items answered. Patient who answered fewer than 4 questions will not be considered in the
      analyses.

      PART 2 As above, demographic measures and clinical data will be summarized using descriptive
      statistics. Each of the questionnaires will be reviewed and scored. For this part of the
      study, the questionnaire has been modified with the addition of three items with a response
      scale score of 0 to 10. Scores are calculated by adding the scores of the 9 items (range 0 to
      90), then dividing by 9 and multiplying by 10. Missing items are dealt with by using the Sum
      from answered items only, dividing by the number of items answered. Patient who answered
      fewer than 6 questions will not be considered in the analyses. Each of the questionnaires
      will be reviewed and scored. Satisfaction scores between the two groups (pre-operative and
      post-operative teaching) will be compared using a two-sided Student's t-test.

      For both parts of the study, continuous variables will be summarized as means (standard
      deviation) or medians (minimum, maximum) and compared between groups using Student's t-tests
      or Kruskal Wallis tests. Categorical variables will be summarized as counts (percent) and
      compared between groups using Fisher's exact tests.

      Sample Size Calculation For the first part of the study, we are aiming to survey a minimum of
      150 patients. The power calculation for the second part of the study is based on a previous
      study [11]. Based on these findings, we defined the minimal relevant difference in patient
      satisfaction with regard to CISC teaching to be 30% with a standard deviation of +/- 30. With
      a power of 0.8 and an alpha of 0.05, the minimum number of patients required in each group is
      eight. We anticipate a 10% drop out rate after consent and we expect that 65% of patients
      will not require any form of outpatient catheterization after their surgery. Therefore, we
      will require 25 patients per arm for the second part of the study. Recruitment for the first
      part of the study will cease once we have recruited all the patients required for the second
      part or once we have recruited 150 patients, whichever comes first.

      Timeline for completion Based on the operative hospital data from 2010, we will need
      approximately 24 months to recruit patients and collect data. Three more months will be
      required for data analysis and manuscript preparation.
    
  