
    
      A novel dendritic cell vaccine has been developed at the Baylor Institute for Immunology
      Research (BIIR). Pre-clinical studies have found that this dendritic cell vaccine is more
      efficient in inducing a tumor specific immunity than other dendritic cell vaccines. Further
      studies in the BIIR have been done with dendritic cells that were loaded with killed melanoma
      cells from a melanoma cell line treated with heat before loading. Both studies have shown
      that DCs manufactured in this novel way were more efficient in priming the melanoma specific
      CD8+ cells. Thus, the strategy for this clinical trial will be to test recent laboratory
      findings in the clinical setting. An additional objective of the study will be to determine
      the effectiveness of a frozen vaccine product which differs from previous vaccines that were
      manufactured "fresh".

      This clinical trial will evaluate the novel dendritic cell vaccine in patients with Stage IV
      melanoma. The trial will accrue a total of 30 subjects. The primary goal of this trial will
      be to test the safety/tolerability/feasibility of the vaccine preparation and the rate of
      objective clinical response. A 15% objective response rate will be accepted in patients who
      have failed previous therapy with IL-2 and/or dacarbazine (DTIC) and/or temozolomide which
      are standard treatments for patients with malignant melanoma.

      Each subject will be given 7 initial injections in a fixed dose amount. The first 4 doses
      will be given at 2-week intervals (Weeks 0, 2, 4 and 6); the last 3 doses will be given at
      4-week intervals (Weeks 10, 14, and 18). Those patients who exhibit stable disease, partial
      response or complete response after 7 injections will be given 4 more vaccinations. Each of
      these additional 4 vaccinations will be given 3 months apart (Weeks 36, 48, 72 and 96). Scans
      and re-staging tests will be performed at scheduled intervals throughout the study.
    
  