
    
      Physical disability and poor health often accompany knee osteoarthritis (OA), particularly as
      people age. This decline in function and quality of life is a complex phenomenon associated
      with numerous factors including pain, poor physical fitness, obesity, co-morbidity, low
      self-efficacy and lower extremity impairments. Furthermore, the effects of age, which have
      not been well studied in OA, must be considered. In addition to the functional losses
      associated with knee OA and aging, low levels of daily physical activity and exercise are
      common problems in this population for whom arthritis is a major reason for activity
      limitation. Evidence is accumulating that exercise can enhance health and quality of life and
      modify a number of the factors associated with disability. There is, however, little specific
      information to guide exercise prescription in the diverse population of people with knee OA.
      Although general benefit of exercise has been demonstrated, it is time to focus research
      questions on the specific types of exercise that produce specific effects; and for whom
      particular exercises are the most useful. Additionally, exercise has shown short term
      benefit, but how best to maintain gains and sustain exercise behaviors in self-directed and
      community settings is virtually untested. These questions are relevant to all people with
      knee OA, and become even more important as people grow older, become more sedentary and are
      at greater risk for frailty, poor health and disability.

      This study is designed to: determine the efficacy of specific types of exercise by examining
      the effects of training on physiologic adaptations and physical performance; determine the
      effectiveness of a comprehensive exercise protocol performed in a supervised but non-medical
      setting, and describe the interaction of personal characteristics and disease severity with
      individual response to a particular exercise regimen.
    
  