
    
      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the safety of SEVENFACT® when used to treat bleeding episodes in participants
      with Hemophilia A or B with inhibitors either with or without prophylactic treatment

      Study Design:

      Phase IV multi-center, US-centric, open-label, safety study enrolling participants with
      Hemophilia A and B with inhibitors aged 12 to 65 years, inclusive, who are either on long
      term prophylactic treatment (e.g., emicizumab) at risk of experiencing a breakthrough
      bleeding event (BE), or who are not on prophylactic treatment who may need to control a BE.

      Study Duration:

      Participants will be followed longitudinally from the time of enrollment to the end of their
      participation in the study. The maximal study duration for any participant in the study will
      be up to 2 years from the time of enrollment.

      Target Accrual:

      This is a multi-site study in which it is anticipated approximately 28 to 55 participants
      will be enrolled in order to achieve treatment of approximately 100 bleeding events. The
      study will target enrollment of a minimum of 23 participants on emicizumab prophylactic
      treatment and 5 participants on other treatments.

      Data Analysis:

      Sample Size Determination:

      Results from the Haven 1 study were used to calculate the annual bleeding rates (ABR) in
      individuals receiving prophylactic treatment. These were calculated at an ABR of three for
      participants receiving emicizumab prophylactic treatment and 20 for participants receiving
      other treatments.

      Based on these data, it was calculated that between 28 and 55 participants would be necessary
      to reach 100 BEs with a minimum of 23 participants on emicizumab prophylactic treatment and 5
      participants on other treatments.

      Analysis Populations:

      The Safety Analysis Set is defined as all participants who received at least a single dose of
      SEVENFACT®. All analyses of safety will be performed based on the safety population, and
      participants will be analyzed according to the dose of SEVENFACT® that they actually
      received.

      Baseline Characteristics:

      Baseline characteristics will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous
      variables, and frequencies and percentages for categorical variables.

      Safety Evaluations:

      All Adverse Events (AEs) will be graded for severity utilizing Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 and coded using Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities
      (MedDRA) version 23.x. The number and percentage of participants with treatment-emergent AEs
      (TEAEs), serious AEs (SAEs), serious TEAEs and treatment related TEAEs (i.e., adverse drug
      reactions [ADRs]) will be presented for all participants.

      The number of TEAEs, as well as the number and percentage of participants with TEAEs, serious
      TEAEs, and treatment-related TEAEs will be presented by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) and
      preferred term for all participants.

      The number and percentage of participants with treatment-emergent adverse event and/or
      allergic and anaphylactic reactions will be presented for all participants.

      Efficacy Evaluations:

      There are no pre-specified efficacy endpoints.
    
  