
    
      Achalasia is one of the most studied esophageal motility disorders. The etiology of Achalasia
      is autoimmune, neurodegenerative, or viral immune. Achalasia is a consequence of the
      degeneration of ganglion cells in the myenteric plexus of the esophageal body and the lower
      esophageal sphincter (LES). The end result of the inflammatory process is the loss of
      inhibitory neurotransmitters nitrous oxide and vasoactive intestinal peptide causing the
      imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurons. This results in failure of the lower
      esophageal sphincter (LES) to relax and is associated with aperistalsis of the esophageal
      body, leading to difficulty swallowing, food and fluid stasis; regurgitation of undigested
      food, fluid and saliva; and weight loss. Achalasia is an incurable disease and treatments are
      only focused on the relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter in order to allow for
      passage of food fluid and saliva into the stomach. It has an estimated prevalence of 10 cases
      per 100,000 populations and an incidence of 1-3 cases per 100,000 populations per year in the
      Western world.

      The armamentarium of Achalasia treatment includes pharmacologic management with the use of
      calcium channel blockers, nitrites, phosphodiesterase inhibitor (sildenafil),
      anticholinergics, and beta-adrenergic agonists; endoscopy using botulinum toxin injections
      just above the squamocolumnar junction or pneumatic balloon dilation of the lower esophageal
      sphincter; open Heller Myotomy, laparoscopic Heller Myotomy, and Per Oral Endoscopic myotomy
      (POEM). Per oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) is the most recent innovative treatment in the
      armamentarium of Achalasia treatment. Per oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) is a natural orifice
      transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) approach to a Heller myotomy for the treatment of
      Achalasia. In 2008, POEM was first performed successfully in a human subject by Haruhiro
      Inoue in Japan. The POEM was performed on a 36 year old patient without any documented
      post-operative complications. In 2009, Stavros Stavropoulos at Winthrop University Hospital
      (WUH) performed the first per oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) procedure outside of Japan. The
      POEM was performed on a 42 year old male without documented post-operative complications. The
      subject had a marked improvement in objective manometric and barium esophagram findings; and
      improvement in subjective dysphagia score. Consequently there has been a rapidly increasing
      volume of POEM procedures performed in Japan, China, and throughout the United States.
      Stavropoulos at Winthrop University Hospital has the highest single-operator volume in the
      United States. The performance of POEM is still in evolution with various centers around the
      world performing variations on technique.

      The International Per Oral Endoscopic Myotomy Survey (IPOEMS) was conducted by Stavropoulos
      and Savides during the July 2012 annual meeting of Natural Orifice Surgery Consortium for
      Assessment and Research (NOSCAR). This survey was conducted to address the scarceness of POEM
      literature at the time. IPOEM provided a "snapshot" of the status of POEM worldwide. The
      survey included 5 Asian, 7 North American, and 4 European expert centers with a combined
      total of 841 POEM procedures performed by July 2012. At the time most centers (14) performed
      right anterior myotomy (2 o'clock orientation) with only a few of centers performing
      posterolateral myotomy (5 o'clock orientation) determined using the usual endoscopic
      convention of 12 o'clock representing the most anterior aspect of the esophagus on
      endoluminal view.

      The esophagus in humans is a complex structure with multiple muscles, nerves, vascular, and
      lymphatic components. Branches of the vagus nerve and visceral branches of the sympathetic
      trunk provide nerve fibers to the esophageal plexus. The vagus nerve delivers two fiber types
      to the esophageal plexus: preganglionic parasympathetic fibers and afferent fibers. These
      vagal fibers in the esophageal plexus reform to make the anterior vagal trunk (left vagus)
      and the posterior vagal trunk (right vagus). The anterior and posterior terms for the vagal
      trunks are used in relation to the esophagus. The visceral branches of the sympathetic trunk
      delivers two fiber types to the esophageal plexus: sympathetic postganglionic fibers and the
      afferent fibers. The afferent fibers originating from the sympathetic trunk are primarily
      involved with pain. The critical anatomical component of the esophagus in the treatment of
      Achalasia is the lower esophageal sphincter. Per common convention, the most anterior point
      of the LES point is assigned as the 12 o'clock position. The strong oblique sling fiber
      component is centered at 7o'clock on the posterolateral wall and wraps over the anterior and
      posterior walls at 11 o'clock and 5 o'clock, respectively. The weaker circular clasp fiber
      component location is centered at 2 o'clock to 3 o'clock. The question of investigating the
      optimal orientation to perform the myotomy is unique to POEM. Open Heller myotomy and
      laparoscopic Heller myotomy are limited to the anterior aspect of the esophagus. Myotomy
      orientation is constrained by the anatomical locations of the left bronchus, left atrium and
      spine. Anterior orientation is forced between the 1 o'clock - 2 o'clock position secondary to
      the locations of the left bronchus and left atrium between 10 o'clock -11 o'clock and 12
      o'clock - 1 o'clock, respectively. Posterior orientation is forced between the 4 o'clock - 5
      o'clock positions secondary to the location of the spine located between 8 o'clock-9 o'clock
      positions .The sling fibers maintain the angle of His and are a significant antireflux
      barrier. Stavropoulos et al, reported on a single operator series of 284 POEM subjects at
      Digestive Disease Week in May 2016. A statistical difference was found in the number of
      subjects requiring narcotics post POEM procedure Subjects who had an anterior myotomy were
      less likely to require narcotics post POEM procedure than those subjects who had a posterior
      myotomy, 35% versus 53% respectively (p=0.007).

      To date, there have been no prospective randomized controlled studies conducted comparing
      anterior versus posterior myotomy technique in POEM analyzing perioperative pain, procedure
      duration, incidence of mucosotomy, capnoperitoneum, and the postoperative sequelae of
      gastrointestinal reflux disease (GERD).
    
  