
    
      Hypotension and bradycardia are the most common adverse hemodynamic effects associated with
      spinal anesthesia, with particular frequency among the elderly. These complications are more
      hazardous in the elderly because they may have decreased physiological reserves and
      compromised blood supply to various vital organs. Hypotension is mainly related to the spinal
      anesthesia block height. One approach to improve hemodynamic stability is to use smaller
      doses of local anesthetic (< 10 mg of Levobupivacaine) to limit the distribution of local
      anesthetic within the subarachnoid space and hence to limit the block height. However, a
      smaller dose of local anesthetic may increase the incidence of inadequate level of sensory
      anesthesia for the anticipated surgery as compared with larger doses (> 10 mg of
      Levobupivacaine). Another concern about smaller dose of local anesthetic is the inadequate
      duration of sensory anesthesia. Therefore, small dose of local anesthetic need to be combined
      with opioids (Fentanyl or Sufentanil). However, intrathecal opioids are associated with
      several side effects such as pruritis, nausea, vomiting, shivering and respiratory
      depression. This will be the first comparative study of two small doses of Levobupivacaine (6
      and 8 mg) combined using intrathecal Fentanyl (F, 25 and 35 mcg) or Sufentanil (S, 5 and 7
      mcg) compared with large dose of Levobupivacaine alone (12 mg) in spinal anesthesia. The
      study will be conducted to assess the impact of a 10 independent variables (dose and
      combination of Levobupivacaine with Fentanyl or Sufentanil, age, basal systolic blood
      pressure (SBP), basal mean arterial pressure (MAP), time to lowest spinal SBP, upper limit of
      sensory block (dermatome level), time intervals of sensory recovery for two consecutive
      dermatome level (two-segment regression), time intervals of sensory recovery to the twelfth
      thoracic dermatoma (T12 regression), time intervals of sensory recovery to the first sacral
      dermatoma (S1 regression) and Body Mass Index) on the likelihood of not developing
      hypotension after intrathecal injection. The goal of the study is to find an optimal dose and
      combination of Levobupivacaine and Fentanyl or Sufentanil with the highest probability of not
      developing the hypotension as well as with the lowest opioid side effect that would be potent
      enough in achieving and maintaining a sensory block at T10 level for surgery lasting more
      than 45 minutes in elderly patients.
    
  