
    
      Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is one of the most common causes of chest infection
      worldwide, with 64 million episodes and 160,000 deaths each year. Despite this, it remains an
      underappreciated health problem and there are currently no specific treatments or vaccines
      against it. Although RSV infection is most frequent in young children, the majority of deaths
      occur in older adults, particularly in those with underlying heart and lung disease. This is
      believed to be due in part to the ageing immune system's reduced ability to protect against
      infection and symptomatic disease. However, little is known about the way human immune
      responses to RSV infection in older individuals differ from those of younger people. Further
      understanding of the mechanisms underlying immunity and potential impairments in these
      higher-risk people are therefore necessary. This project aims to study the role of T cells
      (which destroy virus-infected cells and are likely to be essential for recovery from
      infection) in healthy older volunteers after they have been given an RSV-induced common cold.
      Samples will be taken from the blood and respiratory tract in order to identify the
      differences in T cell responses that occur in older adults compared with their younger
      counterparts. Participants will be carefully screened to ensure they do not have any
      underlying health problems that might make them more at risk of severe disease and will be
      monitored closely throughout the course of infection. The investigators anticipate that T
      cell function even in healthy older individuals will be impaired compared to young adults,
      thus contributing in those with additional health problems to more severe disease. By
      analysing the networks of genes that are switched on and off, the investigators aim to
      identify the particular defects underlying these functional defects in order to ultimately
      define targets for novel treatments and T cell-stimulating vaccines.
    
  