
    
      Worldwide, an increasing number of medical procedures are performer in children under
      sedation in many different clinical settings, in compromised patients, often outside the
      operating theater and often by non-anesthesiologists.

      Although a good safety profile accounts for the spread of sedation, various complications
      might ensure. Furthermore of all the patients receiving sedation for diagnostic and
      therapeutic procedures, the pediatric population is the subgroup at the highest risk level
      and with the lowest tolerance of error.

      In the last years the results of two large database studies have been published to lend some
      clarity on the rate and nature of adverse events involving sedation/anesthesia outside the
      operating room. Respiratory complications were the most frequently reported, and required
      critical anesthesiological competencies for a correct management to avoid poor outcomes.

      Risk factors for adverse events during sedation/anesthesia have been evaluated by the 2016
      SIAARTI(Società Italiana di Anestesia, Analgesia, Rianimazione e Terapia Intensiva)-SARNePI
      (Società di Anestesia e Rianimazione Neonatale e Pediatrica Italiana) guidelines for the
      standard of pediatric anesthesia, including patients' age, ASA (American Society of
      Anesthesiology) class, experience of the operators, and urgency/emergency conditions.

      On the other hand, no suggestion is available either in current literature or guidelines,
      about a possible upper safety limit for the duration of sedation. In order to address this
      topic, the investigators concentrated on the occurrence of hypoventilated lung areas, which
      is a well-known side effect of anesthesia and sedation. To assess lung hypoventilation the
      LUSS-Lung Ultrasound Score will be used, since it is a validated and non invasive tool.

      The study aims to assess the incidence of atelectasis and hypoventilated lung areas after
      sedation in children and evaluating possible risk factors for them. The investigators
      hypothesis that the length of sedation is correlated with the occurrence of lung atelectasis
      and hypoventilation.

      This prospective observational cohort study study could suggest an upper safety limit for the
      duration of pediatric sedations, which is not reported in the available literature.

      Consecutive children (age 1-8 yrs old) scheduled to undergo cerebral or medullary magnetic
      resonance imaging under deep sedation will be enrolled. In the investigators' center such MR
      imaging data acquisition (and the relevant sedation) ranges usually between 40 and 120
      minutes. Enrollment will take place on the day of sedation.

      Informed consent will be obtained from both parents at the preoperative visit or the day of
      the procedure.

      The children will be sedated with propofol iv according to a standard clinical protocol and
      spontaneous breathing will be maintained throughout the study. The standard protocol has been
      internally validated both in the clinical and scientific setting.

      Immediately after the induction of sedation, lung ultrasound will be performed and the
      imaging will be scored according to the lung ultrasound score(LUSS). Thereafter the child
      will be transferred into the magnetic resonance (MR) suite and the MR exam will be performed
      as required. After completion of MR imaging child will be transferred back to the recovery
      room and the sonographer will re- assess the LUSS before the discontinuation of sedation.
      Hence, two lung ultrasound evaluations will be performed: one at the beginning and one at the
      end of sedation.
    
  