
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a growing chronic disease, affecting 20% of the population of
      Alabama. However, type 2 DM (90-95% of all DM) rarely occurs in isolation; 25% of all
      Americans report chronic pain, rising to 58-70% of community-dwellers over age 65. The
      National Center for Health Statistics reported in 2006 that chronic pain affected 76.2
      million Americans, more than cancer, heart disease, stroke and DM combined. Despite the high
      prevalence of chronic pain, evidence suggests that under treatment is common. In one study,
      68% of primary care physicians estimated that chronic pain was inadequately managed in their
      patients, and 60% thought improving physician education could help. Indeed, 40% of people
      with moderate to severe pain report not getting adequate relief.

      Chronic pain is a significant barrier to successful DM self-care; patients with chronic pain
      have lower medication adherence and are less likely to exercise. Fully 60-80% of DM patients
      report chronic pain, and in our ENCOURAGE pilot study (Safford, PI), all but one participant
      did so. About 20-25% of pain may stem from neuropathy, but at least 1/3 stems from OA
      (osteoarthritis), and coexistence of multiple causes is common. Over half of patients >65 and
      60% of women of any age report OA, demonstrating the very high prevalence of OA in this
      demographic group. Pain management dominated 20% of primary care visits for diabetic patients
      in one study, and decreased the likelihood of DM risk factor management. Not surprisingly,
      depressive symptoms are common in individuals with OA and chronic pain, and are also
      associated with non adherence to DM self-care behavior. Pain is therefore a barrier to not
      only quality of life, but to successful DM self-care.

      While cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) improves pain and functioning in individuals with
      chronic pain, many rural and underserved communities lack resources for such programs. The
      investigators tested the hypothesis that a CBT-based program delivered by community health
      workers (CHW) can improve quality of life in individuals with diabetes and chronic pain.
    
  