
    
      The condition to be studied is Spondyloarthritis (SpA). The investigators will gather a
      cohort of patients with variants of SpA (n = 70), including Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) and
      Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) who have axial disease and fully characterize disease activity.
      Care guidelines suggest that these patients are seen at least twice within the first year
      with annual visits thereafter. Radiographs are desirable to assess disease progression, but
      are not always required. Treatment options for both PsA and AS patients include non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), steroid injections, disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs
      (DMARDs) and biologics (i.e. tumor necrosis factor inhibitors aka TNF inhibitors or TNFi's).
      The cohort of patients eligible for enrollment in this study would be those patients who for
      the preceding 6 weeks have not received biologic treatment such as infliximab,and who for the
      preceding 4 weeks have not received biologic treatments such as adalimumab,
      etanercept,golimumab, certolizumab pegol and other biologic therapies.

      Subjects will be evaluated 4 times over two years: at enrollment, 24 weeks, 52 weeks and 104
      weeks (with a 12 week window around each visit). Usual care for patients with SpA would
      include regular assessments of pain, function and mobility, assessments of spine and joint
      motion, joint swelling and tenderness with treatment changes at each follow up visit to
      reduce pain, improve function, address adverse events to medications and enhance spinal
      mobility. Interventions might include physical therapy, analgesics, NSAIDs, DMARDs or
      biologic therapies. The investigator would not assign specific interventions to the subjects
      of the study. All of this would be recorded.

      Specific clinical information will be gathered at each visit using validated indexes and data
      collection instruments, including disease activity [using the Bath AS Disease Activity Index
      (BASDAI) and Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS)], function (using the Bath
      AS Functional Index (BASFI), measure joint/ligament involvement, measuring tender and swollen
      joint counts, dactylitis, enthesitis (as quantified using the Spondyloarthritis Research
      Consortium of Canada (SPARCC) enthesitis index and spine involvement (measured as range of
      movement in the spine and hips using the Bath AS Metrology Index (BASMI).
    
  