
    
      Purpose This study has been designed to test whether using Thymoglobulin with low dose
      tacrolimus and early steroid withdrawal will minimize both kidney rejection and the
      development of new onset diabetes after transplant (NODAT).

      Justification Experimental treatment is low target tacrolimus with thymoglobulin. Standard
      treatment is a standard target (higher dose) tacrolimus and basiliximab, instead of
      thymoglobulin.

      The investigators hypothesize, that a combined approach of early steroid withdrawal and low
      dose tacrolimus in low immunologic risk transplant recipients will be effective in reducing
      the incidence of new onset diabetes mellitus, while maintaining a low risk of acute
      rejection.

      Objective

      The objective of this study is to compare early post-transplant outcomes with the use of low
      target versus standard target Advagraf in de novo kidney allograft recipients of low
      immunologic risk undergoing early corticosteroid withdrawal.

      Research Method

      This is a pilot study. Primary and secondary outcomes are as follows:

      Primary Outcome Composite endpoint of biopsy proven acute rejection and NODAT at 6 months
      post transplantation.

      Secondary Outcomes

        -  Patient survival

        -  Graft survival

        -  Frequency, severity, and treatment of hypertension

        -  Frequency, severity, and treatment of hyperlipidemia (serum total cholesterol, (high
           density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and triglycerides)

        -  Weight gain

        -  Infections (cytomegalovirus (CMV), opportunistic infections including urinary tract
           infections requiring treatment, pneumonia)

        -  Malignancy, including post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD)

        -  Leukopenia

        -  Renal function as measured by serum creatinine and estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate
           (eGFR)

      The primary endpoint will be evaluated by time-to-event Kaplan Meier analysis and by
      Chi-squared analysis of final 6 month data.

      Statistical Analysis

      Sample size and power:

      In the setting of early steroid withdrawal, Woodle et al. reported an acute rejection rate of
      14% with rATG and 24% with an interleukin-2 receptor antibody induction(10). The incidence of
      NODAT was reported at 21% by Woodle, et al., and was reported 10% in the low dose tacrolimus
      arm of the ELITE-Symphony trial. The investigators, therefore expect a combined event rate of
      24% in Group A and 45% in group B. With a power of 0.80 and alpha error of 0.05, the
      investigators determined that the investigators need 72 subjects in each arm to demonstrate a
      20% difference in our composite primary outcome. For this initial pilot study, the
      investigators aim to recruit a total of 30 subjects After receiving informed consent,
      subjects will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to one of the two treatment groups. Subjects who
      discontinue the study prematurely will not be replaced.
    
  