
    
      Delirium is an acute and subacute comorbid syndrome characterized by decreased awareness and
      cognitive dysfunction accompanied by attention deficit. It varies from 20% to 80% in patients
      entering the ICU. If delirium occurs in the intensive care unit, complications such as
      unintended intubation, unintentional drainage, and mechanical ventilation are prolonged.
      Prevention of delirium is therefore very important, but no medication has been found to
      prevent delirium. Recent studies have shown that the pro-inflammatory cytokine affects the
      etiology of delirium. In addition, sleep habits have been shown to affect the
      pro-inflammatory pathway, and sleep induction and inactivation of the pro-inflammatory
      pathway may be expected to prevent and treat delirium.

      DEX is a selective alpha-2 receptor agonist with sedative and anti-anxiety effects and
      reduces sympathetic response due to stimulation. Recent studies have shown that intravenous
      DEX is effective in reducing inflammation by decreasing levels of IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-a.

      This study investigated the effect of dexmedetomidine, which is continuously administered at
      night after ICU admission, on the development of delirium and inflammatory markers, and to
      observe the prognosis. Patients who underwent spine, hip or femur surgery and who were
      admitted to the ICU after institutional exhalation were randomly assigned to the DEX group
      and the control group. Both groups can be combined with remifentanil for appropriate
      postoperative analgesia. The DEX group injects DEX at 0.2 ug / kg / hr from 9 pm to 7 am. The
      control group is inoculated with saline solution. At this time, the patient's blood pressure,
      oxygen saturation and cardiopulmonary function are continuously monitored. If an adverse
      event occurs during DEX sedation, process it and record it. If hypotension occurs, 4 mg of IV
      ephedrine is administered. If hypotension occurs, 4 mg is added or infused with
      norepinephrine. If Bradycardia (HR <45 bpm) occurs, IV glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg is administered.
      If bradycardia persists after administration, administer 0.5 mg IV atropine at a maximum of
      0.5 mg. If respiratory depression (RR <10 / min) and hypoxia (SaO2 <90%) occur, the patient
      may be awakened by loud or mild stimulation. If the respiratory depression and hypoxia
      persist despite these treatments, head extension , and maneuver for airway maintenance such
      as jaw thrust.

      IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, caspase-1, NLRP3 and ASC were measured at the onset of surgery in both
      the DEX group and the control group. Follow up.

      The following morning the subjects themselves and the researchers evaluate the quality of
      sleep (using RCSQ questionnaire) and delirium (ICDSC, CAM-ICU), respectively.
    
  