
    
      This is a prospective, two-center, randomized controlled trial evaluating whether music
      reduces pain and improves satisfaction during IUD insertion. Computer-generated randomization
      assignments will allocate subjects to either music or standard protocol groups. 40 music and
      40 control designations will be allocated to both sites, and all designations will be
      block-stratified into 10 blocks, each containing 4 controls and 4 intervention (music)
      subjects. This will ensure there are close to equal numbers of subjects in both groups if
      recruitment is halted before the minimum of 80 patients are enrolled. Assignments are
      available in a read-only document accessible by all co-investigators at the time of
      enrollment and randomization.

      Subjects randomized to the music group will choose 10 songs, which will be played during the
      procedure, from the time of positioning through completion of IUD insertion and speculum
      removal. Music may be played through a portable speaker in close proximity to the patient or
      through the patient's own headphones, if preferred. Both control and music groups will
      otherwise undergo the same standard anticipatory guidance and protocol for IUD insertion in
      an outpatient clinic setting. Total participation is predicted to last approximately 30
      minutes, as is standard for an appointment for IUD insertion. Study subjects will not
      interact with other participants.

      Patients in both control and intervention groups will undergo intrauterine device (IUD)
      insertion. Pain will be assessed using a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS) at 8 points during
      the procedure, including: (1) anticipated pain, (2) baseline pain prior to IUD insertion, (3)
      after speculum placement, (4) on tenaculum application, (5) on uterine sounding, (6) at IUD
      insertion, (7) after speculum removal, and (8) 5 minutes following the procedure. Patients
      will also answer a brief 5-question satisfaction survey following IUD insertion. Pain scores
      will be measured and compared between music and control groups to assess the primary and
      secondary outcomes of this study.

      VAS scores will be recorded by the attending physician or co-investigator, as they will
      reliably note when each step of the procedure occurs and pain should be assessed. They will
      present the 100mm visual analog scale (VAS) to the patient at each of the 8 points of the
      procedure, and the patient will mark their pain score. Scores will be measured and documented
      by a single co-investigator to eliminate bias or differences in measurement.

      VAS scores will be analyzed separately for each of the 8 distinct points described during the
      IUD insertion procedure. Differences between the intervention (music) and control groups will
      be assessed using a 0.05 level Wilcoxon ranksum test. A significant difference in pain will
      be noted if at least a 20 mm difference in VAS pain score exists between the two groups at
      any point of the procedure when VAS score is collected.

      The aim of this study is to determine if music, chosen by the patient and played during IUD
      insertion, leads to lower pain scores and improved patient satisfaction with the procedure.
    
  