
    
      HIV is a virus that can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a disease that
      breaks down the immune system and allows for entry of life-threatening secondary infections.
      HIV is transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, primarily through sexual
      intercourse. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has proven to be an effective treatment for
      inhibiting the replication of HIV, allowing for improved quality of life and survival.

      Despite the widespread availability and effectiveness of ART, a large number of people with
      advanced AIDS are not on the therapy, and a number of HIV-infected people die because they
      are unable to access ART. The Preparing Patients to Start Antiretroviral Therapy (PATH)
      program is designed to inform patients about HIV treatment and to provide motivation,
      information, and skills to enhance treatment decision-making. The PATH program may help
      increase ART use and adherence. This study will develop and test the effectiveness of PATH in
      helping people with HIV make informed decisions about their healthcare.

      This study will be divided into two phases. Phase 1 will last a total of 60 to 90 minutes and
      will consist of an interview about participants' relationships with friends and family and a
      medical history. Participants will also provide a blood sample for CD4 count and viral load
      measurements, returning 1 week later for the lab results. Eligible participants will then be
      invited to partake in Phase II of the study, which will last 12 months.

      Over the 12-month study, participants in Phase 2 will be randomly assigned to Group A or
      Group B. Group A will be asked to attend at least three individual sessions with a counselor
      and one group workshop meeting with HIV experts and other people with HIV who have previously
      been treated with ART. The individual sessions will last 60 minutes and will involve
      discussion about health care options and information on the latest advances in HIV treatment.
      The group workshop meeting will last 3 hours and will involve teaching participants about HIV
      treatment and what it is like to undergo treatment. Participants assigned to Group B will
      attend one individual counseling session and one group workshop, both of which will cover
      much of the same information as the Group A sessions. Treatment for Group B will not occur
      until the last month of the study. Any participants in either group who decide to start
      taking medications for HIV during the study will be visited monthly by a research assistant
      who will ask about medications and check medication adherence. Participants will also be
      expected to check in monthly with the research team.

      All participants will complete four 90-minute interviews, occurring at baseline and Months 3,
      6, and 12. Interviews will include questions about relationships with friends and family,
      healthcare and drug-using behaviors, mental state, personal background, and education. All
      participants will also provide blood samples to measure CD4 count and viral load at Months 6
      and 12. Selected participants may be asked to complete an additional exit interview about
      their opinions surrounding participation in the study.
    
  