
    
      Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a common and life-threatening disease. The incidence of a first
      episode of PE in acute care hospitals in the United States has been found to be 0.23 per 1000
      with in-hospital mortality ranging from 30%, in case of cardiogenic shock, to about 0% in
      absence of right ventricular overload or hemodinamic impairment (1). In the intermediate
      group of patients with right ventricular overload but no hemodinamic impairment, in hospital
      mortality has been assessed to be about 5%. Right ventricular dysfunction as assessed at
      echocardiography and serum levels of Troponin I and T have been proposed as qualifying
      criteria for the identification of a subgroup of patients with pulmonary embolism and no
      hemodinamic impairment at high risk for in-hospital death. These patients could potentially
      benefit from more aggressive treatment.

      A number of studies reported in favor of the association between echocardiographic RVD and
      early adverse outcome (PE recurrence and mortality) in patients with acute PE (3-6).
      In-hospital mortality in PE patients with and without echocardiographic RVD has been found to
      be 18.4% and 5.7%, respectively, regardless of the hemodinamic status (3). In 126 patients
      with acute pulmonary embolism, Ribeiro et al. reported a 7.9% overall in-hospital mortality
      (7). Mortality was 14.3% in patients with severe RVD. In a cohort of 2454 unselected patients
      with acute pulmonary embolism included in the ICOPER registry, 2-week mortality was 15.9% in
      patients presenting with RVD in comparison to 8% in patients without RVD (8). In the MAPPET
      10% of patients with RVD died within 30 days as compared to 4.1% of patients without (9).
      Recent data confirmed that patients with objectively confirmed PE, normal BP and
      echocardiographic evidence of RVD have a high incidence of adverse outcome and may
      potentially benefit from more aggressive treatment (10).

      Troponin I and T levels have also been described to be associated with in-hospital mortality
      and adverse in-hospital outcome in patients with acute pulmonary embolism (13-15).

      In small studies with helical CT, the ratio of the right ventricle to left ventricle short
      axis diameters (RV/LV) has been proposed as an accurate sign for the presence of RVD (16-19).
      In addition, other criteria have been proposed, including deviation of the interventricular
      septum and the ratio of the pulmonary artery to ascending aorta diameters. Also, the extent
      of PE (ie, thrombus burden in the pulmonary arteries) has been proposed as an important
      parameter for predicting RVD (20-21). In a recent retrospective study in 120 patients with
      pulmonary embolism, seven patients died of PE. Both the RV/LV ratio and the obstruction index
      were shown to be significant risk factors for 3-month mortality (p = 0.04 and 0.01,
      respectively). No such relationship was found for the ratio of the pulmonary artery to
      ascending aorta diameters (p= 0.66) or for the shape of the interventricular septum (p =
      0.20). The positive predictive value for PE-related mortality with an RV/LV ratio greater
      than 1.0 was 10.1% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.9%, 17.4%). The negative predictive value
      for an uneventful outcome with an RV/LV ratio of 1.0 or less was 100% (95% CI: 94.3%, 100%).
      There was a 11.2-fold increased risk of dying of PE for patients with an obstruction index of
      40% or higher (95% CI: 1.3, 93.6). The CT obstruction index (29% ± 17%) and the Miller index
      (43% ± 25%) were well correlated (r = 0.867, p < 0.0001) with an excellent concordance
      between investigators for both the CT index (r = 0.944, p < 0.0001) and the Miller index (r =
      0.904, p < 0.0001). A CT obstruction index greater than 40% identified more than 90% of
      patients with right ventricular dilatation.

      Aim of the study The primary aim of the study is to assess the accuracy of spiral CT scan to
      detect right ventricular dysfunction as compared to current 'gold standard'. At the purpose
      of this study right ventricular dysfunction as assessed by transthoracic echocardiography and
      serum levels of troponin are considered as gold standard.

      The secondary aim of the study is to assess the prognostic value of right ventricular
      dysfunction as assessed by spiral CT scan.

      Feasibility In order to reach 200 evaluable patients, the Radiology Units of the
      participating centers will be asked to alert local investigators regarding all the patients
      with CT scan positive for acute pulmonary embolism. Local investigators should take care of
      organizing transthoracic echocardiography and troponin levels.

      Four centers are required in order to complete the study in one year.
    
  