
    
      Because of high mortality associated with venous thrombosis (pulmonary embolism and deep
      venous thrombosis - DVT) the early recognition and therapeutics of its condition are crucial.
      Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) is a method with high sensibility to diagnose DVT and it is
      as accurate as Echo Doppler Ultrasound (EDUS), however the use of POCUS for diagnosis of DVT
      in the emergency care still presents resistance. This is a Clinical Trial on the use of POCUS
      for the diagnosis of DVT and its effect on length of hospital stay. 25 participants were
      randomized into two groups. The randomization was done through the random.org site in blocks
      of 4, a randomization list was with one researcher (blind) of the study. The experimental
      group was first submitted to POCUS in the Emergency Room, performed by a resident physician
      of Internal Medicine with training in POCUS, then after submitted to EDUS in the Radiology
      Service by a Radiologist. The control group was submitted only to EDUS in the Radiology
      Service. The 2-point compression technique was used, as described in previous studies, using
      the portable ultrasound device (M-turbo Sonosite) with a high frequency linear transducer
      (5-10 MHZ). The sites used in the evaluation were the popliteal site comprising the popliteal
      vein and trifurcation of the popliteal vein and the femoral point in which comprises the
      sapheno-femoral junction, the common femoral vein and the superficial femoral vein, all
      evaluated in the transverse plane. The result was considered positive for DVT when the vessel
      evaluated showed no compressibility and / or presented echogenic material in the lumen of the
      vein. After the randomization, the patients were followed for a period of 30 days, being
      evaluated in three moments: initial evaluation, at 7 and 30 days of the initial evaluation.
      Whenever possible, each evaluation was in person. In the initial evaluation, the
      participant's demographics, date and time of arrival at the Emergency Service, previous
      illnesses, Wells criteria score and reason for the initial care were collected. Participants
      randomized to the POCUS + EDUS group had recorded date and time of ultrasound at the bedside
      and, if there was confirmation of DVT, these data were collected by the resident physician,
      blinded for the Echo Doppler Ultrasound results. EDUS data, such as date and time of the
      examination request, date and time of the release of the exam report, confirmation of DVT,
      date and time of discharge were collected by another researcher, blinded to the participant's
      group and to the POCUS's results. After 7 and 30 days the outcomes were recorded: time for a
      first diagnostic information, time to therapeutic decision making / prescription, length of
      hospital stay, death, pulmonary thromboembolism, bleeding or other complication,
      re-hospitalization, evolution to DVT in cases that were initially negative.
    
  