
    
      Study objective:

      Study comparing blastocyst development on the same cohort of oocytes using two different
      media systems, sequential G-Series media versus sequential G-Series media supplemented with
      antioxidants.

      Primary endpoint:

      Percentage of good quality blastocysts (GQB) per fertilized oocyte on day 5.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Embryo development day 3, 5 and 6 Embryo quality day 3, 5 and 6 Total blastocyst formation
      (day 5 and day 6) Utilization rate (embryos available for transfer and cryopreservation)
      Biochemical pregnancy rate Implantation rate Clinical pregnancy rate

      Setup:

      Prospective oocyte sibling, superiority study

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Intervention:

      New type of embryo culture media used for in vitro culture of human IVF embryos.

      Power analysis:

      The planning and the power analysis was made together with a statistician, Nils-Gunnar
      Pehrsson.

      From retrospective data using simulation, the intra individual SD for the difference in % GQB
      between the two media strategies was estimated to 32%. In order to find a difference in 8% in
      GQB between the two media with power 80% with paired T-test 128 couples will be needed.

      Randomization:

      Couples will be enrolled in the study at oocyte pick up (day 0). A minimum of 8
      cumulus-oocyte-complexes is required for participation.

      Stratified randomization of the oocytes by couple will be performed. For each couple the
      oocytes will be numbered.

      These oocytes for each couple will then be block (by two) randomized to the two media types;
      A (Traditional G-Series media system = Control) and B (G-Series media system with antioxidant
      = intervention). In both groups traditional culture will be performed. Allocation will be
      performed in a 1:1 ratio according to a unique randomization list for each couple.

      Blinding:

      To minimize possible bias for the primary outcome (GQB D5) the embryologist performing the
      morphological evaluation on day 5/6 will not know which group the embryos belong to.

      Both the physician and the couple will be blinded in respect to from which group an embryo
      was selected for transfer.

      IVF treatment procedure:

      A traditional IVF treatment will be performed including ovarian stimulation and oocyte
      pick-up using the standard methods at the clinics.

      Embryo assessment on day 3 according to Alpha/ESHRE consensus criteria and on day 5 according
      to Gardner score.

      Morphological scoring Embryo development and morphology on day 3 will be scored based on the
      Alpha/ESHRE Consensus criteria. Blastocyst development and morphology will be scored
      according to a published scoring system for blastocysts and will be documented with
      individual photos of each blastocyst. Embryo & Blastocyst scoring will be performed under an
      inverted microscope on day 3 and days 5 & 6, respectively. Blastocysts that have a score
      equal or higher than 3BB are considered as GQB.

      DOCUMENTATION All patients participating in the study will be documented on a computerized
      CRF. This document will contain study-specific relevant clinical and laboratory data from the
      specific IVF cycle.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Both an Intention-to-Treat (ITT) population and a Per Protocol (PP)
      population will be defined. Primary efficacy variable in this superiority study will be
      difference in % GQB between the two media types for each couple. Primary statistical analysis
      will be two-sided paired T-test regarding the mean of difference in % GQB between Standard
      sequential culture media and Antioxidant media on the ITT population. A two sided 95%
      confidence interval for the mean difference in % GOB between the two media will be
      calculated. All significance tests will be two-sided and conducted at the 5% significance
      level.
    
  