
    
      Objective:

      Humans are the only animals that use language to communicate with each other. Among many
      other requirements, humans need excellent auditory long-term memory to be able to master the
      complicated task of learning a language. It is still not completely understood which brain
      regions are involved in transferring auditory stimuli into long-term memory. The goal of this
      research proposal is to examine whether brain structures that are known to be essential in
      language production also play an important role in encoding auditory stimuli into long-term
      memory.

      Study population:

      We propose using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to examine the role of

      frontal and temporo-parietal cortical areas in the storage of auditory stimuli in long-term
      memory. The whole study will comprise three experiments. Each of the three experiments will
      consist of one to three sessions. Sessions 1 and 2 will be compulsory in every experiment.
      Session 3 will only be required if positive results are obtained in session 2. Every
      participant can only participate in one of the three planned experiments.

      In Experiment 1, we will investigate the potential role of Broca s area in auditory memory.
      If we find that rTMS in Broca s area interferes with performance on the memory task, we will
      conduct a control (session 3) to determine whether or not the impairment was actually due to
      interference with stimulus perception rather than with memory, per se. We will conduct
      Experiment 2 to investigate the possible role of Wernicke s region in auditory memory. We
      will conduct Experiment 3 to investigate the role of the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) in
      auditory memory.

      In experiment 2 and 3 we will also conduct the same control session 3, as in Experiment 1 if
      the rTMS impairs performance on the auditory memory task. All experiments will consist of two
      sessions and an additional, third session if rTMS-induced impairment is found. In that case
      all participants will be called back for the control experiment. During session 1, a
      neurological examination will be performed and a clinical, anatomical, and functional MRI
      (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) will be taken (functional MRI for second repeat of experiment 1
      and for experiment 3). In session 2, rTMS will be used in an attempt to temporarily disrupt
      the function of Broca s area (experiment 1), the TPJ (experiment 2) or PMv (experiment 3)
      while participants are performing an auditory recognition memory task. By temporarily
      disrupting cortical functioning in those localized regions, we will be able to determine
      whether or not their function is crucial for encoding auditory stimuli into long-term memory.
      In the control session, to be conducted only if the experimental task yields a positive
      result (i.e., impairment), we will test auditory perception by asking participants to make
      same/different judgments on stimulus pairs (similar to those used in session 2) presented
      with a very short delay while using the same rTMS routine as in session 2.

      By amendment, we wish to expand session 1 to include functional MRI (fMRI) imaging designed
      to identify and refine the targets for disruption by rTMS in the subsequent session: Broca s
      area (experiment 1), and PMv (experiment 3). Specifically, we intend to (1) repeat Experiment
      1 of the approved protocol using fMRI localization in an additional 15 subjects, and (2)
      proceed with Experiment 3 as described in the original protocol, also with the addition of
      fMRI localization. Initial results in experiment 1 (Broca s area) fell just short of
      significance, possibly because anatomical landmarks are inconsistent between subjects (e.g.,
      Amunts et al., 1999); an fMRI localizer in each subject could reduce this variability. Unlike
      in the previous protocol, session 1 can not be skipped if the subject has had a neurological
      exam and MRI in the past year (the exam may be skipped, but all subjects will need the fMRI).
      The maximum number of sessions per experiment will remain unchanged at three: 1) intake exam
      and anatomical/functional MRI, 2) rTMS, and 3) a control session only if a significant effect
      of rTMS is observed.

      By amendment, we also wish to consider the three experiments to be independent, rather than
      each contingent on the outcome of the previous experiment(s). As outlined below (sections
      2.3-2.5), experimental evidence implicates all three regions in the auditory-motor network
      under study. Preliminary evidence indicates a positive effect in experiment 2 (the TPJ), but
      this does not render experiment 3 moot. Therefore we wish to apply fMRI-targeted rTMS to
      Broca s area, and PMv, in independent experiments.

      Outcome measures:

      In session 2, the primary outcome measure will be the number of correctly remembered auditory
      stimuli. Secondary output will be reaction time during the recognition phase of the
      experiment.

      In the control experiment (if conducted) the primary outcome measure will be the number of
      correct same/different judgments and, again, reaction time will be the secondary measure.
    
  