
    
      The trial will include 60 cases of unresectable recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) after
      two lines of standard chemotherapy and complete course of radiotherapy.

      The first line therapy of GBM involves allogeneic haploidentical hematopoietic stem cells
      (HSCs), dendritic vaccine (DV) and cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs).

      HSCs are used to stimulate individualized adoptive immune response, to affect tumor cells
      (TCs) toxically and to regulate tumor stem cells (TSCs) targeted in order to suppress their
      reproductive and proliferative potential. To obtain HSC the donor receives 8 subcutaneous
      administrations of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) with 8-10 hours interval for
      4 days. The first three days a single dose is 2.5 mcg per 1 kg weight, the last day the dose
      is doubled. The stem cells are harvested at day 5. Red blood cells are withdrawn by
      centrifuging. The content of cell markers is evaluated by flow cytometry. The result is
      assessed after cytoconcentrate enrichment and removal of mature cells and plasma from it. The
      preparation is stored in tubes per 4 ml with cryoprotector and 10% polyglucin solution. Stem
      cell proportion is no less than 0.5x106 CD34+, and lymphocytes proportion is no less than
      0.5x109 per one administration.

      The sample of brain tumor is obtained through stereotaxic/ endoscopic/ open biopsy from all
      patients included into the trial. The TCs and TSCs are immunochemically isolated from GBM
      biopsy sample. One part of tumor sample is used for standard histological, cytological and
      immunochemical testing, while tumor cells (TCs) and tumor stem cells (TSCs) (CD133+) are
      isolated from the other part.

      Dendritic cells are isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells and cultured. Tumor
      sample provides tumor specific antigens to prepare DV.

      Preparation of CTLs aims to enhance cytotoxic effect on tumor due to great number of
      circulating CTLs. CTLs are isolated from about 100 ml of peripheral blood after 3 DV
      administrations, and of them dendritic cells (DCs) are grown. Then, peripheral blood is
      repeatedly taken, and lymphocytes are isolated. The CTLs are co-cultured with DCs loaded with
      tumor antigens (first line therapy) or recombinant proteins identical to key oncospecific
      proteins (second-line therapy) for several times to expand their number (108-109). Their
      immunophenotype is detected and CTLs are cryopreserved. The first stimulation of CTLs with
      DCs lasts 6-8 days, the second lasts 2-4 days, next 2 days the lymphocytes are stimulated for
      the third and fourth time. And then the received lymphocytes are stimulated by IL-2 for 2
      days.

      Six months after the first line therapy completion the efficiency is evaluated and the cohort
      demonstrating efficiency continues the therapy, while cohort demonstrating no efficiency will
      continue the trial with the second line therapy.

      The second line therapy arm (active comparator arm) uses DV with recombinant proteins
      identical to key oncospecific proteins, autologous CTLs and autologous HSCs with modified
      proteome.

      Autologous HSCs are received from the trial participant as described previously. Cell
      preparation of HSC for active comparator arm is obtained of the cytoconcentrate of autologous
      mononuclear cells of peripheral blood after mobilization as specified for experimental arm.
      Tumor specific antigens for active comparator group are provided by tumor tissue of the
      patient.

      TCs and TSCs as well as HSCs of the patient undergo complete transcriptome mapping and gene
      expression profiling (CTMGEP) and proteome mapping and protein profiling (PMPP). Key (3 or 4
      proteins with maximal normalized intensity) oncospecific proteins (OSP) are determined
      according to proteome testing of TCs, while proteome profiling of TSCs and use of databases
      of protein-protein relations permit detection of intracellular signal transduction pathways
      (ISTP) unaffected by carcinogenesis and capable of regulation. Also, receptor membrane
      targets to affect these signal pathways (acceptor membrane proteins) are detected, as well as
      proteins that are able to activate them (protein ligands). CTMGEP of TSCs confirms diagnosed
      functional ISTP. Mathematical modeling of CTMGEP and comparison with Affymetrix GeneChip
      Human genome U133A Array data reveals perturbagens able to chemically induce HSCs and to
      modify their proteome profile in order to provide secretion of requisite protein ligands. The
      database analysis permits understanding of how changes in gene expression induced by a
      low-molecular agent or micro RNA corresponds with the changes observed in the examined
      profile. If correspondence is significant, it is supposed, that the agent or similar agents
      can initiate the effect. If anticorrelation is significant, the agent is supposed to initiate
      an opposite effect in gene expression modification. The transcriptome of HSCs is modified by
      co-culturing mononuclear cells with perturbagens. Their biological efficiency is evaluated in
      vitro in Homunculus bioreactor. Then preparation is stored as described previously.

      Individual DV is prepared from the leukoconcentrate of peripheral blood of the patient. The
      lymphocytes are isolated, cultured with G-CSF and interleukin-2, conditioned by
      tumor-specific antigens, TNF-α and PGE2 for 48 hours and loaded with recombinant proteins
      identical to key tumor-specific antigens detected at proteomic testing of TCs. Basic
      mechanism of individual DV immune effect is elaboration of tumor toxic lymphocytes by the
      organism of the patient.

      CTLs are obtained as described previously. The intervention is described in the appropriate
      section.

      Toxicity will be evaluated according to CTC-NCI criteria. Efficiency is assessed according to
      the following criteria:

        1. Complete effect - -full disappearance of all tumor foci

        2. Partial effect - -reduction of tumor size and/or metastatic foci by no less than 50% and
           no signs of new neoplasms

        3. Stabilization - reduction of tumor foci size by less than 50% and no signs of new
           neoplasms

        4. Progress - growth of tumor foci during the therapy. In case of mosaic effect, when part
           of foci progresses and part is stable or reducing, the therapy is continued but the
           cases are analyzed outside the context "Response to the therapy"
    
  