
    
      The patients who were non-obese (BMI<30kg/m2), non dyslipidemic (total cholesterol <200mg/dl,
      Triglyceride<150mg/dl), and free of cardiovascular events (negative medical history, negative
      ECG findings) were investigated for enrollment. CKD stage 1 patients older than 18 years of
      age and willing to participate to the study were screened. From the 231 patients with
      established type 2 diabetes mellitus, 126 had proteinuria and/or hypertension (24 h protein
      excretion 1-2 g/day, systolic blood pressures ≥140mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressures ≥ 90
      mmHg, respectively). All cases were first referrals and at the time of the study all were off
      treatment. Patients with history of coronary artery disease, smokers and those taking statins
      or renin-angiotensin blockers were excluded because of the effect of these factors on
      endothelial dysfunction. Of 61 screened patients 32 met the study criteria and were included
      in this study. The duration of proteinuria and diabetic nephropathy after initial diagnosis
      was not known.

      The exclusion criteria were as follows: A)Nephrotic syndrome, B)coronary heart disease
      (patients with ischemic ST-T alterations and voltage criteria for LVH on electrocardiogram,
      and with history of revascularization or myocardial infarction), C) elevated liver enzymes
      (AST or ALT levels ≥ 40U/L) and D) renal failure (serum creatinine levels > 1.3 mg/dl). In
      order to evaluate the effect of calcium channel blocker on serum FGF-23 concentrations,
      patients with proteinuria were given an calcium channel blocker (Amlodipine 10 mg/day) for 12
      weeks. The effect of calcium channel blocker on insulin sensitivity and proteinuria was also
      investigated.

      After the intervention period, blood samples were obtained for assay of plasma PTX3
      concentrations, HbA1c , and insulin resistance scores (HOMA-IR).

      Urine samples were also collected over a 24-hour period to determine the degree of
      proteinuria.
    
  