
    
      Study Design (Methodology):

      This is a 2-part, international, multi-center, open-label study of salvage treatment with
      tinostamustine conditioning followed by ASCT in patients with relapsed/ refractory multiple
      myeloma (MM). (ASCT is defined as salvage if the patient had already received a prior ASCT
      and undergoes a second ASCT after evidence of progressive disease [PD].) Phase 1 of the study
      employs a standard 3+3 dose escalation design with the objective of defining the DLTs of the
      tinostamustine conditioning regimen and defining the MTD and RP2D for use in the Phase 2
      portion of the study.

      The Safety Review Committee can make a decision to stop dose escalation or explore
      intermediary doses at any time. The total dose of tinostamustine will be administered on Day
      -1. Phase 2 of the study employs a 2-step sequential design (Simon, 1989). In Stage 1 of
      Phase 2, up to 31 patients initially will be enrolled. If ≤25 patients of these initial 31
      patients experience a response, then no additional patients will be enrolled. However, if >25
      patients in Stage 1 of Phase 2 experience a response, then enrollment in this cohort will
      continue, with up to 71 patients enrolled. In Phase 2 of the study, all patients will receive
      tinostamustine at the RP2D administered in Phase 1 according to the same schedule. After
      provision of written informed consent, patients will be screened for study eligibility within
      28 days before Day 1 (the day of ASCT). Patients who have a minimum of 2×106 CD34+ cells/kg
      cryopreserved and are otherwise determined to be eligible, based on screening assessments,
      will be enrolled and receive the tinostamustine conditioning regimen. The tinostamustine dose
      will be administered 24 hours pre- ASCT (i.e., Day -1). On Day 1, ASCs will be administered
      intravenously (IV) according to standard institutional practice.

      Patients will receive supportive measures (including growth factor support post-ASCT,
      antimicrobial prophylaxis, red blood cell and platelet transfusion, and treatment for
      neutropenic fever) according to standard institutional practice.
    
  