
    
      Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) brings out the major cause of accidental disability. Aerobic
      exercise can increase the influx of blood circulation improving cognitive performance, such
      as walking and cycling. Yet the effective exercise prescription improves cerebral blood flow
      (CBF) on promoting cognitive, depression relief and mental health of TBI patients. PI
      conducted a retrospective study in TBI patients and results indicated that 93% of patients
      discharged among 5000 TBI patients in the past decade. However, about 70% TBI outpatients
      have squeals left by TBI, which not only affect physical activity, cognition, but also cause
      mental health problems such as depression and also family care burden and huge medical
      burdens. The preliminary data showed the significant effects of promoting cerebral blood flow
      (CBF) through aerobic exercise. This study intends to explore the effectiveness of aerobic
      exercise prescription among patients with TBI on their physical and mental health and its
      mediation effect of CBF based on the PI's research experiences of walking exercise
      intervention research and their publications.

      The aim of this study is to develop exercise prescription of TBI patients and then to
      evaluate the effectiveness of programmed aerobic exercise to improve cognitive performance,
      depression relief and quality of life with improvement of CBF. This will be a three-year
      study, with the first two year using a mixed method to explore the feasibility of such a
      safety exercise prescription. In the second to third year, a randomized clinical control
      trial will be applied in TBI patients to evaluate the effectiveness of programmed aerobic
      exercise to promote cognitive status, 6 minutes walk test, depression relief and quality of
      life.

      During the first two years, a concurrent parallel design combining qualitative and
      quantitative mixed methods approach will be conducted to explore the accuracy and
      appropriateness of the prescription and predictability of the mental health and user's
      experiences. We plan to recruit 30 TBI patients who will be intervened with moderate to high
      intensity aerobic exercise. We will collect informations regarding CBF and cardiac force
      index (CFI) during the progress of aerobic exercise. Moreover, we will evaluate the cognition
      function, quality of life and depression status. We will examine the sensitivity, specificity
      and accuracy of the CFI and CBF monitor system, and to explore the experience of adopting
      aerobic exercise prescription among TBI patients. Depending on the results of the first two
      years, the safety aerobic exercise prescription with CFI and CBF monitor system will be
      modified and piloted in the second year. We plan to recruit at least 120 patients and
      randomized them into an intervention group (N=60) that received the aerobic exercise
      prescription and a control group (N=60) that received usual care. Outcome variables will be
      followed at the pretest, the first, third and sixth month after the exercise prescription has
      been implemented. Intention-to-treat and multiple linear models will be used to analyze the
      results. We hope to develop the safety aerobic exercise prescription with empirical evidence
      of promoting mental health for patients with TBI.
    
  