
    
      Being a mother of a young child can be very stressful. Many women find that being a parent
      may not be as enjoyable as expected and that they feel persistently tired or sad. Because of
      the possible "lows" of recent motherhood, new mothers are particularly prone to depression.
      The impact of depression on recent mothers is significant, including emotional distress for
      the woman as well as possible disturbances in the child's development. If left untreated, the
      mother's depression may cause strain on family life and her relationship with her child.
      Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), a form of psychotherapy that can be used to treat people
      with depression, aims to modify thoughts and behaviors. Despite the availability of helpful
      CBT programs, most depressed people do not receive treatment. To make these treatments more
      accessible to mothers who may lack the means to seek help, this study will adapt CBT for
      depression to an at-home computer-based program. This study will evaluate the effectiveness
      of the computer-based CBT program in improving the moods of depressed mothers and their
      children and enhancing the quality of time shared between mother and child.

      Participation in this single-blind study will last at least 8 weeks. A computer, modem,
      monitor, and Internet connection will be installed in the homes of all participants.
      Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive either immediate treatment or delayed
      treatment, which will begin after a wait-list period. Treatment will be delivered on a
      computer, which will allow the participants to chat online with other parents and their
      program coach. There will be 11 CBT-related lessons over 8 weeks, taking between 8 and 11
      hours total to complete. The lessons will promote self-learning and will include content of
      particular relevance to mothers of young children, including how to handle stress and improve
      mood. Participants will be required to contact their coach at least every 2 weeks to review
      the lessons learned. There will be three assessments, occurring at pretreatment, immediately
      post-treatment, and 3 months post-treatment. Participants assigned to delayed treatment will
      complete one additional assessment prior to beginning the wait-list period. Each assessment
      will involve both parent and child and will include play interactions, questionnaires, and
      interviews about parenting, feelings, child behavior, moods, and self-esteem. Another
      caretaker of the child and the child's teacher will also be asked to complete questionnaires
      about the child's and/or parent's behavior.
    
  