
    
      The use of combined antithrombotic therapies over the last two decades has decreased the risk
      of a heart attack after percutaneous coronary intervention substantially but has also been
      associated with a significant increase in bleeding risk. Therapies or strategies that
      maintain the benefits seen with currently available antithrombotic therapies but which have
      lower bleeding risk are therefore of great clinical importance. Indeed, major bleeding is
      currently the most common non-cardiac complication of therapy for patients with coronary
      artery disease who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

      Bleeding in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is associated with an increased risk
      of long term mortality and morbidity, and this relationship is currently thought to be
      causal. Therefore' reducing the frequency of bleeding events while maintaining efficacy is an
      important goal in the management of patients with ACS. The most common site of bleeding in
      invasively managed patients with ACS is at the femoral artery puncture site used for heart
      catheterization

      The MATRIX study is a multi-centre, prospective, randomised, open-label, 2 by 2 factorial
      comparison of trans-radial vs. trans-femoral intervention and bivalirudin vs. unfractionated
      heparin and provisional use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor.

      Objectives:

        1. To demonstrate that trans-radial intervention as compared to femoral access site is
           associated to lower rate of the composite endpoint of death, MI or stroke within the
           first 30 days after randomization in acute coronary syndrome patients undergoing early
           invasive management.

        2. To demonstrate that bivalirudin infusion as compared to standard of care therapy
           consisting of unfractionated heparin and provisional use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
           inhibitors are associated to lower rate of the composite endpoint of death, MI or stroke
           within the first 30 days after randomization in acute coronary syndrome patients
           undergoing early invasive management.

      Patients randomly assigned to receive bivalirudin will be randomized to stop bivalirudin
      infusion at the end of PCI or to prolong bivalirudin at an infusion rate of 0.25 mg/kg/hour
      for at least 6 hours after completion of PCI. The primary hypothesis in this
      sub-randomization is that prolonged post-intervention bivalirudin infusion will be superior
      to no bivalirudin post-PCI infusion with respect to the net composite outcome consisting of
      any death, MI, stroke, urgent TVR, stent thrombosis and BARC-defined type 3 and 5 bleeding
      events within 30 days. Secondary objectives for the sub-randomization of prolonged
      bivalirudin versus no post-PCI infusion in the bivalirudin group will consist of each
      component of the primary composite endpoint through the entire follow-up duration
    
  