
    
      Introduction:

      Unexplained infertility is defined as the lack of thec ability to become pregnant during the
      first year, although the periods of the woman, the semen from the man and the laparoscopic
      findings are normal. In Denmark do roughly every fifth to seven couple in the fertile age
      have problems becoming pregnant for a various kind of reasons, of these are 10-15 %
      unexplained infertile.

      Many factors are pointed out as imported. In particularly lifestyle factors such as the diet,
      smocking, obesity, lack of physic activity and alcohol. The causal connection is yet to be
      found, but it is assumed that there is a link between infertility and endocrine, neurological
      and immunological factors.

      Asthma and allergy are some of the most common diseases among young people in western world
      .The development of these diseases are caused by both hereditary factors, and factors that
      also seem to be important in infertility.

      It is clinically observed that many unexplained infertile patients simultaneously suffer from
      asthma and allergy. Furthermore this group of patients seems harder to treat in terms of
      becoming pregnant during fertility treatment then healthy not asthmatic and non allergic
      persons.

      There is limited available data about this subject and the data that is already collected
      does not show a clear tendency.

      Hypothesis: Atopic asthma is characterized by a systemic inflammation and can therefore be
      the reason for infertility among this group of patients.

      The aim:

      The aim of this study is to examine whether female asthmatics and allergic are less fertile
      then healthy females- whether there is there a link between asthma and infertility.
      Furthermore if an optimal asthma treatment during fertility treatment reduces time to
      pregnancy.

      The design:

      The project is divided into 3 parts:

        1. A Study of Population. In the first part of this project the aim is to evaluate the
           occurrence of asthmatic and allergic diseases among women with respectively normal
           fertility and infertility. This is done through data already collected in The Danish
           twin Study from 1998- 2002 concerning questions about asthma, hay fever, atopic eczema
           and number of children.

        2. A Prospective Study In the second part of this project the aim is to examine clinically,
           whether female asthmatics in general have more difficulties becoming pregnant then non-
           asthmatic females. Furthermore we aim to evaluate whether it is allergic or non allergic
           asthma that affects the fertility the most.

        3. Casual study In the third part of this project we only include 40 of the unexplained
           infertile females collected earlier- 10 females with asthma, 10 females with allergy, 10
           females with both asthma and allergy, 10 without any atopic disease.These women have, in
           addition to the initial asthma and allergy diagnosis, made a suction of the mucus in the
           uterus, when they are ovulating. This in order to determine whether the environment in
           the uterus is different in terms of inflammation in atopics. The aim of this study is to
           find an explanation for a possible decreased pregnancy rate and a longer time to
           pregnancy in atopics.

      Material :

      396 unexplained infertile females are included, when starting treatment at a fertility
      clinic. Among these are 197 healthy unexplained infertile females and 197 are females with
      the combination asthma and unexplained infertility. They are all included due to specific
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Methods:

      All subjects are by inclusion tested for asthma with bronchial provocation tests. The
      pulmonary function is measured and the severity of their possible asthma is examined by NO in
      the expired air. Blood samples (RAS test) and prick test are performed to evaluate their
      possible allergy status. All subjects are to fill out questionnaires concerning asthma,
      allergy and their infertility. Due to the test mentioned above the subjects are divided in to
      groups, asthmatic , allergics, atopics and non- atopics.

      The female asthmatics are treated due to the international guidelines. All groups are
      followed till achieved pregnancy; where after time to pregnancy can be compared.¨

      In the third part of the study a suction of the mucus in the uterus is made at time of
      ovulation, to determinate the level of inflammation in atopics versus non atopics at time of
      fertilization.The mucus is examined fore inflammatory markers related to atopy such as TNF
      alpha, IL4,5,6,8and 33.
    
  