
    
      Background:

      Currently, guidelines and clinical practice differ considerably with respect to use of
      anticoagulant treatment during cast immobilization of the lower leg. Trials that have been
      carried out were aimed at efficacy only, had small sample sizes and therefore mainly used
      asymptomatic thrombosis as endpoint. From these trials an overall risk benefit-balance could
      not be established, hence the current controversy exists. In the proposed study we will use
      relevant symptomatic endpoints in a large cohort of patients. Furthermore we will follow
      subjects with an adverse event for a longer period, during which we will assess the long term
      sequelae of these events. Lastly, we will determine high risk groups that will benefit most
      from anticoagulant treatment.

      Objective:

      Comparative effectiveness research to determine cost-effectiveness of an existing healthcare
      policy, i.e. treatment with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) during lower leg plaster cast
      immobilization following surgical or conservative treatment. In addition we will investigate
      personalized prophylaxis based on genetic and acquired risk factors.

      Study Design:

      A randomized controlled trial comparing a policy with the anticoagulant LMWH to a policy with
      no anticoagulant in patients with lower leg cast immobilization.

      Determination of genetic and acquired risk factors will be performed at the start of the
      study. Based on the presence or absence of these factors we will assign a risk profile to
      each patient

      Study Population:

      The study population will consist of 1500 patients in need for a plaster cast of the lower
      leg, e.g. after trauma or overuse injuries of ankle and foot. These patients will be
      recruited from 5 hospitals in the Leiden/Den Haag region over a two-year inclusion period.
      All patients over 18 years will be eligible, except patients with a contra-indication or an
      absolute indication for LMWH use

      Intervention:

      LMWH (for example nadroparin 2850 IE s.c. once daily, > 100kg 5700IE sc) for the duration of
      the immobilization (average 6-8 weeks) vs no treatment.

      Each hospital will use a LMWH according to their own preference.

      Blood taken at the emergency department will be analyzed on common single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) known to strongly affect thrombotic risk; on levels of coagulation
      factors in plasma (of which high or low levels are known to increase the risk). Patients will
      also be screened on acquired risk factors for thrombosis through a questionnaire.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      We will compare two standard treatment modes that are currently both used depending on the
      physician's or hospital's preference. The patients in our trial will be subjected to one of
      these standard treatments. It is therefore not expected that participation will lead to an
      increased health risk. LMWHs like Nadroparin and Dalteparin are no experimental
      pharmaceuticals; both have been registered in the Netherlands for these indications since
      1989.

      Not participating in the trial may, depending on the physician, still lead to treatment with
      an LMWH.

      All patients will need to undergo one venepuncture for blood sampling for the study. This
      blood sample will be taken at the first day of immobilization. No extra hospital visits are
      required. Patients will be contacted by an electronic questionnaire 3 weeks and 7 weeks after
      the start of immobilization and by telephone after three months.

      One questionnaire concerning risk factors for thrombosis, bleeding and patients demographics
      will be filled in at the first day of cast immobilization.

      Only subjects with clinically relevant adverse events (and a similar random sample of
      subjects without a clinically relevant adverse event) will be monitored for a two year period
      after the event (in total expected to be about 30 subjects). After six months, one year and
      two years after the event, patients will be seen for clinical examination and quality of life
      assessment by means of a questionnaire.
    
  