
    
      Percutaneous removal of hepatic tumours allows curative treatment using a range of techniques
      such as radiofrequency ablation, microwave, cryoablation or, more recently, irreversible
      electroporation. These treatments require the introduction of one or more electrodes into or
      around the areas to be treated. This insertion phase requires that the practitioner has a
      means of continuously visualizing the area to be treated and the position of the electrodes.

      The reference modality for the treatment of hepatic tumours by ablation is ultrasound. The
      scanner is the conventional alternative recommended in case of invisibility of the target in
      ultrasound.

      When the target is not clearly visible in ultrasound, advanced multimodal image fusion
      applications can allow the practitioner to overcome this difficulty. This fusion is made
      possible by tracking the movement of the ultrasound probe in relation to the patient using an
      electromagnetic navigation system, and by alignment between the ultrasound system and the
      fused volume.

      This alignment can be done manually or automatically using a specific marker placed on the
      patient's skin, called an "Active Tracker".

      The "INTERACT Active Tracker" functionality will also simplify the registration process by
      providing automatic pre-registration.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively evaluate the primary success of patients
      treated at Avicenna Hospital for HCC by irreversible electroporation using this fusion
      technique. The hypothesis of the study is that this image fusion makes it possible to improve
      the location of the lesions to be treated and to allow treatment by percutaneous ablation of
      lesions that are not very visible under ultrasound alone.

      This study will also assess the time and accuracy savings when an automatic fusion solution
      between ultrasound and cone-beam (CB) CT is used, compared to manual alignment.
    
  