
    
      Research Questions

        1. Is recovery from an eating disorder in adolescence maintained and associated with good
           socio-economic outcomes?

        2. Is poor outcome from eating disorder treatment in adolescence associated with a chronic
           course of illness?

        3. Are there factors measured during treatment that predict maintenance of outcome or
           relapse?

      This study will use a longitudinal follow up design, contacting former patients of the
      National and Specialist Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service (CAMHS) Eating Disorder
      Service, South London and Maudsley National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust (CAEDS)
      between 1/8/2009 and 31/1/2014. These former patients are now aged 16-27. The study will thus
      provide the longest and largest follow up of treated adolescents to date (n = 358 over a 4-8
      year follow up). Former patients will be asked a series of questions by phone/post/email
      about their health and socio-economic well-being since discharge from the service. This data
      will be analysed together with assessment and outcome data collected while they were patients
      of CAEDS.

      Measures Data will be collected using a data collection tool developed for this project, as
      well as the Eating Disorders Examination Questionnaire and the Work and Social Adjustment
      Scale.

      Data collected will comprise:

        -  Age now

        -  Employment/education

        -  Any help sought for eating disorder

        -  Any help sought for other mental health difficulties

        -  Current weight

        -  Current binge/purge symptoms

        -  Current general well being All data will be self-reported by participants.

      Statistical power The primary analysis will be descriptive. We will recruit as many of our
      original treatment group as possible.

      A secondary analysis will be to predict who continues to require mental health care following
      discharge from CAEDS. Power has been calculated following Babyak's (2004) advice for power
      calculation for logistic regression of 13 events (continuing mental health care needs) per
      variable. We have taken figures from the original audit in which 24.1% (n = 69.89) had a poor
      outcome to hypothesise that a similar proportion of the sample at follow up will have a poor
      outcome. This is a conservative estimate given the chronicity of eating disorders in
      adulthood and the longitudinal data of on-going mental health difficulties even in the
      absence of diagnosable eating disorders. In order to run a logistic regression with 5
      predictor variables will require 65 cases with on-going eating disorder symptoms. This will
      require recruitment of the majority of the original sample assuming the % of on-going
      difficulties remains the same. Depending on recruitment rate we will adjust analysis
      accordingly, and reduce the number of predictors in the model.

      Data analysis

      Planned analyses:

        1. Descriptive analysis of key health and socio-economic outcomes for all young people who
           received treatment in the audited timeframe and split by treatment outcome and diagnosis
           for between group analysis.

        2. Regression analysis to identify predictors of long term outcome from clinical variables
           measured at baseline assessment and service discharge (including weight, mood, anxiety,
           eating disorder symptoms)
    
  