
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the physical function over 1 year of overweight older long-term cancer survivors
           assigned to immediate vs delayed exercise and dietary counseling.

      Secondary

        -  Compare physical activity, saturated fat and vegetable and fruit intake, body mass
           index, depression, and general health and well being of experimental arm patients vs
           control arm patients.

        -  Evaluate self-efficacy, social support, comorbidity, cancer-type, and gender as factors
           associated with program efficacy.

        -  Determine the functional decline over a 2-year period in patients who undergo immediate
           vs delayed intervention.

        -  Characterize the mathematical form, over a 2-year period, of physical functioning
           trajectories among older cancer survivors, including determining if the intervention
           effects are durable in those who receive the intervention initially and whether
           "catch-up" is possible in the delayed intervention arm.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to cancer type
      (colorectal vs breast or prostate), sex, age (65-74 years vs 75 years and over), and race
      (white vs non-white). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (immediate intervention): Patients receive a personalized notebook of diet and
           exercise information, exercise equipment, and logbooks to record food intake and
           exercise behaviors. Patients undergo 20-minute telephone discussions with a health
           counselor once weekly for 3 weeks, every 2 weeks for 2 months, and then monthly for up
           to 1 year for a total of 15 sessions. Patients also undergo a 5-minute telephone survey
           to assess health every 3 months.

        -  Arm II (delayed intervention): Patients undergo intervention as in arm I after a 1-year
           waiting period.

      After completion of study intervention, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 640 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  