
    
      This study will establish a repository of biospecimens to generate induced pluripotent stem
      (iPS) cells, which will be used to determine molecular mechanisms for potentially blinding
      eye diseases including but not limited to: Best Vitelliform Dystrophy (Best Disease);
      Late-Onset Retinal Degeneration (L-ORD); Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD); Leber
      congenital amaurosis (LCA); Joubert syndrome; X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (RP);
      oculocutaneous albinism; Stargardt s with ABCA4 gene mutations; Waardenburg syndrome,
      coloboma, Enhanced S-Cone syndrome (ESCS), Spinocerebellar Ataxia, Type 7 (SCA7) and eye
      diseases associated with MITF, PAX2, or PAX6 gene mutations. Skin fibroblasts, saliva, hair
      keratinocytes, and/or blood cells may be collected from participants with retinal diseases
      and from age, gender and ethnicity-matched healthy participants.

      Although research involving multiple different ocular cell types from these patients may be
      performed, the vast majority of the work will be centered on the retinal pigment epithelium
      (RPE) and neural retina. RPE and/or neural retinal cells generated from the iPS cells of
      participants with retinal diseases and healthy volunteers will be used to analyze molecular
      mechanisms involved in disease initiation and progression. In addition, the iPS cell-derived
      ocular cells will be used to perform high throughput (HTP) drug screens aimed at suppressing
      the molecular phenotypes of the disease and to identify potential therapeutic agents for
      these diseases.

      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to generate participant-iPS cells that can
      be differentiated into ocular cell types, to be used to study the molecular mechanisms of and
      to develop treatments for ocular conditions. This objective will be carried out in three
      phases. First, this study will establish a repository of fibroblasts, keratinocytes, and/or
      blood cells collected from participants with eye diseases and from matched controls without
      any eye diseases. Second, the somatic cell repository will be used to generate iPS cells,
      which will be differentiated into RPE, neural retinal and/or other ocular cells. These cells
      will be used to elucidate molecular pathways that have led to disease pathogenesis. In the
      third phase, the participant-specific ocular cells will be used to perform high throughput
      drug screens to identify novel potential therapeutic compounds. The cells obtained in this
      protocol may be genetically modified, may be transplanted into animals in the laboratory,
      and, if used in the development of cell-based therapies, may be transplanted into humans.
      Transplantation into humans will be done as a part of a different study.

      Study Population: We plan to recruit 465 participants with ocular conditions including but
      not limited to: degenerative retinal diseases, optic atrophy, microphthalmia/anophthalmia,
      ciliopathy, and other ocular developmental or degenerative conditions, and 465 healthy
      volunteers without any eye disease. If possible, unaffected siblings and relatives of
      participants with eye diseases will be included as healthy volunteers.

      Design: In this basic science, research-oriented study, skin, saliva, hair, and/or blood
      samples may be collected from affected participants with the eye diseases and/or genetic
      mutations under study, and from control participants matched for age, gender and ethnicity.
      The sample collection procedures will incur only minimal risk to adult participants. Offsite
      minor participants will not undergo the skin biopsy. This study will typically require only
      one visit by each participant. Participants may be requested to return if their initial
      sample(s) did not produce adequate cells for study in the laboratory. Participants who were
      previously enrolled to provide samples for research-grade iPS cell generation may return for
      an additional visit to provide samples for clinical-grade iPS cell generation, if eligible.
      The skin fibroblast, keratinocyte, and/or blood samples will then be used to generate
      participant-specific iPS cells, and these cells will then be differentiated into RPE, neural
      retinal and/or other ocular cell types. iPS cells may not be made from all samples. The
      investigators will use the samples for research studies aimed at identifying molecular and
      signaling pathways underlying disease onset and progression and for developing potential
      therapeutic treatments for the eye diseases under study.

      Outcome Measures: The outcome measures for this study include the creation of iPS cells from
      at least one of the three types of somatic tissues collected from each participant, the
      differentiation of iPS cells into RPE, neural retinal cells and/or other ocular cells, and
      the identification of molecular and physiological phenotypes in these cells that may be
      linked to the onset or progression of the ocular conditions being studied. This analysis may
      lead to the discovery of therapeutic interventions for these diseases. There are no specific
      participant-based clinical outcomes for this protocol. Participants will, in general, be seen
      only once for this protocol, as they will be ascertained and/or receiving standard care under
      the NEI Ocular Natural History Protocol (16-EI-0134) or other NEI protocols. In rare cases,
      participants may be requested to return to the clinic if their initial sample(s) did not
      produce adequate cells for study in the laboratory.
    
  