
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-stage trial in subjects
      with squamous cell cancers of the mouth, oropharynx, hypopharynx and nasopharynx planned to
      receive standard fractionated IMRT-delivered radiotherapy with concomitant chemotherapy
      (cisplatin). Informed consent will be obtained from each subject prior to enrollment.

      The trial will be performed in 2 stages:

      Stage 1 will consist of a blinded parallel group safety study of 4 cohorts in which 24
      subjects will be randomized (1:1:1:1) into four equally sized groups to receive one of three
      doses of EC-18 (500 mg, 1000 mg, 2000 mg; unit dose of 500 mg) or placebo delivered in the
      following daily schedule:

      TDD AM PM Placebo 2 placebo 2 placebo 500mg 1 active + 1 placebo 2 placebo 1000mg 1 active +
      1 placebo 1 active + 1 placebo 2000mg 2 active 2 active Dosing will commence on the first day
      of radiation (one hour after the first fraction) and continue until the last day of
      radiation. Test drug will be administered as an oral 500 mg capsule in divided daily doses as
      indicated above. At the completion of 4 weeks of dosing, an independent Data Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) will evaluate safety endpoints in blinded fashion. If no safety
      issues are identified, the DSMB will approve continuation of dosing until the last day of
      radiation. If a safety issue is noted, the DSMB may unblind the treatment assignment to
      ascertain if the adverse event is associated with study drug. DSMB assessment will be
      repeated after completion of dosing (when each subject has been dosed through the last day of
      radiation). If no safety issues are identified, the efficacy component of the study (Stage 2)
      will commence using the highest dose of study drug consistent with a positive safety outcome.

      Stage 2 of the study will evaluate both safety and efficacy. Eighty (80) subjects will be
      randomized in a 1:1 scheme to receive either placebo or 2000 mg of EC-18 as determined by
      iDSMB in Stage 1. Twice daily dosing will begin on the first day of radiation (1 hour after
      the first fraction) and continue until the last day of radiation (approximately 7 weeks).

      The study will be performed in four phases: screening, the active dosing phase, short-term
      follow-up and long-term follow-up. The screening phase will be performed within 4 weeks of
      randomization and will determine subjects' eligibility. The active phase will begin on the
      first day of study drug dosing (also the first day of radiation therapy) and will continue
      until the last day of radiation therapy. This period typically is 7 weeks depending on the
      subject's radiation plan. The short-term follow-up phase will begin on the last day of
      radiation and continue for approximately 4-6 weeks until clinical and symptomatic signs of
      oral mucositis have resolved. The long-term follow-up phase extends for 12 months following
      the last dose of radiation and is included to assure that EC-18 does not the impact of tumor
      response to treatment.
    
  