
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Modernizing Samoans are characterized by high levels of certain cardiovascular disease (CVD)
      risk factors such as extreme adiposity and high prevalences of obesity and hypertension.
      However, lipid levels in Samoans such as total cholesterol and high density lipoprotein (HDL)
      cholesterol are not consistent with their obesity and not always consistent with ecological
      measures of modernization.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The cross-sectional study used serum lipid and lipoprotein and dietary data collected in 1994
      and 1995 in American and Western Samoa to compare the American and Western Samoans.
      Quantitative determinations were made of lipid and apolipoprotein levels differences between
      the two groups. Estimates were made of the effects of dietary intake, body size, and smoking
      on lipid and apolipoproteins. Cross-sectional analyses were performed on genetic factors
      influencing lipid and lipoprotein levels. Statistical analyses were conducted to test
      hypotheses about gene-environment interactions and gene-gene interactions in polynesians from
      American Samoa and Western Samoa.

      Diet, physical activity and body size vary with exposure to the influences of economic
      modernization and the adoption of non-traditional behaviors. Although adiposity and its
      central distribution, insulin, blood pressure and dietary cholesterol increase from Western
      Samoa to American Samoa, saturated fat intakes due to coconuts and cigarette smoking are
      greater in Western Samoa. Thus, modernization does not produce simple unilineal changes in
      risk factors. The investigators examined very specific hypotheses, based on the
      cross-sectional data collected in 1994 and 1995, about the influence of genes on lipids,
      about genetic interactions on lipids and about concrete environmental and specific gene
      interactions on lipid outcomes.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  