
    
      Slip-related falls often cause catastrophic injury for both frail and healthy older persons.
      Investigators have shown that, with motor training by repeated exposure to slips during
      walking, young adults are able to traverse a potential slipping hazard without losing their
      balance, regardless of whether a slip actually occurs or not. It is highly unlikely that
      these effects could be attributed to education or heightened awareness of the slipping threat
      alone. Furthermore, investigators have demonstrated that these improved motor skills acquired
      from a single session can be retained 4-6 months or longer upon re-testing, making such
      intervention highly attractive. Of greater interest, however, is the extent to which older
      adults can acquire and retain similar protective skills upon such training. This has not been
      tested to date. Also unknown is how potential confounding factors such as an older adult's
      functional status might interact with the training. These issues are of importance in that
      establishing a retainable preventive training regimen against slip-related falls would,
      without doubt, have major public health implications.

      In this study, investigators will demonstrate that older adults can significantly reduce
      their near-term risk of backward balance loss and falls through motor training by repeated
      exposure to simulated slips interspersed with no-slip trials. Investigators will verify that
      awareness or observational learning alone cannot substitute for motor training through an
      awareness-control group. Investigators will then determine the extent to which adaptive
      improvements are retained over the course of a year. Finally, investigators will verify that
      although a single slip exposure may yield some retainable effect, this intensity control
      group will exhibit significantly less favorable long-term effect on the control of center of
      mass stability, body weight support, balance loss and fall upon slipping than the motor
      training group with repeated slips. In addition, investigator expect that the
      intensity-control group will also have a higher self-reported incidence of falls during the
      12-month period than the motor training group with multiple slip exposure.
    
  