
    
      Neo adjuvant (Primary) chemotherapy has revolutionized the management of locally advanced
      breast. Two large prospective American studies have shown that NAC provides in vivo
      chemo-sensitivity information, and allows a greater percentage of women to have breast
      conserving therapy. Additionally and importantly, these two trials also showed that 20-30% of
      the women treated with NAC achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) and have a better
      disease free and overall survival than those women who did not achieve pCR.

      Unfortunately, 70-80% of patients receiving NAC do not achieve a pCR and many still must
      undergo a mastectomy due to an insufficient partial response. Researchers have attempted to
      increase the rate of pCR by adding radiation to NAC with mixed response rates. The varying
      rates of pCR in the above studies are likely due to the various chemotherapeutic agents used
      and timing of therapies yet also may represent the limitation of efficacy in combining these
      chemotherapy agents with radiation. What is needed is a better agent that can potentiate the
      effects of preoperative radiation.

      One possible agent that may potentiate the effects of radiation is an inhibitor of
      Poly(ADP-ribose)-polymerase (PARP). PARP is a nuclear enzyme that recognizes deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) damage and facilitates DNA repair. Cancer cells are often deficient in DNA repair.
      Deficiencies in DNA repair make these cancers more dependent on PARP. An inhibitor of PARP
      would further hamper the cancer cell's DNA repair capability. So theoretically, the efficacy
      of DNA damaging agents, such as radiation and chemotherapy, should be potentiated when these
      therapeutic modalities are combined with PARP inhibition.

      Indeed, as expected, PARP inhibitors (PARPi), such as Veliparib, have been shown in
      pre-clinical studies to potentiate the effects of radiation and chemotherapy in several
      malignancies. Thus, we hypothesize that concurrent Veliparib and pre-operative breast
      irradiation, in women who have residual disease after NAC, will result in an increased tumor
      response rate. This improved tumor response will not only increase the rate of BCT, but
      possibly, by increasing the rate of pCRs, also improve overall survival.

      However, before this hypothesis can be adequately tested, one must assess the safety of
      combining radiation and Veliparib. Consequently we propose a trial of Pre-Operative PARPi and
      Irradiation (POPI) in women with an incomplete response to NAC. It will be a standard 3+3
      dose finding trial in which the MTD will be defined as the dose below the level at which >1
      DLT is observed in 3-6 patients. Women with node positive disease prior to NAC and >1.0 cm
      residual breast disease and/or clinically positive nodal disease after NAC will be offered
      participation in this study. Four (4) dose levels of Veliparib will be evaluated with
      concurrent whole breast and regional nodal irradiation (WB/RNI). The starting dose of
      Veliparib will be 50 mg BID, will increase in 50 mg increments to a maximum of 200 mg BID and
      be delivered concurrently with 235 cGy QD x 16 to the breast and SCV/Axilla.
    
  