
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study and you are not already taking
      metformin, you will take metformin before you begin the regular study cycles (Cycles 1 and
      beyond). This will be called "Cycle 0." You will take metformin by mouth 1 time a day on Days
      1-4 of Cycle 0 and then 2 times a day (about 12 hours apart) every day after that. You will
      take metformin for 7-10 days in Cycle 0 before Cycle 1 begins. If you are already taking
      metformin, you will continue your regular dose and start Day 1 of Cycle 1. If you are already
      taking metformin but your dose is less than 1000mg/day, your dose will be slowly raised up to
      the study dose over the course of 7-10 days and then you will start Cycle 1. In Cycles 1 and
      beyond, all participants will take all 3 drugs at a time. You should take metformin with
      food.

      Starting in Cycle 1, you will take everolimus 1 time a day by mouth at about the same time
      every day. You should take it either consistently with food every day or consistently without
      food every day.

      Starting in Cycle 1, you will take letrozole 1 time a day by mouth at about the same time
      every day.

      It is very important for you to take the study drugs just as the study doctor tells you. Do
      not skip any doses unless your study doctor tells you to skip doses. If you throw up after
      taking the study drugs, you should NOT take another tablet that day. Let your study doctor
      know that you got sick. If you forget to take the study drugs one day, do not take any extra
      doses the next day. Call your study doctor and ask for advice.

      There are 4 weeks in each cycle (except Cycle 0).

      Study Visits:

      Every cycle (+/- 10 days):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check for
           hepatitis.

      After Cycles 2, 4, and 6 and then every 3 cycles after that (Cycles 9, 12, 15, and so on)
      (+/- 10 days):

        -  You will have scans such as a CT scan and/or MRI to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have chest disease, you will have a CT scan of the chest.

        -  If the disease could be felt in the pelvis at the beginning of the study, you will have
           a pelvic exam

      After every other cycle (Cycles 2, 4, and so on), blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 4 weeks after the last dose of study drugs:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including a pelvic exam and measurement of your vital
           signs and weight.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have scans such as a CT scan and/or MRI to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have chest disease, you will have a CT scan of the chest.

      Follow-Up:

      You will have follow-up visits as often as the doctor thinks is needed. At every visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have scans such as a CT scan and/or MRI to
           check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have chest disease, you will have a CT scan of the chest.

      As often as the doctor thinks is needed, the study staff will call you to ask about side
      effects you may have had. These calls should last 5-10 minutes.

      .

      This is an investigational study. Everolimus is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat kidney, breast, and pancreatic cancers. Letrozole is FDA approved and commercially
      available to treat breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Metformin is FDA approved and
      commercially available to treat diabetes. The combination of everolimus, metformin, and
      letrozole in this study to treat endometrial cancer is investigational.

      Up to 64 patients will be enrolled in this study. Up to 59 may take part at MD Anderson. Up
      to 5 patients per site may be enrolled at MD Anderson Cooper and Spartanburg Regional
      Healthcare System and Harris Health System.
    
  