
    
      Primary Objectives

        -  Determine the MTD of PRI-724 when administered as a 7-day CIV intravenous infusion to
           patients with solid tumors (Phase Ia).

        -  Determine the MTD of PRI-724 when administered as a 7-day CIV infusion in combination
           with mFOLFOX6 in patients with colorectal carcinoma (Phase Ib).

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Describe the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and adverse event profile of PRI-724 when
           administered as a 7-day CIV infusion either alone in patients with solid tumors, or in
           combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with colorectal carcinoma.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of PRI-724 and C-82 when administered as a
           7-day CIV infusion in these patient populations (In Phase 1b PK assessments will not be
           performed in expanded MTD cohort patients).

        -  Obtain preliminary assessment of anti-tumor activity as manifested by responses to
           treatment in these patient populations.

        -  Measure the mRNA expression of survivin by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
           reaction (RT-PCR), pre- and post-treatment with PRI-724:

             -  In circulating tumor cells (CTC)

             -  In tumor biopsy specimens from CRC patients (Phase Ib only) Also, evaluate whether
                survivin expression in CTC is consistent and reflective of expression in tumor
                specimens.

        -  Obtain preliminary assessments of potential associations of survivin that may be
           impacted by the pharmacodynamic (PD) properties of PRI-724 and clinical outcome,
           toxicity and PK parameters

        -  Assess the effects of Wnt inhibitor C-82 on the hair follicle neogenesis and the amount
           of collagen expression

      Exploratory Objective

      • Obtain matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP7) levels in serum via enzyme-linked immunosorbent
      assay (ELISA) testing

      Study Design:

      During the Phase Ia portion, an accelerated titration design, specifically, design 4A (no
      within-patient dose escalation) will be used, and will begin at the starting dose of 40
      mg/m2/day. This involves an initial accelerated (double-step) dose escalation phase followed
      by a standard 3+3 design (single-step) dose escalation phase. In the initial accelerated
      phase, cohorts of one new patient will be treated per dose level and double-step dose
      escalations will be used. The accelerated phase will end when the first instance of DLT is
      observed during any cycle of treatment, or when a second patient experiences a moderate
      toxicity (MT) during any cycle. The cohort at the current dose level will be expanded and the
      standard 3+3 design phase (single-step) dose escalation will start for all subsequent
      cohorts.

      In this study, the accelerated phase will end with Dose Level 9 (640 mg/m2/day), unless the
      toxicity criteria for terminating the accelerated phase are met earlier.

      During the accelerated phase, decisions to escalate, expand, or de-escalate will be made when
      all patients at the current dose level have completed one cycle (2 weeks) of PRI-724, and
      have received at least 75% of the planned PRI-724 dose, or have experienced a MT or DLT.

      During the standard 3+3 phase, decisions to escalate, expand, or de-escalate will be made
      when all patients at the current dose level have completed two cycles (4 weeks) of PRI-724
      and have received at least 75% of the planned PRI-724 dose, or have experienced DLT.

      During the Phase Ib portion, dose escalation in patients with CRC will begin at Level 9 of
      the doses evaluated during Phase Ia (640 mg/m2/day). Up to 2 dose levels will be evaluated
      (640 and 905mg/m2/day; potential to evaluate a previously unexamined intermediate dose, if
      indicated) using a standard 3+3 design (single-step dose escalation). Decisions to escalate,
      expand, or de-escalate will be made when all patients at the current dose level have
      completed two cycles (4 weeks) of PRI-724 plus mFOLFOX6 (i.e., 2 courses of PRI-724 and 2
      courses of mFOLFOX6), and have received at least 75% of the planned PRI-724 dose, or have
      experienced a DLT.

      In both Phase 1a and Phase 1b, the decision to escalate, expand, or de-escalate a cohort may
      be made by the Sponsor and the Investigator(s) in the absence of a defined DLT if it is
      determined that a dose level is impractical due to the frequency or nature of toxicities that
      do not meet DLT criteria. In such a case when a particular dose is deemed impractical, the
      next lower dose cohort may be expanded for further investigation. Once additional safety data
      are available, consideration may be given toward identifying the lower dose as the MTD or
      recommended Phase 2 dose.

      Throughout the study, enrollment will be staggered between the first and second patient in
      each new cohort, to allow for one cycle (2 weeks) to elapse prior to enrolling the second
      patient into the cohort.

      The following toxicities considered by the Investigator to be at least possibly related to
      study therapy (or study therapy plus chemotherapy) are defined as DLTs:

      Non-Hematological DLTs:

        -  All Grade 3-4 non-hematologic toxicities that represent a 2 grade increase from
           baseline, excluding:

             -  Untreated or inadequately treated nausea, vomiting and diarrhea

             -  Alopecia

             -  Grade 3 fatigue that returns to Grade 2 or lower within 7 days

        -  Grade 3 laboratory and/or metabolic abnormalities that do not return to Grade 2 or lower
           within 72 hours despite treatment

        -  QTcF > 500 msec OR an increase in QTc by 60 msec from baseline

      Hematologic DLTs:

        -  Grade 4 neutropenia

        -  Grade 4 thrombocytopenia

        -  Neutropenic fever

        -  ≥ Grade 3 anemia unresponsive to supportive care including blood transfusion and/or
           erythropoietin therapy

        -  Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with clinically significant bleeding The DLT observation
           period, measured from the start of the infusion on the first day, is 2 weeks for the
           accelerated phase in the Phase Ia portion, and 4 weeks for the 3 + 3 phase in both the
           Phase Ia and Phase Ib portions of the trial.

      Moderate toxicity (MT) is defined as any ≥ Grade 2 toxicity (except alopecia) that is
      considered by the Investigator to be at least possibly related to the study therapy and that
      does not qualify as a DLT.

      During the Phase Ia portion, MTD is defined as the highest dose level tested in which no
      patient or only 1 patient experienced a DLT attributable to the study drug(s), when at least
      6 patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose
      level below the maximally administered dose (MAD), which is the lowest dose level tested in
      which 2 or more patients experienced a DLT attributable to the study drug(s). In Phase Ia at
      least 6 patients will be treated at the MTD.

      During the Phase Ib portion, the MTD is defined as the highest dose level tested in which no
      patient or only 1 patient experienced a DLT attributable to the study drug(s), when at least
      6 patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity, or when < 33.3% of
      patients experienced a DLT attributable to the study drug(s) when 7 to 12 patients were
      treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. (This would allow for up to 2 DLTs when
      7 to 9 patients have been enrolled in the expansion cohort or up to 3 DLTs when 10 to 12
      patients have been enrolled in the expansion cohort.) The MTD is one dose level below the MAD
      which is the lowest dose tested in which> 1 patient in a 3- to 6-patient cohort, or > 33.3%
      of patients in an expanded 7- to 12-patient cohort, experienced a DLT attributable to the
      study drug(s). In Phase Ib at least 12 patients will be treated at the MTD.

      There is potential for expansion of a lower dose cohort up to 12 patients if the initially
      identified and expanded MTD cohort is found to exceed tolerability.
    
  