
    
      As addiction treatment becomes increasingly integrated into the medical care system, two
      models have rightly received a great deal of attention. The first is the use of Screening,
      Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) models to identify cases, provide
      therapeutic contact, and refer the more severe cases to longer-term care. The second is the
      treatment of addictions using medical models of treatment, including those that can be
      implemented in primary care settings. Much less attention has been paid to optimizing
      strategies for bridging the gap between SBIRT and more intensive/longer-term treatment for
      those on the severe end of the spectrum. This factor is of critical importance for opioid
      dependent patients, whose needs are not met by brief interventions or brief treatment.
      Emergency room interventions for substance use disorders have been largely limited to brief
      interventions/SBIRT models, and these have focused primarily on alcohol. Although there is a
      substantial literature documenting the value of case management in linking drug users to
      treatment, this approach has not been applied to drug users in the emergency department (ED)
      setting.

      In a sample of opioid dependent patients seen in a medical ED who are not currently engaged
      in treatment, this study will compare the effects of brief strengths-based case management
      (SBCM) to the effects of screening, assessment and referral alone. Participants meeting
      DSM-IV criteria for opioid dependence will be randomly assigned (150 per group) to receive 1)
      Screening, Assessment and Referral or 2) up to 6 sessions of SBCM based on the model
      previously implemented by Rapp and colleagues in prior studies. Staff who are blinded to
      treatment condition will complete follow-up assessments at 3 and 6 months. Aims of the study
      are to identify the main effects of SBCM on substance abuse treatment initiation and
      engagement, use of opioids and other drugs, and broader measures of health and life
      functioning; to examine the interactions between treatment assignment and selected
      participant attributes in predicting treatment initiation, engagement, and substance use
      outcomes; and to examine effects of treatment involvement on substance use outcomes in the
      two treatment groups.

      The proposed study will be the first trial using a case management approach to link drug
      dependent patients presenting in EDs to longer-term addiction treatment. It will be one of
      the first trials focusing specifically on opioid dependent patients in medical EDs. A further
      innovative feature is that the case management approach will emphasize linkage to
      pharmacotherapy, facilitating linkage to office-based buprenorphine, methadone, or naltrexone
      for patients who desire this treatment.
    
  