
    
      This observational case-control study will be conducted at the Department of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology, Cengiz Gokcek Public Hospital, Gaziantep, Turkey, between October 2020 and
      October 2021. The protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research of
      Gaziantep University (reference no: 2020/276). The study strictly will be adhered to the
      principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. All subjects will be included in the study gave
      oral and written informed consent. Membrane rupture before labor and before 37 weeks of
      gestation is referred to as preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM). Every woman in
      the study population will be undergone obstetric ultrasound examination and fetal-maternal
      assessment will be carried out. The blood for analysis will be firstly obtained in maternal
      blood on the day of diagnosis at the study group. Healthy subjects who had a normal pregnancy
      and outcomes without any fetal-neonatal complications will be accepted into the control
      group. Forty-four gestational age-matched healthy pregnant women who will be delivered at
      term will be included in the study as the control group. In the control group, the pregnant
      women will be taken the maternal blood at the admission day. The women in both groups will be
      observed until the delivery and perinatal data will be noted. All The participants with PPROM
      will be also hospitalized. Then, the protocols for pregnant women with PPROM in our hospital
      are as follows: All patients with PPROM are hospitalized and expectant protocol is applied.
      After hospitalization until the delivery of baby, all pregnant women with PPROM receive
      prophylactic antibiotics for 1 week and betamethasone injection. The non-stress test and
      fetal movement determined by the mother are used for the detection of fetal well-being. The
      signs for clinical chorioamnionitis such as uterine tenderness, fever, purulent discharges
      from the cervical canal and inflammatory markers like white blood cell count (WBC) and
      C-reactive protein (CRP) levels are monitored carefully during the hospitalization. After a
      latency period, PPROM pregnancy will gone to spontaneous delivery or will be applied
      termination procedure. In the study group, the placenta will be stained with
      hematoxylin-eosin and will be examined under a light microscope for histological signs of
      neutrophil infiltration and chorioamnionitis. Then, this study will be determined maternal
      serum melatonin, soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor, and orosomucoid 2
      levels in women with PPROM(n=44) compared to those of volunteer healthy pregnant women
      (n=44). Then, these three markers levels at maternal serum and cord serum will be evaluated
      for histological chorioamnionitis and maternal/neonatal outcomes in the study group.
    
  