
    
      Participants From September 2016 to december 2017, 160 patients aged over 18 have been
      recruited at the university dental clinic of the Rothschild Hospital, Paris, among patients
      pending dental treatment. Inclusion criteria were : literate French speakers, willing and
      able to complete the survey in a single setting. Patients suffering from head and neck
      tumors, defects after tumor resection, radiotherapy treatment, patients suffering from
      dementia or cognitive impairment, and communication difficulties were excluded.

      The pilot version was tested in a sample of twenty patients who were not involved in the main
      study. One hundred forty patients answered the final French version of the questionnaire to
      assess the psychometric properties of the OES-F. They were first divided into two groups
      according to their prosthetic needs. Participants were further allocated to two groups
      according to their esthetical concerns. Finally, the french version of the OES was tested
      with n=35 prothetic patients with esthetic expectations (PP-E), with n=35 prothetic patients
      without esthetic expectations (PP-NE), with n=35 subjects with esthetic concerns (C-E) and
      n=35 subjects without any esthetic concern (C-NE). Prosthetic patients were recruited either
      during the initial visit or before prosthetic treatment. Control subjects were recruited
      either during their initial visit or a follow-up consultation.

      All subjects provided written informed consent before inclusion and had their anonymity
      respected throughout the course of the study. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee
      of research projects of the Robert Debré Hospital (n° 2016/303(2). In application of the
      french law of January 6, 1978 relative to information technology, the study has been declared
      to the national data protection agency under the number 1977961v0.

      Development of the french OES version The traduction and cross-cultural adaptation was
      performed according to the guidelines. Briefly, the english version was first translated into
      french by two dental practitioners and then back translated in english by two native english
      speakers. Both translated versions were discussed by the research team and appropriate
      changes were formulated to the french version if necessary to clarify any item of the
      questionnaire. Clear understanding of any question and the entire french version of the
      questionnaire was tested with twenty participants. Minor changes concerned only formulation
      of general presentation of the questionnaire.

      The psychometric validity of the final french version was finally tested, including
      reliability and validity.
    
  