
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the safety and toxicity when ex vivo expanded cord blood cells are co-infused with
      a second non-human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical cord blood graft following myeloablative
      therapy in patients with hematologic malignancies.

      II. Examine the in vivo persistence of the ex vivo expanded cord blood cells. The kinetics
      and durability of hematopoietic reconstitution (time to engraftment defined as the first of 2
      consecutive days in which the absolute neutrophil count [ANC] > 500) will be determined and
      the relative contribution to engraftment of the expanded cord blood cells and the
      unmanipulated cord blood cells in early and long-term engraftment will be determined by donor
      chimerisms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
      in patients receiving Notch-expanded cord blood cells.

      II. Estimate the incidence of transplant related mortality at day 100.

      III. Estimate the incidence of malignant relapse and probabilities of overall and event-free
      survival at 1 and 2 years post transplant.

      IV. Obtain preliminary data on the phenotype and function of immune cells recovering in
      patients receiving expanded and unmanipulated cord blood grafts.

      V. Obtain feasibility data on overnight shipment of ex vivo expanded progenitor cells for
      infusion in patients are distant sites.

      OUTLINE:

      MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) over 1
      hour on days -8 to -6 and cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 and -6. Patients undergo TBI twice
      daily (BID) on days -4 to -1.

      TRANSPLANTATION : On Day 0, patients undergo double-unit umbilical cord blood transplantation
      which includes the infusion of one unmanipulated (not expanded) cord blood unit followed 4
      hours later by infusion of one ex vivo-expanded cord blood unit.

      GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST-DISEASE PROPHYLAXIS: Patients initially receive cyclosporine IV beginning
      on day -3. Cyclosporine may be given orally when the patient can tolerate oral medications
      and has a normal gastrointestinal transit time. Cyclosporine is given until day 100, and may
      taper on day 101 if there is no graft versus host disease. Patients also receive MMF IV on
      days -3 to 5 and then may receive oral MMF beginning day 6 to 30. MMF is stopped at Day 30 or
      7 days after engraftment, whichever day is later, if no acute GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 2 years.
    
  