
    
      Background Myocardial infarction (MI) secondary to atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is
      mainly due to plaque-rupture with formation of a luminal thrombogenic material. Lesions
      responsible for MI are more frequently composed of lipid-rich plaques (LRP) in both culprit
      and in non-culprit lesions compared to lesions in patients with stable angina.

      LRP is thought to be main precursor for future coronary events and may also have an impact on
      complications following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). It has been previously
      indicated that stent thrombosis (ST) and restenosis often occur when stenting a lipid-rich
      plaque. And if using angiography guidance only during PCI, there is a potential risk of
      implantation of a stent edge on a lipid pool, which can result in incomplete stent coverage
      of a lesion. The incidence of restenosis and ST may be related to the lesion characteristics,
      clinical presentation, antithrombotic treatment and stent design. Other factors may include
      inflammatory reaction to the polymer coating containing drug that delays vascular healing,
      insufficient stent strut coverage and incomplete stent apposition (ISA).

      Invasive imaging modality can contribute to better understanding of the changes that occur in
      the vessel wall during stent implantation.

      Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) combined with a new imaging modality called near-infrared
      spectroscopy (NIRS) can identify LRP and provide a semi-quantitative estimate of amount of
      LRP present within selected region of interest. The method is excellent to identify ISA and
      improve stent implantation technique.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a high resolution imaging modality that can analyze
      healing pattern after stent implantation such as stent strut coverage.

      Method The study is designed as a prospective randomized trial conducted at a single center
      (Odense University Hospital). Patients with MI will be enrolled if they fulfill the criteria.
      The study is submitted and approved by The Regional Committees on Health Research Ethics for
      Southern Denmark (Project-ID: S-20200010) and Danish Data Agency (Journal nr.: 20/18008).

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to either NIRS-guided PCI or conventual
      angiography-guided PCI with implantation of Everolimus-eluting Xience stent, which is CE
      marked. NIRS will be performed in both groups after predilation and stent implantation. In
      NIRS-guided group the analyses will be used to identify LRP, and to measure vessel wall
      diameter in reference segments and lesion length. In angiography-guided group the analyses
      will not be available for the PCI operator and are for observation purpose only. OCT will be
      performed in both groups after stent implantation, but will be only available for
      interpretation in NIRS-guided group. In case of reintervention in NIRS-guided group, a final
      OCT will be performed.

      Patients will be contacted by telephone to evaluate the clinical situation and to reduce the
      potential risk of dropout. After 6 months OCT will be performed in both groups to evaluate
      stent strut coverage and vessel healing.

      Statistics Assuming data are normally distributed, categorical data will be presented as
      numbers and frequencies and compared using chi2-test. Continuous data will be presented as
      mean ± SD and compared using Student t test. SPSS version 26.0 will be used for the
      statistical analysis.

      Sample size calculation An a priori power calculation at patient level with a mean expected
      proportion of 75% and 95% covered stent struts at six months in the angio-guided and
      NIRS-guided group, respectively, shows a sample size of 88 patients is required to reach
      statistical significance. With 44 patients in each treatment group, and a 2-tailed
      significance level of 0.05, the study has a power of 80%. With an expected drop-out rate of
      15% due to non-compliance in relation to invasive procedures and subject to poor image
      quality, 104 patients are required to be recruited in the trial.
    
  