
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Prospective, monocentric, non-randomized, uncontrolled pharmacokinetic study

      End-stage renal disease subjects who have been involved in an intermittent hemodialysis
      program and who have suspected or diagnosed Gram-negative rod-type infection.

      Pharmacokinetic parameters: Tobramycin concentration analyses done at the beginning of
      hemodialysis session (before tobramycin administration), 30 minutes after completion of the
      infusion (will allow us to calculate the peak), during hemodialysis session (additional), at
      the end of hemodialysis session, between hemodialysis sessions (optional) and just before the
      next hemodialysis session (will allow us to analyse the trough).

      RECRUITMENT PROCESS:

      A systematic daily screening for hemodialysis hospitalized subjects or subjects followed at
      the outpatient clinic who have a suspicion or diagnosis of Gram-negative rod type infection
      will be made by the research coordinators. Software routinely used in the clinic at
      Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital (Gesphar, NumeRx, Oacis and Medurge) will be used to ensure the
      identification of potential subjects. The pharmacists responsible for validation of
      prescriptions at the pharmacy department will collaborate with the research team to help
      identifying eligible candidates. An eligibility assessment tool will be used and subjects who
      meet the inclusion criteria and do not meet any exclusion criteria will be considered as
      eligible candidates. Thereafter, additional baseline information will be collected from the
      medical file (e.g. ethnicity) or by questioning the subject. A member of the research team
      will addressed the eligible subject, will explain the study and present the Information Form
      and Informed Consent (FIC), that will document informed consent of the subject.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      A minimum of four blood samples and a maximum of six blood samples will be collected. The
      sampling scheme is as follows: at the beginning of hemodialysis session (before tobramycin
      administration), 30 minutes after completion of the infusion, during hemodialysis session
      (additional), at the end of hemodialysis session, between hemodialysis sessions (optional)
      and just before the next hemodialysis session.

      A member of the research team will provide the tubes to the nursing, will write sampling
      times and will ship the blood samples to the laboratory.

      STUDY SAMPLE:

      Since the objective is to obtain robust pharmacokinetic parameters, the calculation of the
      sample size aims at a sufficient number of participants to obtain a convergence of
      facilitated pharmacokinetic parameters, thus obtaining values of coefficients of variation of
      less than 40%, while maintaining a statistical power of 80%. The calculation uses the
      variability of the parameters obtained by Veinstein et al. In this study, the residual
      clearance (Clnhd) is the parameter with the greatest variability (average of 10.4 mL / min
      with a standard deviation of 6.4 mL / min). Thus, the variability used in calculating the
      sample size is that of the parameter with the greatest variability, the residual clearance.
      The sample studied by Veinstein et al. not having the same characteristics as the subjects of
      the study, the variability could be greater than the reference sample and a safety margin of
      30% is added. A total of 12 subjects to be recruited is therefore planned. No correction is
      applied for losses at the follow-up or withdrawal of consent considering the short duration
      of the study.
    
  