
    
      Introduction:

      First reported in 1991, laparoscopic assisted colectomy is increasingly practised world-wide.
      Abundant evidence exists in the literature suggesting laparoscopic assisted colectomy, when
      compared with its open counterpart, is associated with more favourable short-term outcomes,
      better cosmesis, and better patient's satisfaction. Moreover, recent reports from large-scale
      randomized trials support the use of this minimally invasive technique in the treatment of
      colorectal cancer, a malignant condition common in many parts of the world. However, around
      8-29% of patients with colorectal cancer present as acute large bowel obstruction, a
      condition used to be considered as a contraindication to laparoscopic surgery due to poor
      exposure and potential hazard of injury to the distended bowel. Thus, most cases of malignant
      large bowel obstruction mandate an emergency open surgery to relieve the obstruction and
      resect the tumour, with many patients, especially those with obstructing left-sided colon
      cancer, ending up with temporary or permanent stoma which can adversely affect their
      health-related quality of life.

      Self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) was first described by Dohmoto in 1991 as an endoscopic
      palliative alternative for treating inoperable colon cancer. Three years later, Tejero et al.
      published a preliminary report of using SEMS as a 'bridge' to surgery in two patients with
      colonic obstruction 13. Since then, a number of publications as well as systemic review have
      shown that endoluminal stenting is a relatively simple and safe alternative to standard
      surgical management of acute malignant obstruction of the left colon, thereby obviating the
      need of emergency surgery or colostomy. However, whether temporary endoscopic bowel
      decompression by SEMS could allow patients with malignant left colonic obstruction to undergo
      successful laparoscopic resection (endo-laparoscopic approach) has never been studied in
      detail before. We therefore conducted the current trial to study the outcomes of this
      endo-laparoscopic approach in patients with obstructing left-sided colon cancer.

      Patients and Methods:

      This study is a randomized controlled trial designed to evaluate the outcomes of the
      endo-laparoscopic approach for patients with obstructing left-sided colon cancer, using
      patients undergoing emergency open surgery as controls. Only patients with obstructing
      left-sided colon cancer were studied because of the reported high incidence of stoma creation
      in this condition10,11, and because a homogeneous group of patients could be ensured to
      facilitate comparison of the two different approaches. A single surgical team consisting of
      two surgeons (C.C.C. and M.K.W.L.) and one camera assistant in the case of laparoscopic
      resection performed all operations with the patient under general anesthesia. The study was
      approved by the hospital ethical committee and was not supported by any commercial funds or
      sponsorship.
    
  