
    
      The population is aging rapidly, and elderly people have surgery at a higher rate than any
      other age group. Advanced age is independently associated with a 2- to 4-fold increase in
      adverse event rates after surgery, as well as increased rates of postoperative healthcare
      resource use such as costs and prolonged hospital length of stay. Polypharmacy (defined by
      the World Health Organization as taking >5 medications concurrently), and potentially
      inappropriate medications (PIM; i.e., taking medications that are likely to produce more harm
      than benefit given an individual's risk profile) are increasingly common in older people.

      In the perioperative setting, the epidemiology of polypharmacy and inappropriate prescribing
      is poorly described. Single center studies of general surgery patients suggest that
      inappropriate prescriptions are independently associated with a 3- to 4- fold increase in the
      odds of serious complications, while hip fracture patients with polypharmacy have an
      increased risk of readmission and are often discharged on the same PIMs which may have caused
      the fracture.

      Strategies to address polypharmacy and medication appropriateness have been synthesized in
      two recent systematic reviews. In general, interventions resulted in decreases in the number
      of medications taken, and overall medication appropriateness. However, substantial gaps in
      this knowledge base were also identified. First, no perioperative interventions were
      identified. Second, overall methodological quality of identified studies was low to very low,
      with significant issues identified related to study design and inadequate power, poor
      allocation concealment, and lack of appropriate analytic techniques. Finally, although
      decreasing the number and inappropriateness of medications are worthwhile outcomes, most
      studies did not report the impact of these interventions on patient-centered or system-level
      outcomes.

      The preoperative anesthesiology clinic encounter may represent an optimal time to initiate
      polypharmacy management strategies, as the surgical encounter with the healthcare team is a
      teachable moment where patients demonstrate extra motivation to make positive changes in
      their health behaviors. Therefore, the hypothesized positive impact of preoperative
      polypharmacy management could extend not only into the postoperative period, but also on a
      longitudinal basis beyond the transition from acute postoperative care.

      The preoperative polypharmacy management intervention will be based on a pragmatic,
      evidence-based, CIHR-funded tool developed by our coinvestigators from McGill for use in
      elderly inpatients. It has recently been field tested in a 600-patient inpatient study at the
      Universities of Ottawa, Toronto, and McGill. The tool is a web-based platform developed by
      experts in internal and geriatric medicine and is based on best-practice guidelines, Choosing
      Wisely Canada's declarative statements, and evolving issues (such as narcotic and
      benzodiazepine co-administration). It contains rules that identify PIMs, prioritizes them in
      terms of risk of harm, and provides deprescribing opportunities for safely stopping
      medications using the current evidence as well as incorporating patient comorbidities in the
      analyses.

      The investigators will address a clear knowledge gap in the literature by conducting a single
      center pilot randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of a structured polypharmacy
      management program in preparation for a future multicenter randomized trial. The primary
      objectives of this pilot study are to: (1) provide evidence of efficacy of the intervention
      in reducing PIMs, (2) estimate characteristics of secondary outcomes, specifically
      patient-centered and system-level measures, including baseline prevalence and measures of
      variation, to inform sample size calculations for a future multi-site randomized trial
      powered to meaningfully impact these outcomes, and (3) demonstrate acceptability of the
      intervention to patients and providers along with potential barriers and facilitators to
      implementation.
    
  