
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the immunologic and clinical response to type
      I interferon administered to patients with ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a
      chronic, relapsing inflammation of the colonic mucosa with major symptoms of diarrhea,
      hematochezia, abdominal pain, and an accompanying increase in colorectal carcinoma risk.
      Novel approaches to therapy of UC are required because the burden of disease is great (about
      500,000 prevalent cases in the United States), standard medical therapy is limited in
      effectiveness and toxicity, and surgical therapy, albeit curative, results in permanent
      ostomies or complication-prone alternatives.

      The rationale for this study is based on the observation that the mucosal inflammation in UC
      may be mediated by Th2 cytokines such as IL-4 or cytokines induced along with IL-4. Type I
      interferons can block IL-4 receptor signaling by up-regulating cytosolic inhibitory proteins
      (suppressor of cytokines signaling or SOCS proteins). Furthermore, two small studies of type
      I interferon effects on UC show benefit as opposed to many more studies in Crohn's disease, a
      classic Th1 inflammatory disease, which have shown no benefit from type I interferons. We
      hypothesize that type I interferons could be used to inhibit the pro-inflammatory signals of
      Th2 cytokines in UC.

      This study will measure the immunologic and clinical effect of twelve weeks of treatment with
      a type I interferon administered to patients with active UC. The primary outcomes include
      documenting changes in immune parameters by measuring peripheral and lamina propria
      mononuclear cell cytokine release, expression levels of SOCS proteins in mononuclear cells,
      and changes in clinical parameters using the Short Clinical Colitis Activity Index and
      endoscopic and histologic scores. Secondary endpoints include the rate and severity of
      adverse events. Our short-term goal is to correlate changes in immune and biochemical
      parameters that accompany or predict clinical responses. The long-term goal of this study is
      to establish type I interferons as an effective alternative or adjunctive therapy with a low
      risk profile for the treatment of ulcerative colitis.
    
  