
    
      An Open-Label, Randomized Phase I Study in Healthy Adults of the Safety and Immunogenicity of
      Prime-Boost Intervals with Monovalent Influenza Subunit Virion (H5N1) Vaccine,
      A/Indonesia/05/2005 (Sanofi Pasteur, Inc), Administered Alone or Following Recombinant DNA
      Plasmid (H5) Vaccine, VRC-AVIDNA036-00-VP (VRC, NIAID)

      Study Design:

      This is a Phase I, randomized, open-label study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and
      immunogenicity of prime-boost vaccination regimens against the influenza virus hemagglutinin
      H5. One group will receive A/Indonesia/05/2005 (inactivated H5N1) vaccine as both prime and
      boost, and the other groups will receive the VRC-AVIDNA036-00-VP (DNA) vaccine as prime with
      inactivated H5N1 boost but with various boost intervals. The VRC 310 study will provide data
      from different prime-boost schedules to identify whether homologous or heterologous schedules
      result in a better antibody response as well as which interval of time between vaccinations
      is associated with the best immune response. The hypothesis is that all of the study regimens
      will be safe for human administration and will elicit antibody and T cell responses against
      the H5 protein. The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the
      investigational vaccine regimens, at a dose of 4 mg for the DNA vaccine and 90 microg for the
      inactivated H5N1, in healthy adults. Secondary and exploratory objectives are related to the
      immunogenicity of the study vaccine regimens and identification of an interval between prime
      and boost that has the highest frequency of strong immune responses.

      Product Description:

      The inactivated H5N1 vaccine is monovalent subunit virion vaccine, A/Indonesia/05/2005 clade
      2, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur, Inc (Swiftwater, PA). Vaccine vials will be supplied at 90
      microg/0.5mL. The VRC-AVIDNA036-00-VP vaccine was developed and manufactured by VRC, NIAID
      and is composed of a single closed-circular DNA plasmid that encodes the H5 protein with a
      CMV/R promoter. Vaccine vials will be supplied at 4 mg/mL. Each vaccination will be
      administered intramuscularly (IM) in the deltoid muscle using needle and syringe for the H5N1
      vaccine and the Biojector 2000 Needle-Free Injection Management System (Biojector) for the
      DNA vaccine.

      Subjects:

      A total of 60 healthy adults, ages 18-60 years will be enrolled.

      Study Plan:

      Subjects will be simultaneously randomized equally into one of 6 groups. Subjects and
      clinicians will be blinded to group assignment until Day 0 following completion of the
      enrollment. At the point of enrollment the randomly assigned regimen will become known to
      subjects and clinicians. Subjects will receive two injections on the schedule shown in the
      schema. The protocol requires 5 or 6 clinic visits, depending upon the group, and telephone
      follow-up contact after the first study injection and 24 weeks after the second study
      injection. Additional optional visits may be conducted at study weeks 48 and 72 to collect
      blood for evaluation of immune response durability.

      Study Duration:

      Each participant will complete clinical follow up through 24 weeks after the second
      vaccination. Duration of the expected time on study will vary from 28 to 48 weeks depending
      upon the Group, but may be extended to 72 weeks after enrollment for subjects who agree to
      complete the optional research blood drawas.
    
  