
    
      Hypotheses

        -  The program will increase intake of fruits, vegetables and other health promoting foods,
           and will improve diet quality.

        -  The program will improve household meal practices.

        -  The program will improve BMI, waist circumference, lipid panel, HbA1c, and blood
           pressure.

        -  Improvements in outcome measures will be sustained 3 months post intervention.

      Specific Aims

        -  To determine the effect of a worksite based F&V Rx program as compared to control/no
           intervention on diet quality.

        -  To determine the effects of a worksite based F&V Rx program as compared to control/no
           intervention on household meal practices.

        -  To determine the effects of a worksite based F&V Rx program as compared to control/no
           intervention on BMI, waist circumference, lipid panel, HbA1c, and blood pressure.

        -  To determine whether improvements resulting from the program are sustainable over time.

      Background In 2011-2012, two-thirds of adults and over 30% of children and adolescents in the
      U.S. were overweight or obese. Obesity is widely recognized as a grave public health concern
      because of its association with increased risk for a multitude of chronic diseases and other
      adverse health outcomes. The persistence of high obesity rates in children and adults in the
      U.S. and the low rates of adherence to current recommendations for fruit and vegetable
      consumption are evidence of the inadequacy of efforts to date to promote healthy lifestyles.

      Adults-specifically, parents-have a strong influence on children's eating and physical
      activity habits. Children have innate preferences for sweet, energy-dense foods; however,
      some food preferences are learned. Early introduction and repeated exposure to healthy foods
      may help to familiarize and increase acceptance and liking of those foods. Parents can help
      children learn healthy eating habits by using appropriate child feeding practices, modeling
      the desired behaviors, and creating a home food environment that is conducive to healthy
      eating. Likewise, parents' physical activity behaviors may also influence children's activity
      levels. To achieve meaningful change in childhood obesity, it is necessary to change the
      culture of the entire household by reaching both adults and children.

      Whereas children are often exposed to health promotion programming in schools, adults may be
      exposed to similar messages at work. There is an extensive literature on the capacity of
      worksites to effectively promote healthy lifestyles while reducing medical costs and
      absenteeism. Worksite interventions targeting fruit and vegetable consumption have been found
      to be effective, particularly when they include a focus on employees' families. Interventions
      that include a subsidy or financial incentive to reduce the cost of fruits, vegetables, and
      other healthy foods have also been shown to increase the purchase and consumption of those
      foods. However, there are few if any studies evaluating the effectiveness of a worksite-based
      intervention including financial incentives for fruit and vegetable purchases, nutrition
      education, and a focus on changing the behavior of the whole family.
    
  