
    
      Another example is having more benefit drawn from tyrosine kinase inhibitors (Erlotinib or
      Gefitinib) in Asian patients.

      Immunotherapy is a new class of cancer treatment that works to harness the innate powers of
      the immune system to fight cancer. Because of the immune system's unique properties, these
      therapies may hold greater potential than current treatment approaches to fight cancer more
      powerfully, to offer longer-term protection against the disease, to come with fewer side
      effects, and to benefit more patients with more cancer types

      Immunotherapy includes treatments that work in different ways. Some boost the body's immune
      system in a very general way. Others help train the immune system to attack cancer cells
      specifically. Immunotherapy has become an important part of treating some types of cancer.
      Newer types of immune treatments are now being studied, and they'll impact how we treat
      cancer in the future.

      Recently, multiple immunotherapy treatment been approved with a couple of EGFR resistant
      medications.

      Many new oncology drugs are being used in Middle Eastern countries including Saudi Arabia for
      different indications without being studied in the Middle Eastern population. These
      medications' efficacy and safety profiles may differ from those patients studied for drug
      development and approval due to difference in population's characteristics.

      The goal of this study is to observe, summarize and report the patterns of the use of these
      drugs and describe their efficacy and safety profile in the early phases of their use.

      The investigators aim is to build on the existing experience and knowledge by utilization of
      classic methodology and approaches on a larger scale and more effective way to paint picture
      of the performance of a certain therapy in the real life world. The use of prospective design
      will help evaluate the efficacy and safety of therapies already used in practice, generate
      new hypothesis, and/or determine the outcome of certain diseases.
    
  