
    
      The study will be carried out in the department of prosthodontics, Faculty of Oral and Dental
      Medicine, Cairo University. Fourteen patients will be selected from the out-patient clinic
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the participants will be divided randomly
      into two equal groups. The clinical procedures on denture fabrication for both groups will be
      carried out by TS. The laboratory steps will be carried out by one well trained dental
      technician (MA). The set of dentures will be fabricated according to the conventional method
      (Group C) as follow: First appointment: preliminary impression will be obtained by using
      irreversible hydrocolloid (alginate, cavex, normal set) in stainless steel stock trays. Trays
      will be augmented with warm utility wax strips (cavex) and shaped by tongue movements and
      manipulation of labial and buccal tissues. A special tray will be prepared with self-cured
      acrylic resin (Acrostone-Egypt) over the study cast poured from preliminary impression.
      Second appointment: A secondary impression will be made with putty rubber base as a border
      molding material and the final impression will be made with medium rubber base impression
      material. The final impressions will be poured with type 4 Hydrocal dental stone (Hydrocal
      Dental stone, Moldano, Bayer Leverkusen, and Germany) to obtain the master cast which will be
      used for constructing self-cured acrylic resin trial denture bases that will carry a wax
      occlusion rim. Third appointment: A face bow record will be made to transfer the relation of
      the maxilla to the temporomandibular joint. Maxilla-mandibular relationship will be recorded
      using maxillary and mandibular occlusion rims formed over the master cast. Fourth
      appointment: Setting of artificial teeth will be performed and trial dentures will be tried
      in inside patients' mouth. Fifth appointment: The finished and polished dentures will be
      delivered immediately after the necessary adjustments and instructions regarding hygiene and
      maintenance. The other set of dentures (Group R) will be fabricated according to the rapid
      prototyping Stereo lithography (SLA) method. The detailed procedures are the same as
      described for the conventional method (Group C) except for that master casts will be scanned
      to fabricate the denture bases. The obtained master casts will be used to attach three
      stainless steel pins before fabrication of the denture bases to assess the linear dimensional
      changes at the following positions; A: pin at the incisive papilla B: pin at the right second
      molar area C: pin at the left second molar area Digital caliper will be used to measure
      distance between the points (AB, BC and CA) and each measurement will be repeated five times.
      The mean of five readings will be taken as a single reading to decrease the percentage of
      error. For Conventional Methods: Self-cured acrylic resin trial denture bases will be
      constructed on the obtained master casts, then processing of the final denture bases by
      conventional clamping method cured by long curing cycle (74ยบ C for 8 hours) using heat-cured
      poly-methyl methacrylate (PMMA) resin material. The position of the pins will be recorded
      into the denture bases so that the linear changes could be measured. For Rapid Prototyping
      Method: the master casts will be scanned using DENTAL WINGS eco-scan 3, using laser
      technology for scanning, after spraying the stainless steel pins with scanning spray to be
      recorded into the denture base. Virtual model will be obtained for fabrication of denture
      bases. Denture base will be designed and modified on the virtual model, then it will be
      printed using ZENITH-3D Printer using Urethane acrylate oligomer based photo-polymerized
      resin. After finishing and polishing of the conventional denture bases and printing of rapid
      prototyped denture bases, evaluation of linear dimensional changes will be carried out
      through recording five reading for each of the three dimensions and a mean value will be
      calculated using digital caliper. This value will be calculated for the master model. The
      same procedure will be repeated for the two experimental groups (A&B). The dimensional
      changes will be determined based on the difference between the two values for each method and
      all records will be tabulated and analysis will be done for the differences between records.
    
  