
    
      Diabetes is a chronic disease with multiple metabolic defects that result in hyperglycemia
      arising from inadequate insulin activity. Type 2 diabetes has a genetic predisposition, but
      lifestyle, body constitution and age play important roles in determining its time of onset
      and severity. Type 2 diabetes is usually the result of a progression from reduced sensitivity
      of hepatic and peripheral-tissue cells to circulating insulin (i.e., insulin resistance) to a
      progressive inability of the body to produce adequate insulin to overcome insulin resistance
      (i.e., insulin deficiency due to beta cell insufficiency) resulting in impaired glucose
      tolerance and ultimately overt diabetes. In the United States, an estimated 15.7 million
      people have diabetes, with type 2 diabetes occurring in approximately 90-95% of cases.

      Therapeutic agents have been developed to address each of the major functional metabolic
      defects associated with type 2 diabetes: decreased beta-cell function, elevated hepatic
      glucose output, and insulin resistance. The oral therapeutic agents used in the treatment of
      type 2 diabetes can be separated into the following four categories based on their mechanisms
      of action: insulin secretagogues, inhibitors of hepatic glucose output, inhibitors of complex
      carbohydrate breakdown in the intestine and insulin sensitizers.

      Thiazolidinediones reduce insulin resistance by enhancing insulin sensitivity in muscle
      cells, adipose tissue, and hepatic cells (inhibiting hepatic gluconeogenesis) with no direct
      impact on insulin secretion. Thus thiazolidinediones improve glycemic control and result in
      reduced levels of circulating insulin. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors are found
      in tissues important for insulin action, such as adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and the
      liver. The greatest concentration of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors -gamma
      receptors is in adipose tissue. Pioglitazone HCl (ACTOS®) is a thiazolidinedione developed by
      Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.

      Research suggests that Angiotensin II receptor blockers are involved in endothelial and
      cardiovascular function, and in insulin sensitization and obesity. TAK-536 (azilsartan) is an
      angiotensin II receptor antagonist with affinity for and selective antagonistic activity at
      the angiotensin II type 1 receptor.

      This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of pioglitazone in
      combination with azilsartan in subjects with type 2 diabetes.

      Study participation is anticipated to be approximately 6 months.
    
  