
    
      Overview Of Study Design This is a prospective, multicenter phase II trial designed to
      evaluate the safety and activity of the panobinostat in patients with relapsed/refractory
      diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Study design The trial is conducted according to the
      optimal two-stage design of Simon with alpha 0.05 and beta 0.10, considering the following
      two hypotheses: first a response rate (RR) less than 10% is of no further interest; and
      second, an RR 30% is clinically meaningful. In the initial stage, 18 patients have to enter
      onto the study. If less than 3 responses (£ 2 in 18) will be observed, the trial would be
      terminated. Otherwise, accrual will continue to a total of a maximum of 35 patients. At the
      end of the trial, if 6 or fewer responses will occur among the 35 patients (£ 6 in 35), it
      will be concluded that the regimen is not worthy of further investigations for that group of
      patients. The treatment is divided in three phases: induction phase (course 1 to 6),
      consolidation phase (courses 7 to 12), maintenance phase (from course 13 until the end of
      therapy for any reason). Study duration This study is expected to start in February 2011. The
      last patient is expected to be enrolled at the end of January 2013. Considering a possible
      treatment duration of 24 months, this trial is due to be completed by January 2015.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective 1. To explore the antitumor activity of panobinostat in term of overall
      response (OR) at the end of the induction phase (i.e. month 6 from the beginning of
      panobinostat) Secondary objectives

        1. To explore the antitumor activity of panobinostat in terms of Complete Response (CR)

        2. To assess the time to response (TTR)

        3. To evaluate Progression Free Survival (PFS)

        4. To assess the safety and tolerability of panobinostat

        5. To evaluate the Overall Survival (OS) Exploratory objectives

      1. To study the impact of pharmacogenetics in predicting the response to panobinostat 2. To
      study the impact of immunohistochemical patterns and patient's specific gene expression and
      response to panobinostat 3. To assess the correlation between "telomeric asset" and response
      to panobinostat
    
  