
    
      1. Study design: randomly assigned, cross-over study.

        2. Patient number: 60.

        3. Inclusion criteria: stable patients end-stage renal disease who were older than 20 years
           and received thrice-weekly standard hemodialysis for more than 3 months were recruited.

        4. Exclusion criteria: active systemic disease, liver cirrhosis, active malignancy,
           receiving immunosuppressive treatment, dialysis with temporal non-tunneled catheter,
           inadequate dialysis dose (single-pooled Kt/V<1.2).

        5. Methods:

           Prior to randomization, a Charlson Comorbidity Index score and baseline characteristics
           are recorded for each patient. Each patient who received HDF prior to study will
           received one-month high-flux hemodialysis with target single-pooled Kt/V>1.2 for
           washout. The baseline characteristics of each patient including dialyzer, dialysis time,
           blood flow, dialysate flow, replacement volume, pre- and post-dialysis blood pressure
           and body weight were recorded. The follow-up laboratory data will also be collected:
           predialysis C-reactive protein, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, bicarbonate, sodium,
           potassium, uric acid, albumin, calcium, phosphate, intact parathyroid hormone,
           β2-microglobulin, prolactin, fibroblast growth factor 23, α1-microglobulin, indoxyl
           sulfate, p-cresol sulfate, advance oxidation protein products, advance glycation
           product, percentage of proinflammatory monocytes; interleukin-6, tumor necrosis
           factor-α, hematocrit, transferrin saturation and ferritin. Urea kinetics including kt/V,
           Urea reduction ratio and normalized protein catabolic rate are calculated. We also used
           Physical Symptoms Distress Scale for life quality measurement.

           After randomization, two group received standard prescription of pre- and post-dilution
           HDF. The prescribed convective volume per treatment of post-dilution mode is based on
           blood flow, filtration fraction and hematocrit to achieved current recommendation of 23
           liter/1.73m2. The convective volume of pre-dilution mode will be at least twice higher
           than the desired dose in post-dilution mode for each patient. After 3-month stable
           hemodiafiltration, parameters mentioned above will also be checked. Two group will be
           switched for another 3-month course and then switch again. The total following time is
           12 months.

        6. Outcome: The primary objective is to compare the removal of a wide spectrum of solutes
           such as middle and protein-bound molecules. Secondary outcomes are intradialytic
           tolerance, including intradialytic hypotension, cramps and arrhythmia, and life quality
           measurements.
    
  