
    
      This is a randomized, multicenter trial of patients with an ostial ARAS and renal failure.
      Patients will be randomized to:

      (i)medical treatment consisting of antihypertensive, lipid-lowering and antiplatelet therapy
      plus the advice to stop smoking; or (ii)medical treatment as outlined in (i) with additional
      stent placement.

      Patients with an ostial ARAS, a Cr clearance of <80 mL/min/1.73m2 according to the Cockcroft
      and Gault formula and stable blood pressure (BP) control are enrolled in this trial. Ostial
      ARAS is defined as a luminal reduction of ≥50% of the renal artery within 1 cm of the aortic
      wall, in the presence of atherosclerotic changes of the aorta. Stenosis evaluation can be
      performed on CT-angiography, MR angiography or intra-arterial angiography.

      Medical therapy: Irrespective of baseline serum cholesterol values, the patients will be
      treated with lipid-lowering therapy: 10 mg of atorvastatin and if this is well tolerated the
      dose will be doubled to the final dose of 20 mg. Any lipid-lowering medication currently used
      is discontinued and replaced by atorvastatin. Hypertension is treated with the following
      drugs: thiazide diuretic, calcium antagonist, beta-blocker and alpha-blocker.
      ACE-inhibitors/angiotensin-II-antagonists together with increasing loop diuretic doses,
      should be used only as a last resort antihypertensive treatment when other classes of
      antihypertensive agents have failed. The target BP is <140/90 mmHg. Patients will receive
      anti-platelet therapy, aspirin 75-100 mg/od. Considering that smoking is a major renal risk
      factor, smokers will be advised to stop.

      Stent and medical therapy: Medical therapy is identical in the two treatment arms. In the
      stent group, patients will start with aspirin 75-100 mg/od the day before admission. The
      stent (Palmaz-Corinthian IQ/Palmaz Genesis, Johnson & Johnson Medical, NV/SA) will be placed
      during an in-patient admission according to a standardized protocol.

      Randomisation will be done per participating centre and will be stratified for unilateral or
      bilateral abnormalities. An unilateral abnormality is defined as an unilateral ostial
      stenosis and on the other side a normal renal artery or a truncal stenosis (a truncal
      stenosis is nearly always easy to dilate by angioplasty). All other patients are considered
      to have bilateral abnormalities

      Clinical follow-up is scheduled after 1, 3 and then every 3 months for the first 2 yrs and
      every 6 months until the 5 yr follow-up is completed. Economic data are assessed after 3 mths
      and every 3 mths for 2 yrs. Quality of life will be measured by standardized SF-36 and EQ-5D
      health questionnaires before, after 1 mth and every 6 mths for 2 yrs.

      Indications for stent placement in the medically treated patients and re-angiography and
      balloon dilatation of the stent in the stented patients are: (i) a persistent >20% reduction
      of Cr clearance; (ii) therapy refractory hypertension (defined as an office BP >180/100 mmHg
      during three follow-up visits and subsequently a mean daily BP of >160/95 mmHg on 24 hr
      ambulant BP monitoring, while on the maximum dose of all classes of antihypertensives); (iii)
      pulmonary edema in the presence of bilateral renovascular disease and a normal or slightly
      impaired left ventricular function on echocardiography in combination with
      ACE-inhibitors/angiotensin-II antagonist intolerance defined as a fall of estimated Cr
      clearance by >20% and; (iv) malignant hypertension (defined as fundus grade III/IV).

      Analysis of results: The difference in the proportion of patients with progressive renal
      dysfunction between both treatment arms will be assessed including 95% confidence intervals
      (95% CI). Mean change and difference in renal function change, including 95% CI will be
      reported. With multivariate logistic regression analysis not only will the effects of the two
      treatment strategies be evaluated, but also whether there are independent effects of age,
      smoking, proteinuria, bilateral or unilateral renal artery stenosis, BP and renal function at
      baseline.
    
  