
    
      In Arm A of this study, talazoparib will be administered orally on day 1 either once or twice
      per day depending on the dose level of the enrolled participant. Both oral talazoparib and
      intravenous (IV) irinotecan will then be administered daily, on days 2-6. Each cycle will
      last 21 days.

      Once the maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) for talazoparib and irinotecan are determined, a
      second arm of the study (Arm B) will open administering talazoparib, irinotecan and
      temozolomide. Talazoparib will be given orally, on days 1-6. Intravenous irinotecan and oral
      temozolomide will be given on days 2-6. The study will estimate the maximum tolerated doses,
      describe the toxicities of therapy, estimate the response rate and characterize the
      pharmacokinetics of the combined talazoparib plus irinotecan with or without temozolomide.

      This study is a traditional dose escalation study using a standard 3+3 phase I design. In Arm
      A, six or more dose levels will be evaluated for the combination of talazoparib and
      irinotecan. Once the MTDs of Arm A are determined, Arm B will open and evaluate the
      combination of talazoparib, irinotecan and temozolomide.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES - ARM A

        -  To estimate the maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) of talazoparib (daily, days 1-6) combined
           with irinotecan (daily, days 2-6) given every 21 days in children with refractory or
           recurrent solid malignancies.

        -  To identify and describe the dose limiting toxicities of talazoparib and irinotecan
           administered in combination to patients with refractory or recurrent solid malignancies.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES - ARM B

        -  To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temozolomide (given daily, days 2-6)
           when combined with talazoparib (daily, days 1-6) and irinotecan (daily, days 2-6) given
           every 21 days in children with refractory or recurrent solid malignancies.

        -  To identify and describe the dose limiting toxicities of temozolomide, talazoparib and
           irinotecan administered in combination to patients with refractory or recurrent solid
           malignancies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  To estimate the response rate, within the confines of a phase I study, to talazoparib
           plus irinotecan and talazoparib plus irinotecan and temozolomide administered in
           combination in pediatric patients with refractory or recurrent solid malignancies.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics of talazoparib plus irinotecan and talazoparib plus
           irinotecan and temozolomide when given in combination to children with refractory or
           recurrent solid malignancies.
    
  