
    
      Intrinsic foot muscles(IFM) are the prime stabilizers of the foot. When the IFM become
      weakened and unstable, the foot and lower limb become more vulnerable to injury. IFM develop
      across early childhood and evidence suggests that the critical time window for foot arch
      development is the first 6 years of life (i.e., preschool age). Human's feet and arches
      developed naturally due to the daily loads imposed on them, while evidence for using
      protective footwear to promote arch development is very weak. Moreover, the investigation
      suggested that local children may have a danger in insufficient daily physical activity. Thus
      the children may be at high risk for having weak feet.

      Minimalist shoes are defined as footwear with little to no cushioning, highly flexible soles,
      and no arch support devices. Minimalist shoes are shaped with a wide toe box, allowing the
      foot to move more naturally than when confined in conventional footwear. Both running and
      walking studies have shown that the use of minimalist shoes increases IFM strength by
      increasing the mechanical load to the foot. Measuring the strength of individual IFM is
      challenging at best. However, muscle strength has been directly correlated with muscle size.
      As a result, studies have used imaging techniques such as MRI and ultrasound to measure foot
      muscle size. A very recent study suggests that walking with minimalist shoes increased the
      cross-sectional area (CSA), thickness and strength of IFM in adults. Similar findings have
      been reported by another study adopting a 12-week program.

      This study aims to investigate the effects of a 12-week in-school walking training with
      minimalist shoes for local preschool children on intrinsic foot muscle size, muscle strength,
      and foot arch stiffness.

      In view of the treatment effectiveness and user-friendliness, walking with minimalist shoes
      may impose a positive impact to strengthen the IFM and promote foot arch stiffness for
      preschool children.
    
  