
    
      This is a Phase I/Ib, open-label, safety, and pharmacodynamics study of pembrolizumab in
      combination with vorinostat in patients with advanced prostrate, renal or urothelial cell
      carcinoma. This clinical study will be composed of a Dose Finding Phase and an Expansion
      Phase. The Dose Finding Phase will estimate the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) in patients
      with advanced renal and urothelial cell carcinoma patients. The Dose Finding Phase will lead
      to the identification of an Expansion Test Dose for pembrolizumab in combination with
      vorinostat. The Expansion Test Dose will be the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) (i.e. the
      highest tested dose that is declared safe and tolerable by the Investigators and Sponsor).
      Patients will be treated with oral vorinostat every day for 14 days, and with pembrolizumab
      at the fixed dose of 200 mg IV. Each cycle is every 21 days. Two dose levels of vorinostat
      will be tested in 2-patient cohorts according to the 3 + 3 standard design (100 mg and 200
      mg). 200 mg dose represents 50% of the recommended vorinostat dose as single agent.

      For the Dose Finding Phase (Combination Phase), the starting dose level of vorinostat will be
      100 mg by mouth (PO) every day for 14 days, with 7 days break. The first dose level will have
      a minimum of 3 patients treated (unless the first 2 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicities (DLTs) before the 3rd patient is enrolled).

      Once the RP2D is identified, the Dose Expansion Phase will be opened. During the Dose
      Expansion Phase, the study will have a run-in phase with sequential single-agents and then
      the combination phase. The run-in phase may be waived at the investigator's discretion. The
      reason for the run-in phase during dose expansion is to obtain data on the immunomodulatory
      effects of vorinostat separately from pembrolizumab. Forty-five patients with prior
      treatments will be enrolled in three expansion cohorts: 15 anti-PD1 naive renal and
      urothelial patients 15 anti-PD1 resistant renal and urothelial patients (defined as patients
      with transient clinical response or without clinical response to prior immune-checkpoint
      inhibition), and 15 patients with androgen-sensitive or castration-resistant prostate cancer.
      The prostate cohort has been added in an amendment during the Dose Expansion Phase, and
      therefore, will not be part of the Dose Finding Phase.
    
  