
    
      Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) describes the cyclic appearance of affective symptoms
      and resultant impairment during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The objective of the
      experiment is to determine if transcranial alternating current electrical stimulation (tACS)
      will alter prefrontal alpha oscillatory frequencies in women with PMDD, disruption of which
      has been implicated in other mood disorders. A secondary objective is to determine if
      menstrual cycle phase will influence the effects of tACS on alpha oscillations. Demonstration
      of 'target engagement' (alterations in left prefrontal alpha oscillatory frequencies with
      tACS) is a necessary first step before moving forward with subsequent research that would
      test whether tACS is a potential treatment for this disorder - promising research in other
      mood disorders suggests that it may be.

      The cause of PMDD is unknown, the morbidity substantial, and the identified treatments
      limited in their effectiveness, since 40% of PMDD women are non-responders to SSRIs and many
      additional women are intolerant of antidepressant induced side effects. PMDD is prevalent
      (6-8% of women of reproductive age), attended by substantial morbidity, and hence a
      significant public health problem. Indeed, by World Health Calculations, PMDD is associated
      with 4.5 million Disability Adjusted Life Years in the US alone. The rationale for testing
      whether tACS differentially alters target engagement in the follicular versus luteal phases
      of the menstrual cycle is described below.

      Differential Effects on Cortical Activity: The rationale for testing whether tACS
      differentially alters target engagement in the follicular versus luteal phases of the
      menstrual cycle is as follows: 1) Role of Hormones: While there is little evidence for
      ovarian dysfunction in PMDD a role for the reproductive hormones is clearly implicated, since
      our own work and that of others has shown that suppression of ovarian function results in a
      complete remission of symptoms in a majority of women with PMDD, while adding back gonadal
      hormones results in the return of symptoms in women with PMDD, with no symptoms seen in
      controls. Both estradiol and progesterone appear capable of precipitating mood
      destabilization in this paradigm. Recently completed studies from our group further
      demonstrate that continuous administration of hormones for longer than one-month results in a
      sustained symptom remission subsequent to the initial precipitated episode. Thus, dysphoric
      mood states in PMDD appear to be induced by normal changes in gonadal hormones rather than by
      exposure to elevated hormone levels (i.e., women with PMDD are differentially sensitive to
      the mood dysregulatory effects of reproductive steroids).

      Although there is substantial literature demonstrating the effects of reproductive steroids
      and, by extension, the menstrual cycle on cortical activity, the usually described effects
      are disturbed in women with PMDD. Examples include the following: 1) in normal women,
      activation of the medial orbitofrontal cortex is diminished during the luteal phase and the
      affective valence of the stimulus to which it responds is reversed (i.e., it responds only to
      negative stimuli rather than to positive stimuli, as occurs during the follicular phase).
      These changes are absent in women with PMDD. 2) in normal women during the luteal phase,
      there is an increase in cortical inhibition - a presumed effect of the GABA receptor
      activating effects of the progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone. This effect is absent in
      women with PMDD. Both animal and human data further suggest the role of a disturbed cortical
      response to progesterone-derived neurosteroids in PMDD. Thus, sudden changes in the levels of
      allopregnanolone (as occurs at the start of the luteal phase with increasing levels of
      progesterone) result in subcortical excitability and irritability in rodents, while
      elimination of changes in progesterone-derived neurosteroids (with neurosteroid synthesis
      inhibition) successfully prevents the emergence of the dysphoric state in PMDD.

      Differential Network Activation: Psychiatric disorders characterized by dysregulation of
      affective state -depression and PMDD - are increasingly recognized as are "network disorders"
      in which aberrant electric signaling in large-scale neuronal networks mediates the clinical
      symptoms. Recent studies have documented impaired balance in activation between left and
      right prefrontal cortex in patients with PMDD. In particular, similar to major depressive
      disorder, the balance between alpha oscillation power in the left and the right hemisphere is
      shifted towards the left in patients with PMDD. The presence of alpha oscillations
      corresponds to a relative decrease in neuronal activity (inverse relationship). Therefore,
      such a left-shifted alpha asymmetry is indicative of hypoactivation of the left hemisphere -
      a common finding in imaging studies of patients with MDD. Since this asymmetry is exacerbated
      during the luteal but not the follicular phase (corresponding to the time course of symptom
      presentation in PMDD, we hypothesize that successful normalization of alpha oscillations in
      women with PMDD would be a plausible approach to symptom remediation. This network level
      intervention can be accomplished with brain stimulation by application of weak electric
      currents, a non-invasive approach to modulating intrinsic cortical network dynamics. The
      advantage of this approach is twofold: it is non-pharmacologic and thus avoids the otherwise
      attendant side effects; and it will provide systems level insights into the pathophysiology
      underlying mood state dysregulation.

      Brain stimulation by constant electric currents applied to the scalp (tDCs) modulates
      neuronal excitability in humans. Transcranial current stimulation with sine-wave stimulation
      waveforms (transcranial alternating current stimulation, tACS) likely enhances cortical
      oscillations in a frequency specific manner. The mechanisms of weak electric fields generated
      by tDCS and tACS previously have been demonstrated to interact with cortical network activity
      by altering the temporal activity structure of electric signaling in cortex. In this study,
      we will assess whether tACS will decrease left frontal alpha power (8-12 Hz) and whether the
      extent of the decrease varies by menstrual cycle phase. An exploratory objective will be to
      examine the severity of the PMDD symptoms collected daily during the stimulation cycle and
      compare that severity with baseline symptoms ratings collected during the PMDD diagnostic
      study from which these participants will be recruited. The rationale for this stimulation is
      the known deficits in the overall structure of cortical activity in this frequency band in
      patients with mood disorders and the previously demonstrate clinical benefits of tDCS in the
      treatment of mood disorders. In this study, we will use more targeted stimulation waveforms
      by employing bilateral tACS instead of tDCS. We hypothesize that this choice of a more
      sophisticated waveform that directly enhances synchronization between the two hemispheres may
      be more effective in engaging the target. tDCS modulates overall activity levels of the
      targeted cortical area in a non-specific manner. Here, however, we propose to evaluate a more
      specific stimulation modality, tACS, (10 Hz stimulation frequency) that has been shown to
      selectively enhance cortical alpha rhythms. Since the selected patient population reportedly
      exhibits specific deficits in the alpha frequency band, our stimulation approach will provide
      a more targeted and therefore possibly a more effective manipulation.

      Protocol History: This protocol was originally designed to test the therapeutic efficacy of
      tACS in PMDD in a double blind, randomized, sham controlled, cross-over study of 5 tACS
      sessions. We were unable to recruit subjects, largely consequent to the many daily treatment
      sessions required. We subsequently changed the primary focus of the study to that of
      determining whether a single session of tACS engaged left prefrontal cortical alpha
      oscillations and, by reducing them, reduced alpha asymmetry. We further asked whether this
      effect was menstrual cycle phase-dependent.
    
  