
    
      The diagnosis of a life-threatening pediatric heart condition impacts both the future of a
      child and the health and quality of life of the family. Parents of a child with this
      diagnosis are faced with the stress of comprehending extensive information about the
      diagnosis and treatment options, and are required to make immediate and profound choices
      about interventions that will have long-lasting repercussions. To provide the best care at
      this challenging time, it is crucial to find methods to improve parent-provider shared
      decision making (SDM) and to encourage the inclusion of both patient-centered and
      family-centered outcomes. One method commonly used to improve SDM are decision aids (DA). DAs
      are designed to 1) provide accurate and balanced information; 2) clarify patients' values;
      and 3) improve SDM skills. A Cochrane review showed that DAs contribute to effective SDM by:
      1) increasing knowledge of the diagnosis and treatment options, 2) increasing patient and
      practitioner participation in SDM, 3) reducing uncertainty and decisional conflict, 4)
      improving concordance between preference and treatment received, and 5) improving
      patient-provider communication.

      Values clarification exercises (VCE) are occasionally included in DAs to help patients
      clarify their values about the treatment decision. Although these exercises are often used,
      they are poorly tested. Previous systematic reviews have failed to identify rigorous research
      studies to answer questions regarding whether VCE improves patient decision making processes.
      This project aims to determine the impact of the DA with and without the VCE on longitudinal
      parent mental health, decision quality and perceptions of patient-provider communication.
      Specifically, we will test the impact of decision aids (DA vs. no DA, and DA with and without
      the VCE) on mental health outcomes (e.g., anxiety, complicated grief), decision quality
      (e.g., quality of the decision, parent-provider communication), and provider experience
      (e.g., satisfaction with interacting with patients who used the tool). In the development of
      the DA and VCE, we conducted focus groups and interviews in Utah, Illinois, Washington, D.C,
      and North Carolina with parents whose fetus/neonate had been diagnosed with complex CHD. The
      main goal of this study is to determine the impact of the DA with and without the VCE on
      longitudinal parent mental health, decision quality and provider experience.
    
  