
    
      The prognosis prediction of early stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after minimally
      invasive treatment involves clinical decision of treatment and follow-up. Magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) has become the main approach for monitoring and following up of HCC, however
      it's difficult to predict HCC prognosis before surgery. We found the following limitations
      among previous researches: multimodal MRI using different sequences shows uncertain
      boundaries of HCC, which makes precise segmentation more difficult, and also leads to an
      additional workload for extracting high throughput radiomics features, which are limited in
      quantity and repeatability. Regarding to prognosis aspect, the MRI images, clinical data, and
      follow up information have not been fully exploited yet. In addition, the prognosis result
      obtained by radiomics workflow is difficult to be explained and applied to clinical
      application. Therefore, we conduct a study to solve the problems mentioned above: (1) To
      explore an effective deep learning neural network method and a pre-training model for
      improving tumor segmentation accuracy. (2) To establish a method for extracting
      high-throughput multi-dimensional and multimodal MRI radiomics features related to HCC
      prognosis. (3) To explore a correlation between "multimodal MRI based pathological features
      of early stage HCC" and the results of "multimodal MRI based prognosis depth network of early
      stage HCC after minimally invasive treatment". Based on above approaches, we aim to establish
      "multimodal MRI based prognosis model of early stage HCC after minimally invasive treatment"
      in different clinical application scenarios guiding to clinical decision-making. Moreover, we
      also aim to explore the correlation between MRI radiomics features and pathology, which
      provides theoretical foundations for the MRI radiomics based pathological researches.
    
  