
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This study was of great practical importance because asthma is a common condition (3-5
      percent of the population) which has had a recent, unexplained rise in morbidity and
      mortality. Many previous epidemiological studies focused on predictors of hospitalization for
      people with asthma seen in the emergency room. These studies were of limited value for the
      practicing physician who sees the vast majority of patients with asthma.

      Results from this study should, for the first time, enable a profile to be constructed of the
      high risk patient with asthma which includes identification of modifiable risk factors. These
      results can be used for physician and patient education programs as well as to target medical
      intervention.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study developed a key piece of information needed for outpatient care of patients with
      asthma; a profile of patients at risk for severe, potentially life-threatening exacerbations
      of asthma. The experimental design was a prospective study of 800 patients with asthma drawn
      from a large, pre-paid health care plan. The key advantage of this population was that all
      the care occurred within the health plan. Characteristics identified included demographic
      factors, socioeconomic status; patient characteristics such as tobacco use, atopy, pattern of
      medication use, self-reporting of compliance/adherence, attitudes about asthma; historical
      assessment of indoor air quality; characteristics of asthma such as duration of asthma, lung
      function, and variation in asthma symptoms; and speciality of physician. The outcome measures
      were obtained over a three year period and included all episodes of hospital-based care
      including hospitalizations, emergency room visits, and urgency care clinic visits. Based on
      these data, models were developed which assigned relative risk to each of the independent
      variables. These models were validated in a subset of the population.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  