
    
      Black youth living in poverty-impacted communities are disproportionately burdened by
      behavioral health challenges, notably serious disruptive behavioral difficulties (DBDs). In
      some urban communities, prevalence rates of conduct related difficulties among young people
      of color exceed 40%. Simultaneously, serious care disparities are widespread and persistent.
      Without access to care, children with DBDs frequently suffer impairment in school
      functioning, strained relationships with teachers, peers and family members, and coercive
      interactions with school discipline or juvenile justice authorities. The seemingly
      intractable challenges of identifying, engaging and retaining low-income children of color
      and their families in needed mental health care has persisted despite significant scientific
      advances, including: a) decades of research identifying the multi-level barriers to care
      experienced by families of color; b) multiple investigations supporting a range of provider
      training approaches capable of enhancing family engagement; and c) empirical support for
      integrating outreach specialists, case managers and parent peer support staff across health,
      mental health, school and community-based settings to address behavioral health care gaps.

      This study is based on the premise that if care navigation models are going to succeed where
      previous efforts have failed in eliminating racial disparities in child mental health care,
      then the preparation and support for child behavioral health navigators (cbhNs) needs to
      include: 1) training to deliver evidence-based family engagement, psychoeducation and support
      interventions; 2) ongoing coaching and supervision focused on building collaborative
      relationships between families and providers and; 3) skills to enhance community/system
      buy-in, as well as to analyze and interrupt multi-level structural influences on disparities
      and system gaps (including training to assess and intervene in the complex relationships
      between youth, adult caregivers, providers, system leaders, and community-based networks)
      within low-income communities.

      The proposed study will be conducted in 2 phases. Phase 1 involves the recruitment and
      training of a new cohort of cbhNs (n=15), intentionally involving committed individuals of
      color from an existing community-based network of youth service system partners, HomeGrown
      STL. CbhNs (n=15) will be hired based on experience serving youth and families in target
      communities, St. Louis north city and county neighborhoods, but do not necessarily have
      extensive mental health training. CbhNs will be prepared to collaborate with youth/families
      via an interactive training protocol which integrates existing evidence-based cbhN
      approaches, including engagement interventions, family support and education, adapted care
      navigation models and empirically supported implementation strategies to address barriers.

      Phase 2 is a mixed methods, hybrid effectiveness implementation experimental study, enrolling
      390 early adolescent youth (10 to 14 years) of African descent and their families living in
      geographically defined St. Louis north city and county neighborhoods (racially segregated
      areas with high poverty concentration), aimed at simultaneously examining multi-level factors
      that enhance or impede cbhN interaction and youth/family outcomes. This study exclusively
      focuses on youth and families frequently missed or not retained in services.

      The following specific aims guide the proposed study:

      Primary Aim #1: To examine youth/family level outcomes associated with cbhNs (e.g. rates of
      identification of DBDs, youth/family engagement and motivation, access to assessment/care,
      alliance with and response to cbhNs, youth behavioral functioning over time); Primary Aim #2:
      To identify multi-level factors that impede/facilitate navigation (e.g. stigma, gaps in
      collaboration across youth, families, providers, system level limitations, relationship with
      cbhN); Exploratory Aim #1: To explore the response to cbhNs by key network and system
      stakeholders (e.g. perceptions of cbhN helpfulness, understanding and support for cbhN
      relationships with families, attributions of reductions in system barriers), as well as of
      the cbhNs, specifically their response to evidence-informed interactive training (e.g. child
      behavioral health and care knowledge and navigation skill, efficacy regarding collaboration
      with families, providers and systems).

      This study is being conducted by a transdisciplinary network of scientists at Washington
      University in St. Louis and New York University in collaboration with service organizations,
      child behavioral health policy officials and the HomeGrown STL network, including an existing
      Advisory Board. The proposed study is set within high poverty communities and focused on
      youth/families of color who rely on resource-constrained clinics to address serious youth
      mental health needs. The study capitalizes on significant preliminary work, including the
      mapping of all early adolescent youth of African descent in the target communities and the
      collaborative refinement of an evidence-informed cbhN training protocol. This application
      aligns with NIH's priorities to address underlying health disparities, as well as to enhance
      public health impact of mental health focused research studies.
    
  