
    
      Participants from the study will be clients that are enrolled at Austin Speech Labs intensive
      speech therapy following the enrollment protocol. A total of six participants will be
      enrolled, they will be randomly assigned to sham and real groups. Three of the clients will
      receive real and other will receive sham tDCS.

      Prior to receiving tDCS or speech therapy, the participants' comprehension will be assessed
      using the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB). If they have a score of lower than 50%, they will be
      excluded from the study. If they receive a score of greater than 50%, they will be asked to
      provide verbal and written consent by signing the consent form.

      The Principal investigator will provide the consent form to both the caregiver and the
      participants.If necessary, the investigator will simplify the terminology to ensure
      comprehension. The investigator will explain that the purpose of this research intends to
      gather data in order to gain scientific knowledge and will not necessarily benefit the
      participant.

      The participants in the experimental group and control group will receive a total of three
      hours of therapy. All participants will receive intensive- group, and two hours of individual
      therapy.

      Experimental Group -- Participants will receive tDCS at 1mA for 20min of the total three
      hours of intensive speech therapy time at the beginning of each session. Stimulation will be
      provided via an electrode using a Starstim device. The anodal electrode will be placed over
      inferior frontal gyrus area or the perilesional area, if Broca's area is damaged and the
      cathodal electrode will be placed over the contralateral or orbital frontal on the right
      hemisphere. For both the Sham and the experimental group the stimulation will be ramped up
      for 45 seconds and ramped down for 15 seconds. For the experimental group the stimulation
      will be ramped up for 45 seconds and stay there for 20 min while for the sham group it will
      ramp down after the initial 45 seconds. The participants will receive three weeks of tDCS and
      continue receiving only intensive speech therapy for five weeks for three hours a day.
      Intensive speech therapy will continue in order to allow the neurons to be stimulated.

      Control Group - Participants will receive sham tDCS five days a week for three weeks while
      receiving intensive speech therapy. The control group's therapy will follow the same format
      as the experimental group.

      ***In individual and group therapy, the client is not expected to produce a complete sentence
      with articles and the correct tense. However, when the clinician is providing feedback and
      models, they should produce the sentence using the correct articles and tense.***

      Individual Therapy: Will be provided for two hours Materials - Verb picture cards (verbs will
      be written on the back when necessary), and five Wh question cards- written as "Who" "What",
      "Why", "Where", and "When".

      Individual therapy will use the VNest framework.

        1. Clinician will place verb picture card on the table and have the client name the verb.

           a. If the client cannot name the verb with the picture, the clinician will write the
           word on the back of the picture card and the client read it. If the client cannot read
           it, the clinician will read it and the client will repeat it. The client will copy the
           verb.

        2. Clinician will ask Yes/No questions related to the verb and agent. There will be a set
           of 4 questions provided.

           a. If time permits at the end of the session, the clinician can generate their own
           Yes/No questions after the client has generated agents/objects if the client is done
           with the first 4 easily.

        3. The client will complete the phonemic-semantic feature analysis chart for the verb and
           produce the verb again.

           a. If the client cannot generate a response, the clinician will use the response sheet
           provided to give a model.

        4. The clinician will present the "Who" card and have the client read the card. The
           clinician will then ask the client to generate "Who" (agent) can do the action (verb).

           a. If the client cannot generate the agent, the clinician will follow the cueing
           hierarchy provided (semantic cue, phonemic cue, two choices, model response).

        5. The Clinician will present the "What" card and have the client read the card. The
           clinician will then ask the client to generate "What" (object) the person is doing with
           the action (verb).

           a. If the client cannot generate the agent, the clinician will follow the cueing
           hierarchy provided (semantic cue, phonemic cue, two choices, model response).

        6. The client will combine the agent, action, and object (SVO).

             1. If the client cannot generate the phrase, clinician will provide phrase
                orthographically and the client will read it. If the client cannot read the phrase,
                the clinician will read it and the client will repeat the phrase. The client will
                be then asked to copy the phrase and read it.

             2. If the client can combine the words, they will then be asked to write it. If they
                cannot write it, the clinician will write it and the client will copy and read it.

        7. The clinician will ask the client three (3) Wh- questions regarding their SVO sentence
           generated in step 6. (Who did ____?, What did ____ do?, What did ____ do it with/to?)

        8. Clinician will then ask the client to generate a sentence, with the same action (verb),
           an agent, and object related to their daily life.

             1. If the client cannot generate the sentence, the clinician will use the cueing
                hierarchy provided (semantic cue, phonemic cue, two choices, model response).

             2. The client will then be asked to write that sentence and read it aloud.

           i. If the client cannot write the sentence, the clinician will write it and have the
           client copy the sentence. If the client cannot read it, the clinician will read and have
           the client repeat it.

        9. The client will be shown the EFA "Beach Picture" and be asked to generate a verb
           (action) related to the picture and then expand by generating subject (agent) and
           object. The client will then be asked to write his/her response. Every session, the
           client will be expected to generate a sentence about a different verb.

             1. If the client is unable to generate a sentence, the clinician will model it and the
                client will repeat it. If the client is unable to write the sentence, the clinician
                will write it and the client will copy it.

      Group Therapy:

      Group Therapy will be for an hour. The participants will work on asking "Wh" questions using
      the verbs to the other clients. Also, they will work on naming agents, objects to a given
      verb and describe videos shown using complete sentences. The video will be a scene containing
      different actions related to the trained verbs. There will be twelve (12) videos used. For
      all of the group activities, the clients will alternate turns. The following steps will be
      followed in the therapy:

      In step one, there will be six (6) total trials. If the client is unable to produce a verbal
      response, they should be prompted to write the response first and then produce it.

        1. The clinician will show the group a video that shows an action and the client will
           generate a sentence describing "Who" (agent) and "What" (object) related to the action.

           a. If the client cannot generate a sentence, the other client will attempt to generate a
           sentence. If neither client is able to generate a sentence, the clinician will provide a
           model.

           i. Once a client is able to generate the "Who" (agent) and "What" (object) with 80%
           accuracy with no cueing, the clinician will begin to cue the client to expand the
           sentence using "When" and "Where."

        2. There will be three sets of cards: one with a written verb, one with the picture verb,
           and one with wh-questions.

             1. One client will pull a written or picture verb card and name the verb. Each client
                will use the PSFA chart to generate one attribute about the given verb.

             2. The same client will then pull a wh- question and generate a question using the
                wh-question word and the verb.

           i. If the client is unable to generate a question, the clinician will provide a model
           and the client will repeat.

           c. The other client will generate an answer to the question. i. If the client is unable
           to generate a response, the clinician will provide a model and the client will repeat.

           d. Both of the clients will write the response (SVO), either the response given in step
           c or a new response.

           i. If the client is unable to write their response, the other client or the clinician
           will provide the response and the client will copy it.

           e. The clients will then read the response they wrote in step d. f. The client will name
           the verb again g. Repeat steps a-f, alternating clients.

      EVALUATION

        1. All of the participants will be assessed using the Communicative Effectiveness Index,
           the Western Aphasia Battery (part 1), the Boston Naming Test, the Northwestern
           Assessment of Verbs and Sentences (excluding the verb naming subtest), and trained and
           untrained verb and noun pictures, and trained and untrained verb pictures.

        2. The WAB will be used to determine each participant's type of aphasia and his aphasia
           quotient (AQ).

        3. Each participant's spontaneous speech sample from the subtest on the WAB will be
           analyzed. The sample will be analyzed for the number of words in a sentence.

        4. In addition, each participant will have a structural pre-scan to understand the lesion
           site.

        5. The participants will be re-assessed after eight weeks of intervention, three months of
           intervention, six months of intervention, and one year of intervention to assess
           maintenance.

        6. After the eight weeks of intervention, the participants will continue to receive
           treatment if they wish to continue to work on their skills.
    
  