
    
      Improper inhaler technique can significantly affect the amount of medication reaching the
      lungs and patients with the incorrect technique are likely to have poorly controlled asthma
      and more emergency department visits. Studies have shown that up to 92% of children
      demonstrate poor inhaler technique. A systematic review of errors in inhaler technique showed
      that most errors were in coordination, speed or depth of inspiration, and no post inhalation
      breath-hold.

      BreatheSuite (patent pending) is a device and mobile application developed by Mr. Brett
      Vokey, an engineering student at Memorial University of Newfoundland. BreatheSuite has been
      recognized by numerous provincial competitions, featured at the Eastern Health Innovation
      Showcase, and was recently selected as a finalist for the New York Health Innovation
      Challenge.

      This device attaches to metered dose inhalers and it can determine if:

        1. the dose was given,

        2. the metered dose inhaler was properly shaken,

        3. the metered dose inhaler is properly aligned,

        4. the flow of medication is appropriate, and

        5. there is no accidental exhalation into the inhaler.

      All of this information is transmitted to the BreatheSuite mobile application, which is then
      available to the user. The user will get technique correcting advice via push notifications
      as well as by accessing the mobile application directly. The healthcare professional can look
      at the data to determine where more education can be given and tailor treatment to the
      individual.

      Similar to that done of a study by Ronmark et al, inhaler technique scores are computed from
      0-100%, with each of the five technique steps mentioned above are given one of three values:
      20 (Perfect Score for Technique Step), 10 (partially correct step) or 0 (not correct at all).
      Thus, the technique scores are varied from 0-100 in increments of 10.

      One downfall of many metered dose inhalers is that they do not include a dose indicator. The
      patient can not know how many doses are remaining. The number of doses in each metered dose
      inhaler is clearly labelled on the canister. However, if patients are not keeping track in
      their asthma logbook, or elsewhere, they may not know when their device is empty. This
      downfall can lead to omitted doses and poor control. BreatheSuite's ability in monitoring
      doses has the potential to enhance medication adherence.
    
  