
    
      The Mechanical Diagnosis and Therapy (MDT) approach has been extensively used to classify and
      treat patients with spinal pain. Studies have shown this approach to be valid, reliable and
      able to predict outcome. Although the approach has been used for extremity joints there is no
      research on using this approach to classify individuals presenting with knee osteoarthritis.

      An assessment tool that could potentially identify a subgroup of patients who would
      experience dramatic and rapid improvement to conservative care would be valuable.

      Patients with an "osteoarthritic knee" diagnosis will be recruited after a consultation with
      an orthopaedic surgeon. Patients who consent to participate will be randomized into an
      intervention group and a control group. Baseline self reported function and pain will be
      collected. The control group will continue as planned on the waiting list for either a follow
      up orthopaedic consultation or for knee surgery. The intervention group will be assessed by
      one of three McKenzie credentialed therapist over 3 assessment sessions. The therapist will
      classify the patients as either having a "derangement" or not. Those classified as a
      derangement will have 2-3 follow up sessions and will be given direction specific exercises
      consistent with the principles of the McKenzie System over 2 weeks. Those patients who were
      not classified as derangements will be given 2-3 sessions of evidenced based osteoarthritis
      treatment consisting of strengthening exercises and advice on aerobic fitness exercise. At 2
      weeks both groups will have baseline measures reassessed and will be discharged. Follow-up by
      telephone at 3 months and 1 year will reassess functional and pain measures.

      Due to the high prevalence of knee osteoarthritis and the associated economic burden on our
      health care system it is important to investigate if physiotherapists are able to predict who
      will respond to conservative therapy. Classifying individuals with knee osteoarthritis into
      rapid responders or non responders to short-term physiotherapy treatment will allow more
      expensive medical evaluation and intervention to be directed to appropriate patients and
      avoid unnecessary treatment for patients likely to recover from less costly therapy.
    
  