
    
      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of OSU6162 with respect to
      sequela after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage with special emphasis on fatigue. The
      eventual aim is to find a cure for the debilitating fatigue, cognitive and emotional problems
      arising in many of the individuals that have suffered aSAH. Until now, no effective treatment
      exists and the final goal is to provide a medical treatment that alleviates these symptoms to
      such an extend that aSAH patients can regain a normal quality of live and resume their
      pre-morbid occupational status and level of social participation.

      The study is a phase II, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study.

      Patients that have undergone aSAH from Health-region South-East. All aSAH patients in
      Health-region South-East are treated at Oslo University Hospital, Neuroclinic, at the
      Departments of Neurosurgery and the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and
      will be recruited from there. 100 patients will be included in this trial (50 in each group).

      All patients will receive a dose of OSU6162 15 mg or placebo BID. The expected duration of
      therapy is 12 weeks.

      The primary endpoint will be change from baseline in Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) after 12
      weeks of treatment with OSU6162 or placebo, with data collection at weeks 1, 4, 12, and 20
      (20=8 weeks after treatment).

      The secondary endpoints include change from baseline in total score on a number of
      questionnaires, with data collection at week 4, 12, and 20 (i.e. at 8 weeks after treatment).

      Secondary endpoints include change from baseline in vital signs, adverse events (+ week 4),
      physical examinations, blood and urine samples at week 1 and 12.

      Secondary endpoints include change from baseline on a number of neuropsychological tests,
      with data collection at week 12.

      Statistical analyses will be based on linear mixed models. A mixed model analysis uses all
      the available data to compensate for the data missing on a particular patient. Thus any
      imputation techniques for missing data points are not necessary.

      Adverse events (AEs) will be coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities
      (MedDRA) and tabulated by System Organ Class (SOC) and preferred term.

      A data monitoring committee (DMC) will be established in order to enhance the safety aspect
      of the study and its primary function will be to review all registered side-effects at
      various points of time along the study and consider if there are indications for early
      stopping (either for futility or for positive efficacy).

      The study will be conducted in accordance with ethical principles that have their origin in
      the Declaration of Helsinki and are consistent with ICH/Good Clinical Practice and applicable
      regulatory requirements. Registration of patient data will be carried out in accordance with
      national personal data laws.
    
  