
    
      Study design, recruitment

      This will be a randomised clinical trial, undertaken at the University of Leicester,
      University Hospitals of Leicester (UHL) and Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trusts (LPT).
      Following successful ethical approval, sponsorship, regulatory approvals, 40 participants
      with a diagnosis of MCI, or AzD, and 20 healthy volunteers will be recruited from memory
      clinics, general geriatric clinics, Join Dementia Research, community groups. Patients with a
      diagnosis of mild MCI, or mild to moderate AzD that are not under follow-up with the memory
      service will also be invited to participate in the study by letter invitation through their
      GP surgery.

      Summary of the intervention

      Lumosity© is a commercially available software, developed by a group of neuropsychologists,
      which has been used across several studies of brain training and disciplines. The brain
      training software targets multiple brain areas, is based online, and is relatively easy to
      use and administer. It has been designed to adapt to the individual's memory performance to
      personalise the training program to their needs. Brain exercises will be selected with the
      support of Lumosity© to target the following brain areas; attention, memory, visuospatial,
      verbal fluency, and language.

      First Visit

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria, will undergo formal written consent with a
      member of the research team, or research delivery officer, either at home, designated LPT
      research space, memory service, or invited to attend the Leicester Cerebral Haemodynamics in
      Ageing and Stroke Medicine (CHiASM) research laboratory. Baseline assessments will be
      performed at this first visit including; background information on age, sex, ethnicity,
      medical conditions, and medication use, the Edinburgh handedness inventory (to determine left
      or right hand dominance), and questionnaires on mood, quality of life, and ability to carry
      out everyday activities. Participants who have had their baseline assessment at home will
      then be referred to the researcher to undertake a baseline assessment of brain blood flow at
      the CHiASM research space. This will be undertaken by performing selected questions from a
      memory test covering five major brain areas(attention, fluency, language, visuospatial and
      memory) with continuous TCD (ultrasound), heart rate (ECG), blood pressure (finger blood
      pressure monitor), and waste gases (CO2 - nasal tubes).

      Randomisation

      Following the collection of baseline information, participants will be chosen at random to
      either complete a brain training program or control. Randomisation will be performed using
      Sealed Envelope©. This is an online based randomisation tool which uses random permuted
      blocks to allocate participants to waiting list control or intervention. Participants will be
      enrolled and assigned a PIN consecutively, and randomised to a treatment arm corresponding to
      the PIN. Given the nature of the trial, it is not possible to blind participants to the
      intervention. The Investigator will be providing weekly telephone support with the
      intervention, in addition to undertaking baseline and follow-up measurements, and therefore
      blinding of the investigator is also not possible. However, data analysis will be blinded by
      generating a batch anonymised data set. Randomisation will be undertaken at the initial
      visit. As this is an un-blinded trial, code breaking will not be required.

      Intervention

      Control participants will be waiting listed to receive the brain training program at the end
      of the study. Participants selected to brain training will be given instructions on how to
      access and use the program at home for 15-30minutes, 3-5 times per week for 8-12 weeks.
      Adherence to the program can be monitored through Lumosity©. During the 8-12 weeks
      participants will be provided with technical support by the investigator to minimise
      adherence issues and will be offered a weekly telephone call to assist with any issues that
      have arisen.

      Follow-up

      Participants will then be invited to follow up assessment at 8-12 weeks, where the TCD
      (ultrasound) assessment of brain blood flow will be repeated, in addition to memory testing,
      mood, quality of life, and ability to carry out daily activities. All travel and parking
      expenses to and from the study for assessments will be refunded to participants, and
      refreshments will be provided. No financial incentive will be offered for participating in
      this study. Participants will be provided with a lay summary of the results at the end of the
      study.

      Qualitative sub-study

      A qualitative study will be undertaken following the training program, which will take the
      form of interviews and a focus group to determine barriers and facilitators (benefits) to the
      brain training program. A sample of the participants who completed the brain training program
      and who are willing to return for interview will be included in this study. Participants will
      be recruited until thematic saturation is achieved (i.e. where no further themes arise from
      interviews or focus group). The maximum number of participants recruited to this arm would be
      twenty (only patient participants who have completed the intervention arm will be recruited).
      Where possible, the investigators will interview participants jointly with their carers in
      order to obtain a broader view of the impact of brain training on patients and their support
      network. This would allow the investigators to explore the potential wider impacts of these
      interventions on patients, and benefits not measured by the outcomes described above.
    
  