
    
      A web-based survey (SurveyMonkey©; https://es.surveymonkey.com/r/FBVR59C) to the members of
      the Colorectal Chapter of the Spanish Association of Surgeons (AEC) and the Spanish
      Association of Coloproctology (AECP). A link to the web page containing the survey is
      disseminated via email, newsletter and Twitter.

      A board from the Surgical Infection Section did a review of evidence and previous guidelines
      to be used in the evaluation of the results. The most recent clinical practice guidelines
      have been analysed. Furthermore, an extensive review of specific measures for colorectal
      surgery has been published and used for evaluation. According to the review, the preventive
      measures analysed in the survey have been distributed into two groups: high or low level of
      evidence.

      The survey aim to assess knowledge, beliefs, and practices of attending colorectal surgeons
      on preventative measures including mechanical bowel preparation (MBP), oral antibiotic
      prophylaxis and the use of drains. Furthermore, the questions address the level of accordance
      between their beliefs and the protocols or the usual practice of their units. The agreement
      rate between the beliefs and usual practice of all respondents will be calculated on a scale
      from 0 to 100. For discussion, the responses on the implementation of major surgical site
      infection (SSI) prevention measures will be compared with the recommendations of the expert
      group. Other questions are related to the types of complications that surgeons believe are
      prevented by the use of oral antibiotic prophylaxis or MBP, reasons for not using either of
      them, type of oral and systemic antibiotics and cathartics used, and strategies already in
      place or that should be implemented to reduce SSI rates at respondents' hospitals.

      The results will be expressed in percentages on the total answers obtained. Responses will be
      entered into a computerized database that will be analysed using the SPSS program (v.10.0,
      Chicago, IL, USA). The results will be analysed using the chi-square test with statistical
      significance defined as p <0.05.
    
  