
    
      This proposal focuses on an innovative theory-driven intervention aimed at helping to improve
      outcomes for AAMSM targeting 3 stages of the HIV Care Continuum, (1) retention, (2) adherence
      to antiretroviral medication, and (3) viral suppression. My Personal Health Guide is an
      innovative talking relational human Avatar mobile phone application to engage HIV-positive
      AAMSM in adherence and retention in care. Development of this app was informed by the
      Information Motivation Behavioral Skills Model that focuses on feedback between information
      and motivation that affect one's behavioral skills, behaviors, and desired health outcomes.
      In the privacy of the user's home or anywhere they have their phone, the Avatar can encourage
      healthy behavior, acknowledge stigma and speak with empathy, audibly teach persons with low
      literacy, employ credible culturally appropriate phrasing, and invite the user to hear advice
      and motivational stories of other HIV-positive people and their caregivers. As part of a
      collaboration between UIC, Emory University, and the University of Mississippi Medical
      Center, the investigators propose to test the efficacy of the My Personal Health Guide Avatar
      application for young HIV-positive AAMSM. In this study, 250 HIV-positive AAMSM between the
      ages of 18-34 years with detectable viral load at baseline will be randomized to the My
      Personal Health Guide Avatar application or a food safety Avatar application control
      intervention for a 6-month period. Wirelessly monitored ART adherence will be collected for
      1-month at baseline and then wirelessly monitored ART adherence, viral load, and clinic
      appointment data will be collected throughout the 6-month follow-up period. The investigators
      hypothesize that participants in the My Personal Health Guide intervention will demonstrate
      significant improvements in ART adherence, viral load, and retention in care during the
      follow-up period compared to control participants. The investigators will also identify
      mobile phone application functions that are associated with improvement in adherence in order
      to inform refinement of the application. The investigators hypothesize that more frequent use
      of Avatar information functions that included motivational messages will be associated with
      improved ART adherence.
    
  