
    
      Centromere-associated protein E (CENP-E) is a protein that is required for correct
      chromosomal alignment in mitosis. Loss of CENP-E activity, due to microinjection of
      antibodies, ablation of gene expression with siRNA or antisense oligonucleotides, or
      inhibition of enzymatic activity by small molecule inhibitors, causes aberrant cell cycle
      arrest in mitosis, characterized by a bipolar mitotic spindle with misaligned chromosomes.
      Studies with small molecule inhibitors have demonstrated that this aberrant cell cycle arrest
      can result in apoptosis and cell death. CENP-E has been shown to be abundantly expressed in a
      variety of human tumors. GSK923295 is a potent and selective CENP-E inhibitor which has
      demonstrated potent and broad spectrum antitumor activity against solid and hematologic
      malignancies in vitro. GSK923295 is intended for use either as a monotherapy or in
      combination with existing anti-cancer therapies.

      A drug targeting CENP-E may prove as efficacious as the taxanes and vinca alkaloids, without
      the potential for neurotoxicity or other side-effects associated with interference of tubulin
      function in non-dividing cells. Similar to many other anti-proliferative drugs, CENP-E
      inhibitors are expected to have manageable dose-limiting toxicities resulting from action on
      normal proliferating tissues (e.g., myelosuppression and gastrointestinal epithelial cell
      damage). The opportunity for inhibitors of CENP-E lies in the potential for broad efficacy.
      The absence of broad clinical experience with anti-mitotic cancer therapies acting on targets
      other than tubulin complicates prediction of additional benefits, beyond the lack of
      neurotoxicity that might accrue from a drug targeting CENPE.

      The purpose of this Phase I, first time in human (FTIH) study in subjects with refractory
      cancers is to determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) (or recommended dose based on
      available safety, pharmacokinetic (PK) and response data), dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs),
      PK, pharmacodynamics (PD), and preliminary clinical activity of GSK923295, an inhibitor of
      CENP-E.

      The primary objectives in Stage 1 (Dose Escalation) are:

      • To determine the MTD (or recommended dose based on available safety, PK, and response
      data), DLTs, safety, and PK of GSK923295 administered to subjects with advanced, refractory
      malignancies.

      The primary objectives in Stage 2 (Expansion Cohort) are:

      • To evaluate the safety and PK of GSK923295 at the MTD (or recommended dose based on
      available safety, PK, and response data) administered to subjects with advanced, refractory
      malignancies.

      Secondary Objectives in the study are:

        -  To determine the clinical activity of GSK923295 administered to subjects with advanced,
           refractory malignancies.

        -  To evaluate the effect of GSK923295 on biomarkers in normal host tissue (Stage 1 and 2)
           and tumor (Stage 2, optional in Stage 1) and the effect of GSK923295 on tumor metabolism
           with FDG-PET imaging (Stage 2, optional in Stage 1).

        -  Explore associations between biochemical and genetic characteristics of baseline
           archival tumor specimens (Stage 1 and Stage 2), biopsy-accessible tumor specimens (Stage
           2), and anti-tumor response.

        -  Explore pharmacogenomic associations between genetic variants in drug metabolizing and
           drug transport genes and PK, safety, and efficacy of GSK923295.

      The primary and secondary endpoint(s) used to assess the objective measures are:

      Primary

      • Adverse events (AE) and changes from baseline in vital signs, clinical laboratory
      parameters, and electrocardiography (ECG) assessments will be evaluated to assess safety
      profile.

      Secondary

        -  The MTD (or recommended dose based on available safety, PK, and response data) where no
           more than 1 of 6 subjects has a DLT in the first treatment cycle.

        -  PK parameters CL, Vdss, AUC(0-∞), AUC(0-t), Cmax, tmax, and t1/2 (Stage 1) and develop a
           PK model for GSK923295 (Stage 1 and 2).

        -  Anti-tumor activity measurements will be obtained at baseline and after every second
           cycle according to the following:

        -  Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Guidelines for solid tumors (for
           solid tumors and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma).

        -  National Cancer Institute - Working Group (NCI-WG) Guidelines for chronic lymphocytic
           leukaemia.

        -  Exploratory PK/PD modeling of safety and response data.

        -  Changes in biomarkers of cell proliferation and cell death or imaging endpoints.

        -  Biomarker profiles in archival tumor specimens and their correlation with clinical
           activity.

        -  Genetic polymorphisms in key enzymes involved in the metabolism and disposition of
           GSK923295 and correlations with pharmacokinetic, safety, and response (pharmacodynamic)
           data.

      The study will consist of two stages. Stage 1 consists of a dose escalation stage to
      determine the MTD (or recommended dose based on available safety, PK and response data) using
      an accelerated titration scheme combined with standard dose escalation methods. GSK923295
      will be administered intravenously over one hour, once weekly for 3 consecutive weeks (i.e.,
      Day 1, 8, and 15) with treatment cycles repeated every 4 weeks (each cycle = 28 days). During
      Stage 1, safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical activity will be assessed.
      Tumor biopsies and PET imaging are optional in Stage 1 subjects. The MTD (or recommended dose
      based on available safety, PK and response data) will be defined as the dose of GSK923295 at
      which no more than 1 of 6 subjects experiences a DLT in the first treatment cycle. Eighteen
      subjects are anticipated to participate in Stage 1 of the study. In Stage 2, 15-20 additional
      subjects will be enrolled at the MTD (or recommended dose based on available safety, PK and
      response data) dose to further evaluate the safety of GSK923295. In Stage 2, PK samples
      (using a sparse PK sampling scheme for population PK analyses), PET imaging, and tumor
      biopsies will be obtained. Clinical activity will be assessed. Subjects (Stage 1 and Stage 2)
      will remain on study until they meet the criteria for treatment discontinuation described in
      the protocol. It is anticipated that 33-38 subjects will participate in the study (18 in
      Stage 1 and 15-20 in Stage 2. During Stage 1 and Stage 2, subjects with histologically
      confirmed advanced refractory solid tumors will be enrolled. In Stage 2, subjects with
      refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia can also be enrolled.
    
  