
    
      Research questions:

        1. How do EQ-5D health states and self-assessed EQ VAS values vary across and within
           patient groups, and over follow-up stages, and in comparison to the general population
           data?

        2. To what extent do EQ-5D health states predict EQ VAS values, and how do the resulting
           experience-based patient value sets differ when estimated from patients' data at
           baseline and 1-year follow-up and how do the EQ VAS values predicted for EQ-5D health
           states differ between different patient groups?

        3. How do these patient value sets modelled using data from the registers compare with the
           Swedish VAS and TTO experience-based EQ-5D value sets obtained from the general
           population?

        4. How do value sets for EQ-5D-3L, predicted from EQ VAS differ from value sets predicted
           for the EQ-5D-5L, predicted from its EQ VAS?

      Data: In this project 12 National Quality Registries holding records of PROs, on the EQ-5D
      instrument, records of approximately 700,000 patients will be included. Clinical data (age,
      sex, BMI, diagnosis (es) and interventions) and PROs data (EQ-5D-3L and condition-specific)
      will be retrieved from the registries. Data from cross-sectional population surveys in Sweden
      will be included for comparison; a total of approximately 45,000 records used in developing
      the Swedish TTO and VAS value sets.

      The quality registries to be part of the study include;

        1. Better management of patients with osteoarthritis (BOA)

        2. The Swedish Ankle Registry (Swedankle)

        3. The Swedish Fracture Register (SFR)

        4. The Swedish Heart Failure Registry (SwedHF)

        5. The Swedish Hip Arthroplasty Register (SHAR)

        6. The Swedish Knee Arthroplasty Register (SKAR)

        7. The Swedish National Anterior Cruciate Ligament Register (XBase)

        8. The Swedish National Quality Register for Bipolar Disorder (BipoläR)

        9. The Swedish National Registry for Respiratory Failure (Swedevox)

       10. The Swedish Registry for Systematic Psoriasis Treatment (PsoReg)

       11. The Swedish Rheumatology Quality Register (SRQ)

       12. The Swedish Spine Register (Swespine)

      Data analysis: Records of patients in the registries with baseline and follow-up data on PROs
      will be included for the different analyses to be conducted. The analyses will focus on the
      three main data components coming from the EQ-5D instrument. Data collected by the EQ-5D
      descriptive system on the five dimensions; the EQ-VAS score and EQ-5D index resulting from
      transforming the EQ-5D health profile into a single index using value sets. Hence, analyses
      looking into how the EQ-5D profile varies within and across patient groups and how it varies
      over time will form one component of the analyses to be conducted. Similarly, the pattern of
      EQ-VAS scores across patient groups and follow-ups will be analysed. Similar comparisons of
      EQ-5D index within and across patient groups, based on current Swedish value sets and patient
      VAS value sets to be elicited from the dataset, will be performed.
    
  