
    
      Screening:

      Before you start the study, the research nurse will check your medical record to see if you
      are eligible to take part in this study. Information will be recorded about your demographics
      (such as age, marital status, ethnicity, education level, and gender), medical history (such
      as the type of cancer and level of pain), and prescriptions (such as the name of any opioid
      drugs, doses, and schedule).

      Interview Process:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be interviewed by the
      study staff before a regular visit with your doctor. You will be asked some questions about
      your use of pain drugs and other knowledge and/or attitudes that you may have about them. You
      may also be asked for general information (such as your age, marital status, or educational
      level) if it was not available in your chart and medical record.

      Questionnaires:

      After the interview, you will complete 5 short questionnaires about your use of pain drugs,
      your attitudes about the pain drugs and their use, and concerns that you may have about your
      use of these pain drugs.

      It will take about 5-10 minutes for the interview and another 10-15 minutes to complete all
      the questionnaires.

      Your interview and questionnaire responses will not be shared with your regular doctor unless
      the study staff feels that you maybe be at harm. If you feel you need a doctor's opinion
      about anything that is asked in the interview and/or questionnaires, please contact your
      doctor.

      Confidentiality:

      Your interview and questionnaire responses will only be used for this research study and will
      not be shared with your family members.

      Length of Study:

      After completing the interview and questionnaires, your participation in this study will be
      over.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 200 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  