
    
      Driving a motor vehicle has become an everyday necessity in modern Canadian culture. The
      privilege of maintaining a valid driver's license promotes an independent lifestyle (Voelker,
      1999). Since driving is a demanding task that requires a high level of mental and physical
      skills, it is critical that those who obtain a valid driver's license are medically fit to
      operate a motor vehicle. Adverse health conditions make driving difficult based on the high
      cognitive and physical demand (Man-Son-Hing, 2007, Marshall, 2008). The loss of driving
      privileges due to chronic health conditions can have a negative effect on an individual's
      quality of life. These individuals require greater community support and suffer from low
      self-esteem (Fonda, 2001, Ragland, 2004, Ansley et al., 2004). As much as it is desirable to
      promote independence, the safety implications of driving require careful consideration.

      In Canada, persons over the age of 65 represent the fastest growing segment of the
      population. This age group is predicted to make up 24 % of the total population by the year
      2030 (CMA Journal, 1994, Stats Can, 2005). As a result, the number of older persons holding a
      driver's license has increased in both percentage and absolute terms (Ont Road Safety, 2004,
      Transport Can, 2001, Ragland, 2004, Ansley et al., 2004). Therefore, it is not surprising
      that those over 70 years of age have the highest crash rates per mile driven (Brorsson, 1989,
      Stutts & Wilkins, 2003, Gresset & Meyer, 1994, Cotrell & Wild, 1999, Rizzo et al., 2001,
      Meddinger-Rapport, 2002, Ansley et al., 2004).

      Candrive is an interdisciplinary health research program dedicated to improving the safety of
      older drivers in Canada. The members of Candrive believe that establishing a comprehensive
      approach to aging driver issues will reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with motor
      vehicle crashes and allow older Canadian drivers to maintain their independence and healthy
      lifestyles.

      A major focus of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) Team Grant is to conduct
      the Common Cohort study, a study in which 1000 drivers age 70 or older will be recruited and
      followed for 5 years. The Common Cohort study involves 7 sites (Victoria, Winnipeg, Thunder
      Bay, Hamilton, Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal) in 4 provinces. Participants in the Common
      Cohort study will undergo comprehensive annual assessments as well as having their driving
      patterns monitored for 5 years. One of the major objectives of the Common Cohort study will
      be the development of a valid, easy-to-use in-office screening tool that will help clinicians
      identify older drivers who may need further assessment of their driving ability.

      The vision of Candrive is to use a national interdisciplinary research approach to improve
      the safety and health-related quality-of-life of older drivers. Collaboration with key
      stakeholders throughout the process ensures that research products will translate into public
      policy and clinical practice.
    
  