
    
      Assessment of Guided Bone Regeneration in Atrophic Anterior Maxilla using native Collagen vs
      Titanium Reinforced Polytetraflouroethelene Membranes using an organic bovine Bone
      mineral.Reconstructive surgery is necessary before implant placement to regenerate bone
      defects caused by atrophy, dental trauma, extractions or periodontal disease . Success rate
      of implants is related to the correct position and angulation of implants in residual crest,
      so that height and thickness of bone augmentation can allow predictable results ,With this in
      mind, it is important to establish sound clinical concepts with clearly defined parameters
      that lead to successful esthetics in the anterior maxilla, with long-term stability of the
      peri-implant tissues.

      The most popular surgical procedures to obtain bone augmentation are: bone grafts, guided
      bone regeneration, maxillary sinus floor elevation, and bone osteogenesis distraction.

      Guided bone regeneration (GBR) is a surgical technique that uses barrier membranes to promote
      osteoblast cells proliferation and exclude other cells such as epithelium and connective
      tissue cells. GBR is often combined with bone grafting procedures.

      Bone grafts are integrated into native bone with three different processes: osteogenesis,
      osteoinduction and osteoconduction; Osteogenesis is the formation of new bone from
      osteocompetent cells and is the only process where the graft itself can induce Bone
      augmentation, Osteoinduction induces Bone Augmentation from the differentiation and
      stimulation of mesenchymal cells by the bone-inductive proteins, Osteoconduction is the
      formation of Bone Augmentation along a scaffold from osteocompetent cells of the recipient
      site .

      There are 2 Types of membranes:

      III. Non Resorbable membrane IV. Resorbable membrane

      Non-resorbable membranes:

      With the presentation of the ﬁrst successful GBR procedures and the subsequent wide and
      successful application of ePTFE membranes, this material became a standard for bone
      regeneration. Expanded PTFE is characterized as a polymer with high stability in biological
      systems. It resists breakdown by host tissues and by microbes and does not elicit immunologic
      reactions. A frequent complication with membrane application in conjunction with implants is
      membrane exposure and infection Wound dehiscence and membrane exposure have been reported to
      impair the amount of bone regenerated in a number of experimental animal and clinical
      investigations

      Bioresorbable membranes:

      The requirement of second surgical procedure for the removal of Non Resorbable barrier
      membrane(NRBM) led to the introduction of bioresorbable barrier membranes (RBM). The
      advantages of RBM compared to NRBM were as follows:

        1. Improved soft tissue healing,

        2. Incorporation of the membranes by the host tissues (depending on material properties),

        3. Quick resorption in case of exposure, eliminating bacterial contamination. Today, a lot
           of RBM are commercially available including collagen, freeze-dried fascia lata,
           freeze-dried dura mater allografts, polyglactin-acid, polylactic acid, polyglycolic
           acid, polyorthoester, polyurethane, polyhydroxybutyrate, etc.
    
  