
    
      Purpose: To evaluate a never before studied modifiable factor affecting renal function after
      partial nephrectomy: the suture closure of the renal cortex after tumor removal
      (renorrhaphy).

      Background:

      There is increasing interest in preserving renal function when removing renal tumors. This is
      partly due to studies that link chronic kidney disease with cardiovascular events and overall
      survival. There is an approximate loss of 10% overall renal function after partial
      nephrectomy along with a loss of 15% of the volume in the operated kidney. Studies point to 3
      factors leading to this loss in renal function after partial nephrectomy: 1) Poor
      preoperative renal function, 2) Ischemia time (clamping the renal blood vessels to decrease
      bleeding during surgery, and 3) Loss in renal volume from the surgery.

      The only factor that is considered modifiable is ischemia time, especially when over
      20-25-minutes in duration. Modern techniques now aid in keeping the ischemia time below the
      25-minute cutoff. Leading experts from institutions such as the Cleveland Clinic, The
      University of Southern California, and The Mayo Clinic have concluded that the most important
      factor in preserving renal function, renal volume loss, is not modifiable.

      Specific Aims: Our question is: if we are removing non-functional tissue (tumor) then why is
      there a loss in renal volume (15%) and function (10%)? We hypothesize that by omitting one
      particular step during surgery, sewing closed the defect caused by tumor removal, we will be
      able to improve renal volume loss and function (RENORRHAPHY CLIP
      http://youtu.be/NXOtUHdigj4). Indiana University is in a unique position to study this
      hypothesis as two of our surgeons have routinely omitted closing the defect left after tumor
      removal (NO RENORRHAPHY CLIP http://youtu.be/ZisMjrm85s8).

      In a recently accepted abstract, we discovered that omitting the cortical closure (n=28)
      resulted in a 0.8% loss in glomerular filtration rate while using the closure resulted in a
      7.3% loss (p=0.03). Following this discovery a 3D modeling project was performed to isolate
      the volume loss in operated kidneys using pre- and postoperative CT scans (not yet
      published). In this study, we discovered a 15% volume loss with cortical closure (n=38)
      compared to only a 5% loss without closure (n=20, p < 0.001).

      Bias and confounders cannot completely be removed from our retrospective data making it hard
      to believe that others will consider our hypothesis without a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT). We propose a RCT for robotic partial nephrectomy (20 stitch closure vs. 20 no stitch
      closure) with the primary outcome being volume change in the affected kidney.
    
  