
    
      Langerhans cells are antigen-presenting cells of monocyte-macrophage lineage present in
      various epithelium like airways. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), also called
      histiocytosis X or pulmonary eosinophilic granulomatosis, are characterized by proliferation
      and infiltration of Langerhans cells in the affected organs, including skin, lung, bones,
      pituitary gland, liver, lymph nodes and thyroid gland.

      Several clinical presentations have been described. In the pediatric population, clonal
      neoplastic processes are responsible for acute disseminated forms (Letterer-Siwe syndrome) or
      multifocal forms (Syndrome Hand-Schuller-Christian),and both have an unfavorable prognosis.

      In adults, LCH may affect one or several organs in a multisystemic disease. The pulmonary
      form is usually sporadic and occurs almost exclusively in smokers, with smoking history of at
      least 20 pack-years. It is believed that, unlike systemic forms, exposure to tobacco antigens
      generates a polyclonal response with recruitment and accumulation of Langerhans cells
      throughout the interstitium of small airways.

      LCH is a rare condition. The prevalence of 3.4% found in a series of 502 surgical lung
      biopsies may be underestimated, because many patients may improve spontaneously or may be
      asymptomatic and diagnosis is defined based on radiological findings. The main clinical
      features are cough, dyspnea and respiratory failure. The mean age of diagnosis is between 20
      and 40 years. Men and women are equally affected, which probably reflects the characteristics
      of smoking habits nowadays.

      In the study of Vassallo and colleagues, median survival was 12.5 years between diagnosis and
      death in patients with LCH, which is lower than that described in general population. Among
      the predictors of poor prognosis In this study the predictors of worse prognosis include an
      obstructive pattern, air trapping and reduction in carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO)
      in pulmonary function tests.

      The diagnosis of pulmonary LCH may be established by the combination of compatible clinical
      and radiological findings in smoking patients. In high-resolution computed tomography, the
      typical pattern is the coexistence of cysts and nodules, predominantly in the upper and
      middle lobes, and tends to spare the basal portions of the lungs. Moreover, interstitial
      infiltrates, reticular densities and architectural distortion degrees may be found. Computed
      tomography, such as in others cystic lung diseases, is useful in monitoring the disease
      progression and to assess treatment response.

      In some cases, histopathological examination may be necessary, preferably by surgical biopsy,
      but transbronchial or transthoracic biopsy may be sufficient in selected patients.

      In pathology, LCH presents with focal changes, separated by apparently normal lung
      parenchyma, and diffuse distribution with bronchiolar predominance and the presence of
      Langerhans cells organized into loose granulomas and lymphocytic infiltrate.

      Lesions of apparently different ages can be found: Initially, eccentric infiltration of the
      walls of respiratory bronchioles is found, which promotes gradual destruction. Inflammatory
      cells and Langerhans cells are also present. In advanced disease, lesions are replaced by
      stellar fibrotic scars bordering cystic spaces of different sizes.

      In electron microscopy, Birbeck granules may be identified, which are more numerous in cells
      associated with the disease than in normal Langerhans cells. The immunohistochemical staining
      shows membrane antigens on the cell surface of Langerhans cells, such as S100 and CD1a - the
      latter is more specific - and confirms the diagnosis.

      Up to 15% of pulmonary function tests may be normal in patients with LCH. The earliest
      finding is reduced DLCO. The most frequent changes are airflow obstruction and air trapping.
      Restriction can be found in more advanced cases. In 102 patients with LCH evaluated by
      Vassallo and colleagues, mean DLCO was 64% of predicted, and restrictive and obstructive
      disorders were found in, respectively, 27.2% and 45.7% of all patients.

      Smoking cessation is mandatory in the treatment of patients with pulmonary LCH, and this
      isolated therapy determine partial or complete resolution or stabilization of lesions in the
      majority of patients. In some patients, corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents, such as
      cladribine and etoposide, may be necessary. However, there is lack of robust evidence about
      the benefit of these medications. Lung transplantation should be considered in advanced
      cases.

      Extrapulmonary involvement in LCH occurs in approximately 15% of adults and can affect bones,
      skin or pituitary, which may cause diabetes insipidus. Pneumothorax is one of the most common
      complications of pulmonary LCH, which is found in 4-17% of patients. Recurrence of
      pneumothoraxcan be high, especially if conservative treatment is performed.

      Pulmonary vascular involvement associated with LCH has been increasingly discussed and
      described in the literature. Evidence suggests that its contribution to the pathophysiology
      is more significant than previously believed. Dauriat and colleagues found the presence of
      pulmonary hypertension (PH) in 92% of LCH patients evaluated for lung transplantation.

      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) consists in the involvement of pulmonary vasculature, in which
      mean pulmonary artery pressure (Mpap), measured by right heart catheterization at rest, is
      greater than or equal to 25 mmHg. This criteria may be applied if pulmonary capillary
      pressure at the end of expiration is less than 15 mmHg. In the second International Symposium
      on Pulmonary Hypertension, which occurred in Evian (France) in 1998, PH was classified
      according to pathophysiological basis and divided into five groups: 1 - pulmonary arterial
      hypertension; 2 - related to left heart disease; 3 - secondary to chronic lung disease or
      hypoxemia; 4 - chronic pulmonary thromboembolism and 5 - Miscellaneous. This classification
      had several changes since 1998 until the Fifth Symposium, which occured in 2013 in Nice
      (France).

      LCH is currently included in group 5 of PH, which contain multifactorial etiologies of
      pulmonary hypertension or those with cause not yet fully elucidated.

      However, since LCH presents parenchymal abnormalities, PH in this disease may be secondary to
      hypoxemia and thus belongs to group 3, in which it is believed that remodeling of the
      parenchyma and, as a result, hypoxemia determine reduction in the cross-sectional area of the
      vessels, which promotes increase in pulmonary vascular resistance. This mechanism explains
      why the vast majority of patients with COPD GOLD IV present with mPAP above 20 mmHg, despite
      the fact that the progression of PH in these cases is slow, with rates of less than 1 mmHg
      increase per year. In less than 5% of these patients, mPAP exceeds 40 mmHg, a value from
      which increases the contribution of the cardiovascular component to exercise limitation. In
      group 3, the presence of HP is a strong predictor of mortality, which is directly
      proportional to mPAP. In idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), survival is inversely
      proportional to the values of forced vital capacity.

      Vascular changes in distant areas of parenchymal abnormalities typical of LCH suggest that
      there are other mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of the disease, which still need
      to be elucidated. It is believed that the production of inflammatory cytokines and growth
      factors by activated granulomas cause pulmonary vascular remodeling. Moreover, granulomas can
      directly infiltrate arteries promoting luminal obstruction, fibrosis and hypertrophy of the
      intima and media. Fartoukh and colleagues retrospectively evaluated 12 lung biopsies of
      patients with LCH and found arterial and venular changes, respectively, in 60% and 75%.
      Veno-occlusive-like disease has been seen in one third of these patients.

      In patients with symptoms and limitation to exercise which is not fully explained by
      parenchymal abnormalities, which means disproportionately low DLCO compared with lung
      volumes, the predominant component is pulmonary arterial hypertension, group 1, in which
      benefits of specific therapy are proven. Furthermore, levels of pulmonary artery pressure
      found in patients with HCL are similar of those found in patients of group 1. mPAP levels are
      higher in patients with LCH compared with those found in patients with COPD or IPF, who have
      higher impairment in lung volumes.

      Some reports or case series demonstrate symptomatic improvement, and also in survival, in
      exercise capacity and in parameters of right heart catheterization after using single or
      combined use of pulmonary vasodilators such as phosphodiesterase inhibitors (tadalafil),
      endothelin receptor antagonists (bosentan) or analogues of prostacyclin (epoprostenol) in
      patients with LCH.

      Thus, it very important to establish a correct diagnosis and also classification of pulmonary
      hypertension in order to define appropriate treatment, which may result in an increase in
      survival and an improvement in quality of life after using specific therapy for patients
      classified in group 1. On the other hand, side effects and expenses with these medications
      may be prevented in patients with PH included in group 3, and the main focus should be
      correction of hypoxemia, and treatment of parenchymal disease. Echocardiography is a safe and
      cost-effective method of screening for evaluation of PH in these patients.

      Data about prevalence of PH in patients with LCH is scarce and previous studies only included
      patients with advanced disease or who are undergoing evaluation for transplantation. A study
      that evaluates patients with disease with different severities will certainly contribute to
      the understanding the influence of vascular and parenchymal components in each patient with
      LCH.
    
  