
    
      This is a phase II, single-arm open-label feasibility trial testing the feasibility of MST
      for dPD. The trial will occur over 18 months at one academic center in Canada (UBC). The
      enrollment goal is 20 patients with Parkinson's disease and comorbid moderate/severe
      depression. Research subjects will provide informed consent before enrollment and
      participation in any research procedures.The study design follows international CONSORT
      guidelines for the reporting of results in feasibility trials.

      Treatment will be administered two days per week (Tuesday/Thursday). This frequency has been
      chosen as research indicates that depression outcomes at the end of a course of ECT are
      similar between twice and thrice a week session, but twice a week sessions are associated
      with fewer cognitive side effects. Depression symptoms will be assessed with the Inventory
      for Depressive Symptoms. Response and remission will follow standard definition of decrease
      ≥50% (response) and IDS < 10 (remission). Patients will receive a maximum of 16 treatments.
      This maximum treatment number was chosen as the number of ECT treatments for an index course
      in depression is 12, but available data on MST indicates that MST may require more treatment
      sessions to achieve remission.

      Aim 1. To evaluate the feasibility of using MST to treat dPD in preparation for a future
      definite superiority trial comparing active MST vs. sham MST for depression in Parkinson's
      disease.

      Hypothesis 1a: Enrollment will be ≥70% of the planned target (i.e. 14 out of 20
      participants).

      Hypothesis 1b: Retention rate of randomized participants will be ≥70%.

      Aim 2. To characterize the side effect profile of MST in dPD, with particular emphasis on
      cardiovascular and cognitive side effects.

      Hypothesis 2a: Drop out rates due to side effects during treatment will be ≤10%

      Aim 3: To obtain mean, SD, and 95% confidence intervals of potential outcome variables for
      the future RCT to estimate the sample size of the future RCT.

      Aim 4: To explore the use of EEG as a biomarker of treatment response and correlate of
      response to MST
    
  