
    
      Main Objective:

      Develop and evaluate a telemedicine course for resident doctors through Facebook and compare
      it with one through Moodle.

      Study Design:

      A randomized, triple-blind, parallel block controlled trial will be conducted that tests the
      effectiveness of an educational intervention through Facebook compared to another control
      intervention using Moodle. Intervention training is a telemedicine course focused on
      teleconsultation provided through Facebook. Control training is the same educational content
      but through Moodle. The level of telemedicine knowledge of the participants before and after
      the intervention will be evaluated. In addition, at the end of the intervention the level of
      satisfaction of the participants will be evaluated.

      Population:

      Resident doctors of the Faculty of Medicine of the Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia.

      Sample:

      In a previous study, the response within each group of subjects was normally distributed with
      a standard deviation of 2.62. If the true difference in the experimental and control means is
      3, the investigators will have to study 13 experimental subjects and 13 control subjects to
      be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the experimental and
      control groups are equal with the probability (power) 0.8. The probability of Type I error
      associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. Then the investigators consider
      the 30% follow-up loss rate, according to previous reports, our final sample size being 38
      people, therefore our intervention and control group will be made up of 19 people each. This
      is the minimum sample size needed; however, a larger number improves the power of the study.

      Group assignment:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention or control training by simple
      random assignment (random numbers generated by computer). Once the assigned group of each
      participant has been determined, they will be given access to the course content on their
      respective platforms.

      Ethical considerations:

      This project will be guided by the principles of scientific integrity. The project was
      submitted to the Institutional Committee of Research Ethics of the Universidad Peruana
      Cayetano Heredia for evaluation and approval. The content of the classes (educational videos)
      will be based on specialized scientific literature and current technical standards. In the
      end of the course, participants will have received telemedicine training as part of their
      curriculum and they will increase their professional skills. They will not be offered any
      additional incentive. When enrolling in the course, participants will be informed of the
      research objectives and procedures. Resident doctors will accept the use of their data
      generated by the course for the purpose of this study voluntarily
    
  