
    
      Insomnia is a significant public health problem for older adults with substantial medical,
      psychological and financial ramifications. With as many as 20-30% of older adults (age ≥55)
      meeting diagnostic criteria for chronic insomnia, finding accessible, effective, and low-cost
      treatments is critical. Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) is a
      non-pharmacological intervention that has been shown to be efficacious when tailored for
      older adults. Regrettably, access to this treatment is significantly limited by a lack of
      trained clinicians and expense. To overcome barriers to face-to-face care, use of the
      Internet has emerged as a feasible and effective method to provide health information and
      treatment. Unfortunately, the health care field has been reluctant to use
      technology-delivered solutions with older patients out of a concern that older adults either
      do not have access to or do not want to use technology. However, older adults in the U.S. are
      the largest growing group of Internet users, and they generally have a desire to learn new
      technologies. When older adults do use technology-based programs for health promotion, they
      rate these programs favorably. Internet-delivered CBT-I for older adults has a high
      likelihood of major public health impact by allowing widespread access to a needed
      intervention, increasing the convenience of obtaining care, and decreasing treatment costs
      among an age group with high rates of insomnia known to exacerbate other concerns (health,
      mood, cognition).

      The SHUTi Program: SHUTi is a self-guided (i.e., automated), interactive, and tailored
      web-based program modeled on the primary tenants of face-to-face CBT-I (sleep restriction,
      stimulus control, cognitive restructuring, sleep hygiene, relapse prevention). Intervention
      content is metered out over time through 6 "Cores." Users obtain access to a new Core based
      on a time and event-based schedule (e.g., 7 days after completion of previous Core). This
      schedule is consistent with the recommendation from a task force commissioned by the Academy
      of Sleep Medicine, which deemed that an average of 6 - 8 sessions constitutes "adequate
      treatment exposure". The SHUTi program relies on user-entered online Sleep Diaries to track
      progress and to tailor treatment recommendations (i.e., assign a "sleep restriction" window).
      Each Core acts as an online analog for the weekly sessions typically used when delivering
      CBT-I in a face-to-face format, following the same general structure: 1) Core objectives
      (what will be learned and why this information is important), 2) review of previous week's
      homework and sleep diary data, 3) new intervention material, 4) assignment of homework
      (treatment strategies for the coming week), and 5) a summary of the Core's main points.
      Intervention content is enhanced through a variety of interactive features, including
      personalized goal-setting, graphical feedback based on inputted symptoms, animations /
      illustrations to enhance comprehension, quizzes to test user knowledge, patient vignettes,
      and video-based expert explanation. Automated emails are also sent to encourage program
      adherence.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned for a period of 9 weeks to one of three
      conditions: (1) the online CBT-i intervention optimized for older adults (SHUTi), (2) the
      online CBT-i intervention optimized for older adults (SHUTi) with additional adherence and
      technical support provided (stepped care), or (3) the patient education website. All
      participants will complete questionnaires and two weeks of daily sleep diaries about their
      symptoms at four time points - at the beginning of the study (baseline), immediately after
      completing the 9 week intervention (post), and at 6 and 12 months later.
    
  