
    
      1. Aims:

           To assess the feasibility of undertaking a RCT of HSNIG in adults with URTI focusing on
           recruitment rate, willingness to be randomised, acceptability, compliance and likely
           effect size of the intervention.

           1.1. Research questions:

             1. What is the likely rate of recruitment and loss to follow-up?

             2. Are the study procedures acceptable to participants?

             3. Is there a likely reduction in duration of symptoms and viral shedding?

             4. What effect size is estimated for the definitive trial in relation to duration of
                symptoms and improvement in quality-of-life?

        2. Subjects:

           2.1 Sample size: This is a pilot trial so no formal sample size calculations are
           indicated. However, with a sample size of 27 per group the investigators would be able
           to express the proportion of those who return the symptom score diary and samples within
           that group to within ±19% based on a two-sided 95% confidence interval around an
           expected proportion of 0.5. With the two groups combined [i.e. a sample size of 54] the
           investigators would be able to express a proportion to within ±13%. To allow for 10%
           dropouts the sample size has been increased to 30 per group.

           2.2 Recruitment: The investigators propose to enrol a total of 60 participants (30/arm)
           for this pilot. The investigators plan to recruit by advertising the study in the
           community by the following routes.

             -  Sending flyers to parents through schools run by Edinburgh and Midlothian councils.

             -  Study website (www.elvisstudy.com), National Health Service (NHS) Lothian,
                University of Edinburgh websites.

             -  Local media coverage by way of interviews.

             -  Flyers in workplaces with large numbers of staff (e.g. banks, supermarkets,
                councils).

             -  Posters in pharmacies and General practitioner (GP) surgeries.

           Interested individuals will be asked to contact the trial nurse at the clinical research
           facility (CRF) situated at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh (RIE) and Western General
           Hospital within 48 hours of symptom onset. The trial nurse will consent, randomise, and
           recruit volunteers. Participants will be advised to go to their GP as per norm if they
           become unwell and that they can withdraw from the study if they so wish for other
           reasons. At the end of their participation in the study, they will be given £30 as
           recompense for any inconvenience.

        3. Research Methods:

           3.1 Randomisation: Participants are randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive intervention or
           control, this has been done using an online randomisation minimised by sex (M/F) and
           smoking status (current/not a current smoker) and allocated to each treatment arm with a
           probability 0.9 to ensure a random allocation.

           3.2 Instructions to participants: 3.2.1 Both arms: Participants are taught to complete
           (online or paper) a modified short Wisconsin upper respiratory symptom survey
           (WURSS-21-Scot) and the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. Baseline symptom scores are recorded by
           the participant.

           Participants are taught to collect nasal swabs. A baseline swab is collected under
           observation and sent to the virology laboratory at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh
           (RIE). Swabs, transport medium and Royal Mail Safebox will be provided to the
           participant to collect a nasal swab first thing in the morning (before HSNIG for the
           intervention arm) for four consecutive days and return to the laboratory.

           3.2.2 Intervention arm: The intervention group will be shown a video on preparing the
           hypertonic sea-salt solution and how to perform HSNIG. They will be asked to perform the
           procedure under supervision. The trial nurse will help them identify the highest
           concentration of saline they are comfortable with. Participants are advised to perform
           the intervention as frequently as required (expected frequency around 6 times/day for
           the first two days, reducing in frequency from day 3 as symptoms improve). A package
           containing instructions, digital-measuring spoon, sea-salt, and equipment for irrigation
           and flask (if they wish to prepare solution for multiple uses during the day) will then
           be handed over to the participant. Participants in the intervention arm will also
           document compliance and side effects daily

           3.2.3 Control arm: They are advised to manage the URTI as they normally do.

           3.3 Data collection: 3.3.1 "WURSS-21-Scot" diary and EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire: All
           participants will complete the "WURSS-21-Scot" diary at a set time during the day.
           Participants will answer the question "how unwell do you feel today". If they score >0,
           then symptoms and functional ability are graded 0-7. They then answer the global change
           question. Total score/day is calculated by summing the scores of all 10 symptoms daily.
           All participants will also answer the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.

           The following information is collected at recruitment: where they heard about the study,
           influenza vaccination history, number of family members and whether sufficient
           information was provided.

           The intervention arm will also answer the following questions daily: how many times they
           performed HSNIG, if they performed one or both parts of HSNIG and if there were any side
           effects.

           Both arms will answer if they had to take any medications for the URTI and whether they
           needed to contact the GP for further management of their URTI.

           Diaries are maintained until participant records "not unwell" on two consecutive days or
           for a maximum of 14 days or until follow up is terminated because the individual needs
           further treatment.

           3.3.2 Virology: Swabs will be sent to the Department of Virology, RIE for testing.
           Baseline samples will be tested to identify individuals in whom an aetiology can be
           proven. If a viral aetiology is identified, all samples (day 0 - day 4) will be tested
           in parallel to identify change in viral shedding.

           3.3.3 Data collection procedures: The trial nurse will follow up participants who do not
           complete the diary or return samples (after 48 hours of expected return). Information on
           number of family members with URTI will be collected at the end of the study. Feedback
           will be collected from participants after the follow-up period. These will address
           acceptability, health service use, costs to the patient and suggestions for improving
           the study procedures for the main trial.

        4. Data Analysis:

      The number of participants returning swabs, completing diaries and following treatment as per
      protocol will be presented as percentages (with 95% confidence intervals). The investigators
      will present recruitment as an overall rate, but also graphically as there is likely to be
      seasonal variation. Using results from the swabs the investigators will determine when a
      person stops viral shedding and, using chi-square and chi-square test for trend, determine if
      there is a relationship between groups. Using two-sample t-tests or non-parametric equivalent
      as appropriate the investigators will determine if there is any evidence of a difference in
      the duration of symptoms and symptom severity [as defined by the maximum WURSS-21-Scot score
      over treatment period]. Feedback will be analysed using a conventional content analysis
      approach, with emerging findings discussed by the research team to aid interpretation of
      findings.
    
  