
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the overall, disease-free, and colostomy-free survival rates in patients with
           stage I rectal cancer treated with local excision with or without adjuvant chemotherapy
           and radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the local, regional, and distant recurrence rates in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Determine whether loco-regional recurrences after local excision can be successfully
           salvaged with radical surgery with or without adjuvant therapy for permanent cure in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether the analysis of certain histological and molecular markers can help
           determine prognosis in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the anorectal, urinary, and sexual function effects in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Determine the non-functional treatment morbidity and mortality exclusive of anorectal,
           urinary, and sexual function effects in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients with pathology exclusions undergoing local
           excision.

        -  Determine the efficacy of the current standard in detecting recurrence during follow-up,
           including office visits, blood tests, and proctoscopy in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      All patients undergo full thickness disc excision. Patients with T3 disease or positive
      surgical margins after surgery are removed from study. Patients with T1 disease and negative
      surgical margins after surgery are observed. Patients with T2 disease and negative surgical
      margins after surgery receive adjuvant therapy.

      Beginning 42 days after surgery, T2 patients receive leucovorin calcium (CF) IV over 2 hours
      with fluorouracil (5-FU) IV bolus 1 hour into the infusion once weekly for 6 weeks. Beginning
      2 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy, patients receive chemoradiotherapy comprising
      radiotherapy once daily 5 times a week for 5 weeks and 5-FU IV continuously while receiving
      radiotherapy. Beginning 2 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients again
      receive CF IV over 2 hours with 5-FU IV bolus 1 hour into the infusion once weekly for 6
      weeks. Chemotherapy repeats after 2 weeks rest for a total of 2 courses.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  