
    
      Aim: The primary objective is to assess the safety of Revlimid in combination with Ancestim
      in patients with symptomatic myelodysplasia. The secondary objectives are: Duration of
      response and assessment of changes in gene expression profile of bone marrow samples from
      patients undergoing such treatment.

      Potential Significance: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are malignant hematopoietic stem cell
      disorders. Prognosis can be estimated by use of the International Prognostic Scoring System
      (IPSS) which divides patients into low, intermediate-1, intermediate-2, and high-risk groups
      with corresponding median survival times of 5.7 years, 3.5 years, 1.2 years, and 0.4 years,
      respectively. There is currently no standard treatment for MDS and management is often purely
      symptomatic with transfusion of blood products and antibiotic treatment of infections.

      A recent phase II study however has shown significant response rates with Revlimid as a
      single agent in patients with MDS. The total response rate was 56%. The effects of Revlimid
      and SCF on hematopoietic progenitors cells were examined in vitro. RhSCF and Revlimid were
      shown to be synergistic in stimulating the proliferation of hematopoietic progenitor cells
      and their precursors in vitro, thereby forming the rationale for this study.

      Research Plan: This is a single-centre, open label, single-arm, non-comparative study, in
      which 25 patients will be enrolled. The study will include patients who meet all the
      inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria, as per the respective protocol section.

      The patients will be enrolled sequentially to receive 2 different dose levels of Ancestim
      with a fixed dose of Revlimid. This will determine the feasibility and tolerability of the
      combination of Revlimid and Ancestim. Patients will start with an 8 week course of single
      agent Revlimid as 10mg daily oral treatment day 1-21 in a 28 day cycle. If patients do not
      achieve a complete remission on single agent Revlimid they will start on Ancestim s.c.
      injections. Two dose levels of Ancestim (10 and 20 mcg/kg s.c. daily for 7 days) will be
      evaluated.

      Safety: Safety will be assessed by the reporting of adverse events (starting with the first
      study-related procedure, during treatment, and for a period of 60 days following
      discontinuation of treatment). The intensity of the adverse events will be assessed using
      National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria. All adverse events will be recorded on
      the case report forms (CRFs). Furthermore, assessments of physical (including neurological /
      peripheral neurological) examinations, vital signs measurements, and haematology and clinical
      chemistry tests will be used to monitor safety. Clinically relevant changes in laboratory
      safety tests, vital signs, and physical examinations will be recorded as adverse events. The
      adverse event sections of the CRFs will be submitted to a representative of the sponsor at
      the end of each treatment cycle. Serious adverse events will be reported as they occur, on
      forms provided by the sponsor.

      Efficacy: Response to treatment will be assessed according to the guidelines of the
      international working group to standardize response criteria for myelodysplastic syndromes.
      This will be done on bone marrow biopsies (including cytogenetic analyses) and peripheral
      blood counts. An additional scientific investigation will examine gene-expression profiles of
      bone-marrow and blood samples at different time points and will try to correlate those with
      response to treatment. Concomitant in-vitro studies will assess surrogate markers of
      response.

      Statistical Methods: Adverse events, serious adverse events, transfusion requirements,
      response data and Karnofsky performance status data will be summarized.
    
  