
    
      Background Capillary leakage has been recognized to be associated with surgery and
      inflammation [Fleck 1985]. In liver transplantation considerable amounts of exogenous albumin
      is administered to support circulatory stability and a post operative plasma albumin
      concentration of 25 g/L to facilitate interpretation of immuno suppressive drug
      concentrations. However, the long term effects of exogenous albumin is not well characterized
      in the literature, and extravasation might promote edema formation and impair wound healing.
      In previous studies we have demonstrated the ability of the albumin mass balance method to
      identify leakage of albumin in major abdominal surgery [Norberg 2016].

      In a pilot study in patients undergoing liver transplantation (n=11) we found a net leakage
      of albumin from plasma of 37 ± 17 g at end of surgery and 48 ± 33 g at postoperative day 3.

      The primary aim of the new study is to find if this net leakage is still there at
      postoperative day 7. We are also looking into predictors of positive albumin shift from
      plasma including markers of inflammation and endothelial injury or dysfunction. Focus will
      also be put on the subgroup of children during and after liver transplantation. Finally a
      subgroup of patients in need of prolonged ICU stay after liver transplantation will be
      investigated to see the prolonged effects of our present routines, and these patients ability
      to synthetize albumin.

      All patients undergoing liver transplantation at Karolinska University Hospital are eligible.

      Recruitment will be made in advance as soon as patients are put on the transplant waiting
      list. In adults, at the day of surgery, blood samples will be taken repeatedly for estimation
      of plasma albumin. In all patients we will keep track of any gains or losses of albumin or
      hemoglobin in suction bottles, drains, exogenous blood products, exogenous albumin etc. This
      sampling will proceed during the study period that will end at hospital discharge or not
      later than post-operative day 21. Adult patients that are still in the ICU on postoperative
      day 3 will be subjected to a measurement of albumin synthesis rate by the flooding method
      [Ballmer 1993]. All subjects, even children, will have blood sampled for ELISAs of markers of
      inflammation and endothelial injury or dysfunction.

      Total study specific blood sampling will be limited to 100 mL in adults and 6 mL in children.
    
  