
    
      Aphasia after stroke is associated with high mortality, significant motor impairment, and
      severe limitations in social participation. During the past decade, therapies administered by
      stroke teams have made great strides to limit the motor impairments caused by stroke.
      Unfortunately, progress in aphasia rehabilitation has not experienced the same rapid
      advancement. This proposal is based on preliminary evidence from our recently completed pilot
      study which showed that navigated excitatory repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (nerTMS) targeted to residual activity in the affected hemisphere has a significant
      beneficial effect on post-stroke aphasia recovery.1 The main aim of this study is to conduct
      a double-blind, sham-controlled, dose-response nerTMS treatment trial in subjects with
      chronic aphasia. By conducting this comparative trial, we will provide clinical (qualitative
      and quantitative) and imaging evidence that nerTMS improves language function after stroke
      when compared to standard treatment (ST). The findings will have implications for patients
      with post-stroke aphasia in that once the study is completed and the results are available,
      rehabilitation specialists may be able to change their practice pattern by offering an
      additional tool to aid patients in recovering their language skills with improved
      participation in society and enhanced quality of life.

      To fill the gap in our therapeutic arsenal for aphasia, we propose a study with the following
      specific aims: (1) to determine the comparative efficacy and optimal dosing of nerTMS on
      aphasia recovery using a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled study design. Subjects
      (15/group) will be randomly assigned to 4 treatment groups: (a) 3 weeks of nerTMS, (b) 1 week
      of ST + 2 weeks of nerTMS, (c) 2 weeks of ST +1 week of nerTMS, or (d) 3 weeks of ST (control
      group). This design will allow systematic evaluation of the efficacy of nerTMS and will
      determine its most optimal dose for language recovery. Short- and long-term outcomes will be
      evaluated with aphasia testing (AT) and fMRI; (2) to use fMRI to assess changes in language
      lateralization in response to nerTMS. We will examine the relationship between the degree of
      pre-nerTMS language lateralization (fMRI) with the post-nerTMS language outcomes (AT) and
      determine whether fMRI language lateralization can predict AT performance following nerTMS
      targeted to the left middle cerebral artery (LMCA) stroke areas.
    
  