
    
      The specific aims of this study are to: develop and implement a model of care, Interagency
      Collaboration (ICollab) in which communication with Home Health Nurse (HHN) and Primary Care
      Provider (PCP) is maintained and clinical support is provided to HHN; evaluate whether
      ICollab is effective in reducing healthcare utilization of Children with medical complexity
      (CMC) and caregiver burden; and assess caregiver satisfaction in home health care, HHN
      retention, and collaboration with other healthcare providers.

      Methods: Investigators will develop and implement an intervention model (ICollab) that
      includes: (1) maintaining communication with HHN and PCP about clinical information about
      CMC, and (2) providing clinical support to HHN. Investigators will create an
      interdisciplinary intervention team in our children s hospital consisting of a pediatrician
      and a nurse. The intervention team will ensure communication with HHN and PCP by
      communicating clinical information (recommendations from clinic visits and emergency room
      (ER) visits, and discharge summary). The team will provide clinical support to HHN via
      collaborative meetings and availability as a resource for clinical problem-solving with HHN.
      Investigators will recruit 110 CMC discharged home on private-duty nursing services into this
      randomized trial. The intervention group (n=55) will receive the ICollab intervention for 6
      months post-discharge from the hospital, in addition to usual care. Children in the control
      group (n=55) will receive only usual care. Outcome measures will include healthcare
      utilization metrics (hospitalization rates, ER visit rates, and days to readmission),
      caregiver burden and caregiver satisfaction with home health care, HHN retention, and HHN
      collaboration with other healthcare providers. Investigators hypothesize that ICollab will
      reduce healthcare utilization and caregiver burden, and improve caregiver satisfaction with
      home health care, increase HHN retention, and increase HHN collaboration with other
      healthcare providers. Investigators will perform a systematic process evaluation of the
      implementation of the intervention and standardize the ICollab model.

      Implications: How healthcare delivery of CMC can be structured to avoid fragmentation
      especially surrounding transition across clinical settings is an understudied area. Our
      results will address this gap by providing a critically needed evidence-base for
      interventions to improve the quality of healthcare delivery for CMC
    
  