
    
      Study Groups and CNB Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 1, you will receive a CNB and general anesthesia during
           surgery.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 2, you will only receive general anesthesia during surgery.

      You will not know to which group you have been assigned. The CNB will be given to you while
      you are under general anesthesia. To receive a CNB, a special needle is inserted at the lower
      part of the back (near the tailbone). A type of local anesthesia is then injected into the
      sac surrounding the spinal cord that contains the nerves related to the penis.

      All participants will also receive general anesthesia as part of their standard care. You
      will also receive a separate consent form for the surgery that explains the procedure and its
      risks, including the risks for general anesthesia.

      After Surgery Data Collection:

      During the 24 hours after surgery, the study staff will ask you to rate your pain on a scale
      of 0-10. You will be asked to rate your pain about every 30 minutes while you are in the
      hospital, but you may be asked to rate your pain more often if needed. It should take less
      than 5 minutes each time to rate your pain. Depending on how you rate your pain, additional
      pain drugs may be given to you as part of your standard care.

      If you are discharged from the hospital on the same day as your surgery or if you are
      discharged before a member of the staff can ask you to rate your pain, the study staff will
      call you within 24 hours after you have been discharged from the hospital. This call should
      last about 5-10 minutes.

      The amount of pain drugs given to you before, during, and after surgery will also be
      recorded.

      About 3 days after your surgery, the study staff will call you to ask about your pain, the
      amount of pain drugs you have taken, and how satisfied you are with the type of anesthesia
      and pain control you have received. This call should last about 5-10 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after the phone call about 3 days after your
      surgery has been completed.
    
  