
    
      CMV retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with AIDS and is estimated
      to affect 35 to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV retinitis is a progressive
      disorder, the end result of which is total retinal destruction and blindness. As of September
      1996, drugs approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      treatment of CMV retinitis were ganciclovir (Cytovene), foscarnet (Foscavir), and cidofovir
      (Vistide). All systemically administered anti-CMV drugs are given in a similar fashion
      consisting of initial 2-week high-dose treatment (induction) to control the infection
      followed by long-term lower dose treatment (maintenance) to prevent relapse. Ganciclovir is
      available in both intravenous and oral formulations, foscarnet only in an intravenous
      formulation, and cidofovir is given by intermittent intravenous administration. A surgically
      implanted intraocular sustained-release ganciclovir device (Vitrasert) is also approved by
      the FDA for the treatment of CMV retinitis.

      Despite the use of continuous maintenance therapy, given enough time, all patients with CMV
      retinitis on systemically administered drugs relapse. Preliminary studies suggested that the
      anti-CMV monoclonal antibody, MSL-109, when administered in conjunction with ganciclovir,
      markedly prolonged the time to relapse. Therefore, a randomized controlled clinical trial
      evaluating MSL-109 as adjunct therapy was conducted.

      The MACRT was a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trial evaluating the
      efficacy and safety of MSL-109 as adjunct therapy for the treatment of CMV retinitis.
      Patients with CMV retinitis, both those newly diagnosed and those suffering a relapse with
      active retinitis, were eligible. Primary therapy (e.g., ganciclovir, foscarnet, etc.) was
      determined by the treating local physician. The patients enrolled in the trial were
      randomized to either MSL-109 or placebo, administered as a rapid intravenous infusion every 2
      weeks. Outcomes included survival, retinitis progression, change in amount of retinal area
      involved by CMV, loss of visual function (acuity and field), and morbidity.
    
  