
    
      Methods Patients All the procedures described in this study were approved by the local Ethics
      Committee (No. 375/2007), and informed consent was obtained from all patients or by proxy.
      The study was conducted prospectively between 2008 and 2011 in nine ICUs (three medical, six
      surgical; all together 72 beds) located in the General Hospital of Vienna/Medical University
      of Vienna according to the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, as revised in 1983.

      Procedures ICU patients were recruited as soon as they were suitable for early ICU
      rehabilitation (see inclusion criteria). After baseline measurements patients were randomly
      assigned to the early rehabilitation group. A computer-generated, permuted block
      randomization scheme was used considering sex, age, LOS at the ICU and diagnostic category to
      allocate patients to the early rehabilitation group or usual care group. Each assignment was
      operated through a web-based randomization system (https://www.meduniwien.ac.at/randomizer)
      by an investigator with no further involvement. All included patients received the same usual
      care physical therapy, as ordered by the primary care team, during their stay at the ICUs.
      Unresponsive patients underwent passive range of motion exercise for all limbs. Once patient
      interaction was achieved, no matter if the patient was mechanically ventilated, a progressive
      early rehabilitation program was initiated starting with active assisted or active range of
      motion exercises and breathing techniques. If these exercises were tolerated, treatment was
      advanced to bed mobility exercises, transferring to upright sitting and sitting balance
      activities. The early rehabilitation program progressed to participation in activities of
      daily living, sit-to-stand transferring, pre-gait exercise and finally up to walking.
      Progression of activities was dependent on patient tolerance and stability (systolic blood
      pressure between 65 and 200 mm HG, heart rate between 40 and 130 beats per minute,
      respiratory rate between 5 and 40 breaths per minute, and pulse oximetry above 88%). Patients
      were discharged to a general ward as soon as their medical condition was sufficiently stable,
      regardless of their functional status.

      Directly after transfer to a general ward the early rehabilitation group started with an
      early rehabilitation program, as ordered by an experienced physiatrist. The early
      rehabilitation program consisted of a coordinated exercise therapy and neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation, for two hours and five days a week until discharge from the acute
      hospital. Exercise therapy included strength training (three days/week, one to three sets of
      12-15 repetitions, 8-10 exercises involving the major muscle groups: thighs, calves,
      buttocks, trunk, shoulder girdle), aerobic exercise (large muscle activities five days/week,
      10-30 min/session, 50-80% maximal heart rate) and active breathing techniques. Exercise
      equipment being used: Resistance bands, free weights, weight machines, shoulder pulleys,
      stationary and bedside cycle ergometers, and wobble boards. Progression of activities was
      dependent on patient tolerance and stability. For neuromuscular electrical stimulation we
      applied Compex-P© devices producing biphasic symmetric impulses with a frequency of 50 Hz and
      a pulse width of 0.35 ms (stimulus regime: 8 s on/24 s off) five days/week, 30 min/session
      involving the anterior thighs and buttocks. The usual care group received single physical
      therapy sessions as ordered by the primary care team after transfer from the ICU to the
      general ward (exercise therapy, neuromuscular electrical stimulation).

      Patients were assessed by two medical students who were unaware of randomization assignment.
      The medical students were trained by an experienced senior physician to perform the
      functional measures and questionnaires. To maintain blinding, the patients and any visitors
      were instructed not to discuss previous interventions with the assessors or the primary care
      team. Furthermore, assessments occurred after 4 pm at a time distant from the therapy
      intervention.

      Statistics On the basis of ten pilot critical-illness-survivors who were admitted to
      intensive care, we noted a mean difference of seven days after transfer to a general ward
      between the early rehabilitation protocol and usual care revealing an effect size of 0.58
      (G*power 3.1.3) [39]. We calculated that a total sample size of 40 critical-illness-survivors
      per group (for a total of 80) would be needed to reach a power of 80% using a one sided
      Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney-Test at a significance level of 0.05. However the inclusion time period
      for new patients was limited to two and half years and only 53 patients met the inclusions
      criteria and were willing to participate.

      The primary endpoint, days in hospital after transfer from the ICU to a general ward, was
      analyzed by intention to treat and per protocol analyses. The intention to treat sample
      included all patients, who could be transferred to a general ward in the General Hospital
      Vienna (early rehabilitation group: n = 23, usual care group: n = 27), whereby all patients
      were randomized at the ICU before transfer. Three patients already randomized had to be
      excluded as they were either unpredictable directly transferred to another hospital from the
      ICU (early rehabilitation group: n = 1, usual care group: n = 1), or died (usual care group:
      n = 1) at the ICU.

      The per protocol sample included all patients who were randomized at the ICU, transferred to
      a general ward in the General Hospital Vienna, and for who the treatment was really started
      (early rehabilitation group: n = 19, usual care group: n = 27). For the per protocol
      analysis, in addition to the intention to treat sample, four patients had to be excluded in
      the early rehabilitation group because they did not receive additional treatment.

      The difference between treatment and usual care group was analyzed univariately by log rank
      tests, and Kaplan-Meier curves were plotted. A Cox proportional hazard model was applied to
      analyze the difference between groups, also accounting for age, sex, diagnostic category at
      admission, and days at the ICU. We took the time at the general ward for patients who were
      treated at the General Hospital Vienna until discharge, and the total time at the general
      ward (days at the General Hospital Vienna + other hospital) for patients who were treated at
      the General Hospital Vienna and then transferred to another hospital. For some patients, the
      event (discharge from the general ward) did not occur within the observation period, as they
      were either lost to follow up (that means they were transferred to another hospital with
      unknown LOS) or died. For these patients we took the time at the general ward of the General
      Hospital Vienna until transfer or until death, respectively, and censored them. In the
      statistical analyses, the censoring considered that these patients did not experience the
      event (discharge from the general ward) until the time of censoring. No assumption was made
      when it may have happened afterwards. The intention to treat sample included five censored
      patients (3 early rehabilitation group, 2 usual care group) and the per protocol sample three
      censored patients (1 early rehabilitation group, 2 usual care group).

      For analyses of the secondary endpoints ERBI, VAS, 3min, BDI, STAI, and MRCS, descriptive
      statistics (median, first quartile, third quartile, and range) were carried out at baseline
      and discharge from hospital as well as for the difference between discharge and baseline for
      each treatment group separately including data of all patients randomized in the study.

      To compare the hospital costs after transfer from the ICU to the general ward between early
      rehabilitation and usual care group, descriptive statistics were assessed for the intention
      to treat sample as well as for the per protocol sample. All analyses were calculated with the
      statistics program SAS 9.2 and R 3.0.1. For the primary analysis, a p-value < 0.05 was
      considered as statistically significant.
    
  