
    
      Introduction:

      Obesity is a risk factor for Diabetes, Ischemic heart disease, Stroke, and Hypertensive heart
      disease, which are the 6th, 1st, 2nd, and 10th leading causes of death according to the WHO.
      Bariatric or Metabolic Surgery is an Efficient and reasonably Safe method for the Treatment
      of Severe Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes (T2DM) and Metabolic Syndrome (MS).

      Existing knowledge:

      Metabolic procedures, e.g. Gastric bypass, are more effective in the treatment of T2DM than
      predominantly "restrictive" procedures, e.g. Gastric Banding. RYGB is one of the most
      prevalent procedures in the world and Europe. In the USA, RYGB is considered a "golden
      standard" in bariatric surgery. In the recent decade, a simpler variant of Gastric bypass,
      i.e. OLGB, has been proposed. Proponents of OLGB argue it has less complications and seems to
      have higher and more durable effect on weight reduction and T2DM improvement. Opponents of
      OLGB are concerned that chronic exposure of gastric or esophageal mucosa to bile, as seen in
      animal experiments and in patients operated for gastric cancer or peptic ulcer disease, pose
      a severe health risk. So far, this concerns has not been confirmed in OLGB patients. Only one
      Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) of these two interventions was performed, concluding OLGB
      to be simpler and safer with a similar Efficacy 2 years after the surgery.

      Need for a trial:

      A growing evidence supports the efficacy and safety of bariatric and metabolic surgery for
      the treatment of severe obesity and T2DM. Therefore, bariatric surgery is being more
      frequently performed. However, there is little evidence from randomized trials comparing
      different bariatric procedures - most comes from retrospective cohorts, which might suffer
      from bias. As a result, the choice of a bariatric procedure for a particular patient is based
      largely on the preference and experience of the particular surgeon, rather than evidence of
      best benefit for a particular patient. Although the efficacy and safety of RYGB is well
      established, newer variants or other less frequently employed bariatric procedures might
      offer more preferable Efficacy or Safety profile for some patients. Some evidence suggests
      OLGB might a promising procedure, which is "simpler and safer with similar efficacy" in
      comparison to RYGB, a technically more demanding procedure. This study contributes with
      rigorous evidence to further define the relative strengths and weaknesses of OLGB as compared
      to the "gold standard" RYGB.

      Objectives:

      The purpose of this study is to objectively compare the efficacy of RYGB and OLGB on weight,
      T2DM and other obesity-related comorbidities. Furthermore, this study aims to provide more
      insight into the safety of OLGB and RYGB by measuring the incidence of complications and
      abnormal findings on Gastroscopy.
    
  