
    
      Chronic widespread pain (CWP) is common in the general population and represents a major
      clinical challenge due to the complexity of the disorder. Apart from pain, CWP comprises a
      range of secondary features including non-restorative sleep, fatigue, cognitive dysfunction,
      emotionally distress and disability affecting daily life activities and health-related
      quality of life. CWP is strongly associated with incapacity for normal employment and poor
      social participation, and incurs high direct medical costs as well as significant indirect
      costs, e.g. sick-leave and disability compensation.

      Currently there are no official recommendations concerning the diagnosing and management of
      patients suffering from CWP in the European health care system. The complexity of the
      condition underlines the necessity of a comprehensive multi-dimensional assessment and a
      patient-focused multi-component intervention.

      The present study is a prospective, pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT), with blinded
      outcome assessors, aiming to evaluate the outcome of an interdisciplinary multi-component
      rehabilitation programme customized to patients with CWP and focusing on functional ability
      and adaptations in everyday life. 176 patients with CWP recruited from the department of
      rheumatology at Frederiksberg Hospital will be consecutively enrolled in the study over a
      1-year period. Participants will be randomized to a 2-weeks non-residential, group-based,
      multi-component treatment course conducted by an interdisciplinary team or 6-months waiting
      list for the same course.

      The instrumentation for intervention planning, as well as for outcome evaluation, will be
      based on an ICF measurement framework, as recommended by WHO and performance-based assessment
      of functional ability (AMPS) and self-reported, health-related quality of life (SF-36) will
      be applied as primary outcome measures.

      Overall, the study results is expected to contribute to the development of more
      cost-effective health care strategies aiming at prevention of mal-adaptive illness behaviour
      and progressive functional loss in patients suffering from CWP.
    
  