
    
      Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a vulvar dermatosis that changes the skin to white plaques
      (lichenification), less elasticity (sclerosis) and the tissue shows contractions with
      erosions and fissures. Gold standard for the therapy of LS is the topical application of
      ultrapotent corticosteroids, proper treatment reverses the underlying inflammation of LS,
      reduces symptoms as itching and burning and may lower the risk of getting vulvar cancer.
      While useful, steroid creams may have serious side effects that include thinning of the skin,
      fungal infections, and lowering the immune system. Treatment with the fractional
      microablative carbodioxide Laser is a minimal invasive procedure. In the literature only few
      published reliable data in laser therapy of vulvar skin diseases can be found, there is only
      one survey especially for the treatment of vulvar LS. However, published data show a
      potential that justifies the use of this method for the indication in treating LS.

      Aim of this study is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of the laser treatment in vulvar LS,
      mainly the reduction of existing symptoms. But there is little comparable data, so the
      necessary frequency of treatment, the dose of laser application, additional use of
      corticosteroid or the sustainability is not yet known

      Aim of this study is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of the laser treatment in vulvar LS,
      mainly the reduction of existing symptoms. As measured by visual analogue scale (VAS)
      symptoms as itching, burning, pain will be determined six weeks after the last laser
      treatment. Secondary endpoints will be sexual function measured with the female sexual
      function index (FSFI) and the vulvar skin changes measured by the Lichen score (LS).

      Regular photo-documentation of the treated skin will demonstrate a potential change of the
      tissue.

      Primary endpoint will be the outcome after laser application, the change in symptoms between
      both groups. As secondary endpoint it is important to see, weather sexual functions will be
      influenced in this therapy.

      The study is designed as a randomized placebo-controlled study.

      Inclusion criteria: All patients are treated in the dysplasia unit of the university
      gynecological hospital of Bern. They have a histological confirmation of LS or a clinical
      diagnosis of LS according to the lichen-score. Informed consent will be oral and written. The
      minimum age is 18 years

      Exclusion criteria: Pregnancy, local bacterial or parasitical infection, others severe
      dermatosis, Lichen-score < 5, vulvar cancer

      All women who qualify for the study and signed informed consent will be grouped by
      computer-controlled randomization. All of them are informed, that they have to take part in
      three sequent sessions of treatment in the interval of three weeks and the defined follow
      -ups after six and twelve weeks.

      The session starts with the application of an ointment for a local anesthesia in the vulvar
      region. Meanwhile they will answer the questionnaires (VAS for recording the vulvar symptoms,
      FSFI for the documentation of the sexual function, another questionnaire to evaluate the
      present situation).

      After about 20 minutes the gynecologist will start the examination with a photo documentation
      of the vulva, then the laser application of the vulva is following. After the treatment a
      cream of silversulfadiazine (Flammazine) will be applied.

      All personal data of the patients will be anonymized. The study specific intervention is an
      application of laser radiation on the vulvar skin.

      The used laser instrument for this specific intervention is a microablative fractional CO2
      laser designed as SmartXide Touch C60, CO2 laser system for MonaLisa Touch, DEKA, Florence.
      For the vulvar use the Hi-Scan V2LR scanning system has to be connected.

      The laser setting is: Power 24 W, exposure time 400 microsec, density 6,4 %, pulse energy
      23,2 mJ, fluenz 1,18J/cm2, emission mode DP, DOZ Dwell 400, DOT spacing 1000.

      Projected are three sequent sessions in three weeks intervals. Application time takes
      approximately five minutes for the whole vulvar skin.

      The study will compare two groups of patients, both fulfil the same criteria as a
      histological confirmation of LS or a clinical diagnosis of LS according to the lichen-score.
      They will be grouped by computer-controlled randomization in an active group and in a placebo
      group.

      The active group will be treated by radiation with a real dose: power 24 W, exposure time 400
      microsec, DOT spacing 1000.

      The placebo group will be treated with a sham dose: power 0, 5 W, exposure time 400 microsec,
      DOT spacing 1000.

      Both groups undergo the same procedures, they will have the same application time and
      application area. Except of the different radiation dose they undergo the same regimen.
    
  