
    
      Inguinal hernia is the most common type of abdominal wall hernias and the prevalence is
      estimated as 5-10% in United States. Although many risk factors have been defined for
      inguinal hernia, family history of inguinal hernia has been reported to be one of the most
      important factors. In addition to this, advanced age, male gender, smoking, chronic cough
      causing intraabdominal pressure increase, and chronic constipation are the risk factors. The
      hernias may recur according to the causes they originate from the reasons they originate in
      the early or late period after treatment.In this study, constipation and nutritional status
      of inguinal hernia patients were evaluated and it was aimed to examine the relationship
      between inguinal hernia and nutrition which has not been previously evaluated in the
      literature.

      This Case-Control study was performed between March 2018- March 2019. The patients who
      admitted to the general surgery for operation with inguinal hernia were the case group of
      this study (n:115). Also, the patients who were admitted to the same hospital with such as
      eye, ear/nose/throat, dermatologic diseases or elective surgeries and did not have any
      inguinal hernia complaints, constipation and other chronic disease which could increase the
      intra abdominal pressure selected as control group (n:88).

      Written informed consent was obtained from each participant. The numbers of cases and
      controls were matched based gender and age in each group. The age, gender, body mass index,
      alcohol and smoking habits, daily activity, frequency of food consumption and the
      constipation scoring according to Wexner constipation scoring were examined using
      questionnaire. The demographic data, nutritional status and the constipation scores were
      compared among individuals to identify differences between these two groups.
    
  