
    
      Focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) is a highly epileptogenic form of malformation of cortical
      development that may require surgical resection for epilepsy control. With abnormal
      development and organization of neurons within the cortex, the white matter projecting from
      the abnormal cortex is likely to be abnormal as well. The abnormality in the white matter
      involves not only the subcortical white matter, but also the long tracts in the deep white
      matter associated with the dysplastic cortex. Histologically, the subcortical white matter
      adjacent to the dysplastic cortex has been found to be abnormal. Studies using diffusion
      tensor imaging (DTI) to investigate the white matter adjacent to the MR visible abnormality
      have demonstrated reduced fractional anisotropy. However, electrographic abnormality in FCD
      often extends beyond the visible MR abnormality and surgical outcome of epilepsy surgery in
      FCD is dependent on excising the MR visible abnormality as well as electrographically
      abnormal area beyond the MR visible abnormality. The cortical and white matter abnormalities
      are therefore assumed to extend beyond the MR visible lesion. The short-term goal of this
      study is to determine whether quantitative measures of the abnormal white matter using DTI
      are able to provide surrogate markers for the extent of FCD. Whilst surgical outcome data is
      not available for the purpose of this study, these children will be followed up and in the
      longer term, the extent of FCD as determined by DTI will be compared with clinical outcome
      post surgery. This study will help determine the potential value of this technique in
      identifying areas of FCD that appear normal on structural MR. In the long term, this
      technique can be extended to study children with intractable epilepsy with (i) MR occult
      lesion and (ii) developmental tumor with MR occult FCD adjacent to the tumor.
    
  