
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine survival rates of patients with relapsed or refractory Wilms' tumor or clear
           cell sarcoma of the kidney treated with chemotherapy followed by surgical resection and
           adjuvant radiotherapy with or without autologous stem cell rescue.

        -  Determine the efficacy and toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine prognostic variables in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to one of three treatment regimens.

        -  Regimen A (patients with initial stage I tumors previously treated with vincristine with
           or without dactinomycin with relapse at least 6 months after diagnosis): Patients
           receive vincristine IV once weekly on weeks 1-10 and then every 3 weeks during weeks
           11-52, dactinomycin IV every 3 weeks during weeks 1-52, and doxorubicin IV over 6 hours
           every 3 weeks during weeks 1-34 (weeks 1-28 if pulmonary radiotherapy is planned).
           Patients undergo surgical resection and radiotherapy after 6 weeks of therapy.

        -  Regimen B (patients with initial stage II tumors previously treated with vincristine and
           dactinomycin with relapse at least 6 months after diagnosis): Patients receive
           cyclophosphamide IV twice daily on days 1-2 and 22-23, etoposide IV over 1 hour on days
           1-3, and doxorubicin IV over 6 hours on days 22 and 23. Treatment repeats every 42 days
           for a total of 4 courses. Patients undergo surgical resection and radiotherapy after 2
           courses of chemotherapy. Patients not achieving complete response after 4 courses of
           chemotherapy undergo autologous bone marrow transplantation as in regimen C.

        -  Regimen C (all other patients in first relapses OR with progression on first-line
           therapy OR in second or subsequent relapse previously treated on regimens A and B):
           Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days
           1-3 and 22-24, and cyclophosphamide IV twice daily on days 22 and 23. Treatment repeats
           every 42 days for a total of 3 courses. Patients may undergo surgical resection prior to
           stem cell rescue. Beginning within 6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients
           receive melphalan IV on day -1. Autologous peripheral blood stem cells or bone marrow is
           reinfused on day 0. Patients undergo radiotherapy after transplantation.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks for 1 year, every 12 weeks for 1 year, and then every 6
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 75 patients (25 for regimens A and B and 50 for regimen C)
      will be accrued for this study.
    
  