
    
      Neuroblastoma cells taken from the patient will be separated in the laboratory and two
      specially produced human viruses (adenovirus) that carry the lymphotactin and the IL-2 gene
      were put into the cells. These lymphotactin and IL-2 genes are meant to help the immune
      system fight the cancer.

      The modified cancer cells will be injected under the patient's skin. There will be four
      shots. The second and subsequent shots will have ten times as many cells producing
      lymphotactin as the first. We do not know the best amount of special cells to use, so
      different patients will get different numbers of cells.

      Before the second shot, and then again about 2 weeks later, we will remove some of the
      modified cells from the patient's body and study them. We will do this by removing a section
      of skin (referred to as a skin biopsy) at the place where the cells were injected. This test
      will help us to see whether or not the modified cells are killing cancer cells.

      To study how the immunity is working in the patient's system, we will take blood samples
      prior to each injection, two to four days after each injection, and may repeat this 5-7 days
      after each injection if your doctor thinks that is necessary.

      After patients have received the first set of 4 injections a complete evaluation is performed
      to see how this research treatment is working. If these evaluations look okay and if more
      injections are available, patients will have the option to receive a second set of 4
      injections. If patients receive the second set of 4 injections, they will again have blood
      samples taken after each injection.

      After injections stop, all patients will have blood samples collected once a month for a
      year, and then once a year for fifteen years.

      To see if this research treatment is working, we will do CAT scans, MRIs, or bone scans
      (these are different types of x-rays). We will also take a bone marrow biopsy (bone marrow
      will be removed by use of a needle so that it can be looked at under the microscope). These
      tests will be done prior to treatment and again eight weeks later. In addition, if patients
      receive the second set of four injections, these tests will be repeated at six months.
    
  