
    
      In this feasibility randomised controlled trial two interventions are compared with a control
      group. The aLiFE programme includes instructor and paper manual delivery of life-style
      integrated activities, while the eLiFE programme delivers the same activities by use of
      smartphone and smartwatch applications. The control group is asked to follow the World Health
      Organisation's physical activity recommendations.

      The main aim is to assess feasibility of the aLiFE and eLiFE programmes and a second aim to
      suggest sample size and design for a future Phase III clinical trial.

      OBJECTIVES: How is the feasibility of having young older adults (between 61-70 years) to
      perform the aLiFE and eLiFE interventions.

      Specifically:

        1. Participation: How is the adherence of specific activities and to the entire aLiFE and
           eLiFE interventions of young older adults?

        2. Technology: How is the feasibility and usability of the eLiFE intervention delivered
           using smartphones and smartwatches as platform, regarding user interface, goal setting,
           feedback, motivational messages, and social interaction?

        3. Outcome measures: How is the risk reduction of functional decline, measured by the Later
           Life Function and Disability Instrument and behavioural complexity, for the aLiFE and
           the eLiFE interventions compared to a control group, and what are the estimates of
           effect sizes for the primary and secondary study outcome measure?

        4. Health economics evaluation: Is it feasible to collect data on, and estimate, health
           care resource utilization, costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and model
           incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of aLiFE, eLiFE compared with the control
           group over a 6-month, 12-month, and 24-month time horizon?

      The study is approved by the three ethical sites prior to study start.

      (October 3rd, 2017) The final Data Analysis Plan has been closed before the start of the
      first post-test assessment in the PreventIT feasibility RCT, starting on the 4th of October
      2017.
    
  