
    
      Mobile health technologies such as smartphones and wearable devices can remotely monitor
      health. These technologies hold promise to improve health outcomes in a spectrum of patients
      by providing health care teams with better connectivity which may prompt more timely
      responses to questions and improvements to care.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients benefit
      from improved monitoring and removal of communication barriers as the most common reasons for
      readmission and mortality may be mitigated by clinical intervention. Additionally, medication
      adherence is critical in transplant patients to prevent graft rejection. We anticipate that
      remote monitoring will improve medication adherence/adjustments, and will allow for
      identification of early health issues, reducing preventable hospital readmissions. Thus, this
      study will determine if an innovative mobile health intervention, designed to improve
      patient-clinician communication, reduces unnecessary hospital readmission and visits to the
      emergency department and transplant clinic when utilized in addition to the standard of care
      telephone communication system. We will also incorporate clinical and continuous ambulatory
      physiologic data collected as part of the mobile health intervention to develop machine
      learning algorithms capable of identifying early indicators of adverse outcomes in adult
      heart, kidney, and liver transplant patients.

      We hypothesize that: the delivery of personalized communication using a mobile health
      application will improve patient self-management resulting in a 50% reduction in preventable
      hospital readmission, and unscheduled visits to the emergency department and transplant
      clinic. With tailored communication through the mobile health application, we expect fewer
      standard of care phone messages for patients in the intervention group and patients with
      higher activity levels (average daily step-count) pre-transplantation will have lower index
      hospitalization length of stay. Finally, the large dataset collected from this study will
      allow novel machine learning-derived risk prediction models to more accurately predict
      adverse outcomes (e.g., organ rejection, infection, and death), compared to conventional
      regression models.
    
  