
    
      Specific Aim #1: To compare the postoperative pain levels of single level lumbar fusion
      patients treated with either MMA pain management protocol or standard pain management
      protocol.

      Controlling postoperative pain is a critical first step in facilitating a patient's recovery
      and improved quality of life. In-hospital pain levels will be measured using a numeric pain
      scale on a scale of 0-10. Pain assessment is conducted by the hospital nurses as a standard
      of care protocol. Assessments are every four to six hours, within 60 minutes after receiving
      a pain medication

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the MMA pain protocol will have significantly less
      immediate postoperative pain as compared to patients treated with the standard pain protocol.

      Specific Aim #2: To compare the immediate postoperative, or in-hospital, narcotic consumption
      of single level lumbar fusion patients treated with either MMA pain management protocol or
      standard pain management protocol.

      Decreasing narcotic consumption following lumbar spinal fusion surgery is important for
      faster recovery for the patient, decreasing narcotic related side effects (nausea and
      vomiting, lethargy, ileus, etc) as well as lowering overall treatment costs. The total amount
      of narcotic use during the course of the hospitalization for each subject will be recorded.
      Dosages of narcotics will be converted to morphine equivalents.

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the MMA pain protocol will consume significantly less
      immediate postoperative narcotic pain medications compared to patients treated with the
      standard pain protocol.

      Specific Aim #3: To compare the length of hospital stay of single level lumbar fusion
      patients treated with either MMA pain management protocol or standard pain management
      protocol.

      Decreasing the amount of time patients remain in the hospital may decrease the time it takes
      a patient to return to personal and societal responsibilities. Additionally it reduces the
      patients risk of a nosocomial infection and reduces the costs of the surgery.

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the MMA pain protocol will have a significantly reduced
      length of stay in the hospital compared to patients treated with the standard pain protocol.

      Specific Aim #4: To compare postoperative quality of life of single level lumbar fusion
      patients treated with either MMA pain management protocol or standard pain management
      protocol.

      The primary purpose of lumbar fusion surgery is to improve the quality of life for patients.
      The Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) will be used as a disease specific measure. The Veterans
      Rand 12 (VR-12) will be used as a general health outcome measure. Each of these patient
      reported outcome measures will be collected pre-operatively and at each of the following
      postoperative visits: 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 month, 6 visit, 1 visit, and 2 year.

      Hypothesis: Patients treated with the MMA pain protocol will have significantly greater
      improvement in Quality of Life measures compared to patients treated with the standard pain
      protocol and this will be sustained out to two years post-operatively.
    
  