
    
      Study design . Primary and secondary endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

      • reduced incidence and severity of heartburn after 8 weeks of treatment with Omez-DSR
      preparation in comparison with OMEZ preparation.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  reduced severity of heartburn estimated against visual analog scale after 8 weeks of
           treatment;

        -  incidence of events of heartburn after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment;

        -  proportion of patients with completely jugulated heartburn at the 4th and 8th weeks of
           treatment;

        -  number of days without heartburn after 4 weeks of treatment;

        -  proportion of patients with resolved esophagitis after 8 weeks of treatment in subjects
           with esophagitis at the time of enrollment.

      Safety endpoints:

        -  incidence of adverse events in the group of patients who received at least one dose of
           the medicinal product after randomization;

        -  incidence of serious adverse events;

        -  incidence of severe adverse events;

        -  incidence of adverse events definitely caused by administration of the tested medicinal
           product.

      Description of the trial planned By its design the trial will be a randomized open
      comparative parallel study.

      Study flow chart:

      Screening=>Randomization=>Group 1(Omez-DSR),Group 2(Omez) =>Treatment=>Monitoring

      13.3. Phases of the trial:

        1. Screening - preliminary selection of subjects according to clinical criteria; signing of
           informed consent; prescription and conduction of screening procedures; decision on
           inclusion/exclusion of subject from the trial on the grounds of the results of screening
           procedures according to inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        2. Randomization - random distribution of subjects included into the trial into two groups:
           group 1 - treatment with tested Omez-DSR preparation, group 2 - treatment with the
           comparator Omez.

        3. Treatment - patients receive either Omez-DSR preparation or Omez preparation in the
           prescribed regimen according to the randomization number. Treatment shall be ambulatory;
           patients shall visit research center through specified periods.

        4. After the end of treatment patients shall return to their usual lifestyle, but they are
           monitored to assess the efficacy of the therapy conducted and to record adverse events.

      Description of measures allowing reducing the bias factor Randomization Randomization at
      phase 2 shall be performed using the WinPepi statistical program, option Masking Partial
      masking shall be used. Assessment of endoscopic examination at week 8 of treatment shall be
      blinded; the specialist conducting endoscopy shall not know which therapy was used.
      Statistical analysis shall be performed after coding of subjects; and during analysis it
      shall not be known which of the groups is receiving Omez-DSR, and which one - Omez.

      Description of treatment Medical preparations authorized in the Republic of Belarus shall be
      used in the trial: Omez-DSR and Omez.

      Dosage Dosage shall be performed in accordance with label recommendations of Omez-DSR and
      Omez preparations. Dose of Omez shall be 2 capsules/day (40 mg of omeprazole). Dose of
      Omez-DSR shall be 2 capsules/day (40 mg of omeprazole and 60 mg of domperidone).

      Regimen Medicinal preparations shall be prescribed after randomization. Group 1 or OM-DP: the
      subjects from this group shall be supplied the preparation enough for 8 weeks of treatment.
      Group 2 or OM: the subjects shall be supplied the preparation enough for 8 weeks.

      Features of the phases of the trial

      Signing of informed consent:Screening, Assessment of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria:Screening,Randomization Complaints Screening,Randomization,Week 8/End of
      treatment,Monitoring After 28 days

      Past and present history: Screening,Randomization Drug history: Screening,Week 8/End of
      treatment, Monitoring After 28 days Physical examination: Screening,Randomization,Week 8/End
      of treatment, Monitoring After 28 days Height, weight measurement: Screening,Week 8/End of
      treatment, Monitoring After 28 days Survey against the GERD-Q scale (values of 7 scores):
      Screening,Week 8/End of treatment Distribution of diaries:Randomization
      Esophagogastroduodenoscopy: Screening,Week 8/End of treatment Pregnancy test: Screening
      Distribution of preparation:Randomization Recording of adverse events:Week 8/End of
      treatment, Monitoring After 28 days Compliance assessment:Week 8/End of treatment
    
  