
    
      Uveitis, a set of conditions defined by intraocular inflammation, is a significant cause of
      vision loss and morbidity in the United States and the world. The incidence was recently
      estimated to be more than 50 cases per 100,000 person-years, with a prevalence of
      approximately 115 per 100,000 persons. Additionally, uveitis is believed to be the cause of
      up to 10% of cases of legal blindness in the United States, or approximately 30,000 new cases
      of blindness per year. In contrast to common age-related eye disorders, uveitis may have a
      stronger socio-economic impact because it disproportionately affects younger working-age
      patients. Although the etiology of uveitis is varied, most cases are presumed to be
      immune-mediated and lack a known infectious cause. Even in developing countries such as India
      that have a larger burden of infection, the vast majority of cases are non-infectious.

      The current mainstay of treatment for noninfectious uveitis is corticosteroids (topical,
      systemic, locally injected, or corticosteroid-eluting implants). Due to the well documented
      local and systemic side effects associated with corticosteroid therapy, other
      immunosuppressive therapies are frequently used as corticosteroid-sparing agents in patients
      who need long-term therapy. These include antimetabolites, calcineurin inhibitors, alkylating
      agents, and biologic drugs. Cost and morbidity associated with uncontrolled inflammation make
      the selection of an effective initial steroid-sparing agent extremely important.

      It is common practice for patients requiring a steroid-sparing agent to be treated first with
      the less expensive methotrexate and then switched to mycophenolate mofetil in the event of
      treatment failure. However, results from non-comparative retrospective case series indicate
      that uveitis patients may be much more likely to achieve controlled inflammation and tolerate
      treatment with mycophenolate mofetil. Furthermore, approximately half of the patients who
      fail treatment with methotrexate go on to successful treatment with mycophenolate mofetil.
      There have been no prospective randomized, controlled trials to systematically determine
      which antimetabolite is more clinically efficacious as initial corticosteroid-sparing
      therapy, making it difficult for clinicians to make informed, evidence-based decisions about
      first-line immunosuppressive treatment.

      Our contribution is expected to be a definitive understanding of the comparative efficacy,
      tolerability, and quality of life of these two antimetabolites as initial steroid-sparing
      therapy for uveitis patients requiring chronic therapy. This contribution is significant
      because it will enable clinicians to make evidence-based decisions when prescribing
      first-line immunosuppressive therapy for their uveitis patients. The use of optimal
      first-line therapy will improve quality of life by reducing the risk of vision loss and
      complications associated with uncontrolled ocular inflammation and long-term corticosteroid
      use.
    
  