
    
      Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) was approved for the treatment of HIV-infected adults in
      October 2001. In November 2001, we began enrollment to our phase I/II study of tenofovir DF
      in HIV-infected children (02-C-0006). That study has completed enrollment. The virologic and
      immunologic responses seen on that study in a group of heavily treatment-experienced children
      with multidrug resistant HIV were surprisingly good. The drug was well tolerated, but
      significant decreases in bone mineral density were seen in a minority of patients.

      With the current study we will enroll and systematically investigate HIV-infected children
      for whom tenofovir DF is being used as part of salvage combination HIV therapy. The primary
      objective of the study is to characterize the change in bone mineral density (BMD), as
      measured by lumbar spine dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), during and following
      treatment with tenofovir DF-containing antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected children. The
      study will enroll 3 cohorts of children: 1) HIV-infected children about to start a tenofovir
      DF-containing antiretroviral regimen, 2) HIV-infected children already on tenofovir DF with
      available baseline DEXA results, and 3) HIV-infected children already on tenofovir DF but
      without baseline DEXA results who will come here for investigations of bone metabolism.
      Studies of bone metabolism will include periodic measurements of serum and urine calcium and
      phosphorus, PTH and vitamin D levels, bone resorption markers (urinary collagen cross-linked
      N-telopeptide and free deoxypyridinoline), bone formation markers (serum osteocalcin and bone
      specific alkaline phosphatase), IGF-1 levels, bone age, and DEXA scans. Patients about to
      start tenofovir DF (cohort 1) will be offered the option of having a transiliac crest core
      bone biopsy with tetracycline labeling performed at baseline and at 6 months to assess static
      and dynamic parameters of bone quality and turnover (histomorphometry). Subjects with
      substantial presumed tenofovir DF-related bone toxicity who are deriving benefit from their
      tenofovir DF-containing antiretroviral drug regimen will be offered the option of pamidronate
      therapy. The effects of pamidronate treatment on bone toxicity associated with tenofovir DF
      in these patients will be assessed in an exploratory fashion. It is expected that up to 40
      patients with baseline BMD measurements will be enrolled onto this protocol. An additional 10
      patients who are undergoing tenofovir DF treatment but who did not receive baseline BMD
      measurements will also be permitted to enroll in order to contribute to the data used to
      characterize changes in toxicity.
    
  