
    
      Evidence-based guidelines emphasize that adequate management of osteoarthritis (OA) requires
      a combination of both medical and behavioral modalities. However, many of the recommended
      guidelines are not regularly incorporated into clinical practice, and the recommended
      behavioral strategies (e.g. exercise and weight management) are not practiced by most
      patients. Prior studies have examined strategies for improving patient behaviors to manage
      OA-related symptoms, but few studies have examined provider-based interventions specifically
      for patients with OA, or combinations of patient- and provider-based interventions. The
      objective of this study is to compare a patient-based intervention (involving exercise,
      weight management, and cognitive behavioral pain management), a provider-based intervention
      (involving provision of patient-specific recommendations for care, based on evidence-based
      guidelines), and a combination of the two interventions, relative to usual care. This study
      will provide novel, valuable information of the effectiveness (and cost-effectiveness) of
      these three interventions in the context of real-world clinical settings.

      This will be a randomized controlled trial involving the following four study arms: 1)
      Patient Behavioral Intervention for OA Only, 2) Provider Intervention for OA Only, 3) Patient
      Behavioral Intervention + Provider Intervention for OA, and 4) Usual Care Control (no
      intervention). Approximately 10 primary care practices in the Duke Primary Care Research
      Consortium (PCRC) will be randomized to either the Provider Intervention or Provider Control
      group. Within each clinic, patients with symptomatic knee and/or hip OA (n=560 total) will be
      randomly assigned to either the Patient Intervention or Patient Control group. Participants
      will be equally allocated between the four study groups, with randomization stratified
      according to gender and race (white/non-white).

      The patient behavioral intervention will be a twelve-month program that includes the
      following elements: written educational materials (focused on exercise, weight management,
      and cognitive behavioral pain management), an exercise video tailored for patients with lower
      extremity OA, and telephone calls by a counselor to support behavior change. All participants
      in the study will continue with any other usual medical care they receive for OA. The
      provider intervention will involve giving information on patients' OA symptoms and treatment,
      as well as patient-specific evidence-based recommendations for care. Providers will have
      access to this information, as well as facilitated referrals for patient-specific treatment
      recommendations (e.g. physical therapy, orthopedics), at the point of clinical care.

      The primary time point for outcome assessment will be at 12-months. The investigators will
      also assess a limited set of outcomes via telephone at 6-months, 18-months, and 24-months.
      Following completion of study follow-up assessments, participants who were not assigned to
      one of the two Participant arms will be given the materials for that intervention, and health
      care providers who were not part of one of the two Provider arms will be given the
      information involved in that intervention. The primary outcome will be the Western Ontario
      and McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). Secondary outcomes will include
      objective physical function (Short Physical Performance Test) and depressive symptoms
      (PHQ-8). The main study analyses will compare outcomes between the four study groups. The
      investigators will also assess the cost-effectiveness of the interventions.
    
  