
    
      The UK was the first country in the world to introduce the meningococcal serogroup C
      conjugate vaccine (MCC) into its routine immunisation schedule in 1999. This very effectively
      reduced the incidence of disease, which was highest in those younger than 1 year through its
      routine use in the infant immunisation schedule, and those aged around 15-17 years through a
      catch up campaign . Subsequently, the meningococcal vaccination schedule has undergone
      several revisions, including:

        -  2006 - a reduction in the number of doses given to infants from the manufacturer advised
           three to the JCVI instructed two with the combination of the MCC dose in the second year
           of life with the Hib vaccine, in the form of Menitorix

        -  2013 - a further reduction to a single dose in infancy and the introduction of a booster
           in teenage years due to studies demonstrating that antibody persistence was short lived
           through childhood

        -  2015 - the amendment of the teenage booster dose from MCC to a quadrivalent
           meningococcal conjugate vaccine to address the increasing incidence of serogroup W
           disease in this age group (PHE website - Meningococcal data), and the introduction of
           Bexsero into the infant schedule ostensibly to address meningococcal B disease but with
           the potential for cross protection against other serogroups, which is currently being
           assessed in another NVEC study.

        -  2016 - removal of the MCC at 3 months of age.

      Given the previous demonstration of poor antibody persistence of MenC antibodies two years
      following the 2006 schedule, with only 43%, 22% and 23% of children achieving SBA titres ≥8
      two years following a booster dose of Menitorix™ when primed with NeisVac-C™, Menjugate™ and
      Meningitec™, respectively, there is concern about the protection afforded by the quadrivalent
      vaccine administered at around 14 years of age, and whether this will provide protection into
      young adulthood when the risk of disease is high.

      In a previous study by this group (Eudract number 2010-022505-18) , adolescents aged 16-19
      years were randomised to receive one of two licensed meningococcal ACWY conjugate vaccines:

        1. Menveo™ (GSK) This vaccine contains bacterial capsular oligosaccharides for serogroups
           A, C, W, and Y conjugated to a protein carrier, CRM197, which is a nontoxigenic natural
           variant of diphtheria toxin. The MenACWY vaccine has been tested in several age groups
           and has been shown to be generally well tolerated and immunogenic. Menveo™ is indicated
           for use in those from 2 years of age and in those at risk.

        2. Nimenrix (Pfizer) This vaccine contains bacterial capsular oligosaccharides for
           serogroups A, C, W, and Y conjugated to Tetanus Toxoid (TT). This MenACWY-TT vaccine has
           been tested in several age groups and has been shown to be safe and immunogenic. It is
           indicated for use from 12 months of age and in those at risk.

      The cohort included in this study was one of the first to receive meningococcal C conjugate
      vaccine as young children, and subsequently to have the booster in the form of meningococcal
      quadrivalent (ACWY) conjugate vaccination at age 16-19 years. This group of 93 young adults,
      now aged 20-24 years, provides a unique opportunity to study the persistence of meningococcal
      serogroup-specific antibodies over time. This is particularly important given the recent
      increases in incidence of meningococcal W disease which prompted the amendment of the
      national schedule to include a booster of the meningococcal quadrivalent vaccine in teenage
      years.
    
  