
    
      Introduction:

      External ventricular drains (EVD) are essential tools in neuro-critical care to treat acute
      hydrocephalus following traumatic or spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage. While essential, EVDs
      are associated with feared infections (EVDIs) that may result in long term sequelae and
      affect long term outcome. It is therefore important to promptly identify and treat EVDIs.
      EVDI diagnostics are based on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses and CSF bacterial cultures.
      Causal agents are commonly pathogens colonizing the skin, which makes suspected infection and
      true infection difficult to distinguish based on the cultured bacteria alone. Additionally,
      bacterial cultures may take days to finalize and seldom contribute to early decision making
      or guiding of antibiotic treatment. Diagnostics are thus mainly based on CSF analyses of
      cells, protein, lactate, and glucose. CSF cellularity, in particular, is frequently
      confounded in this patient group as a result of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), which
      introduces both erythrocytes and leukocytes into the CSF. To account for IVH, the ratio of
      erythrocytes and leukocytes (LE ratio) is used and is a central metric in the diagnostics of
      EVDIs. The LE ratio is based on the assumption that as bacteria is introduced into the CSF,
      leukocytes will increase in relationship to erythrocytes as a part of the immune response.
      The LE ratio further assumes that blood is homogeneously distributed in the CSF. However, it
      is clear from computed tomography (CT) imaging that blood is congregated to the bottom of the
      ventricles as a result of gravity sedimentation, indicating a heterogeneous sample space.
      Additionally, leukocytes and erythrocytes exhibit different properties in terms of density
      which causes a separation during gravity sedimentation. Leukocytes, and granulocytes in
      particular, may also exhibit upwards floatation due to density changes as they become
      activated as part of the inflammatory response. Thus, not only is an intraventricular
      separation of blood and CSF probable, but also a separation of individual cell types. As CSF
      is sampled from the EVD, a heterogeneous sample space may affect the constitution of sampled
      CSF depending on the location of the EVD in the ventricles and the location and distribution
      of intraventricular blood.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesized that blood is heterogeneously distributed in the CSF, and as a result, may
      introduce CSF parameter variability as the intraventricular distribution of blood and CSF may
      vary between samples. Furthermore, we believe that routine patient care, such as
      repositioning of the patient may be enough to cause such a variability.

      Study protocol:

      Paired CSF samples are collected from patients included in the study, instead of the routine
      single sample, bi-weekly or during workup for suspected infection. The resulting extra
      collected CSF from paired samples will amount to approximately 1-2 mL per session. Patients
      will be allocated to the collection of paired CSF samples around a routine patient
      repositioning, or a 10 minute wait time between paired CSF samples as identified as the
      average time between samples when a repositioning was performed during the burn a period.
      Patients in a lateral side position 2-3 hours prior to CSF sampling will be sampled on either
      side of a clinical repositioning. Open drains will be closed five minutes prior to the first
      sample as per clinical routine. 1,5 mL of CSF is drawn and discarded prior to each individual
      sample.

      The following information should be documented for each sample session:

      Patient ID:

      Study sample nr for this patient:

      Date:

      Time in a lateral side position prior to sample 1:

      Time of sample 1:

      Time of repositioning (if repositioned):

      Time of sample 2:

      GCS:

      GCS motor score:

      Antibiotic treatment, yes/no:

      If suspected/confirmed EVDI, date of diagnosis:

      For sample 1 and sample 2:

      CSF-Leukocytes:

      CSF-Monocytes:

      CSF-Granulocytes:

      CSF-Erythrocytes:

      CSF-Albumin:

      CSF: Lactate:

      CSF: Glucose:

      Additional information is collected for each patient at study inclusion:

      Name and social identification number:

      Sex:

      Main admission diagnosis:

      Date of admission:

      Date of study inclusion:

      Based on the first CT scan after EVD insertion:

      Intraventricular hemorrhage score 1-23:

      Measured intraventricular blood volume:

      Depth of intraventricular sediment in the dorsal horns of the lateral ventricles:

      Two dimensional length from the tip of the EVD catheter to blood or sediment:

      Patient inclusion:

      Over18 years of age in treated in the NICU with inserted EVDs. Patient inclusion was based on
      written informed consent from nearest of kin.

      Statistical analyses:

      One-way tests such as the Wilcoxon signed rank test and the Fligner-Killen test of variance
      will be used to evaluate pair-wise differences and differences between sample groups. Mixed
      effects regression analyses will be used to evaluate independent predictors of CSF parameter
      change and to evaluate the correlation between change and demographic variables, such as CT
      derived variables. Patient ID will be included as a random effect to eliminate
      inter-individual differences.
    
  