
    
      This platform trial will provide access to repurposed and investigational agents for
      critically ill patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 who have severe or life-threatening
      COVID-19. Any critically ill patient with known or presumed COVID-19 will be automatically
      entered into the screening phase of the trial until SARS-CoV-2 infection is confirmed. Basic
      data will be assembled for each patient (such as ventilatory status and survival). All
      patients who start high-flow oxygen (WHO COVID-19 level 5; > 6L oxygen by nasal prongs or
      mask) will be entered in an observational registry which will only require extraction of
      medical record data. Registry participants will be asked to sign a consent form for the
      backbone treatment and a specific investigational agent arm to which they are assigned. The
      primary endpoint will be time to recover to a durable level 4 (or less) on the WHO COVID-19
      ordinal scale for clinical improvement. For this trial, a durable level 4 is defined as at
      least 48 hours at COVID level 4 or less (nasal prongs oxygen) without returning to high flow
      oxygen or intubation. Acute care facility resource utilization will be automatically
      calculated (total length of stay in a critical care setting, days intubated, and survival).
      Any change in status, including intubation, extubation, death or discharge, will be recorded
      and verified by the attending physician.

      Patients will be evaluated based on their initial status (ventilation at entry vs. high flow
      oxygen). Exploratory biomarkers will be evaluated over time (ARDS phenotypes and other
      proposed markers) to facilitate clinical learning. The trial will begin enrollment with two
      investigational agents and quickly increase to four study arms as the pace of enrollment
      increases. The anticipated accrual will be 50 patients per week. The maximum number of
      participants assigned to an arm without graduation will be 125 patients. Agents can be
      dropped for futility after enrollment of 50 patients. It is anticipated that 10
      investigational agents can be evaluated in the span of 4-6 months, depending on the time
      course of COVID-19 infections across the US. As the trial proceeds and a better understanding
      of the underlying mechanisms of the COVID-19 illness emerges, expanded biomarker and data
      collection can be added as needed to further elucidate how agents are or are not working. The
      study design features comparison of investigational agent efficacy using a Bayesian design,
      which will allow the detection of strong efficacy signals with the fewest possible patients.
      Initially the control will be patients given current standard of care (supportive care for
      ARDS, including lung protective ventilation and remdesivir as backbone therapy). As other
      treatments (for example, anticoagulation) become part of standard supportive care across
      sites, these will be added to the backbone therapy. If an agent meets the threshold for
      graduation the company leadership will be informed as will the FDA. The arm with the
      graduated agent will cease to enroll, allowing a new arm with a different investigational
      agent to be added. Information about agents disposition will be as follows:

      Every trial participant will have blood collected at trial enrollment, day 3, and day 7 for
      pre-specified biomarker and DNA and RNA analysis. Additional biomarkers can be added as the
      trial proceeds. Patient outcomes will also be evaluated on the basis of whether patients are
      ventilated initially or not.
    
  