
    
      Hyperlipidemia, increases the risk of stroke, hypertension, coronary artery disease and other
      associated disorders. World-wide about one-third of coronary artery disease is attributed
      high cholesterol. Overall it has been estimated that elevated blood cholesterol causes 26
      million deaths (4.5% of the total deaths) world-wide. Hyperlipidemias is a major cause of
      morbidity in both developed and developing countries as a risk factor for stroke and coronary
      artery disease. The prevalence of raised total cholesterol increased noticeably according to
      the income level of the country. In low income countries around a quarter of adults had
      raised total cholesterol, in lower middle income countries this rose to around a third of the
      population for both sexes. In high-income countries, over 50% of adults had raised total
      cholesterol; more than double the level of the low-income countries.

      Homocysteine, on the other hand, is a sulfur amino acid, which is metabolized by two
      pathways, either it is re-methylated to methionine or it undergoes trans-sulfuration to
      cystathionine which is eventually converted into cysteine, an amino acid. Folic acid is
      involved in remethylation of homocysteine to methionine. Thus, folic acid supplementation may
      enhance the metabolism of homocysteine level and thereby may decrease its level in blood.
      Homocysteine in blood is termed as homocysteinemia. Homocysteinemia is associated with
      dyslipidemias, increased risk of atherosclerosis, micro-angiopathies, coronary artery
      disease, stroke, dementia and also found to be associated with suppressed immunity.
      Supplementation with folic acid may lower homocysteine level by accelerating its metabolism
      to methionine. In this study investigators will be assessing the effect of folate
      supplementation on the lipid profile, particularly on the blood levels of HDL, LDL,
      Triglycerides and total cholesterol. The HDL has cardio-protective effect, while on the other
      hand, the higher level of LDL, total cholesterol and triglycerides may accelerate
      atherosclerosis, angiopathies and increases the risk of stroke and heart diseases.

      Research question: Does addition of folic acid supplementation decrease LDL, total
      cholesterol, triglycerides and increase HDL in patients with dyslipidemias.

      OBJECTIVE:

      To assess the effect of folic acid supplementation on HDL, LDL, total cholesterol and
      triglycerides in patients with dyslipidemias.

      HYPOTHESIS Addition of folic acid supplementation will improve lipid parameters (HDL, total
      cholesterol, triglycerides & LDL) in patients with dyslipidemias.
    
  