
    
      Nearly 40% of patients with colorectal cancer who receive oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy
      experience neuropathy (nerve damage that can include numbness, pain, and/or loss of motor
      function). Sometimes, this nerve damage is serious enough that the chemotherapy dose has to
      be lowered or stopped completely. Researchers want to find out if taking minocycline can
      lower the side effects caused by chemotherapy given to treat colorectal cancer.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal chance of being in either group:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will take a placebo.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will take minocycline.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Starting on Day 1 of Cycle 1 of chemotherapy, you will start taking the study drug/placebo
      capsule by mouth, twice a day every day.

      You should take the study drug/placebo with a full glass (8 ounces) of water. You may take it
      with or without food, but if it causes an upset stomach, you should take it with food.

      You should not lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking the study drug/placebo to reduce
      the risk of side effects.

      Study Visits:

      Before you start taking the study drug/placebo:

        -  You will complete 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, and your quality of
           life. You will also complete a questionnaire about your tobacco history. It should take
           about 15-25 minutes to complete all questionnaires.

        -  You may complete a sensory test. For this test, researchers will try to find out how
           sensitive you are to touching things such as small bumps on a board. This test will take
           about 10 minutes to complete.

        -  If possible, blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation. Markers of inflammation are found in the blood and may be related to your
           symptoms.

           1 time each week:

        -  You will complete a questionnaire in the clinic or by telephone about any symptoms you
           may be having and how they may be affecting your daily activities. The questionnaire
           should take about 3-5 minutes to complete each time.

      At each chemotherapy cycle:

        -  You will fill out 2 questionnaires in the clinic or by telephone about pain and other
           symptoms. It should take about 10-15 minutes to complete the questionnaires.

        -  The study staff will make a count of the number of pills that you took so far. If you
           are coming to the MD Anderson or Harris Health clinic, bring the study drug/placebo
           container (along with any remaining drug/placebo).

      At about 2 months:

        -  If you return to the MD Anderson or Harris Health clinic for this visit, the following
           additional procedures will be performed:

        -  If possible, blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation.

      You may complete a sensory test. This test will take about 10 minutes to complete.

      End-of-Treatment Visit (at about 4 months):

        -  You will fill out the 4 questionnaires in the clinic or by telephone about your
           symptoms. It should take about 15-20 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

        -  The study staff will make a count of the number of pills that you took so far.

      If you return to the MD Anderson or Harris Health clinic for this visit:

        -  If possible, blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation.

        -  You may complete a sensory test. This test will take about 10 minutes to complete.

        -  You must bring the study drug/placebo container (along with any remaining drug/placebo).

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug/placebo for up to 4 months, if there are no treatment
      delays. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation in the study will be over at the End-of-Study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At about 6 months, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

      °You will fill out 4 questionnaires in the clinic or by telephone about pain and other
      symptoms and your quality of life. You will also complete a questionnaire about your tobacco
      history. It should take about 15-25 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      If you return to the MD Anderson or Harris Health clinic for this visit:

        -  If possible, blood (about 6 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation.

        -  You may complete a sensory test. This test will take about 10 minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. Its use in this study is investigational.

      Up to 166 participants will be enrolled in this study. Up to 83 will be enrolled at the
      Harris Health System.
    
  