
    
      Main planned analyses:

      Primary Outcome; Comparing the effectivity of conditioning with PRF, conditioning with CRF,
      and sham conditioning, in inducing nocebo effects on pain:

      The magnitude of the induced nocebo effect during the first evocation phase (dependent
      variable), will be compared between induction groups (independent variable). The pain ratings
      for the first control trial will be measured against the pain ratings for the first
      reinforced trial, yielding the magnitude of the nocebo effect. A 3x2 mixed model Analysis of
      Variance (ANOVA) will be used, treating group as the between-subjects factor with three
      levels (PRF, CRF, sham) and magnitude of the nocebo effect on pain as a within-subjects
      measure with two levels (first control and first reinforced trial). Planned contrasts will be
      conducted.

      Secondary Outcome; Comparing the effectivity of counterconditioning and extinction in
      attenuating nocebo effects on pain:

      The nocebo effect still present in the second evocation phase (dependent variable) will be
      compared between attenuation groups (independent variable). This effect will be measured as
      the change in pain ratings reported in the first reinforced trial of the first evocation
      phase (after induction) and pain ratings reported in the first reinforced trial of the second
      evocation phase (after attenuation). This effect will be further analysed by measuring any
      change in pain reports for the control trials (second dependent variable) in the same way.
      The effect of induction group will also be further explored. A 2x2 mixed model ANOVA will be
      conducted, with attenuation group as the between-subjects factor (counterconditioning and
      extinction) and the degree to which the nocebo effect has been attenuated as the
      within-subjects measure with two levels (first and second evocation phase for the first
      reinforced trials). Further secondary analyses will be conducted.
    
  