
    
      OBJECTIVES

        -  Perform repeated postoperative endoscopy of anastomotic tissue sites in patients
           undergoing low anterior resection for rectal cancer with diverting ileostomy.

        -  Demonstrate that SES can reliably discriminate those anastomoses that progress along a
           continuum toward normal healing versus those that heal pathologically when images are
           evaluated by a jury blinded to treatment.

        -  Demonstrate that those anastomoses that are judged to progress pathologically harbor
           distinct microbial species and predictive inflammatory mediators.

        -  Demonstrate that when anastomotic tissues are lavaged with antibiotics directly via
           endoscopy (ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, neomycin), microbial pathogens that escape
           conventional antibiotics are eliminated and anastomotic healing progresses normally.

        -  Determine if the anastomotic healing score, microbial analyses, and/or inflammatory
           mediator analyses identify or predict symptomatic and clinically relevant anastomotic
           complications.

      STUDY This is a randomized, multicenter study. All patients undergo resection of rectal
      cancer with a low anterior resection with anastomoses within 10cm of the anal verge and
      diverting ileostomy. Patients will undergo three endoscopies: one intra-operative endoscopy
      (POD0) and two post-operative endoscopies (POD3-7, POD12-28) (POD = post-operative day).
      During the SES procedure, the anastomosis will be lavaged with saline, the fluid will be
      collected by suction, images will be taken and then the anastomosis will be lavaged with
      either saline or an antibiotic solution composed of metronidazole, ciprofloxacin and
      neomycin. Patients' clinical courses will be followed through chart review for 6 to 7 months
      following surgery.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL A total of 200 patients (approximately 100 per treatment arm) will be
      accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  