
    
      Transbronchial puncture is a technique known for many years with the first description found
      in 1949 by Shieppati. Subsequently, this technique allowing an exploration of the mediastinal
      lymph nodes became widespread with the work of Wang in 1983. However, the need to have exact
      knowledge of the different puncture sites in order to obtain maximum profitability with this
      examination in particular In staging and diagnosis in bronchopulmonary cancers (CBP) explains
      a significant difference in profitability between operators based on their experience. It was
      not until 1990 that Germans coupled the technique of radial ultrasound with that of
      bronchoscopy by introducing a balloon catheter inflated with a liquid allowing the best
      transmission of ultrasound. It is the German team of Herth who developed this technique in
      1999 under the name of bronchial echo-endoscopy (EBUS). The association of echo-endoscopy
      before transbronchial punctures significantly improves the performance of the examination. In
      2004, Yasufusu shows the interest of the real-time visualization of the lymph nodes for the
      marking as well as the punctures. Therefore, the indications for bronchial echoendoscopies
      with transbronchial needle puncture (EBUS-PTBA) are precisely defined in the nodal staging of
      CBP with good profitability and a reduction in surgical mediastinoscopy. Then, over time,
      there is an extension of indications with the diagnosis of Non-Small Cell Lung
      Broncho-Pulmonary Cancers (NSCLC) or Small Cell Broncho-Pulmonary Cancers (CBPC), the
      diagnosis of ganglion metastases of extra-thoracic primary tumors , Diagnosis of sarcoidosis
      or other more anecdotal uses (tuberculosis, lymphoma).

      Two Picard centers were among the first in France to be equipped with echoendoscopes (2007
      for the CH of Saint Quentin and 2008 for the CHU of Amiens). This allows our two centers to
      have a fairly consistent retreat on the technique since its implantation in France. While
      many studies are concerned with one or other indication in isolation, there is no study to
      the best of our knowledge relating the evolution over time of the respective share of each of
      these indications in daily practice . Given the current multiplication of potential
      indications for EBUS-PTBA, it seems interesting to analyze the place of these new indications
      in the daily activity of endoscopic centers equipped with an echo-endoscope. The main
      objective is to evaluate the respective share of each indication over time over the study
      period. Secondary objectives are the evaluation of the diagnostic performance of EBUS-PTBA,
      the evaluation of the abusively carried-out EBUS-PTBA (examination carried out for purely
      diagnostic purposes, whereas conventional bronchial fibroscopy Diagnosis of certainty) and
      evaluation of concordance between EBUS-PTBA and surgery in CBP staging indications.
    
  