
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response and disease-free survival at 1 year of patients with
      advanced acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome treated with gemtuzumab
      ozogamicin, fludarabine, and total body irradiation followed by allogeneic peripheral blood
      stem cell or bone marrow transplantation with cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil. II.
      Determine the leukemic blast clearance from the blood and marrow in these patients treated
      with this regimen. III. Determine the safety and pharmacokinetics of gemtuzumab ozogamicin as
      part of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the incidence of donor stem cell
      engraftment in these patients. V. Determine the incidence and severity of graft-versus-host
      disease in these patients treated with this regimen. VI. Determine whether donor lymphocyte
      infusion can be safely used in the patients with mixed or full donor chimerism to eliminate
      persistent or progressive disease.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on days -21 (first 5
      patients) or -14 (subsequent patients) and -7, and fludarabine IV over 2 hours on days -4 to
      -2. Patients undergo total body irradiation followed by infusion of allogeneic peripheral
      blood stem cells or bone marrow on day 0. Patients receive oral or IV cyclosporine 2-3 times
      daily on days -3 to 56 (if related donor) or 100 (if unrelated donor) and oral or IV
      mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days 0 to 27 (if related donor) or 40 (if unrelated
      donor). Patients receive 2 doses of intrathecal methotrexate prior to transplant and an
      additional 4 doses after transplant. Patients with cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) positive for
      malignant cells instead receive intrathecal cytarabine, methotrexate and hydrocortisone prior
      to transplant twice weekly until CSF blasts clear. Patients with persistent or recurrent
      disease after transplant may receive up to 3 donor lymphocyte infusions if graft-versus-host
      disease is less than grade II and they have greater than 5% donor CD3 cells. Patients are
      followed at 6 months and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-2 years.
    
  