
    
      The objective of this investigation is to explore the interaction of water and caffeine on
      voice performance through (a) acoustic measures of voice, and (b) aerodynamic measurements
      (minimum lung pressure required to initiate phonation. The acoustic and aerodynamic
      measurements were selected for this study in an effort to demonstrate the effects of four
      levels of hydration and caffeine status on voice quality: 1) caffeine and water1 (i.e..,
      Experimental Group 1 - ingestion of 200 mg of caffeine in conjunction with 500 ml of water),
      2) caffeine and water2 (i.e., Experimental Group 2 - ingestion of 200 mg of caffeine in
      conjunction with 1.0 liter of water), 3)caffeine only (i.e., Experimental Group 3: ingestion
      of 200 mg of caffeine and no water), and 4) control (i.e. no ingestion of caffeine or water).
      The research question involves whether systemic hydration may reduce degradation on voice
      performance caused by caffeine ingestion. It is hypothesized that the hydration conditions
      will result in a less degraded vocal performance as compared with the nonhydration condition.
      Additionally, it is hypothesized that ingestion of 1.0 liter of water will have a greater
      effect on voice performance than ingestion of 500 ml of water. An additional objective of
      this study is to increase scientific knowledge of voice functioning by providing further data
      about the effect of the interaction of water and caffeine on voice performance. The results
      of this project may be a valuable addition to the scientific literature in vocology, and may
      also contribute to prevention plans for minimizing vocal disturbances. Therefore, vocational
      programs may include vocal prevention directions based on this study. In addition, knowledge
      about prevention of voice disorders may be included in the academic curriculum of students
      enrolled in training programs for professions involving substantial voice use.
    
  