
    
      OBJECTIVES Primary Objective: Evaluate the biologic effect of guanabenz on markers of bone
      formation and bone resorption in patients with solid tumors and bone metastasis.

      Secondary Objectives: (1) Compare guanabenz exposure in patients based on limited PK sampling
      to activity observed in previous pre-clinical studies; (2) Assess the safety/tolerability of
      guanabenz; and (3) Evaluate the biologic effect of guanabenz on bone metabolism markers.

      Tertiary Objective: Compare change in bone turn over markers (formation, resorption and
      metabolism) achieved with guanabenz to change in bone turn over markers with standard of care
      (bisphosphonate/denosumab).

      STUDY DESIGN This is an exploratory pilot study evaluating the biologic effect of guanabenz
      bone formation and bone resorption markers in patients with solid tumors and bone metastasis.

      PROCEDURES All registered patients will receive oral guanabenz the first two months prior to
      the start of any standard of care skeletal protective therapy. All patients on study will
      receive standard of care systemic treatment for their underlying solid malignancy as deemed
      necessary by their treating physician. Guanabenz will be administered concurrently with any
      primary cancer systemic treatment. However patients will withhold standard of care bone
      directed therapy for 8 weeks. The study will exclude patients in immediate need of such
      treatment. Patients experiencing skeletal related events while on study will be withdrawn.
      Delaying standard of care skeletal therapy for 2 months will not be considered a major
      deviation as long as such therapy is delayed for a necessary purpose as deemed by the
      treating physician.

      Patients with known hypertension and on antihypertensive medications at study enrollment will
      be eligible to participate. Antihypertensive medications will not be changed as a result of
      study enrollment unless deemed necessary by the treating physician; only the dose of
      guanabenz will be adjusted.

      TREATMENT Patients will begin taking 8 mg by mouth (PO) at bed time (HS) starting day 1 for
      one week. The dose will be increased to 8 mg PO twice a day (BID) (8 mg daily morning (QAM)
      and 8 mg daily evening (QPM) for a total of 16 mg) on day 8 (+/-3 days), then increased to 8
      mg PO QAM 16 mg PO QPM (total of 24 mg) on day 15 (+/- 3 days), then increased to 16 mg PO
      BID (16 mg QAM and 16 mg QPM for a total of 32 mg) on day 22. Patients will continue on their
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) until day 56 (+/- 3 days). The dose will be weaned for patients
      receiving more than 8 mg daily after completing week 8 when the standard of care skeletal
      protective therapy begins. Guanabenz will be weaned off by week 11, and patients will
      continue standard of care skeletal protective therapy as deemed necessary by the treating
      physician.

      To ensure patient safety during dose escalation and throughout the study, patients will be
      provided and taught the use of home blood pressure (BP) monitoring. We will instruct patients
      to check their BP 2 hours after each guanabenz dose escalation and at least three times
      weekly. Patients will maintain a diary of BP results during the dose escalation phase.
      Patients will report any hypotensive measurement to their research nurse defined as at least
      two readings less than < 100/60 mm Hg in sitting position taken more than 30 min apart.

      At each visit, blood pressure and adverse events will be assessed. Dose escalation will
      continue with guanabenz if BP >= 110/70 mm Hg and/or until unacceptable toxicity.

      Guanabenz should be taken as instructed on an empty stomach. If the patient misses a dose of
      guanabenz, he/she can take the missing dose no later than 3 hours after instructed time and
      then continue as scheduled.

      On day 57 (+/- 3 days), all study patients start the guanabenz wean. All patients will
      receive ongoing standard of care skeletal protective therapy (denosumab/zometa) as determined
      by the treating physician at the beginning of the weaning phase.
    
  