
    
      The efficacy of therapeutic strategies mentioned in the guidelines for patients with neurally
      mediated syncope (NMS) is limited. The first clinical study on cardiac denervation in humans
      was published in 2005. Derived from this first method, different approaches to
      cardioneuroablation (CNA) to treat NMS have been published. Such ablations are complex,
      bi-atrial, and extensive. Cardio-neuromodulation (CardNM) is a less extensive and right-sided
      approach to CNA, based on a tailored vagolysis of the sinoatrial node through partial
      ablation of the anterior right-ganglionated plexus. Evidence from a single-center,
      non-randomized, unblinded trial showed that CardNM was associated with a reduction in syncope
      burden exceeding 90%.

      This third study on CardNM (CardNMH3 study) is a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial
      with a sham control group investigating the efficacy and safety of a computed tomography
      (CT)-guided, right-sided ablation of the anterior ganglionated plexus to prevent recurrence
      of syncope in patients with neurally mediated syncope.

      The primary goal of the study is to determine whether a CT-guided, right-sided ablation of
      the anterior ganglionated plexus safely reduces the risk of recurrent episodes of syncope in
      patients with a history of recurrent NMS.

      Two-thirds of the patients will be randomized to the active arm and one-third to the control
      arm (sham).

      In all patients, the endocardial site to potentially target during ablation will be annotated
      before the procedure by a target line (TL) on a computed tomographic image of the heart
      imported into the CARTO system (Biosense Webster, Diamond Bar, CA), as detailed in the
      'intervention description'.

      The study procedure will be performed under general anesthesia according to a standardized
      protocol. In all patients, a diagnostic electrophysiology study (EPS) and electroanatomical
      mapping of the right atrium and the surrounding veins will be performed first. This image
      will be merged with the CT image and the TL will be visible. Randomization will be performed
      electronically at this stage of the procedure.

      In patients assigned to the active arm, the TL will be targeted by ablation as detailed in
      the intervention description'.

      The ablation procedure is considered complete when one of the following conditions is
      fulfilled:

        1. 10 radiofrequency applications have been delivered;

        2. After 5 radiofrequency applications, the P-P interval is <70% of the baseline procedural
           P-P interval and remains >550 ms 5 min after the last radiofrequency application;

        3. ≥5 radiofrequency applications have been delivered and the operator estimates that no
           additional P-P interval shortening will be obtained by additional radiofrequency
           applications;

        4. 3 radiofrequency applications have been delivered and the P-P interval is <550 ms after
           the last radiofrequency application and remains stable after 5 min of waiting.

      In all patients, a pharmacological evaluation and new diagnostic EPS will be performed to
      further evaluate the sinus node and atrioventricular nodal intrinsic activity at the end of
      the procedure, either after the diagnostic part of the procedure in the sham group or after
      the ablation in the active arm.

      Syncope burden, syncope occurrence and quality of life will be assessed by questionnaires
      completed at baseline and at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. A 24-h rhythm registration will be
      performed at baseline and at 1-, 3- and 6-month follow-up to investigate the influence of the
      intervention on heart rate.

      The effect of CardNM on blood pressure and on chronotropic sinus node function will be
      evaluated in 2 additional substudies. Patients enrolled in the blood-pressure substudy will
      undergo a 24-h blood pressure monitoring at baseline and at 1, 3 and 6 months. Participants
      in the sinus node competence substudy will undergo a bicycle exercise test at baseline and at
      1, 3 and 6 months.

      Investigators aim to achieve complete follow-up for 110 patients who meet the study
      enrollment criteria. If the syncope-free survival, the primary endpoint of the study, is
      significantly different between the 2 arms after the enrollment of fewer than 110 patients
      (minimum 55 patients), enrollment into the trial will be prematurely stopped. The study may
      also be terminated prematurely if safety concerns occur.
    
  