
    
      One of the most common gastrointestinal symptoms in end-stage renal disease patients
      undergoing hemodialysis is constipation, which is one of the risk factors of microbiota
      dysbiosis. One effect of dysbiosis is the increased level of a uremic toxin known as indoxyl
      sulfate. The accumulated concentration of indoxyl sulfate in end-stage renal disease patients
      undergoing hemodialysis is associated with inflammation and oxidative stress, which in turn
      increases the risk of cardiovascular event. Constipation and an increased risk of
      cardiovascular event is associated with low quality of life in chronic kidney disease
      patients undergoing hemodialysis.

      Synbiotics administrations had become one of the many ways to improve gut dysbiosis as it is
      expected to lower the level of indoxyl sulfate and improve the symptoms of constipation and
      constipation-related quality of life. Although studies had investigated the role of
      probiotics/prebiotics/synbiotics, the role of synbiotics in lowering the concentration of the
      uremic toxin indoxyl sulfate remains inconclusive. Therefore, this study is conducted to
      demonstrate the benefits of synbiotics administration in lowering the concentration of
      indoxyl sulfate in end-stage renal disease patients undergoing hemodialysis, This is the
      first study in Indonesia investigating the effects of synbiotics supplementation in end-stage
      renal disease patients undergoing hemodialysis.

      This study is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial conducted on
      end-stage renal disease patients undergoing hemodialysis. Patients will be divided into two
      arms: synbiotics and placebo. The study will take place in the hemodialysis unit of Dr. Cipto
      Mangunkusumo General Hospital in September 2020 to February 2021. A total of 60 participants
      will be recruited for the study (30 in each arm), who will be randomized into the synbiotic
      arm or the placebo arm. Both investigators and patients will be blinded to the treatment, and
      blinding will be conducted by the pharmacy unit of Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo General Hospital.

      Patients who had consented to participate will be assessed for medical history and physical
      examination. Food recall evaluation will also be performed by a nutritionist. Blood samples
      will be collected from the patient for laboratory examinations, including haemoglobin, white
      blood cells (WBC), platelet, urea, creatinine, albumin, and indoxyl sulfate. Patients will
      also be asked to complete two questionnaires: the Patient Assessment of Constipation Symptoms
      (PAC-SYM) questionnaire to assess the symptoms of constipation and the Patient Assessment of
      Constipation Quality of Life (PAC-QOL) questionnaire to assess constipation-related quality
      of life. After this, patients will be randomized into one of the two study arms. The data
      will serve as baseline data.

      Patients will receive 2 capsules containing either synbiotics or placebo per day for the next
      30 days. Afterwards, the patients will undergo examination to evaluate food recall and side
      effects. After evaluation, the patients will once again receive 2 capsules containing either
      synbiotics or placebo per day for the next 30 days, and after a total 2 months of
      interventions, will undergo examinations similar to that done in baseline examination.

      The primary outcome of this study is the concentration of indoxyl sulfate in end-stage renal
      disease patients undergoing hemodialysis. Secondary outcomes include the symptoms of
      constipation and constipation-related quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients
      undergoing hemodialysis.

      This study will be done according to the principles detailed in Helsinki declaration,
      Guideline for Good Clinical Practice from ICH Tripartite Guideline (ICH-GCP), and had been
      approved by the Ethical Committee of the Faculty of Medicine of Indonesia University.
    
  