
    
      Patients will be recruited primarily from the outpatient Liver Kirklin Clinic setting.

        1. Informed consent will be obtained by one of the investigators named in the protocol or
           by research coordinators involved with the study

        2. Eligibility will be confirmed by interview and review of medical records using the
           inclusion and exclusion criteria as listed above.

        3. Complete history and physical examination will be recorded especially for weight and
           body mass index, associated components of metabolic syndrome (diabetes, hypertension,
           and dyslipidemia), liver enzymes, and current medications list.

        4. All procedures such as imaging, endoscopy, and liver biopsy will be done as part of
           standard routine care of these patients and no procedure will be done as part of this
           research study.

        5. Patients would be randomized to standard clinical care or to text messaging in addition
           to standard clinical care. Standard clinical care includes obtaining data on history and
           physical examination, routine blood work as part of liver disease care, ultrasound and
           appropriate any other liver imaging as needed for patient care, counseling for at least
           7-10% weight loss with discussion on strategies to achieve this, management of other
           risk factors including diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, and counseling for
           compliance to taking medications and following up on future clinic visits. The study
           investigator would be blinded to the randomization and which group the patient is
           randomized to.

        6. Patients would be followed at the end of 6 months period for assessing the study
           outcomes as detailed earlier. Follow up for patients with stable liver disease is
           usually done every 3-6 months. No additional clinic visits would be needed for this
           study.

        7. During these 6 months, patients would receive standard text messages as detailed later.
           Patients will use their own cell phone to receive the text messages and reply to these
           messages. There will be no additional intervention or device needed for this study
    
  