
    
      SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19, has affected vulnerable individuals, especially those
      with comorbidities, and high exposure health care workers (HCWs). Typically, the virus first
      colonizes in the upper respiratory tract (URT) causing clinical symptoms such as coughing,
      sore throat, and then is transferred to the lower respiratory tract (LRT) which can lead to
      severe pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), sepsis, and death, if it is not
      managed.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) has presented comprehensive guidelines underscoring
      personal hygiene measures including respiratory hygiene against SARS, MERS, influenza, and
      now SARS-CoV-2 / COVID-19. While personal protection equipment (PPE), personal hygiene
      measures, environmental infection control, and physical distancing are crucial in mitigating
      disease transmission, respiratory hygiene measures do not prevent SARS-CoV-2 colonization in
      URTs and LRTs of infected individuals (symptomatic and asymptomatic).

      Experimental and clinical research studies on infections similar to COVID-19 such as SARS,
      MERS, and H5N1 have shown that using antiseptic mouthwash/gargling solutions, such as
      products containing chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG), polyvinylpyrrolidone iodine (PVP-I),
      chlorine dioxide (ClO2), cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC), and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) can
      reduce viral load. A randomized controlled trial (N=387) showed efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness of gargling with water or a product containing PVP-I (3X/day, 20 seconds)
      on URTIs in healthy volunteers (18-65 years) over 60 days from a societal perspective; in
      vitro studies have shown that CloSYS, an over the counter mouthwash containing ClO2, was
      effective on inactivating SARS-CoV as well as disinfecting dental unit waterlines, and
      biofilm control in ultrasonic dental scaling units. A recent study has shown that CloSYS
      Ultra Sensitive Oral Rinse reduced the viral load of SARS CoV 2, SARS CoV, and Influenza A
      H3N2 to a varying extent. The data show that the viral load reduction of SARS CoV 2 by Ultra
      Sensitive rinse was 10 fold more than the reduction of SARS CoV in 30s. Recently, the US
      Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the American Dental Association (ADA) have recommended
      using a mouthwash containing 1.0-1.5% H2O2 as a pre-procedural rinse before dental treatment
      to potentially reduce SARS-CoV-2 load; however, no in vivo clinical studies have been
      conducted to support this claim.

      The aim of this pilot trial is to evaluate the effect of four over-the-counter antiseptic
      mouthwash/gargling solutions compared to a control (distilled water) to reduce SARS-CoV-2
      load. In addition, study participants will be assessed for the severity of their clinical
      symptoms during the study period. The 4-week protocol was selected as studies have shown that
      patients can continue to shed the virus and potentially transmit it to the others for a 2 to
      4 week period. An interim analysis is planned when 10 participants per arm (50 total)
      complete the study using the alpha-spending function with O'Brien-Fleming boundary rule.
    
  