
    
      Induction chemotherapy is regarded as an effective way to reduce or downgrade the locally
      advanced or aggressive cancers, and to improve the chance of eradication of the locoregional
      lesions by radical surgery and/or radiotherapy. However, there are still debates on the
      clinical value of induction chemotherapy for patients with advanced and resectable oral
      squamous cell carcinoma(OSCC). A prospective, open label, parallel, interventional,
      randomized control trial on TPF induction chemotherapy indicate there is no difference in
      overall survival, disease free survival, local regional recurrence free survival and
      metastasis free survival between experimental group and control group,（Zhong et al,
      Randomized Phase III Trial of Induction Chemotherapy With Docetaxel, Cisplatin, and
      Fluorouracil Followed by Surgery Versus Up-Front Surgery in Locally Advanced Resectable Oral
      Squamous Cell Carcinoma, J Clin Oncol 2013） however, the meta analysis proves that the
      induction chemotherapy of TPF protocol could benefit the patients with cN2 locally advanced
      oral squamous cell carcinoma. The previous study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov website
      with NCT01542931 identification number.

      This prospective, interventional, randomized control trial was to evaluate the TPF induction
      chemotherapy have a better effects in the cN2 patients with locally advanced and resectable
      OSCC. The patients would receive TPF induction chemotherapy followed by radical surgery and
      post-operative radiotherapy (the experimental group) or radical surgery and post-operative
      radiotherapy (the control group).

      The study had a power of 80% on the basis of an assumed 2-year survival rate of 62.4% in the
      experiment group and 36.9% in the control group, with use of a two-sided log-rank test at a
      level of significance of 0.05. The recruitment period would be 2 years, and the follow-up
      period would be 2 years, and 15% of patients would drop out early or be lost to follow-up. A
      total number of 101 patients were to be recruited with stplan 4.5 software calculation.
      （Department of Biostatics, MD Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas，USA） The patients
      in the experimental group received the TPF induction chemotherapy for 2 cycles followed by
      radical surgery and post-operative radiotherapy. The palpable edges of the primary lesion
      (both the longest and shortest axis) were marked before induction chemotherapy by at least
      four points, which were 0.5cm away. The patients in the control group received the radical
      surgery and post-operative radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy.

      Induction chemotherapy: For the patients who were randomly assigned to receive TPF induction
      chemotherapy, peripherally inserted central catheter was firstly inserted before intravenous
      infusion, docetaxel(at a dose of 75mg/m2 of body surface area) was administered as a 2-hour
      intravenous infusion, followed by intravenous cisplatin(75 mg/m2), administered during a
      period of 2 to 3 hours. Then, 5-Fu(750 mg/m2/day) was administered as a 120-hour continuous
      intravenous infusion for 5 days. Induction chemotherapy was given every 3 weeks for 2 cycles,
      unless there was disease progression, unacceptable toxic effects, or withdrawal of consent by
      the patients. Dexamethasone was given before docetaxel infusion to prevent docetaxel-related
      hypersensitivity reactions, skin toxic effects, and fluid retention; prophylactic antibiotics
      were also given starting on day 5 of each cycle for 3 days. Hydration with diuretic and
      antiemetic treatment was also performed. Primary prophylaxis with recombinant granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor was not suggested. Chemotherapy dose reductions were allowed for
      grade 3/4 toxicities occurring after cycle 1: 25% and 50% dose reductions of the three
      chemotherapy agents were suggested for grade 3 and grade 4 hematologic toxicities or
      gastrointestinal toxicities, respectively; 25% and 50% cisplatin dose reductions were
      suggested for grade 3 and grade 4 renal toxicities, respectively. Surgery was performed at
      least 2 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy.

      Surgery: Radical resection of the primary lesion and full neck dissection(functional or
      radical) with proper reconstruction(pedicle or free flap) were performed. The safety margins
      of the primary lesion were 1.0-1.5cm far away from the palpable margins of the lesion; for
      patients who received induction chemotherapy, the safety margins were 1.0cm away from the
      marks that were placed before induction chemotherapy, to ensure the same extent surgery in
      both arms. Frozen sections during surgery were performed to confirm adequate margins.

      Post-operative radiotherapy: Radiotherapy was arranged 4 to 6 weeks after surgery. Routine
      external beam radiotherapy, such as conformal or intensity modulated radiotherapy was
      performed, and the dose was 1.8-2 Gy/day, 5 days/week for 6 weeks, and totally 54-60 Gy, in
      the patient with high risk features, such as positive surgical margin, extra capsular nodal
      spread, vascular embolism, concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin 80mg/m2 was suggested.

      A complete medical history was obtained and tumor assessment was performed at baseline.
      Clinical tumor response was assessed by clinical evaluation and imaging study and was
      characterized according to the criteria of response evaluation criteria in solid tumors
      (version 1.1) before surgery. Post-operative pathologic response was assessed by
      post-operative pathologic examination as good and bad response. A good response was defined
      as absence of any tumor cells (pathologic complete response) or presence of scattered foci of
      a few tumor cells (minimal residual disease with <10% viable tumor cells); otherwise, a bad
      pathologic response was defined. Toxic effects were assessed weekly during and after
      completion of induction chemotherapy and radiotherapy according to the common terminology
      criteria for adverse events (version 3.0).

      Overall survival was calculated from the date of randomization to the date of death; disease
      free survival was calculated from the date of randomization to tumor recurrence or distant
      metastasis or death from any cause; locoregional recurrence/distant metastasis free survival
      was calculated from the date of randomization to locoregional recurrence/distant metastasis
      of tumor or death from any cause. Time to locoregional recurrence/distant metastasis was
      calculated from the date of finishing treatment to tumor locoregional recurrence/distant
      metastasis. Patients were monitored by every three months in the first two years, every six
      months in the next 2 years, and once a year thereafter until death or data censoring.
    
  