
    
      DESIGN

      Prospective multicenter case series

      AIMS

      Primary aim To describe the proportions of technical and clinical success. To describe
      different variants in the nasobiliary drain assissted EUS-GE technique, offering a detailed
      step by step description of the procedure performance by different endoscopists

      Secondary aims:

      To describe the adverse encountered, their severity according to ASGE standards and their
      management.

      To describe the time elapsed between the procedure and the initial oral intake.

      To describe the evolution of the oral intake during the first month after the procedure To
      assess the impact of the operators experience on procedure times, adverse events and
      technical issues.

      To assess the impact of the procedure on the quality of life of the participating patients.

      STUDY POPULATION

      All consecutive patients over 18 years of age receiving a nasobiliary drain assisted EUS-GE
      for unresectable malignant GOO are eligible to participate in this study. Patients with a
      previous gastroduodenal surgery, a previous endoscopic or surgical treatment for GOO, a
      simultaneous malignant biliary obstruction requiring endoscopic treatment, a distal bowel
      obstruction, ascites grade 2 or superior, uncorrectable coagulation disorders (INR>1,5) or
      severe thrombocytopenia (<50000 platelets/mm3). or unable to understand the questionnaires
      will be excluded.

      INTERVENTION

      At inclusion

      Informed consent will be obtained. A clinical interview and a physical examination will be
      performed. TheEuropean Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer QoL Questionnaire
      Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30), which includes 30 items covering a global health status scale, five
      functional scales and ten symptom scales will be assessed in a telephone interview.

      Endoscopic procedure

      All procedures will be performed under sedation. An assistant endoscopist or research nurse
      will retrieve all data regarding the procedure. Firstly, un upper digestive endoscopy is
      performed with a conventional gastroscope. A guidewire is passed through the malignant lesion
      causing the gastric outlet obstruction. Once the guidewire is located in the distal
      duodenum/proximal jejunum, a nasobiliary drain (Nasal Biliary Drainage Sets, Cook medical,
      Indiana) is advanced over the guidewire until its distal end is placed in the distal
      duodenum/jejunum. At this point the gastroscope is substituted by a therapeutic
      echoendoscope. With the echoendoscope in place, the target bowel loop is filled with saline
      combined with methilene blue and radiopaque contrast. The echoendoscope is used to identify
      the target bowel loop. AFter identifying the target, a lumen apposing metal stent (Axios,
      Boston Scientific, Massachusetts) is deployed across the gastric and bowel using its
      electrocautery enhanced deployment device.

      Post procedure: Oral liquid intake can be restarted 4h after the procedure in patients
      presenting no signs or symptoms suggesting any adverse event. Pacients with an adequate
      tolerance might be discharged.

      Follow-up

      Clinical telephone interviews by an experienced research nurse will be held via telephone
      calls 1 day, 7 days and 30 days after the procedure. Oral intake and adverse events will be
      assessed every visit. Thirty days after the procedure a second evaluation of the
      EORTC-QLQ-C30 will be performed.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Categorical variables were reported as percentages. Normally distributed continuous variables
      were reported as the mean with the standard deviation values. Non-normally distributed
      continuous variables were reported as the median and interquartile range. The EORTC QLQ-C30
      descriptive analysis was performed with a specifically programmed Stata command (10).
      Variables regarding the procedure step by step analysis will only undergo a descriptive
      analysis. Differences between the different outcomes of the EORTC-QLQ-C30 will be assessed
      using linear mixed models with fixed effects for baseline values, and interaction with
      oncological treatment. The statistical analysis will be performed using the Stata package
      (StataCorp. 2013, College Station, Texas).
    
  