
    
      The study design is a prospective, randomized, triple-blinded placebo controlled crossover
      trial. A computer-generated list of random numbers will be used for allocation of patients.
      The patients, treating physicians, and outcome assessors will be masked to the contents of
      the Botulinum Toxin Type A (BtA) and placebo syringe injections. The placebo will consist of
      vehicle only, which is the same sterile normal 0.9% saline used in reconstitution of the BtA.
      At month 6, each group will crossover and receive the alternative intervention. The primary
      outcome measure (JRS severity) will be the change as measured 1 month after the second cycle
      of each intervention. Secondary outcome measures include the TWSTRS (clinical response),
      Blepharospasm Disability Index (BSDI), CDQ-24 (quality of life), VAS (pain), and GAS (global)
      scores and incidence of side effects. The investigators plan to compare the outcome measures
      between groups with linear mixed models allowing for the crossover design.

      Data will be collected at each of the injection visits and at both of the clinical activity
      visits. The data will be processed by the research assistant and analysed by the project
      biostatistician. The investigators plan to compare the primary (JRS) and secondary outcome
      measures (TWSTRS, BSDI, CDQ-24, VAS, and GAS scores) between the Preseptal-pretarsal (Group
      1) and the Pretarsal-preseptal (Group 2) allowing for the crossover design. Specifically, the
      investigators will use a 2-sample t-test to compare all values of the JRS in group 1 with all
      the values of the JRS in group 2. This will allow the investigators to determine whether
      carryover effects are present, and the investigators have specified a 3-month washout period
      between the first and second round of injections to minimise the chance of carryover effects.
      If carryover effects are present, the investigators will allow for these in further analysis.
      The investigators will then use linear mixed models to estimate the difference between the
      two interventions, allowing for the repeated measures, and if necessary for carryover
      effects. In secondary analyses, the investigators will evaluate the proportion of patients
      with relief of spasm, improvement in quality of life, and incidence of side effects,
      including eyelid ptosis measurements between the two interventions, using logistic
      regression. P values of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant. All
      analyses will be conducted under the principle of Intention to Treat, using multiple
      imputation to account for any missing data and to include all randomized patients in
      analysis.
    
  