
    
      History and current status of related studies Intertrochanteric femoral fracture frequently
      occurs in the elderly that is often complicated by different levels of osteoporosis, and
      mostly belongs to unstable fractures. This disorder is also frequently complicated by various
      chronic diseases, which make patients have poorer surgical tolerance. Surgical treatment is
      the widely accepted treatment method of intertrochanteric femoral fracture because it can
      accelerate the recovery and reduce the complications caused by long-term bed time.
      Intertrochanteric femoral fracture is unstable and occurs mostly in the elderly, so surgical
      treatment should meet the requirements including less risk of wound infection, less
      intraoperative blood loss, great holding potential and strong stability of the implants,
      which contribute to early hip joint function exercise and facilitate recovery after surgery.

      According to the design principle of orthopedic implants, intramedullary and extramedullary
      fixations are commonly used. Compared to extramedullary fixation, intramedullary fixation
      places fixators closer to the affected region, produces shorter moment arm of force, better
      shares the compression forces on the medial cortex of the femoral neck, exhibits higher shear
      resistance, and provides greater stabilization for complex fractures in the elderly.

      Compared to Garmma nail, an AO (Association for Osteosynthesis) proximal femoral nail has an
      antirotation screw in the proximal end which ensures an elastic fixation of the fracture and
      reduces the complications such as femoral shaft fractures. Nevertheless, 2 screws should be
      installed in the femoral neck, which restricts the slippage between the main screw and the
      compression screw, thus partial loading will be delivered through antirotation screws,
      leading to occurrence of complications such as antirotation screw cutting and compression
      screw withdrawal.

      Conventional internal fixation methods including implantations of dynamic hip screws, Gamma
      nails, and proximal femoral intramedullary nail exhibit unfavorable effects in the treatment
      of intertrochanteric femoral fracture, in particular those complicated by severe osteoporosis
      because these methods cannot achieve firm and reliable fixation with occasional nail head
      cutting and nail withdrawal. Therefore, AO/ASIF (Association for Osteosynthesis/Association
      for the Study of Internal Fixation) designed a novel antirotation intramedullary nail, which
      better reduces the abovementioned complications.

      Proximal femoral nail antirotation (PFNA) is a device designed based on proximal femoral
      intramedullary nail and other intramedullary nails. This device is equipped with a spiral
      wide blade which exhibits obvious antirotation and angular shear stress abilities, greatly
      reducing complications and decreasing the possibility of surgical delay. Compared to
      conventional screw systems, PFNA provides stronger antirotation and anti-inversion abilities.
      For tapping of a spiral blade in the femoral neck, only lateral femoral cortex should be
      opened without a need to remove bone matrix. The spiral blade tapped in the femoral neck will
      produce compression to the bone in the femoral neck. Even though for patients with severe
      osteoporosis, the spiral blade in the femoral neck can produce firm anchoring force with the
      femoral neck. Compared with screw fixation, a spiral blade exhibits a larger rotational
      torque, requires a smaller strength to be pulled out, and does not need additional screws
      tapped in the femoral neck, so the latter is easier to be operated. The PFNA has a
      medial-lateral angle of 6°, this allows insertion at the tip of the greater trochanter. The
      distal diameter of the PFNA is relatively small, and its eccentricity is reduced compared to
      that of intramedullary nails, which is more suitable to the anatomical morphology of proximal
      femoral medullary cavity. The locking pores of the PFNA at its distal tip include round
      static and oval-shaped dynamic types. Vertical installation of screws is considered dynamic
      interlocking and oblique installation of screws static interlocking. From the perspective of
      design, PFNA exhibits better biomechanical stability and shows advantages in duration of
      surgery, intraoperative blood loss, failure rate of surgery and overall complications over
      than internal fixation methods.

      PFNA for the treatment of intertrochanteric femoral fracture in many cases has been reported,
      but related studies are mainly retrospective case series, and a few retrospective randomized
      controlled trials are reported.

      Features different from other related studies Progress: PFNA is a device designed based on
      modification of Garmma nail and it integrates the advantages of a dynamic hip screw (DHS)
      used for extramedullary fixation and an intramedullary fixation device. PFNA exhibits more
      advantages over DHS, including (1) smaller stress shielding, being more conducive to fracture
      healing, and reduced cut-out phenomenon; (2) better shares the compressive stress of medial
      femur, leading to lower incidence of hip deformity. Both proximal femoral intramedullary nail
      and PFNA belong to intramedullary nails, but the latter exhibits the following advantages:
      (1) one assembly can achieve antirotation and angular stability; (2) the wide blade at the
      tip can compress as much peripheral matrix as possible, in particular under the circumstance
      of osteoporosis, exhibiting better holding potential; (3) the blade of PFNA is more closely
      attached to the matrix, which strengthens the stabilization of implant and prevents against
      rotation and varus deformity; (4) biomechanical tests have confirmed that the spiral blade
      can greatly increase shearing capacity; (5) spiral blades are implanted via a lateral
      incision and internal fixation has the features including minimal wound, less bleeding,
      satisfied reduction, rapid recovery, highly stable fractured stumps, being more conducive to
      early exercise, avoidance of prolonged force arm caused by extramedullary fixation, increased
      shear stress in the proximal femur, which greatly reduce the possibility of failure of
      internal fixation.

      Feasibility: Intramedullary nail for the treatment of long bone fracture has been widely used
      in the clinic and expert consensus has been achieved. The novel PFNA for the treatment of
      interchochanteric femoral fracture in the elderly produces minimal wound, is easily
      performed, and is therefore highly feasible in the clinic. Our team has been ready for
      performing this project from various perspectives: (1) Personnel: This project will be
      equipped with 2 chief physicians, 2 associate chief physicians, 3 attending physicians, 2
      resident physicians, and 1 graduate student. Our team has a strong clinical and scientific
      research capacity. (2) Techniques: our team has performed open or closed reduction and
      intramedullary nail fixation in many patients, so we are experienced, can provide
      sophisticated surgical skills in orthopedic trauma and joint surgery. (3) Equipment: The
      study setting has been equipped with orthopedic traction bed, X-ray, CT, MR scanners and
      other large equipments. All of these can provide hardware and software support.

      Safety: Under fluoroscopic guidance, closed reduction will be followed by minimally invasive
      intramedullary nail fixation, which can effectively avoid vessel and nerve injury.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access Data collection: According to trial
      design type and requirement, a table will be developed to record trial data. The recorded
      data will be input into an electronic database using a double-data entry strategy by trained
      professional staff.

      Data management: Information accuracy will be checked when all recruited patients are
      followed up. The database will be locked by the research in charge and will not be altered.
      All information relating to this trial will be preserved by Chaohu Hospital of Anhui Medical
      University, China.

      Data analysis: The electronic database will be fully disclosed to a professional statistician
      for statistical analysis.

      Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS19.0 software. The
      normally distributed continuous variables will be expressed as the mean ± standard deviation,
      and those non-normally distributed variables will be expressed as median and quartile. The
      categorical variables will be expressed as counts and the percentage. Paired t test or
      Wilcoxon test (paired samples) will be used for comparison of continuous variables between
      prior to and after PFNA implantation and the chi-square test for comparison of categorical
      variables between prior to and after PFNA implantation. A level of P < 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  