
    
      The fatigue-sleep disturbance-depression (FSD) symptom cluster is one of the most common
      symptom clusters in breast cancer (BC) patients, which can significantly deteriorate
      patients' functional status and quality of life. Since symptom cluster management has been
      unsatisfactory by using pharmacological treatments alone, the use of non-pharmacological
      adjuvant approaches has therefore been recommended. Being an important modality of acupoint
      stimulation, somatic acupressure (SA) can be a promising non-pharmacological intervention
      given its potential benefits for cancer symptom alleviation and its convenience for
      self-practice without increasing patients' physical and financial burden. However, current
      research on acupoint stimulation for cancer symptom management has been mainly focusing on
      individual symptom, and intervention protocols have been found significantly varied in
      intervention dosages and acupoint formula without a standardised protocol developed via a
      rigorous evidence-based research approach. The proposed study therefore follows the Medical
      Research Council (MRC) Framework for Developing and Evaluating Complex Intervention (the MRC
      Framework) to develop an evidence-based SA protocol to help with a better management of the
      FSD symptom cluster in BC. The first two phases of the MRC Framework will be included in this
      study. The first phase utilizes an evidence-based method to comprehensively review all
      available research evidence on acupoint-stimulation for cancer-related fatigue, sleep
      disturbance and depression, and further identify the most effective acupoint formula with the
      optimal SA duration and frequency. A preliminary SA protocol will then be developed based on
      the current research evidence and relevant theories and guidelines of acupoint stimulation. A
      content validity study will be conducted then to examine the content validity of the SA
      protocol via an expert panel. In the second phase, a feasibility randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) will be conducted to examine the acceptability of the SA protocol, pilot the
      methodological procedure of the clinical trial and preliminarily examine the effects of SA on
      the FSD symptom cluster in BC. Semi-structured interviews will be conducted afterwards to
      explore patients' experiences of participating in the study and receiving the SA.
    
  