
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the impact of risk-tailored messages vs standard health information on the
           outcome of mammography in healthy women.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the effect of these interventions on breast self-examination, clinical breast
           exam, risk perceptions, and breast cancer worry.

        -  Compare the mechanism of action of these interventions on participants by assessing the
           impact of covariants (coping mechanisms, expanded Health Belief Model variables, breast
           cancer worry, breast cancer risk factors including family history, risk perceptions,
           discussion of breast cancer with relatives, previous screening practices, intentions to
           screen, and various demographic variables-age, race, and education) on breast cancer
           screening.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study.

      Participants are approached to complete a baseline survey while they are waiting for their
      clinic visits. Baseline surveys measure breast cancer risk factors, current breast cancer
      screening practices, intentions to screen, risk perceptions, breast cancer worry, coping
      mechanisms, and discussion of breast cancer with relatives. After completion of the baseline
      surveys, participants are then randomized to 1 of 2 education arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention group): Participants undergo a computerized risk assessment followed
           by personalized risk-tailored health messages. Health messages are based on principles
           of the expanded Health Belief Model (HBM). These messages include screening and
           lifestyle recommendations, information on the seriousness of breast cancer, instructions
           on how to arrange a mammography appointment, and contact information for genetic and
           psychosocial counseling.

        -  Arm II (control group): Participants receive generalized breast health information
           sheets that contain appropriate screening and lifestyle recommendations for the general
           public and contact information for genetic and psychosocial counseling.

      All participants undergo follow-up assessment by telephone (or by mail if unreachable by
      phone) at 1, 6, and 18 months after the initial intervention. Self-reported mammography use,
      additional breast health monitoring practices, risk perception, breast cancer worry, coping
      mechanisms, HBM-related beliefs, and family communication are measured.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 900 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  