
    
      The protocol combines scientifically proven interventions to standardize medical care,
      improve treatment outcomes and reduce healthcare costs. The aim is to reduce surgical trauma
      and postoperative pain, reduce complications, shorten hospital treatment and improve
      postoperative recovery. Moreover, it has been shown that using standardized, patient oriented
      recovery protocol significantly improves the outcomes and quality of care, but also brings
      financial benefit for the hospital as well as for the health system in general. Studies about
      implementing multidisciplinary recovery protocol in orthopedic and traumatology are scarce.
      Orthopedic and traumatology surgeries are often followed by a long-lasting and demanding
      recovery characterized by the difficulties of everyday functioning. Recovery is therefore
      multidisciplinary: for example, it is necessary to monitor the nutritional status of a
      patient, decrease postoperative pain, monitor cognitive status, etc. Until now only a few
      publications of recovery protocols in orthopedics and traumatology have been published,
      mostly to improve the care of patients after elective surgical procedures. The goal of this
      protocol in orthopedics and traumatology is to improve the care of both urgent and elective
      patients using standardized, multi-professional care programs. It was created based on
      evidence-based practice and modified by multidisciplinary team of orthopedic and traumatology
      surgeons, anesthesiologists, physiatrist, physiotherapists, specialized medical nurses,
      nutritionists, and psychiatrists. It focuses on patient preoperative education, preoperative
      respiratory training, adequate nutritive and hemodynamic support, modified local and regional
      anesthesia protocol, prevention of postoperative pain, nausea and vomiting, and early
      postoperative delirium detection. The investigators postulate that the implementation of this
      program will reduce the rate of postoperative complications and the rate of
      rehospitalization, enhance the recovery after surgery and increase the satisfaction with the
      treatment.
    
  