
    
      BACKROUND Obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the world affecting nowadays, along
      with overweight, over a third of the world's population. It is a chronic multifactorial
      illness that can lead to potentially life threatening diseases (such as metabolic disorders,
      cardiovascular disease, stroke, liver disease, and cancer) that can be prevented and improved
      by weight loss.

      A widely accepted option for the treatment of obesity is the endoscopic approach by many
      different techniques, ranging from the placement of an intragastric balloon (IGB) to
      Endoscopic Sleeve Gastroplasty (ESG Apollo) with Overstitch Endoscopic Suturing Device,
      Primary Obesity Surgery Endolumenal 2 (POSE2) and Endoluminal Vertical Gastroplasty (EVG)
      with an endoluminal-suturing device (Endomina). Basically, Bariatric Endoscopy (BE) has two
      mechanism of action. The first one consists in reduction of the stomach capacity and the
      second one is alteration of gastric motility.

      The major advantages of BE techniques consist in their lower invasiveness compared to
      surgery, reversibility, short hospital stay, and cost-effectiveness. For instance,
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is the most performed bariatric surgery procedure that
      is effective but is associated with important adverse events as bleeding from the staple line
      that can occur in up to 5% of the procedures, gastric leak and persistent fistulas that can
      occur in up to 8% the LSG.

      The weight reduction is conditioned by patient gastric capacity and treatment duration but
      also the change in the attitude of the patient towards food and physical activity may be
      fundamental. It is therefore important that the patient is motivated to lose weight and aware
      of the consequences of his behaviour.

      As at the moment many endoscopic bariatric techniques are available and most of them are
      often interchangeable, it could be important to start clarifying if there are any differences
      among them in terms of their safety and efficacy.

      TYPE OF STUDY Single centre, prospective, randomized controlled study.

      OBJECTIVES Primary objective of the study is to establish a standardized patients selection
      method to BE for the treatment of I and II grade obesity.

      TRIAL DESIGN All patients with indication to BE will be revised by an internal
      multidisciplinary team composed of gastroenterologist, surgeon, dietitian, psychiatrist,
      radiologist and endocrinologist.

      Before each endoscopic bariatric procedure, the patients will be subjected to a
      psychoclinical assessment (a clinical interview along with psychometric tests) to identify
      psychopathological conditions which may contraindicate the treatment or personality traits
      that may predict a successfull treatment (Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-III, MCMI-III)
      ; during this visit it will be also evaluated the patients' food-related behavior (Eating
      Problem Checklist EPCL) , their binge eating severity (Binge Eating Scale BES) , various
      aspects of body-image perception and body attitudes (Body Uneasiness Test BUT) , the eating
      impulsivity (BIS-11 Barratt Impulsiveness Scale BIS-11) , and the patients' quality of life
      based on a combination of generic and specific instruments (Obesity Related Well-Being
      questionnaire ORWELL 97) , collateral QoL measures (as the Short Form of SF-36 health Survey,
      SF-12 and BAROS Bariatric Analysis and Reporting Outcome System) , together with the
      patients' own intervention; major endocrine disorders will be excluded and an
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy will be performed in order to exclude also endoscopic
      contraindications to the endoscopic bariatric procedure.

      Before each endoscopic bariatric procedure patients also will get their first dietician
      examination while at hospital. During the first visit, all patients will be subjected to a
      clinical interview in order to estimate their calories intake, their eating and taste habits
      and their level of physical activity, then will be collected anthropometric data (height,
      weight, circumferences) in order to calculate Body Mass Index (BMI), Waist/Hips ratio (WHR)
      and cardiovascular risk. Furthermore the dietician will identify a goal for each patient in
      terms of weight loss and physical activity improvement per week, reinforcing successful
      outcomes and rewarding good behaviors, also through the involvement of patients family
      members as social support. Just after the endoscopic bariatric procedure patients will be
      given a two months refeeding protocol, different depending on endoscopic procedure.

      Before the preliminary esophagogastroduodenoscopy a blood and stool sample will be collected
      in order to establish the initial ormonal and microbiota asset for each patient.

      A liver ultrasound with elastography will be performed in order to evaluate the degree of
      steatosis. A transit study examination and a barium x-ray will be performed in order to test
      the motility and the size of the stomach before the endoscopic bariatric procedure.

      After informed consent will be obtained, patients will be randomly enrolled to each
      procedure, according a software released by the GraphPad Software Company.

      Each procedure will be performed by two skilled endoscopists in obesity procedures and with
      an anaesthesiologist support for monitoring, deep sedation or general anesthesia.

      The patients undergoing the bariatric procedure will be randomly divided as follows:

        -  ¼ patients will be treated with adjustable or nonadjustable fluid-filled IGB (placed
           into the gastric cavity through the mouth by a gastroscope and filled with 690 ml of
           saline and 10 ml methylene blue solution in order to diagnose an eventual asymptomatic
           rupture of the intragastric device) lasting in situ for 1 year;

        -  ¼ patients will be treated with ESG (created by a series of endoluminally placed
           free-hand, full-thickness, closely spaced sutures through the gastric wall from the
           pre-pyloric antrum to the gastroesophageal junction by using an endoscopic suturing
           device called Overstitch. This procedure reduces the entire stomach along the greater
           curvature, to form an endoscopically created sleeve);

        -  ¼ patients will be treated with POSE2 (large, overtube-style platform that has 4 working
           channels that can accommodate a slim endoscope and 3 specialized instruments to place
           transmural tissue anchor plications in parts of the gastric body);

        -  ¼ patients will be treated with EVG (by using an over-the-scope triangulation platform
           attached to an endoscope, anterior-to-posterior greater curvature plications are
           applied).

      After the procure the patients will undergo a dietician check each 1.5 months till 6 months,
      then each 3 months till two years. Just after the first follow-up patients will be given a
      new customized food plan. During each dietician check will be collected new anthropometric
      data and patients will be trained to reduce calories intake, to increase physical activity,
      to self-monitoring, to slower eating and they will undergo a nutritional education in order
      to obtain behavior-change intervention. During dietician checks, the patients will be
      interviewed regarding their quality of life according the Weiner's Bariatric Quality of Life
      Index , their behavior change about diet and calories intake and will be collected new
      anthropometric data in order to evaluate the % of total body weight loss (%TBW) and the Δ
      Body Mass Index (ΔBMI). dietician checks will be performed by a dietician who is skilled both
      in dietician support and behavioral therapy for obese patients.

      Furthermore during the follow-up patients will also undergo a psychological visits, with the
      same timing of the dietician checks (each 1.5 months till 6 months, then each 3 months till
      two years), in order to evaluate the compliance to the previous given instructions, to
      reinforce good eating behaviors and, after a psychoclinical reassessment through some of the
      above mentioned tests, to give a psychological support in case of need.

      Patients will undergo also a gastroenterological visit 1.5 months later the endoscopic
      bariatric procedure and then each 3 months till 1 year to assess any possible adverse event
      to the procedure or to modify therapy in case of symptoms not well controlled.

      A liver ultrasound with elastography, a transit study examination and a barium x-ray will be
      performed 6 months after the procedure in order to evaluate any change in hepatic steatosis,
      motility and size of the stomach.

      An esophagogastroduodenoscopy will be performed 1 year later the endoscopic bariatric
      procedure for BIB removal (as requested in these cases) or to check sutures and plications
      condition and stomach integrity in those patients who underwent gastroplasty techniques.

      Blood and stool samples will be collected 30±15 90±15, 180±15, 270±15 and 360±15 days after
      each endoscopic bariatric procedure in order to evaluate hormonal and microbiota
      modifications.

      PATIENTS At least seventy-six adult patients with I or II grade obesity eligible for
      endoscopic bariatric therapy will retrospectively, randomly and consecutively enrolled in one
      Endoscopy Unit: Mater Olbia Hospital (Olbia, Italy).

      SAMPLE SIZE Assuming from the literature that the bariatric endoscopic techniques considered
      in our protocol have similar results in the short-term period (i.e. 15-20% of % Total Body
      Weight Loss), while hypothesising relevant differences in the long-term period, a total
      sample size of 76 patients will be sufficient to detect a difference of means among the 4
      groups, assuming an effect size of 40%, a power of 80% and a significance level of 5%.

      STATISTICS Descriptive analyses included medians and ranges for continuous variables and
      frequencies and percentages for categorical data. Variables were analyzed using the
      Shapiro-Wilk test to determine if they were normally distributed. Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test
      was used to compare interval data not conforming to a normal distribution. Data will be
      compared by Student's t test, analysis of variance (ANOVA) or the non-parametric Mann-Whitney
      U test, as appropriate. Categorical variables will be analyzed using χ2 test or Fisher's
      exact test, as appropriate. Correlations between continuous measures will be inspected using
      Pearson's (r) or Spearman's (ρ) correlation, as appropriate. For multiple-comparison the
      Bonferroni correction (pc) was used. A P-value of < 0.05 was considered to be statistically
      significant. A complete-case analysis has been conducted. All data were analyzed with STATA
      version 12 (StataCorp, College Station, Tex).

      INFORMED CONSENT STATEMENT All patients were required to give informed consent to the study.
      All clinical data will be obtained after each patient agreed to treatment by written consent.

      DATA RETENTION Data will be retained by the Mater Olbia Hospital in the electronic archive
      provided for each patient during their first admission at Hospital, as it always happens for
      all patients.

      INSURANCE All patients will be covered by the regular insurance provided by the Mater Olbia
      Hospital for inpatients and outpatients as the same steps are scheduled also for each patient
      who should undergo an endoscopic bariatric procedure out of this study.
    
  