
    
      We designed a prospective study including patients who will undergo upper gastrointestinal
      endoscopy from July 2019 to June 2020 at the Endoscopy Unit of Hospital Clinic of Barcelona.

      The Ethics Committee of Hospital Clinic of Barcelona approved the study.

      Upper gastrointestinal endoscopies will be performed with high definition endoscopes
      (Olympus, Germany) without magnification by three endoscopists. One of the endoscopists is
      considered as an expert with more than 20 years of experience and prior training in Japanese
      centers. All the examinations will be performed with sedation controlled by an
      anesthesiologist. After the routine examination of the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum,
      close observation will be carried out at the distal part of the lesser curvature and pictures
      will be taken. The Olympus system will be used for image storing and text reporting.

      The presence of a regular or irregular arrangement of collecting venules will be evaluated in
      real time during gastric exploration in the lower part of the lesser curvature of the gastric
      body with good insufflation, close to the incisura angularis. If minute red points were
      visible regularly and homogenously, the finding will be scored as RAC positive (RAC+). If
      this finding was absent or there was a patchy distribution at the site of close observation,
      it will be defined as RAC negative (RAC-).

      The following baseline characteristics will be collected: age, sex, antibiotics, proton-pump
      inhibitors, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), antithrombotic or anticoagulant
      use in the last two weeks, history of Hp eradication and detection of significant endoscopic
      findings (erosive duodenitis, non-erosive duodenitis, duodenal ulcer, erosive gastritis,
      gastric ulcer and signs of atrophic gastritis or intestinal metaplasia).

      Hp infection status will be determined by mucosal biopsies. We will perform 5 samples for
      histological study according to Sydney criteria (2 in antrum, 1 in incisura angularis and 2
      in gastric body); or 2 biopsies (1 in antrum and 1 in gastric body) for histology and
      immunohistochemical study for Hp. Patients were classified as Hp positive if one of these two
      tests are positive.

      For the histological study, samples will be fixed in formalin and stained with hematoxylin
      and eosin for the evaluation of gastritis and with Giemsa for Hp status. The
      immunohistochemical study will be carried out systematically in the case of a negative
      histological study for Hp. The pathologist has access to the endoscopic diagnosis but not to
      RAC status.

      Statistical analysis

      The quantitative variables will be described by the mean and the standard deviation, while
      the qualitative variables by proportion. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive
      value (PPV), NPV and accuracy of RAC for the diagnosis of uninfected Hp patients will be
      calculated. 95% confidence interval will be calculated by using standard formula. Comparisons
      will be done using Chi-square test for categorical variables and t test for continuous
      variables. In addition, a multivariate logistic regression analysis will be carried out to
      assess the existence of predictive factors of RAC and the odds ratio (OR) was calculated to
      indicate the associated risk. P <0 .05 will be considered statistically significant. All
      statistical analyses will be performed using the SPSS, version 23 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA).
    
  