
    
      RATIONALE: Approximately 60% of the estimated 121,000 - 167,000 female sex workers (FSW) in
      South Africa are living with HIV. Research suggests only 39% of these women are currently on
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) and face individual, network and structural level barriers to
      ART initiation, retention and adherence. To prevent clinical treatment outcome disparities
      and reduce onward HIV transmission, understanding how best to adapt and implement, scalable
      and effective interventions to promote viral suppression among marginalized women is
      paramount. The overall goal of the Siyaphambili study is to inform South African HIV service
      delivery and scale up determining the most cost-effective package needed to achieve viral
      suppression among FSW and by characterizing the FSW most in need of these intensive HIV
      treatment interventions.

      HYPOTHESIS: DTP and ICM will be equally effective at achieving viral suppression and will
      have a synergistic effect when combined and targeted at those who remain non-responsive to
      either isolated intervention. Additionally, an adaptive, graduated multicomponent
      intervention to achieve viral suppression would be preferred under standard thresholds for
      cost-effectiveness over single-intensity interventions or intensive multicomponent
      interventions for all FSW.

      INTERVENTION: The Siyaphambili Study is a sequential multistage adaptive randomized trial
      (SMART) to compare the effectiveness and durability of two behavioral interventions on the
      HIV-1 virologic response among FSW living with HIV in Durban, South Africa. The interventions
      are: 1) nurse-led decentralized treatment program (DTP) and 2) individualized case management
      (ICM). The design will also estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of study
      interventions and combinations of interventions compared with maintaining the South African
      standard of HIV care and treatment.

      STUDY DESIGN: A sequential multistage adaptive randomized study, embedded within the TB/HIV
      Care program in Durban, South Africa, will enroll 800 viremic FSW into the 18-month trial.
      Women will be randomized to either DTP or ICM at enrolment and rerandomized 6 months after
      enrolment based on their response to the initial intervention.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and durability of nurse-led DTP and ICM in
      isolation or in combination to achieve viral suppression.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental impact and cost-effectiveness associated
      with study interventions and combination of interventions.

      OUTCOMES: The primary outcome of the study is retention and viral suppression among those
      initially randomized to the DTP verse ICM intervention. The secondary outcomes are retention
      and viral suppression of non-responders, retention and viral suppression among month 6
      non-responders, retention and viral suppression at 18 months among month 6 non-responders
      randomized to continuation of either intervention verse combined DTP+ICM, risk stratification
      tool, durability of retention and viral suppression of responders, to assess adherence, to
      assess viral suppression of retained, loss-to-follow-up, intervention acceptability,
      switching to 2nd/3rd line ART, and ART resistance.

      ANALYTIC PLAN:

      Primary analysis for primary outcome:

      Retention in ART care and viral suppression will be a combined outcome in an intention to
      treat (ITT) analysis at 18 months to compare participants initially randomized to the DTP
      verse ICM intervention. Viral suppression is defined as a viral load assessment <50 RNA
      copies/mL and participants lost to follow up or who experience death during the trial
      duration will be grouped with non-virally suppressed participants.
    
  