
    
      This study is about an imaging method called Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) which
      provides detailed cross-sectional (layered) views of structures in the eye. The OCT system
      scans a beam of light across the eye to take a picture. OCT provides a more detailed image
      than other imaging methods of the eye such as ultrasound, CT scan (computed tomography) and
      MRI (magnetic resonance imaging). In addition, OCT imaging does not touch the eye. OCT is
      routinely used in imaging structures in the back of the eye (retina) and cornea. This study
      uses high-speed FDA approved OCT systems. The proposed research plan is a combination of
      clinical studies and software development to be performed synergistically. Clinical studies
      will provide OCT images for image processing software development and testing. The image
      processing software will provide automated measurement of anatomic parameters essential for
      clinical use.

      Cataract extraction and IOL implantation is the most common eye surgery. The power of the IOL
      implant is calculated from 2 measurements: the axial eye length (AL) and keratometric power
      (K). The Holladay II formula also uses the external corneal diameter ("white-to-white" or
      WTW) and anterior chamber depth (ACD). These formulae work well (±0.5D) in normal eyes.
      However, these formulae can leads to biased and unpredictable refractive results in eyes that
      had refractive surgery procedures such as LASIK, PRK, and RK. With a large number of patients
      undergoing refractive surgery every year, the problem is becoming more severe.

      The conventional IOL formulae fail because several inherent assumptions are no longer true in
      the eye that had refractive surgery. These assumptions are: 1) The corneal refractive power
      is uniform. 2) The anterior and posterior corneal power has a fixed relationship such that
      the overall corneal refractive power can be calculated from the anterior keratometry (or
      topography) using the keratometric index. 3) The position of IOL can be predicted by K with
      or without additional information such as WTW and ACD.

      Relative to the posterior curvature, the anterior curvature becomes flatter after myopic
      correction and steeper after hyperopic correction with LASIK or PRK. To adapt the
      conventional IOL formulae to this situation, most surgeons use rigid contact lens
      over-refraction to calculate an "effective K." However, the accuracy of refraction in
      cataract patients is poor due to poor vision. Alternatively, one could use a historical
      method to calculate the effective K from pre-refractive surgery values. However, those
      measurements are often no longer available. If many years have lapsed, the historical value
      may no longer accurately reflect the current shape of the cornea.

      The axial position of the IOL is determined by the positions of lens zonules and capsule
      which is in turn related to the corneal curvature (K) in the normal eye. A flatter cornea
      (lower K) is usually associated with a larger anterior segment, where the lens apparatus is
      located further back. A more complex model that also uses a separately measured
      white-to-white corneal diameter may be even more accurate. In post-refractive surgery eyes,
      however, K is altered and no longer has the normal relationship with the size of the eye. One
      way to get around this is to enter the pre-refractive surgery K. However, this historical
      information is not always available. We believe that a better solution would be use an
      entirely different approach that does not depend on the 3 above assumptions at all. Since OCT
      can separately measure the corneal anterior and posterior surfaces and AC and lens
      dimensions, we believe it has the potential of being the basis of a much better IOL
      calculation formula.

      Previously we developed a method to measure both anterior and posterior corneal surface
      curvatures and obtain more accurate corneal power measurements than conventional keratometry,
      which only measures the anterior surface. This was the basis of an OCT-based intraocular lens
      (IOL) formula that showed better results than other formulas for post-myopic LASIK cataract
      surgery. However, this formula was only on par with the best regression-based formulas in
      eyes with previous hyperopic LASIK or radial keratectomy (RK), because IOL position
      prediction error and higher-order corneal aberration limited the accuracy of optical
      calculations in in these cases. We propose to improve IOL position prediction by using the
      long-range OCT that can image the entire anterior eye and accurately measure the lens
      equatorial position. We propose to more accurately determine corneal power in the presence of
      high aberration by developing ray tracing techniques based on ultrahigh-speed OCT mapping of
      corneal surfaces. Together, these new methods should improve IOL selection and refractive
      outcome for all types of eyes. In addition, we will develop a new OCT-based toric IOL formula
      that takes into account posterior corneal astigmatism, which is ignored in conventional
      keratometry.
    
  