
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to assess the bioavailability of oral Pancrecarb® (exogenous
      pancreatic enzyme administered orally as a capsule filled with enteric coated granules)
      compared to placebo control in patients with pancreatic insufficiency. Lipase, amylase and
      protease activities will be determined from stomach and duodenal aspirates after standard
      meal stimulation.

      Participants:

      Patients with pancreatic insufficiency will be recruited as the study population.

      Procedures (methods):

      Eligible subjects will undergo an initial screening phase and will provide a stool sample to
      confirm pancreatic exocrine insufficiency based on a spot fecal elastase-1 of < 75 mcg/g
      stool. Within one month after the screening phase, subjects meeting inclusion criteria will
      be scheduled to arrive in the GCRC by 7pm. If the subject is a female of child bearing age, a
      serum pregnancy test will be checked. At 7am the subject will be escorted to fluoroscopy for
      placement of an oro-enteric tube. Once the tip of the tube has been positioned in the
      duodenum, the subject will be escorted back to the GCRC. Prior to administration of the
      capsules and liquid diet, baseline gastric and duodenal secretions will be aspirated via the
      oro-enteric tube by the investigators. Subjects will then receive 5 capsules of active drug
      with a standard liquid Lundh diet of 360 mL over a 10 minute period, administered to simulate
      a fed state. Then duodenal and gastric secretions will be aspirated from the tube over a
      3-hour period. At the end of the 3 hours, the subject will be allowed to rest for 60 minutes.
      The second phase will consist of 5 capsules of placebo again with a standard liquid Lundh
      diet , and another 3-hour aspiration phase. After the second 3-hour aspiration period, the
      balloon will be deflated and the tube will be removed. Subjects will be observed for 30
      minutes and then discharged.
    
  