
    
      A post-operative delirium is defined as attentional, consciousness and perceptual deficit
      occurring after and as a consequence of an operation. These deficits are acute and severe,
      but usually reversible. A post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a serious impediment
      to cognitive functioning, affecting memory, learning, and cognition, again occurring after
      and as a consequence of an operation. Both delirium and POCD, of which delirium is
      predictive, have been recognized in medical science as being associated with major cardiac
      surgery for a while. However, its prevalence after non-cardiac surgery and its links to
      mortality have only been quantified relatively recently. These studies show that delirium and
      POCD are very frequent post-operative complications that often go unrecognized. The
      prevalence across different age groups varies: younger (18-39) adults and older (60+) adults
      seem to be particularly at risk of developing early POCD (i.e., POCD at hospital discharge)
      with one study reporting 36.6% of younger and 41,4% of older adults being affected, as
      compared to the middle-aged (40-59), 30.4% of which were affected. Late POCD (i.e., POCD
      three months after hospital discharge) was found to be significantly more common in older
      adults (12.7%) than in the younger or middle aged population (5.7% and 5.6%, respectively).
      In intensive care settings, delirium is estimated to occur in up to 82% of patients, POCD in
      up to 41%.

      Importantly, delirium as well as POCD are associated with significant negative effects on
      health: Investigators report a 1-year mortality rate post-discharge of 10.2% for patients
      with late POCD. Investigators conducted a meta-analysis of post-discharge mortality,
      institutionalization and dementia amongst elderly patients and found a 38.0% risk of death
      for patients with delirium by the time of a 2-year follow-up, compared to a control group
      with 27.5%; a 33.4% probability of institutionalization a year later as compared to 10.7% in
      the control; and a 62.5% chance of developing dementia up to 4 years later as compared to
      8.1% in the control. These differences were independent of confounders such as age, sex,
      comorbidity, illness severity, and baseline dementia scores. Other studies report prolonged
      cognitive impairment over 12 months after surgery and significantly higher rates of job loss
      associated with POCD.

      Note that delirium and POCD are complications that can be managed very well. There are
      relatively simple ways to prevent delirium or recover from it more quickly. Importantly,
      patients themselves can do a great deal in the way of preparation for an operation and
      post-operative behavior to significantly reduce their likelihood of getting delirium / POCD
      or manage it successfully. Yet, most patients are only made aware of the issue, if at all,
      during their pre-operative anesthetic consultation, usually the evening before the operation
      - too late to put many of the important preparatory behaviours into place. Importantly, there
      is no direct communication channel between general practitioners, who refer the patient, and
      clinical anesthesiologists who deal with delirium / POCD management. Thus, risk factors for
      as well as incidence of delirium / POCD after surgeries are likely not passed between these
      important actors in the health system.

      Given its high prevalence and serious impact on mental health, physical health, and
      socio-economic factors, it is imperative that patients and general practitioners alike are
      aware of delirium / POCD as well as how to recognize it, how to best prepare for an operation
      in order to reduce its chance of occurrence, and how to behave in case post-operative
      delirium or POCD has developed. To the knowledge of the investigators, this is the first
      study to date assessing the awareness of delirium / POCD, their respective risk factors and
      effective preparation and treatment options in a pre-clinical sample of the general
      population. Goal of the study is to assess and quantify the current communication deficit in
      the healthcare system and thus build up pressure to improve it.
    
  