
    
      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) works similarly to ultrasound but uses infrared light
      waves rather than sound waves to create high-resolution pictures. This tool has been approved
      by the Food & Drug Administration (FDA), is used routinely for standard diagnosis of eye
      conditions, and is now being used to look inside your mouth for tissue changes.

      For the OCT procedure, a small probe, about the size of a pencil eraser, will be gently
      placed against the lining of your mouth and light will be shone through the probe to create
      pictures of the tissue. The probe will be placed on 1-2 abnormal-looking areas and 1
      normal-looking area inside the mouth. If there are no abnormal-looking areas, researchers
      will place the probe and make pictures of an area on the inside of the cheek and side of the
      tongue, since these are the areas most often affected by the chemotherapy and radiation
      therapies.

      In fluorescence spectroscopy (FS), a small beam of light, shines through a small probe onto
      the lining of the mouth. A small amount of light will be emitted from the tissue in the form
      of fluorescence, similar to "glow in the dark" toys . This light is not seen by the eye, but
      it is detected by the probe and recorded by a computer.

      For the FS procedure, a small probe, about the size of a pencil eraser, will be gently placed
      against the lining of your mouth and light will be shone through the probe. The probe will
      then collect the fluorescence light signals and they will be recorded on a computer. The
      probe will be placed on 1-2 abnormal-looking areas and 1 normal-looking area inside the
      mouth. If there are no abnormal-looking areas, researchers will place the probe and make
      pictures of an area on the inside of the cheek and side of the tongue, since these are the
      areas most often affected by the chemotherapy and radiation therapies.

      If you agree to take part in this study, your mouth will be examined before your treatment
      begins, and then once a week after that. Every week, you will also be asked how much pain you
      are having on a scale of 1-10.

      Photographs will be taken of the inside of the mouth with a standard camera. You will not be
      identified in these photographs.

      You will be asked to return once a week until you finish all radiation treatments to have all
      the exams repeated. Most radiation treatments last about 6-8 weeks.

      This is an investigational study. About 18 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  