
    
      Project objectives

      To gain an understanding of recovery post-TKA in a Saudi population and explore whether there
      are factors which can help us to understand why some patient outcomes are not successful and
      identify prediction factors for progression. It is a prospective study measuring outcomes six
      months post-TKA with the following objectives:

        -  Examine the internal consistency, reliability and validity of the Arabic Version of
           Oxford Knee Score before and after total knee arthroplasty in both male and female
           Middle East patients.

        -  Examine the test- re-test reliability of the Star Excursion Balance Test in both male
           and female Middle Eastern patients.

        -  Measure patient outcomes post-total knee arthroplasty using patient self-reporting
           activity measurements and the Arabic Version of Oxford Knee Score;

        -  Evaluate physical activity level improvements post-knee arthroplasty using objective
           methods and an accelerometer: ActivPAL;

        -  Assess functional recovery post-knee arthroplasty according to Osteoarthritis Research
           Society International recommendations using performance-based measurements, such as: 30
           s chair-stand test, stair-climb test, timed up-and-go test and a 6 m walk test alongside
           functional balance.

      The rationale which led to this project;

      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability around the world; it is the most
      common chronic condition in primary care in the UK. By 2030 it is predicted to be the
      greatest cause of disability in the general population . An effective end-stage treatment for
      knee OA is knee-replacement surgery, which was first done in the 1970s and 1980s.

      In England and Wales, the number of knee-replacement procedures recorded by the National
      Joint Registry in 2013 was 91,703, which represents an increase of 0.9 % over 2012. The data
      analysis by the National Joint Registry and the Office of National Statistics suggests that,
      by 2030, primary TKAs will increase by 117% from the 2012 level. Subsequently, TKA revision
      surgeries are expected to increase incrementally by 332%. There is a similar estimation of
      demand for revision TKA surgeries in the United States; by 2030, they are expected to rise by
      601% from the 2005 level. The United States estimation of primary TKA is for growth of 673%
      from the 2005 level, which is similar to England and Wales's upper-limit projections.

      Post-TKA, 75-85% of patients report satisfaction with surgery outcomes, while the remaining
      15-25% are dissatisfied (Klit, Jacobsen, Rosenlund, Sonne-Holm, & Troelsen, 2014). Total knee
      arthroplasty's success has traditionally been evaluated from the surgeon's perspective, e.g.
      the presence of surgical complications or implant survival. This is gradually changing to
      involve the patient in measuring health outcomes and decision-making processes.
      Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) have evolved to explore patient perspectives by
      monitoring the quality of care in health organizations and conducting clinical trial
      outcomes.

      PROM results cannot exclude the Research Participant Effect (RPE) or subjective
      over/underestimation due to psychosocial effects or pain from other joints, such as hips or
      back. Hence, objective clinical evaluation methods can minimize patients' subjective
      over/underestimations of outcomes, though RPE can not be excluded. Objective assessment has
      some advantages over PROMs, such as a lack of ceiling effects and more precision and
      responsiveness, and it does not require cultural and language adaptation. Performance-based
      Outcome Measures (PBOMs) have the advantage of being objective measures that do not overlap
      with pain measurement. They are sensitive to detecting change, responsive, have a minimal
      ceiling effect and are feasible.

      PROMs and PBOM measurement tools assess different aspects of function post-TKA. PROMs mainly
      assess patients' functional ability beliefs and experiences, while objective functional
      assessment instruments and PBOM measurement tools evaluate patients' actual ability and
      function. Therefore, to conduct comprehensive functional assessments post-TKA, PROMs,
      objective functional assessment instruments and PBM measurement tools are recommended.

      To the best of our knowledge, no study has explored the outcome post TKA using the PROMs,
      PBOMs and functional balance measurement tools in Saudi male and female population or
      explored possible accurate prediction factors for outcomes post-TKA. Reliable outcome
      prediction could, however, improve patient selection for surgery, as appropriate timing for
      surgery depends on patient symptoms and efficient patient preparation for surgery if it is to
      be cost-effective. Accurate preoperative prediction is crucial to minimize the potential for
      unrealistic expectations about outcomes.

      This study will investigate outcomes post-total knee arthroplasty and factors that may
      predict good/poor progression using three categories of outcome measurements in order to
      minimize subjective over/ underestimation of surgical outcomes. Thus, the study seeks to
      explore accurate and objective prediction factors of post-total knee arthroplasty
      progression.

      Potentially, reliable outcome predictions could improve patient selection for surgery, as
      appropriate timing for surgery depends on patients' symptoms and efficient patient
      preparation for surgery, if it is to be cost-effective. Accurate preoperative prediction is
      crucial to minimize the potential for unrealistic expectations about outcomes.
    
  