
    
      • Background Infertility is a frustrating disease that affects many couples around the world.
      Although there are many etiologies responsible for infertility , there are about 15-30 % of
      couples who suffer from what is called "Unexplained Infertility". About 25% of infertility is
      caused by ovulatory disorders. The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies these ovulatory
      disorders into 3 groups. Group II includes women with hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian
      dysfunction (predominately polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)) In unexplained infertility,
      basic investigations that are done first to reveal the cause of infertility reveal normal
      findings. These basic investigations should provide evidence of ovulation, adequate sperm
      production and patency of the fallopian tubes.

      However, with these routine investigations and even with other more sophisticated
      investigations it is hard to reveal all possible abnormalities. Therefore, unexplained
      infertility appears to represent either the lower extreme of the normal distribution of
      fertility, or it arises from a defect in fecundity that cannot be detected by the routine
      infertility evaluation. Couples with unexplained infertility suffer from both diminished and
      delayed fecundity.

      Due to absence of specific abnormality in cases with unexplained infertility, the management
      is usually empiric. Suggested treatment regimens include intrauterine insemination (IUI),
      ovulation induction with oral or injectable medications, combination of IUI with ovulation
      induction, and assisted reproductive technologies (ART).

      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder affecting young women
      of reproductive age with the prevalence ranging between 2% to 18% according to different
      population and diagnostic criteria. It has been suggested that uterine blood flow is impaired
      in women with PCOS.

      Ovulation induction (OI) is by far the most commonly used treatment for women with WHO group
      II anovulation and clomiphene citrate (CC) has historically been the most used drug In many
      fertility guidelines, CC is recommended as the first-line treatment for women with group II
      anovulation or PCOS who wish to conceive. However, other guidelines recommend both CC and
      letrozole as first-line treatments. It is hypothesized that CC resistance and failure are
      related to anti-estrogenic effects of CC on the endometrium, cervical mucus, and uterine
      blood flow.

      Each month, the human endometrium undergoes a series of distinct cyclical changes in
      preparation to receive the developing blastocyst. Such changes necessitate well-controlled
      dynamic remodeling of the endometrial microvasculature through the processes of angiogenesis
      and arteriogenesis. Abnormalities of endometrial blood perfusion have been associated with
      several menstrual disorders including: dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, intermenstrual bleeding and
      endometriosis. So, adequate blood perfusion of the endometrium is considered an important
      factor for what is called "endometrial receptivity". So it is possible that women with
      unexplained infertility have decreased uterine and endometrial blood perfusion.

      Following implantation, there are certain changes that occur in the endometrium and its
      vasculature. These changes occur simultaneously with the trophoblastic invasion of the spiral
      arteries, and any kind of abnormalities in these changes has been associated with
      complications during pregnancy like: recurrent miscarriage, preterm delivery, intrauterine
      growth restriction and pre-eclampsia. So, the condition of the endometrium is very essential
      for successful implantation of the gestational sac and one of the most important factors
      affecting the endometrium is its blood perfusion.

      The usual methods of assessment of endometrium like measurement of its thickness and
      description of its appearance are considered poor indicators of successful implantation and
      pregnancy.Other tools of investigations include: uterine artery Doppler and pulsed wave
      Doppler. It was found that information revealed from uterine artery Doppler alone may not
      represent the perfusion of the endometrium. Also, pulsed wave Doppler is used to examine the
      smaller downstream radial and spiral arteries and this reveals information from single
      vessels rather than from the endometrium as a whole. On the other hand, 3D Power Doppler is
      claimed to be the best investigatory tool for the study of endometrial blood perfusion as it
      is more sensitive to low flow and thus overcomes the problems of angle dependence and
      background noise associated with both color and pulsed wave Doppler. In addition, whereas
      color Doppler provides qualitative information, the 3D Power Doppler signal can be
      subsequently analyzed to produce quantitative information through one of several computer
      software packages.

      • Hypothesis: Null hypothesis: There is no difference in endometrial thickness, 2D and 3D
      Power Doppler indices between normal fertile women, women with unexplained infertility and
      women with PCOS.

      Alternative hypothesis: There is a difference in endometrial thickness, 2D and 3D Power
      Doppler indices between above-mentioned groups.
    
  