
    
      The purpose of this implementation research study is to generate evidence that informs the
      successful uptake and adoption of the Ellavi UBT within Kenyan MOH PPH management programs
      for both public and private sector programs. The investigators aim to generate evidence for
      Kenyan stakeholders to use in their decision-making around the use of Ellavi UBT in Kenyan
      PPH management programs.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To determine the adoption, penetration, sustainability and fidelity of implementing the
           Ellavi UBT device into PPH care in three health care facilities (2 public facilities, 1
           private facility). The investigators will explore the number of health workers and
           facilities that receive the PPH and Ellavi UBT training, and percent of health workers
           and facilities that adopt the Ellavi UBT device over the 6-month period. The
           investigators will also assess factors that influence the adoption, penetration,
           sustainability, and fidelity through an operations research survey, and the Ellavi UBT
           questionnaire.

        2. To determine the appropriateness, acceptability and feasibility of using the Ellavi UBT
           in participating health facilities at various levels of care in Nairobi County, the
           investigators will explore user comprehension of the Ellavi UBT usage steps, accuracy of
           use, perceptions of the device, attitudes towards the device, user confidence,
           usability, facilitators of use, barriers to use, use-patterns, and insights into
           training effectiveness.

             1. Sensitize senior management at each of the three participating facilities,
                separately.

             2. Conduct two half-day trainings on PPH and Ellavi UBT use at each of the three
                participating health facilities separated by: 1) obstetricians, medical and
                clinical officers, and 2) midwives.

             3. Collect individual initial (post-training) data to assess comprehension of Ellavi
                UBT usage steps, perceptions of the device, attitudes towards the device, user
                confidence, usability, and insights into training effectiveness.

             4. Case Management Form (CMF): Obstetrical care provider will complete a CMF within
                24hrs (<24hrs) of managing each PPH event. This will inform the study team of how
                decision-making algorithms were applied and accuracy of use.

             5. Ellavi UBT Questionnaire: PATH-Kenya study team member will collect individual post
                (post-usage) Ellavi UBT use data (<72hrs) from each study participant (obstetrical
                care worker) to assess comprehension of Ellavi UBT usage steps, perceptions of the
                device, attitudes towards the device, user confidence, usability, facilitators of
                use, barriers to use, use-patterns, and insights into training effectiveness.

             6. PATH-Kenya study staff will record secondary data from hospital registry books over
                the six (6) month duration of this study (March - August 2020) in comparison to the
                same six (6) month period in 2019 to examine changes in use of condom catheters,
                and Ellavi UBTs.

             7. Use the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) to identify
                constructs with the potential to influence the introduction and use of Ellavi UBT.
                These constructs will be mapped to questions in the questionnaire, and will be
                analyzed to identify their influence on Ellavi UBT use. Constructs that have
                influence on the implementation of UBTs (both positively and negatively) will be
                disseminated for use in future introduction and scale up of Ellavi UBTs.

        3. To determine the cost of introducing the Ellavi UBT into the PPH management protocol and
           health system.

             1. Estimate the costs of the different obstetrical care provider training components.

             2. Estimate the costs for other country-level activities associated with the
                introduction of the UBT into the PPH management protocols such as costs for
                meetings, advocacy, and communication materials.

             3. Qualitatively evaluate the frequency and duration of stock outs of condoms,
                catheters, IV fluids (sterilized materials), and sutures.

             4. Estimate the costs of staff time spent on assembling a condom catheter UBT and the
                costs of supplies used.

        4. To disseminate the information in national (KOGS), regional (ECSACOG, AFOG), and
           international forums to support information sharing, increased awareness of the role of
           UBT for refractory PPH, and adoption of its use.

           e. Summarize how the Ellavi UBT can be integrated into curriculums, guidelines, and
           hospital systems (e.g. patient-provider friendly materials) by analyzing the key
           facilitators and barriers.

           f. Host a national level meeting with Kenyan MOH stakeholders and participating
           facilities g. Publish and disseminate findings in a peer-reviewed journal h. Present at
           international conferences and forums, as funding permits. Show the use of Ellavi UBT
           using poster presentations and demonstration sessions at international obstetrics
           meetings: FIGO, WHO UBT group, Women Deliver as funding permits.
    
  