
    
      This trial is a Phase 1b/2a/3 trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of adding
      oral AL3818(Anlotinib, INN: Catequentinib) to standard platinum-based chemotherapy
      concurrently and continued as a maintenance therapy for up to 12 months, in subjects with
      recurrent or metastatic endometrial, ovarian, fallopian, primary peritoneal, or cervical
      carcinoma. AL3818 is a novel small molecule dual receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which
      shows highly selective inhibition of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFr) and vascular
      endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR). Preclinical studies of this agent in mouse
      models, including various cancer xenografts, have demonstrated that treatment of
      tumor-bearing mice with AL3818 induces tumor reductions.

      Phase 1 & 2: This study is divided into two parts. The objective of Part 1 is the evaluation
      of the safety and tolerability of adding oral AL3818 to standard carboplatin plus paclitaxel
      chemotherapy for a cycle of 21 days to determine the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D). Phase
      1 / Part 1 is now complete. Part 2-The objective of Part 2 is evaluation of preliminary
      efficacy and the safety of adding oral AL3818 at the RP2D determined in Part 1 to carboplatin
      and paclitaxel chemotherapy for 6 cycles. Continuous maintenance mono therapy with 14 days on
      and 7 days off regimen at the RP2D will be conducted up to 12 months and is extendable beyond
      until disease progression. Phase I is closed and Phase 2 is halted.

      Phase 3: This study is currently a Phase III, multi-center, randomized trial with active
      control designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of AL3818 8 mg plus background treatment
      (Active Arm) vs background treatment alone (Control Arm), where three background treatments,
      weekly paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD), and topotecan are utilized. Oral
      AL3818 8 mg may be given concurrently with background treatment or alone if the background
      treatment must be discontinued due to its toxicity for up to 24 cycles of therapy, in
      subjects with recurrent or metastatic platinum-resistant ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
      peritoneal cancer. Phase 3 is open.
    
  