
    
      Objective:

      The sensory basis of non-painful deep pressure sensation is not known. We recently found that
      innocuous pressure sensation is eliminated in rare sensory neuronopathy patients with a
      specific loss of A-beta fibers, strongly suggesting that A-beta fibers underlie the ability
      to sense deep pressure. In addition, we and others have shown that deep pressure touch
      (observed in hugs and massage) frequently conveys a sense of pleasantness. The current study
      aims to examine the role of A-beta fibers in the perception of deep pressure touch including
      both its intensity and the pleasant affect it often elicits. This study constitutes the
      second study of the K99 phase of a K99/R00 grant application awarded to Dr. Laura Case by
      NCCIH.

      Study Population:

      Up to 24 healthy participants will be enrolled in the study with a goal of 12 completers.
      Participants will be invited based on previous screening and participation in our studies.

      Design: Participants will undergo an ischemic-compression block. Sensory stimuli will be
      administered at frequent intervals to capture the loss of sensation related to A fibers as
      the block progresses. Before and after A-beta-associated sensations have been lost, the
      perception of deep pressure will be tested. Participants will rate the intensity and
      pleasantness of the pressure. Ratings of pain and discomfort will be collected throughout the
      study session.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome; Rating of intensity of deep pressure on the blocked arm
      before versus after loss of A-beta sensation, compared to ratings on the unblocked arm.

      Secondary outcomes: 1) Rating of pleasantness of deep pressure on the blocked arm after loss
      of A-beta sensation, compared to ratings on the unblocked arm; 2) Ratings of intensity and
      pleasantness of gentle brushing on the blocked arm after loss of A-beta sensation, compared
      to ratings on the unblocked arm.
    
  