
    
      STUDY PROTOCOL: The experimental group (STRE) will receive strengthening training in "Station
      for lifting weight exercises" (Flex Mega 8, Flex Fitness Equipment Brand) using the
      recommendations of the American College of Sports Medicine (ACMS, 2010), twice a week, during
      45 minutes for 16 weeks. The control group (FLEX) will receive stretching and flexibility
      exercise training according to the protocol of prescription and previously tested and
      described in appendix F (Valim et al., 2003), twice a week, during 45 minutes for 16 weeks.
      The minimum number of patients per group will be 30. The randomization will be by arriving
      order of the patients at the Clinic, having 2 groups with a distribution at random one by
      one. There will be an examiner for the selection and unblinded randomization and another for
      the application of tools that will be blind. Patients will undergo clinical and cardiological
      evaluation with an exercise stress test (Ergometric test) request in all of them according to
      ACMS as one more method of evaluation for inclusion and exclusion.

      The evaluation will be performed by a blind examiner, an expert physiotherapist in
      rheumatology and trained for the application of the tools at the beginning, after 30, 60, 90,
      120 days from the treatment onset.

      The measure for prescription and muscle strength gain will be by the method of maximal
      repetitions (Lindh et al., 1994; Tritschler, 2003; Brosseau et al., 2008; ACSM, 2010). The
      evaluations will take place at the beginning, 30, 60, 90, 120 days (final evaluation).
      Evaluations will be performed by the same blind examiner for the examined group. The training
      team will be formed by a physiotherapist, physical educator, and experienced doctors at
      strengthening training and flexibility and stretching exercises and they must follow the
      following protocol.

      PROTOCOL OF EXERCISES The strength training will be performed according to American College
      of Sports Medicine (ACSM) and will have a mild to moderate intensity representing 45% of the
      estimated 1RM obtained from the maximal repetition method. Eight major muscle groups will be
      trained (quadriceps femoris, hamstrings, biceps brachii, triceps brachii, pectoral, calf,
      deltoid, and latissimus dorsi) in 12 different exercises, with 3 sets of 12 repetitions (leg
      Press, leg extension, hip flexion, pectoral fly, triceps extension, shoulder flexion, leg
      curl, calf, pulldown, shoulder abduction, biceps flexion and shoulder extension). Theses 12
      different exercises will be distributed in a composed circuit system of 2 sets of exercises:
      Set A ((leg Press, leg extension, hip flexion, pectoral fly, triceps extension, shoulder
      flexion) and set B (leg curl, calf, pulldown, shoulder abduction, biceps flexion and shoulder
      extension). Each set will be applied once a week alternatively. The exercises will be
      performed twice a week during 16 weeks.

      During the training process a load increase will be performed in order to seek progressive
      muscle strengthening improvement in a controlled way and according to patients' clinical
      evolution. Blood pressure and heart rate will be monitored as well.

      Strength and strengthening training will be performed at the Evaluation, Physical
      Conditioning and Rehabilitation Laboratory (LACORE) at the University Hospital in in Federal
      University of Espirito Santo.

      We have chosen the frequency of twice a week because it is a frequency (for this kind of
      study) validated in the literature (Figueroa et al., 2008, Kingsley et al., 2009; 2010).
    
  