
    
      Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is a worldwide problem in both children and adults. Traditional
      ionic oral iron supplements have many disadvantages including high gastrointestinal side
      effects, poor and variable absorption, poor compliance, and the potential for overdose,
      especially in children. Proferrin is a currently available form of heme iron polypeptide
      (HIP). It is different from older more traditional iron formulations, such as ferrous
      sulphate, in that it is heme iron as opposed to ionic iron. The porphyrin ring of heme allows
      the iron to be absorbed through a different receptor than ionic iron resulting in different
      absorption kinetics and GI side effect profiles. The absorption of HIP is via the same
      mechanism as dietary iron contained in meat. Therefore, heme iron therapy may avoid several
      problems associated with ionic iron therapy such as gastrointestinal side effects and
      absorption that is dependent on food intake.

      30 subjects will be enrolled, randomized to starting with one or the other study drug, but
      crossing over to the other, so that all subjects will be in a single cohort. This is an open
      label randomized pilot study intended to test the feasibility of collecting information on
      drug tolerance. The randomization will be stratified by age, gender and hemoglobin.

      An optional baseline blood test will be drawn (CBC, iron profile, ferritin). If subjects
      decide to participate in the optional blood draws, they will return during the week they are
      not taking either study medication for this test. For subjects not participating in the
      optional blood tests and not needing to return to the clinic for another reason, subjects
      will be contacted by phone (or in person if returning to the clinic for another reason)
      during the week not taking either medication to address any concerns or issues. If not
      agreeing to participate in the blood tests, they will be allowed to send the empty pill
      bottles and the diary by mail and will be contacted by phone to make sure there were no
      problems during the study. If participating in the optional blood tests, within one month
      after taking the final pill, subjects will return to the clinic to return the medication
      containers and study diary.
    
  