
    
      Background and Rationale

      The first intravenous (IV) system was developed by Dr. Thomas Latta in 1832 to treat Cholera
      patients. Following its introduction, the IV delivery system has been widely adopted as a
      means of fluid resuscitation, rehydration and administration of blood products, medications
      and vasopressors. Today, it is a standard practice to place an IV catheter in all patients
      requiring an operation in the hospital setting. Intravenous fluid is administered through the
      IV tubing into the vein and carries the drugs that are needed for induction and maintenance
      of anesthesia. This IV fluid comes in several varieties which contain different amount of
      electrolytes, glucose, acidity or starch and is stored in a variety of volumes in sterile
      bags (most commonly 500 ml and 1000 ml). Once connected to the IV catheter through the IV
      tubing, the fluid bag is hung on the IV pole above the patient and flow into the patient by
      gravity.

      In the nursing wards, IV fluids are routinely administered via infusion pumps, which can
      deliver fluid at specified rates and volumes and would sound alarms when the selected volumes
      of fluid have been completed. While this is an effective means of administering IV fluid, it
      is a time-consuming process to set up the IV fluid pump and program the infusion volume and
      rate. Perioperative fluid administration is a rapidly changing process and most
      anesthesiologists would prefer more control over the rate than pre-programed pumps. In the
      operating room environment, the rate and manner of drug and fluid administration are highly
      variable. Therefore, almost all IV fluid administered systems are gravity-fed.

      In busy operating rooms, anesthesiologists carefully observe the progress of surgery and the
      anesthetic state of patients through different monitors. Intravenous fluid bags often run
      empty unnoticed because the IV fluid bags are hung above the eye level of the
      anesthesiologist. Even a vigilant anesthesiologist may not be able to promptly detect dry the
      IV fluid bag. In a previous observational study, the incidence of undetected dry IV bags has
      been shown to be 29.6%. However, the length of time before an empty bag is noticed is
      unknown. According to a recent survey about the working conditions in the operating room,
      including 471 surgeons and 405 nurses, most of the reported intra-operative hazards were due
      to insufficient illumination of the operating room especially during dangerous situations,
      such as unexpected bleeding. In the presence of dimmed ambient light in the operating room,
      e.g. during endoscopic surgeries, it is probably more difficult to visually monitor the flow
      of IV fluid with higher incidence of undetected dry IV bags. Several potential clinical
      adverse events can occur if the dry IV bag is not detected promptly. Firstly, if the
      gravity-fed IV fluid is being used as a carrier to administer drugs, such as anesthetics for
      total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA), or the infusion of vasopressors, awareness under
      anesthesia or unstable hemodynamics may occur. Secondly, during fluid or volume
      resuscitation, the IV fluid delivery system is frequently pressurized in order to deliver
      fluid as quickly as possible to the unstable patient. The pressurized IV fluid bag can force
      the air present in the IV fluid bag into the IV tubing when the fluid runs out. This can
      potentially cause air embolism. Finally, undetected dry IV bags can disrupt fluid flow
      through the catheter into the patient, allowing blood to pool around the catheter. If a clot
      is formed, it will occlude the line and prevent any further fluid flow. This may necessitate
      recannulation of the anesthetized patient during surgery which may be technically
      challenging.

      The FIVA™ (EngenuityMED, Halifax, Canada) is a small, handheld, battery operated, device
      class I medical device in Canada. It is designed to alarm and alert the physician to change
      the IV bag when the fluid level in the chamber of the IV set is low. It also functions to
      stop the fluid flow through the gravity-fed tubing system when the alarm is triggered,
      preventing air from entering the IV tubing.

      We hypothesize that the FIVA would decrease the incidence of unnoticed dry IV bags during
      surgery, particularly when the operating room lights are dimmed and would therefore decrease
      the risks associated with undetected dry IV bags.
    
  