
    
      1. Introduction South Korea takes second place for its smoking rate among 22 member
           countries in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The
           smoking rate in the U.S. is 16.8% among adults aged 18 years or older, while the smoking
           rate in South Korea is 42.6%. Medical costs spent on diseases caused by smoking are
           estimated to be 1.53 billion dollars, accounting for 3.7% of all health insurance
           medical costs spent in 2012 in South Korea. In 2010, 54.9% of smokers tried to quit
           smoking. Concerns about health accounted for 67.7% of the motivation for smoking
           cessation. Compared to non-smoking men, male smokers have a 6.5, 4.6, and 3.6 fold
           increased risk of getting cancer of the larynx, lungs, and esophagus, respectively. Of
           smokers who tried to quit smoking, 84.7% did not have any assistance. Smokers reported
           that main reasons for failing smoking cessation were stress and withdrawal symptoms.

           To increase the success rate in smoking cessation, stress management and reduction of
           withdrawal symptoms are very important. Many methods have been used to assist smoking
           cessation. These methods include cognitive behavioral therapy, antidepressants, nicotine
           patches, nicotine gum, positive psychology, motivational interviewing, acupuncture, and
           acupressure. Traditional psychiatric approaches focus on what is wrong, while positive
           psychology focuses on strength and values that empower individuals. Positive psychology
           deals with stress management using gratitude, love, forgiveness, and hope. Motivational
           interviewing is a "directive client-centered counseling approach for initiating behavior
           change by helping clients to resolve ambivalence". Acupuncture uses needles to stimulate
           acupuncture points, while acupressure uses fingers, hands, beads, or pellets to
           stimulate acupuncture points. Stimulation of acupuncture points reduces withdrawal
           symptoms by reducing desire or changing tastes. The mechanism of acupuncture on smoking
           cessation has not examined well. Cabioglu and his colleagues suggested that acupuncture
           may increase the levels of several neurotransmitters such as dopamine and serotonin.

           There is no consistent evidence that acupuncture is effective for smoking cessation.
           Tahiri and his colleagues reported the smoking rate of acupuncture was 3%-55% at 6-month
           follow-ups based on 6 randomized controlled trials. Authors have suggested more
           randomized controlled studies are needed. A few studies have examined the effect of
           positive group psychotherapy on smoking cessation. In addition, only a few studies have
           examined the mechanism of acupressure on smoking cessation.

           The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of auricular acupressure and group
           counseling with positive psychology and motivational interviewing on smoking cessation
           and reduction, tobacco withdrawal symptoms, depressive symptoms, and serum serotonin
           levels.

        2. Methods 2.1. Design and setting The design of this study is a single blind randomized
           controlled trial. This study will be conducted at a University in South Korea from July
           2013 to July 2017.

      2.2. Sample selection Smokers will be recruited by internet advertisement or face-to-face
      contacts. All smokers were informed about the study protocol, benefits and side effects of
      interventions, and the right to withdraw from the study at any time without penalty. Smokers
      who agree to participate in this study signed consent forms before data collection. Ethical
      approval was obtained from the institutional review board in Incheon, South Korea.

      2.3. Randomization and single blinding Randomization of numbers was done by random.org.
      Opaque envelopes with numbers are prepared and participants drew numbers from a container.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: group 1 (auricular acupressure
      + group counseling); group 2 (placebo acupressure + group counseling); or the control group
      (self-help smoking cessation). The researcher will give participants envelopes with
      questionnaires to complete. Participants put the questionnaires into the envelope after
      completion. Groups 1 and 2 do not know about their allocation. The researcher does not know
      about the results of the questionnaires before the completion of the study. The research
      assistants will perform coding on the questionnaire data.

      2.4. Procedure All participants set a quit date for one week from enrollment in the study.
      Information for reducing withdrawal symptoms will be provided to all participants. Groups 1
      and 2 will be instructed not to stimulate themselves with acupellets. They will be informed
      that acupellets would be changed every week, even if the acupellets fell off before the next
      appointment. Group counseling and acupressure will be performed by the researcher, who is a
      psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner and an acupuncturist. Group counseling consisted
      of positive psychology and motivational interviewing. Each group consisted of 3-5
      participants. Group 1 will receive group counseling for one hour per week for 6 weeks. At the
      beginning of each group psychotherapy session, participants talked about the number of
      cigarettes smoked during the previous week, and any coping methods used to maintain
      abstinence or to reduce smoking.

      Auricular acupressure with acupellets will be performed by the researcher at a relaxation
      point, lung point, nicotine point, thirst point, and antidepressant point on both sides, once
      per week for 6 weeks. Acupellets are stickers that have copper or aluminum projections. If
      participants will report an allergy to copper, then acupellets with aluminum projections will
      be applied; if participants reported an allergy to aluminum, then acupellets with copper
      projections were applied. If prospective participants are allergic to both copper and
      aluminum, then they will be excluded from the study. Group 2 will receive positive group
      psychotherapy 1 hour per week for 6 weeks. Placebo acupellets will be prepared without metal
      projections, and placed on both sides in the same areas of the ear as the active condition.
      Auricular acupressure using acupellets will be performed for 6 weeks continuously. Group
      counseling and auricular acupressure will be undertaken at the same time. The control group
      will be encouraged to quit smoking without acupressure and psychotherapy. If the control
      group cannot quit smoking after 6 weeks, participants in the control group will then
      instructed to apply acupellets at the same five auricular acupressure sites as previously
      described. A picture of ears with acupressure points will be provided.

      2.5. Data collection At baseline, all participants completed demographic and smoking-related
      questions, and the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9. Participants will complete the
      Minnesota Tobacco Withdrawal Scale (MTWS) during the 6-week period. Urine cotinine tests will
      perform at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year if participants report that they quit smoking for at
      least 1 week. Smoking amounts will be assessed five times: at baseline, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6
      months, and 1 year. The PHQ-9 and serum serotonin will be assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, 6
      months, and 1 year.

      2.6. Success of Blinding After 6 weeks, participants in groups 1 and 2 will be asked to which
      group they think they had been assigned to.

      2.7. Sample size calculation and statistical analysis G power was used to calculate sample
      size. Wu and his colleagues reported the effect size of acupuncture on smoking cessation at
      the 6-week follow-up was 20.9% ± 7 (n = 64) for group 1 and 17.9% ± 7 (n = 61) for the
      control group. The effect size using Hedges' g was 0.43 but 0.25 was used because the effect
      of acupressure was less than acupuncture. Repeated measure ANOVA, within-between interaction,
      effect size of 0.25, power of 95%, alpha error of 0.05, number of groups 3, number of
      measurements 4, and correlation among measurements at 0.5 were used. Repeated measure ANOVA
      will be used because smoking amount, 5-hydroxytryptamine levels, and depression will be
      measured at four time points and nicotine withdrawal symptoms will be measured at six time
      points. G power showed that 45 participants will be needed. Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS) 21.0 will be used for statistical analysis. Normal distribution and
      homogeneity of variance will be tested. The 5% level of significance and two-tailed test will
      be used. Intention-to-treat analysis will be used. Missing data were replaced with the
      previous data. Repeated measures of ANOVA will be used to compare withdrawal symptoms between
      two groups over 6 weeks. A t-test will be used to compare smoking cessation rates after the
      intervention between groups. The standard error for the difference of two proportions will be
      calculated using a formula = square root {[p1 * (1 - p1) / n1] + [p2 * (1 - p2) / n2]}.
    
  