
    
      Substantial recent research examines the efficacy and biological basis of many types of
      complementary and alternative (CAM) therapies. However, "real-world" use of CAM has been
      largely overlooked, despite calls for CAM therapies to be studied in the manner in which they
      are practiced and urging high prioritization for research that includes clinical outcomes,
      cost-effectiveness, and the decision-making process for patients and providers. There is,
      therefore, heightened need for enriched understanding-particularly given CAM's growing
      popularity, which fortunately offers stores of new data for research. Recent studies suggests
      that Americans seek CAM treatments far more often for chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) than
      for any other condition. Among CAM treatments for CMP, acupuncture and chiropractic (A/C)
      care are among those with the highest acceptance by physician groups and the best evidence to
      support their use. Further, recent alarming increases in delivery of opioid treatment and
      surgical interventions for chronic pain-despite their high costs, potential adverse effects,
      and modest efficacy-suggests the need to evaluate the outcomes associated with promising
      non-pharmacological/non-surgical CAM treatments for CMP, which are often well accepted by
      patients and increasingly used in the community.

      This study responds to the NCCAM program announcement PAR-08-045, "Outcomes,
      Cost-Effectiveness and the Decision Making Process to Use CAM."

      Because this project consists of four discrete sets of project activities (that largely
      follow one another chronologically), the investigators plan to submit separate IRQs to cover
      each set of project activities as follows:

      (Phase1) Retrospective study using information from the EMR to identify unique clusters of
      patients with CMP, their trajectories of care within the health plan, and to examine how
      those in unique clusters may have differing propensities for the use of A/C services and/or
      differential outcomes associated with such care. The IRQ for this study has been submitted
      (Phase 2) The administration of an out-of-plan CAM survey to determine from a broad sample of
      KP members their use of such services.

      (Phase 3) The collection of qualitative data (focus groups and individual interviews) from KP
      members, KP providers, and acupuncturists and chiropractors from the community to examine KP
      providers decision to recommend A/C services, A/C services delivered to KP patients, and
      patients' decisions to pursue and retain CAM care. A secondary purpose is to have KP members
      with CMP review planned assessment instruments for phase 4 of the study to provide feedback
      on: relevancy, any notable omissions of domains important in patients' decision to use CAM
      services for pain treatment and broader health and quality of life outcomes associated with
      such CAM treatments, as well as to review understandability of the assessment instruments.

      (Phase 4) A prospective cohort study to evaluate health services/costs and broader clinical
      and functional outcomes associated with the receipt of A/C relative to carefully matched
      comparison participants receiving traditional CMP services.
    
  