
    
      Organ transplant recipients with long-term drug-induced immunosuppression have an increase of
      the life-time incidence of squamous cell carcinoma and are also affected at an earlier age
      than the general population. In organ transplant recipients prognosis of squamous cell
      carcinoma differs due to more rapid growth, less differentiation and higher risk for
      metastases in comparison to the general population. Epidemiological data indicate that the
      risk of skin neoplasms in organ transplant recipients is related to the cumulative exposure
      to immunosuppressive drugs over time. It remains unclear wether this risk differs between
      drug classes.

      This study is a prospective observational cohort study of kidney, heart, lung, liver,
      pancreas and small bowel transplant recipients enrolled into the Swiss Transplant Cohort
      Study (STCS).

      Since 2008 almost all organ transplant recipients in Switzerland are enrolled to the STCS.
      The STCS collects

        -  baseline patient and case data: date of transplantation, age, gender, type of
           transplanted organ, past immunosuppression

        -  follow-up patient and case data: organ rejection with type and date of rejection, type
           of immunosuppression in response to organ rejection, graft loss with date of graft loss,
           immunosuppressive drug treatment, other drug treatment, death, drop out, occurrence of
           cancer and infections)

        -  drug exposure data (with start and stop dates): induction immunosuppressive drugs
           (Basiliximab, Rituximab, Thymoglobulin, ATG, ATGAM, IG iv, Plasmapheresis), maintenance
           immunosuppressive drugs (Cyclosporine A, Glucocorticoids, Tacrolimus, Mycophenolate
           mofetil, Everolimus, Azathioprine, Sirolimus, EC-MPA), infectious disease prophylaxis
           (e.g. TM-Sulfamethoxazole, Valaciclovir, Fluconazole, Atovaquone, Voriconazole,
           Quinolone), other drugs (e.g. Statins, beta-Blockers, oral antidiabetics).

      The investigators will statistically illustrate the incidence, prevalence and type of skin
      neoplasms in the STCS. The investigators will show the association of the incidence of skin
      neoplasms and the exposure to different immunosuppressive drugs, other drugs and other
      parameters in the STCS (e.g. age, gender).
    
  