
    
      Purpose

      This study will test the efficacy and acceptability of heart rate variability biofeedback
      (HRVB) as a means of ameliorating psychological distress in survivors of Primary Brain Tumour
      (PBT). HRVB is a biofeedback approach that provides clients with real time feedback about
      their heart rate variability (HRV) as a means of teaching them how to breathe in a specific,
      therapeutic manner. HRVB has been shown to increase autonomic nervous system efficiency and
      also to decrease both anxiety and depression.

      Background Rationale

      Anxiety and depression are two of the strongest drivers of overall quality of life (Q of L)
      in survivors of primary, malignant brain tumour (PMBT). In a cohort of 73 PMBT survivors,
      "depression scores alone accounted for more than half of the all variance in Q of L scores"
      (Pelletier et al, 2003, p. 47). Anxiety symptoms were similarly negatively correlated with
      over-all Q of L(r = -..72) in brain tumour survivors (Janda et al., 2007). Evidence also
      suggests that, relative to the general population, brain tumour survivors exhibit much higher
      rates of both depression (Wellisch et al., 2002)and anxiety (Arnold et al., 2007).

      Despite these striking findings around the prevalence and importance of anxiety and
      depression in the brain tumour population, not a single identified study has used a purely
      psychological intervention to ameliorate symptoms of depression and/or anxiety in this
      unique, understandably distressed population. Therefore, research of this kind is urgently
      needed.

      Heart Rate variability Biofeedback

      A course of HRVB, or some close variant of it, has shown statistically significant effects on
      depression and/or anxiety in numerous studies. HRVB has also recently been found to
      associated with improvements in pain and insomnia, two other common barriers to quality of
      life in PMBT survivors.

      Design

      Overview

      As a very early stage study, a one group, open label design has been adopted.

      Recruitment Process

      Participants will be recruited by sending letters to potential participants identified
      through the BC Cancer Agency registry and by encouraging referrals from local oncologists.

      Measures

      The primary outcome measures will be resting HRV, the Beck Depression Inventory II, the Trait
      Anxiety Inventory. Secondary outcome will include the Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire
      and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Likert scale questionnaires will also be used after
      the intervention to assess the acceptability of the intervention.

      HRVB Protocol

      The protocol will involve 8 weekly sessions of up to 60 minutes each, following the general
      approach described by Lehrer, Vaschillo, & Vaschillo (2000). Participants will also practice
      breathing at their resonant frequency for 20 minutes each day at home.

      Analysis

      Three forms of analysis will be conducted. First, paired t-tests of residualized changes
      scores and effect sizes (Cohen's d) will be used to analyze pre-post changes on all of the
      psychometric measures and on the HRV data. Second, correlational analysis will also be used
      to see if there are expected associations between pre-post changes in emotion, pain and sleep
      measures relative to pre-post changes in resting HRV indices. Finally, means and standard
      deviations will be used to assess participants' likert ratings on the acceptability of the
      intervention.

      Plans for Current Findings

      Results will be developed for publication in relevant, peer reviewed scientific journals.
      Results will also be used to develop future research in this line, including studying the
      effciacy of HRVB with psychologically distressed caregivers of PMBT survivors.
    
  