
    
      In the last years, a new concept of personalised medicine called 'Mouse Avatars' or
      'co-clinical trials' has emerged. Development of mouse avatars implicates implantation of
      patient tumour samples in mice for use in drug efficacy studies. This model allows conducting
      preclinical trials in parallel with ongoing human phase I/II clinical trials. Murine and
      patient trials are conducted concurrently, and information obtained from the murine system is
      used for clinical management of the patient's tumour. The advantage of this approach is that
      each patient has his/her own tumour growing in an in vivo system, thereby allowing the
      identification of a personalised therapeutic approach. Such approach eliminates the cost and
      toxicity associated with non-targeted chemotherapy. Unfortunately, nowadays, it is clear that
      co-clinical trials using mouse avatars are not affordable because mice are expensive and
      time-consuming. The study challenge is to make Avatars available for every patient and the
      approach sustainable for the National Healthcare Systems. To implement this concept, the
      investigators propose to replace mouse Avatars with zebrafish Avatars. Indeed, the
      investigators propose to run co-clinical trials by using zebrafish embryos. Zebrafish embryos
      as model for human cancer cell xenografts offer several advantages:

        1. Rejection-free model. In zebrafish thymus is not working until 9 days post-fertilization
           (dpf), allowing rejection-free xenografts during this period. Indeed, the use of
           expensive immune-permissive strains is not required, in sharp contrast to the mouse
           model.

        2. Very low cost of husbanding.

        3. Reduced amount of testing material. Zebrafish experiments require much less material to
           assess drug efficacy.

        4. Short time for the analysis of xenotransplants. The time required for a drug efficacy
           study is 5 days, as opposite to several weeks or months in the mouse model.

        5. Low experimental cost and simple procedures. The zebrafish produces large number of
           embryos with each fecundation (hundreds). This provides statistical power to the
           analysis and facilitates the collection of a large number of data.

        6. Low ethical impact. Zebrafish is classified as insentient from fecundation to the time
           at which embryos become capable of independent feeding (120 hours post fertilization,
           hpf); therefore, during this time it does not require a license according to the
           Directive 2010/63/EU.

        7. Data collected in zebrafish are relevant to humans. Zebrafish genome is closely related
           to that of humans. For instance, remarkable similarity in molecular signalling
           processes, cellular structure, anatomy, and physiology has been observed between
           zebrafish and other high-order vertebrates, including humans. This accounts for the
           exponential increase in the use of zebrafish in drug discovery during the last two
           decades.

      Collectively, these points outline the remarkable advantages of the zebrafish Avatar over the
      mouse Avatar, paving the way for a realistic and cost-sustainable implementation of the
      co-clinical trials.

      Specifically, the aim of the study is to perform an observational prospective clinical trial
      on patients operated of epato-biliar-pancreatic cancers and gastro-intestinal cancers
      undergoing a chemotherapy treatment in order to demonstrate that zebrafish Avatar is able to
      predict the therapeutic regimen with the best efficacy for each patient. To this effect, 120
      patients meeting the trial inclusion criteria will be enrolled over a 18 months period. In
      this study, a fragment of tumor will be taken from the surgical specimen by the pathologist,
      fragmented and transplanted in the yolk of 48 hpf zebrafish embryos. The effect of different
      anticancer drugs and/or their combinations on the survival, proliferation and migration of
      the xenotransplanted cancer cells will be evaluated by exposing the xenotransplanted embryos
      to fish water modified with the drugs. The chemotherapy regimens to be tested in the
      xenografted embryos are selected in agreement to the common clinical practice, i.e.:

        -  fluoropyrimidines, platinum compounds, irinotecan, taxans (docetaxel) in stomach &
           esophageal cancers

        -  fluoropyrimidines, platinum compounds, irinotecan, gemcitabine, nab paclitaxel in
           pancreatic/biliary cancers

        -  fluoropyrimidines, platinum compounds, irinotecan in colorectal cancers.

      Embryos will be analysed 4, 24 and 48 hours post injection (hpi). Primary measures will
      include:

        -  cell proliferation

        -  cell migration

        -  formation of secondary masses

        -  induction of neo-angiogenesis

      The enrolled patients after the surgical operation will undergo to the adjuvant chemotherapy
      treatment.

      The comparative evaluation undertaken after closure of intake will be based on prospectively
      collected data on (i) clinical outcome and (ii) chemo-sensitivity data collected in zebrafish
      model.
    
  