
    
      Protein-rich diets improve body weight regulations and are thus believed to play a key role
      in combating the global obesity epidemic. Protein-rich diets are generally high in meats,
      some of which have become controverted enough to be considered disease-promoting foods
      despite their nutritional richness. The degree at which associations with disease differs
      from causality is however not entirely known.

      Assessment of food intake currently relies on food frequency questionnaires (FFQ), 24h recall
      and dietary records, all of which are self-reporting methods known to be subject to bias and
      inaccuracy. Biomarkers of food intake emerged thus within the past years to complement the
      conventional tools as objective measurements of food intake, drawn from biological samples.
      Several biomarkers of meat consumption have been proposed, however none is currently accepted
      and used as biomarker(s) of meat intake and none is able to differentiate between the
      different types of meat.

      In the modern diet, meats are very often served with potatoes. To our knowledge, biomarkers
      of potato intake have not been thoroughly reported in the literature. Different cooking
      methods were shown to potentially influence the content of bioactive constituents of
      vegetables, their glycemic index, as well as subsequent energy intake. High heat cooking
      additionally yields the formation of potentially toxic compounds such as advanced glycation
      endproducts (AGEs) that were shown to contribute to insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
      In this line, biomarkers of potatoes as such as well as biomarkers to differentiate between
      different cooking methods would be of great importance in advancing the understanding of
      nutritional science.

      Primary objectives:

        1. To identify acute biomarkers of general meat intake by untargeted metabolomics

        2. To explore the changes in the metabolome as a result of acute exposure to three types of
           meat and identify meat-specific biomarkers of intake

        3. To identify biomarkers of acute potato intake by untargeted metabolomics

        4. To identify biomarkers that can differentiate between three types of cooking methods

        5. To investigate the effect of the interaction between meat on potatoes on satiety,
           assessed by registration of intake from an ad libitum meal

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To validate already known biomarkers of meat intake by targeted metabolomics

        2. To investigate the effect of the interaction between meat and potatoes on satiety,
           assessed by visual analogue scales

        3. To investigate the effect of the interaction between meat and potatoes on glucose and
           insulin responses
    
  