
    
      While research breakthroughs have led to improved outcomes, many patients with JIA live with
      pain. There is an association between daily fluctuations in JIA symptoms (pain, stiffness and
      fatigue), and worse mood and stressful events, supporting the utility of daily diaries to
      analyze JIA symptoms. Sleep disturbances have been demonstrated in JIA and are linked to the
      pain experience. Ultimately, pain impacts on HRQoL. JIA families explore complementary and
      alternative medicines such as MT, in addition to using conventional medicines, to help manage
      the daily JIA symptoms. MT's effects on pain, mood, anxiety, stress and sleep have been
      demonstrated in several diseases, possibly through modulation of neurological, endocrine and
      immune processes. Children with JIA and pain could benefit from MT given with standard care.
      Only one study evaluated its benefits in JIA. More research is needed on the feasibility,
      efficacy and safety of MT in JIA. MT is available at the Montreal Children's Hospital in
      Oncology. While offering MT in the hospital setting is practical for oncology patients who
      require frequent hospitalizations, MT may be more beneficial for JIA patients if implemented
      at home.

      Objectives The primary purpose of this single center, pilot randomized controlled trial
      (pilot RCT) is to determine the feasibility of a home MT program for children with JIA
      experiencing pain. The second purpose is to determine the effects of MT primarily on daily
      pain, as well as, other daily JIA symptoms (stiffness and fatigue), sleep quality,
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and disease activity, and on caregiver's psychological
      distress. The effects of MT on pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, 17A, TNF) will be explored.

      Methodology During the pilot RCT (Part 1), 30 children with JIA who experience pain will be
      randomized to the experimental group (home MT and standard care) or control group (standard
      care). After receiving training by the massage therapist, caregivers of the experimental
      group will gently massage their child, for 15 minutes at bedtime, every night, at home.
      Immediately after the RCT, participants of the control group will receive training and
      implement home MT, similar to the experimental group, in an extension (Part 2).

      Feasibility will be evaluated by the recruitment rate, retention rate, program adherence,
      piloting of the intervention, and user acceptability and satisfaction with the program.

      Given the daily fluctuations in JIA symptoms, daily pain, fatigue, stiffness and sleep
      quality will be evaluated through multiple measurements with daily diaries to be completed by
      patients and their caregivers, both before and after implementation of home MT in both
      groups. Sleep, fatigue, HRQoL, disease activity and caregiver's psychological distress will
      also be evaluated before and after implementation of home MT in both groups, with
      questionnaires, physical examinations and blood samples.

      Conclusion The findings from this project will provide the framework for planning a
      multi-center study whose focus will be on the efficacy of MT in JIA. MT programs do not exist
      in Canadian pediatric rheumatology centres and thus, this project is innovative. If there is
      preliminary evidence that MT helps reduce pain, it could become an additional strategy to
      help these children have a better HRQoL, with less pain and improved health outcomes. Parents
      could feel empowered by participating concretely and in a positive way in the management of
      their child's condition.
    
  