
    
      Building on existing resources and the expertise of our faculty and advisors, the
      investigators will develop CSC OnDemand, a multifaceted online learning product that includes
      four levels: 1) an online readiness tool and CSC Learning Hub; 2) dynamic multimedia core
      curriculum on first episode psychosis and CSC; 3) live faculty-led online courses; and 4)
      ongoing support, including an online community of practice to support peer-to-peer learning.

      During Phases I and II of this Fast Track SBIR, the investigators will prototype, pilot test,
      build out, and evaluate the product through a cluster randomized non-inferiority study
      comparing it with InPerson training.

      Phase I built a robust prototype of the online platform and test it with 15-20 providers from
      three sites. This Phase will explore feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      effectiveness of the product, and will examine which components of the online platform
      providers find most useful.

      Based on our findings from Phase I, the investigators will refine and fully build out the
      product to test in a larger randomized trial. Phase II will use a cluster randomized
      non-inferiority design to assess if OnDemand training (n = 20 sites) is comparable to
      InPerson training (n = 10 sites). Using a mixed-methods approach, the investigators will
      examine provider (n = 150) outcomes (satisfaction; knowledge gains/retention; attitudes
      toward shared decision making) and client (n = 600) outcomes (work/school participation;
      engagement in CSC services; inpatient psychiatric hospitalizations).

      The study is guided by the following specific aims:

      Phase II AIM 1: To refine, expand, and finalize CSC OnDemand based on Phase I findings.

      AIM 2: To determine if the OnDemand training intervention is as successful as the InPerson
      intervention in increasing CSC providers knowledge and shared decision making (SDM).
      Hypothesis: Providers in the OnDemand condition will achieve increases in knowledge, SDM and
      satisfaction at post training and nine months that will be no more than .5 standard
      deviations less than the InPerson condition.

      AIM 3: To determine if the OnDemand training intervention is as successful as the InPerson
      training in increasing participation in work or school, improving engagement in treatment,
      and decreasing relapse rates for participating clients.

      Hypothesis: Clients being served by the providers in the OnDemand condition will have
      work/school participation rates, levels of engagement and rates of hospitalization nine
      months after admission that are no more than 10 percent higher (hospitalization) or lower
      (work/school, engagement) than clients served by providers in the InPerson condition.
    
  