
    
      Small bowel obstruction (SBO) is one of the most frequent causes of general emergency surgery
      in elderly patients, approximately 10-12% of adult patients above 65 years presenting with
      acute abdominal pain at the emergency department (ED) is diagnosed as SBO. Small bowel
      obstruction is complicated with dehydration, malnutrition, electrolyte and acid-base
      disturbance, as well as insertion of many catheters as nasogastric tube, triple-lumen tube,
      and foley's catheter, besides multiple drugs intake due to the associated comorbidities; all
      of these factors increase the risk of developing POD ].

      Delirium is defined as acute onset of fluctuating disturbance of consciousness with reduced
      ability to focus, alteration of attention, perceptual abnormalities, circadian disruption, a
      decline in cognitive function (orientation, memory speech, thinking), and psychomotor
      disturbances. POD commonly occurs between postoperative days 2-5, and it may be hypoactive,
      hyperactive, or mixed, based on psychomotor clinical features. The incidence rate of
      postoperative delirium(POD) varies between 9% and 87% in elderly patients, depending on the
      patients' population and degree of operative stress.

      Postoperative delirium develops in the elderly due to multiple risk factors that can be
      separated into patient-related and operation-related risk factors. Established
      patient-specific risk factors include pre-existing dementia (appears to be the strongest
      predictor for the occurrence of POD), older age, functional impairment, greater
      co-morbidities, and psychopathological symptoms. Operation-specific risk factors for POD are
      based on the degree of operative stress, any type of iatrogenic event including medication
      adverse effects (Common drugs that may precipitate delirium in the elderly include
      antihistamines, anticholinergics, chemotherapeutic agents, dopamine agonists,
      benzodiazepines, opioid analgesics, steroids, and psychostimulants), physical restraint,
      urinary catheterization, hospital-acquired infection, dehydration and malnutrition, and
      admission to the intensive care unit (ICU). The risk factors for developing POD are additive
      therefore, recognizing those with multiple risk factors should trigger environmental and
      supportive measures implementation that have been proven to prevent the onset and shorten the
      duration of POD because POD is associated with poor outcomes such as functional decline,
      longer hospitalization, greater costs, a greater need for rehabilitation and home healthcare
      services after discharge and higher mortality.

      Ketofol which is a mixture of ketamine and propofol gains increasing interest as an agent for
      procedural sedation and analgesia for producing a more stable hemodynamic and respiratory
      profile as Ketamine and propofol appear to counter each other's adverse effects;
      sympathomimetic effects of ketamine and dose-dependent hypotension and respiratory depression
      of propofol. Ketofol has been used in different mixed ratios (1:1-1:10) and has proven
      effective in reducing postoperative agitation in children in several studies as well.

      Dexmedetomidine, a highly selective alpha-2 adrenoreceptor (α2) agonist, has been widely used
      in surgical patients and has positive sedation, anti-anxiety, and analgesic effects. The
      mechanism of action of dexmedetomidine is unique compared with traditionally administered
      sedative agents due to its lack of activity at the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor
      and missing anticholinergic activity.1that may contribute to pathophysiological explanations
      of the development of delirium 'neurotransmitter hypothesis' and include dysfunction of
      cholinergic transmission.

      The investigators hypothesized that administration of ketofol following induction of general
      anesthesia, would reduce the incidence of emergence delirium and postoperative delirium, and
      has a comparable effect to dexmedetomidine on investigators' groups of high-risk elderly
      patients undergoing urgent exploration of intestinal obstruction.
    
  