
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The first National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES I) was conducted by the
      National Center for Health Statistics between 1971 and 1974. NHANES I was a clustered,
      multi-stage stratified probability sample of 23,808 individuals ranging in age from one to 74
      years and drawn from the non-institutionalized civilian population of the United States. A
      random subsample of the 14,407 examined adults aged 25-74 were given supplemental
      questionnaires on cardiovascular and respiratory history.

      In 1981, the National Institute on Aging and the NCHS began a follow-up of the original
      NHANES I cohort. In order to evaluate the usefulness of major epidemiological studies for
      predicting coronary heart disease in the United States population, the NHLBI added a
      Framingham model verification component to the follow-up. The risk factors (systolic blood
      pressure, serum cholesterol, and cigarette smoking) for death from coronary heart disease
      were compared using results from the seventh cohort examination of 1960-1964 as baseline in
      Framingham and the NHANES I examination of 1971-1974 as baseline for the NHANES I
      Epidemiologic Follow-up Study (NHEFS). The endpoint for each study was coronary heart disease
      death as coded from the death certificates. Results of the NHLBI portion of the follow-up
      demonstrated that the major risk factors for coronary heart disease mortality described in
      previous Framingham analyses were applicable to the United States white adult population.

      In 1986, the total surviving cohort of NHANES I (approximately 12,500) were re-contacted in
      order to improve risk factor morbidity and mortality analyses. The NHLBI contributed to
      funding the NHANES III and currently contributes to funding NHANES IV. NHANES III
      incorporated features which distinguished it from earlier surveys in the series. The features
      included a longitudinal component, meaning that individuals were followed over time for vital
      statistics and re-examination, long-term biological specimen banking, and oversampling of
      Blacks and Hispanics. The component of additional questions and procedures provided
      information on the common heart, vascular, lung, and blood diseases, risk factors and
      elements of medical care. It also indicated how representative the NHLBI population-based
      epidemiologic studies were and to what extent the findings of these studies could be
      generalized to the United States population. The major NHLBI ongoing studies which were
      compared with NHANES III were the Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factor Development in Young
      Adults (CARDIA), Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC), the Framingham Heart Study, and
      the Cardiovascular Health Study.

      Field work for NHANES III began in September 1988. The first wave of data collection was
      completed from 1989 to 1991. The second wave of data collection was carried out from 1992 to
      1994. ECG data were released to the public in 1998.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Beginning in 1981, NHLBI supplemented the NHANES examination protocol by including questions
      about history of heart, lung, and blood diseases, and their treatment. The examination also
      included the Rose questionnaires for angina, myocardial infarction and peripheral vascular
      disease, 12-lead electrocardiograms, questions about known and suspected risk factors
      including active and passive smoking, weight history, use of exogenous hormones, family
      history of heart, lung and blood diseases, and selected aspects of diet, psychosocial
      characteristics (depression, anxiety, social support, job control and demands, and anger
      experience and expression), and lifestyle. If feasible, 2-hour ECG Holter monitor records
      were obtained to identify and classify premature ventricular contractions and to detect
      episodes of ischemia. Pulmonary function tests were performed using standardized methods and
      strict quality assurance procedures and the American Thoracic Society-Division of Lung
      Diseases respiratory disease questionnaires were administered. Waist and hip girth
      measurements were obtained along with other anthropometric measures. Blood pressure
      determinations were made in the home as well as in the mobile examination center. Blood tests
      included lipids and lipoproteins, fibrinogen, hematocrit, white blood cell count, and
      differentials, fasting and post-challenge insulin and glucose concentrations, and nutritional
      biochemistries.

      The NHLBI is currently supporting part of NHANES IV. NHANES IV is a study of a representative
      sample of approximately 30,000 of the non-institutionalized population of the United States,
      obtained through the use of a complex multi-stage sampling design using a combination of
      health questionnaire and physical exam. Each single year and any combination of consecutive
      years comprises a nationally representative sample which will facilitate linkage to other
      surveys that provide yearly estimates such as the Continuing Survey of Food Intake by
      Individuals and allow limited national estimates from NHANES IV each year. The NHLBI
      component obtains information on the prevalence and distribution of common heart, vascular,
      pulmonary and blood diseases. The core questionnaire is based on the Health Interview Survey
      (HIS), and provides information on disease, risk factors, and components of medical care.
      Through the use of a Mobile Exam Center (MEC), subjects throughout the country are
      administered a standardized physical exam to obtain data on blood pressure, venipuncture,
      spirometry, congestive heart failure (CHF), and ankle-arm blood pressures. Sub-populations of
      the U.S. of particular interest, including minorities and age groups of particular concern
      like the very young and the elderly, will be over-sampled. Specific objectives of NHANES IV
      include: ascertaining the prevalence of common heart, vascular, lung, and blood disease in a
      representative sample of the non-institutionalized population of the United States;
      estimating the frequency and distribution of known and suspected risk factors for these
      heart, vascular, lung, and blood disease; measuring associations between risk factors and
      diseases; ascertaining the frequency and distribution of medical, surgical, pharmacologic,
      and behavioral interventions used to prevent or treat heart, lung and blood diseases;
      measuring trends over time in heart, lung and blood diseases and risk factors; relating
      clinically manifest disease, risk factors, and components of medical care detected at the
      baseline examination to subsequent morbidity and mortality (detected by follow-up
      questionnaires and matching with the National Death Index); determining the extent to which
      findings in NHLBI populations-based epidemiological studies reflect national data and may be
      generalized to the U.S. population. A Central Lipid Laboratory will be established to:
      standardize for lipid measurements; accurately measure total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol
      for the entire NHANES IV sample population; and accurately measure triglycerides for the
      fasting NHANES IV population.

      Phase I data from the first three years of the study were made available in June, 2002. Phase
      II data from NHANES IV became available in May, 2004.
    
  