
    
      The study will be conducted in two parts:

      Part 1. Study to examine the ability of CPET to predict outcomes in patients undergoing
      colorectal surgery:

      Objectives

      To identify which CPET variables or combination of variables are most useful in the
      prediction of post-operative complications following colorectal surgery. In addition, to
      examine whether CPET variables can be used in combination with other scoring systems or blood
      tests to increase accuracy of prediction. The aim of this investigation is to develop an
      accurate prediction model from key clinically relevant predictor variables, including CPET
      variables, blood tests and risk scoring systems. Such a model could be used in clinical
      practice to predict pre-operative outcome and thus help risk stratify patients for
      post-operative surveillance or management.

      Study Population

      The Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital undertakes approximately 300 procedures for
      colorectal cancers per year. Patients scheduled for cancer surgery will be recruited to the
      trial.

      Study Outline

      Informed consent to participate in the trial will be obtained in the outpatient setting after
      diagnosis/scheduling of surgery through discussion with the medical team and the colorectal
      nurse specialists. All patients will follow a standardised peri-operative pathway devised in
      conjunction with the surgical and anaesthetic team.

      Sample Size

      A sample size of a minimum of 90 patients has been identified, based on comparable studies
      with other patient groups in the literature.

      Predictor Variables

      Supervised pre-operative CPET testing will take place in the exercise laboratory at the
      University of East Anglia before surgery. The test is done by pedalling on a stationary
      bicycle, the resistance to pedalling will gradually increase, similar to when cycling up a
      hill. As the subject rides the stationary bike, the amount of oxygen used, and how
      fast/efficiently their heart beats is calculated. Breathing will be measured through a face
      mask or a mouth piece and the electrical activity of the heart will be measured via sensors
      placed on the chest. Each CPET test takes around 30 minutes to complete. For each participant
      in this part of the study, only one CPET test will be done prior to surgery at a convenient
      time.

      In addition to the standard pre-surgery blood tests that all NHS patients receive, blood will
      be taken to measure several key serum markers which have been associated with post-operative
      outcomes in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery (pro-BNP, CRP, albumin and IL-6).

      Scoring systems will be applied to patient data as additional indicators of peri-operative
      risk - these are systems which involve calculating a measure of risk based on other
      co-existing illnesses the patient may have.

      Data Collection

      Patient notes will be reviewed on each postoperative day to identify postoperative
      complications according to the Post-Operative Morbidity Survey system (POMS), this is a
      scoring tool previously used in other studies which assesses different systems of the body to
      determine 'morbidity' according to defined criteria (pulmonary, infection, renal,
      gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, wound complications, haematological and pain. Time taken
      until pain relief is satisfactory, ability to eat and drink, satisfactory level of
      mobility/self-care and bowel function will also be recorded. Length of hospital stay and time
      taken until the patient is medically fit for discharge will also be recorded.

      Part 2: Feasibility of a randomised prehabilitation programme in patients undergoing surgery
      for colorectal cancer

      Objectives

      To determine the feasibility of implementing a structured, supervised exercise programme for
      patients awaiting elective colorectal cancer surgery. The results of this study will be used
      to inform a larger randomised controlled trial to examine the influence of exercise on CPET
      variables and postoperative outcomes.

      Study Population (as above)

      Study Outline

      Following baseline CPET testing to assess initial background fitness, patients will be
      randomised to one of two study arms:

        1. a supervised aerobic exercise training pathway + standard treatment or

        2. standard treatment without supervised exercise training

      To adequately assess key feasibility outcomes, a sample size of 60 patients (30 in each arm
      of the study) will be used.

      Patients randomised to exercise training will be offered three sessions of supervised aerobic
      exercise per week over the subsequent 4 weeks before their procedure to be conducted in the
      exercise lab at the University of East Anglia.

      Each session will include a few simple freehand exercises as well as some time on the
      treadmill or a fixed exercise bike. The sessions will last about an hour each and will be
      tailored to individual fitness levels. Heart rate, clinical signs, blood pressure and
      perceived exertion will be recorded regularly throughout exercise. This exercise protocol is
      currently in use in a study of elderly patients with bladder cancer awaiting surgery and is
      well-tolerated.

      Repeat CPET testing will then take place 4 weeks from the baseline test in the exercise
      laboratory (on the day prior to surgery) to determine changes (if any) in CPET variables.

      The patients in the non-exercise arm of the study will not undergo any exercise intervention
      but will be CPET tested in the exercise laboratory at the same time points as the exercise
      arm patients. The data from these patients (n=30) will be used to contribute to the first
      part of the study (CPET variables as predictors of outcome).

      All patients will be CPET tested again at 3 months post-surgery to assess how well they have
      returned to their baseline function following their operation. Patients will be given
      follow-up questionnaires at this time, and again at 6 months post-surgery to assess
      health-related quality of life and psychological outcomes. The questionnaires used will be:
      CHAMPS Physical Activity Questionnaire for older adults, The Satisfaction with Life Scale,
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), FACT-F and the FACT-C scale to assess
      disease-specific quality of life.

      Data collection:

      As before, patient notes will be reviewed and post-operative complications identified. In
      addition, this study will assess the feasibility of conducting this trial on a larger scale:
      to identify the number of eligible patients, recruitment rate, willingness of patients to be
      randomised, willingness of clinicians to participate in the trial, compliance/tolerance of
      the exercise regimen, and patient satisfaction with the process. In addition, the costs of
      undergoing CPET testing and supervised exercise training will be estimated.

      An assessment of key health outcomes will also be undertaken, i.e. changes in CPET variables
      following exercise training, postoperative complications, length of stay, and health-related
      quality of life benefits, thus enabling the planning of a larger trial.
    
  