
    
      Objective: The primary aim is to determine if ropivacaine combined with clonidine prolongs
      duration of paresthesia at the umbilicus. The secondary aims are to determine if the use of
      clonidine decreases anxiety level, prolongs duration of analgesia, decreases pain severity at
      the umbilicus laparoscopic site, reduces the need for pain medication, improves satisfaction
      with pain control, and is associated with complications such as oversedation, hypotension,
      and bradycardia.

      Specific Aims: Aim 1 will determine if the duration of sensory block (paresthesia) after
      ultrasound guided single injections rectus sheath blocks performed with ropivacaine/
      clonidine is longer than duration of paresthesia after rectus sheath blocks performed with
      ropivacaine alone. The investigators hypothesize that rectus sheath injections with
      ropivacaine and clonidine result in longer duration of sensory block (paresthesia) compared
      to ropivacaine alone.

      Aim 2 will determine if the use of clonidine decreases postoperative anxiety scores and if
      postoperative pain scores correlate with anxiety scores. The investigators hypothesize that
      patient postoperative anxiety scores are lower in the Ropivacaine/Clonidine group and
      postoperative anxiety scores decrease more in Ropivacaine /Clonidine Group, than in the
      Ropivacaine Group. The investigators expect that preoperative and postoperative Numeric
      Rating Scale(NRS) scores reported by the patient will correlate moderately (0.3-0.49) to high
      (equal /or >0.5) with preoperative and postoperative anxiety level.

      Aim 3 will determine if rectus sheath injections with ropivacaine/ clonidine prolongs
      duration of analgesia at umbilicus instrument site, decreases analgesic consumption, improves
      satisfaction with pain control, and has minimal complications such as oversedation,
      bradycardia, and hypotension. The investigators hypothesize that rectus sheath injections
      with ropivacaine/ clonidine would result in longer duration of analgesia compared to
      ropivacaine alone, lower pain scores at umbilicus, less need for pain medication consumption
      for pain at umbilicus and for the first 18 hours, better satisfaction with pain control from
      patient, parent and nurse. The investigators expect no difference in incidence of
      oversedation, hypotension, and bradycardia episodes.

      Background: Millions of pediatric patients undergo laparoscopic surgeries every year and many
      of them suffer significant pain on the day of surgery and the subsequent days. Pain is a
      sensory and emotional experience, modified by multiple factors, including anxiety. Patient's
      anxiety correlates with the severity of pain. Children that are very anxious before surgery
      have been found to have more postoperative pain, delayed hospital discharge, higher incidence
      of emergence delirium, sleep disturbances, and other maladaptive behavior changes that can
      last up to a few weeks following surgery. Laparoscopic appendectomy can cause significant
      pain and anxiety despite the minimally invasive approach. The investigators' recent completed
      prospective study showed that on the day after surgery, pain after laparoscopic appendectomy
      correlated very well with postoperative anxiety scores (Pearson coefficient =0.539; pending
      publication results from 133 subjects, 11-17 years old, that underwent laparoscopic
      appendectomy).

      Effective postoperative analgesia after laparoscopic appendectomy is necessary for optimal
      recovery. A multimodal approach includes regional analgesia techniques, improves analgesia,
      and reduces side-effects from opioids use. Unfortunately, pain associated with this procedure
      extends after the day of surgery. Continuous peripheral nerve blocks can be effective, but
      are deemed excessively invasive in the context of this minimally invasive surgery. Single
      injection nerve blocks are appropriate, but the duration with a long acting local anesthetic
      is only around 12 hours, and do not match the most painful part of postoperative period, the
      first 24 hours. Over the last years, the challenge of developing a blocking agent that lasts
      long enough to outlast pain and has minimal side effects has been addressed by combining
      different drugs (epinephrine, clonidine, dexamethasone, tramadol, buprenorphine, midazolam,
      magnesium, dexmedetomidine, and ketamine) and yielded mixed results. Among these, clonidine,
      an alpha 2 adrenoreceptor agonist has been shown to prolong the duration of analgesia when
      administered in epidural space in children. Clonidine has also been added to local anesthetic
      for peripheral nerve blocks but its perineural use is controversial and the exact mechanism
      is unclear. Its action is not entirely attributed to an alpha -adrenergic effect at the
      nerve; rather, it is possibly secondary to the blockade of the current through
      hyperpolarization- activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, resulting in the enhancement
      of activity-dependent hyperpolarization.

      From the limited available data, perineurally administered clonidine appears to be safe, but
      the results remain controversial. Adult metaanalysis have found that clonidine from 30-300
      mcg prolongs the time to the first analgesic request by only 2-2.5 hrs. Furthermore,
      clonidine prolonged sensory and motor blockade with all local anesthetic except mepivacaine.

      The pediatric literature regarding the use of clonidine for peripheral nerve blocks lags
      behind adult literature and is conflicting. Few small and under-powered studies showed at
      best a weak trend in favor of clonidine. A retrospective review of 215 patients showed that
      the use of clonidine prolongs the duration of infraclavicular, lumbar plexus, femoral, fascia
      iliaca and sciatic nerve blocks by 20-50%. However, the prolongation is block location
      dependent, and increased the incidence of motor block. This effect was only seen with diluted
      concentrations of bupivacaine 0.125% and ropivacaine 0.2%. No pediatric or adult studies were
      performed involving trunk blocks such as rectus sheath, transversus abdominis plane, or
      paravertebral nerve blocks.

      Side effects reported after clonidine was administered neuraxially or perineurally are
      hypotension, sedation, fainting, and prolonged motor blockade. Hypotension and sedation
      appear to be limited up to doses of 150 mcg. However, Petroheilou et al. reported
      intraoperatively hemodynamic stability after administration of clonidine at 3 mcg/kg.
      Clonidine 1-2 mcg/kg is suggested for use with local anesthetic for single injections
      peripheral nerve blocks.

      Clonidine can help to relieve postoperative anxiety, and subsequently improve pain control.
      Minimal sedation after clonidine administration can be desired for some pediatric patients.
      Clonidine at 2 mcg/kg prevents sevoflurane-induced agitation and can be used as premedication
      in children. No studies have investigated its role as an anxiolytic when added to local
      anesthetic for a nerve block.

      The Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (CHP of
      UPMC) has a dedicated service to provide regional anesthesia techniques and performs
      peripheral nerve blocks on a regular basis. Over the last academic year, 190 patients that
      underwent laparoscopic appendectomy had peripheral nerve blocks (rectus sheath and
      transversus abdominis plane) performed for pain control. Children localized the majority of
      their pain to the umbilicus instrument site. This pain interferes with patients' activities
      such as ambulation, eating, and bedside activities. The principal investigator performed a
      retrospective chart review to compare postoperative analgesia from rectus sheath blocks and a
      combination of transversus abdominis plane and rectus sheath blocks. The postoperative opioid
      consumption and pain scores were similar. Since then, the primary investigator performs only
      ultrasound guided rectus sheath blocks for postoperative analgesia after laparoscopic
      appendectomy. A recent pediatric study showed that the rectus sheath blocks in combination
      with multimodal analgesia are effective for postoperative pain control after mentioned
      procedure. Unfortunately the duration of these blocks performed with maximum 20 ml of
      bupivacaine 0.25% with adrenaline did not outlast the most painful period. The investigators
      believe that rectus sheath blocks with ropivacaine 0.5% and clonidine (2 mcg/kg) will prolong
      the duration of blocks, can reduce postoperative pain and anxiety, facilitate discharge, and
      decrease unplanned hospital admission secondary to pain, and can contribute to an increased
      patient and family satisfaction, and decrease costs for the hospital, insurer, and the
      patient.

      Significance: To the investigators' knowledge, this is the first study to investigate whether
      ropivacaine /clonidine rectus sheath blockade is a better and more complete therapeutic
      regimen for patients undergoing laparoscopic appendectomy. While the patients that underwent
      uncomplicated laparoscopic appendectomy are treated as inpatient for at least one day, CHP
      wants to implement early discharge strategies. Unfortunately, the pain after day of surgery
      can be significant and some parents can be reluctant to have their children discharged. The
      analgesia advices can be poorly retained. The parents can feel overwhelmed about home pain
      management. Some parents believe that using pain medication in childhood may lead to later
      drug abuse. This is concerning as parents often undermedicate their child's pain, with up to
      60% of parents administering less than the prescribed analgesia on the following day after
      surgery discharge. A child with long lasting pain control and less anxiety from
      ropivacaine/clonidine rectus sheath blockade will help the parent cope with the surgical
      event, and can facilitate early discharge.

      Additionally, patient's satisfaction with pain control is becoming an increasingly important
      aspect of health care reimbursements reported via the Hospital Assessment of Healthcare
      Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) survey. The ropivacaine/ clonidine rectus sheath blockade in
      combination with multimodal therapy can be better therapeutic regimen that standard of care,
      and can improve quality of care, increase satisfaction and save health care costs.
    
  