
    
      Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) represent a serious public health problem associated with
      significant morbidity and health costs. Despite optimal etiologic treatment and local care,
      amputation is frequent, stressing the need for new treatments. Tissue ischemia is the primary
      cause for nonhealing DFUs. The cutaneous microcirculation, by providing tissue perfusion,
      fluid hemostasis, and delivery of oxygen and nutrients, plays a critical role in the
      pathophysiology and impaired healing of DFUs.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that the skin microcirculation, and more specifically
      the prostacyclin (PGI2) pathway, is an interesting target for the local treatment of DFUs.
      Indeed, besides its potent vasodilator effect, PGI2 plays a role in the promotion of
      fibroblast migration and angiogenesis in wound models.

      However, the benefit of systemic (i.e. IV or SC) treatments is counterbalanced by potentially
      serious vasodilatation-induced side effects (e.g. severe headaches, flushing, tachycardia and
      hypotension). These properties are dose-limiting and are associated with safety issues and
      increased costs. The paradox is that impaired microvasculature prevents the drug, when
      administered intravenously, from diffusing properly to the wound. Elevated doses are
      therefore needed, leading to adverse drug reactions.

      The originality of this approach is to locally deliver negatively charged PGI2 analogues into
      and around the wound under the influence of a low-intensity current, through a method called
      iontophoresis. Iontophoresis enables a controlled delivery of ionized drugs into/through the
      skin under the influence of low-intensity current. In addition, endogenous electrical signals
      in the wound are known to play a role in healing, by increasing the directed migration of
      keratinocytes, fibroblasts and neutrophils. Exogenous electric stimulation would mimic this
      phenomenon with a positive impact on wound healing. In summary, both the drug and its vehicle
      could therefore work synergistically, while delivering the drug locally therefore limiting
      side effects due to systemic diffusion.

      This is a prospective, monocentric, controlled, randomized, double-blinded phase I/II study
      The main objective is to assess the effect of iontophoresis of treprostinil on wound closure
      over 12 weeks, in patients with DFU. The investigators will compare wound closure, expressed
      as the percentage change of the wound area over time (12-week follow-up), between 3 groups:
      iontophoresis of treprostinil, iontophoresis of placebo, and standard of care. Wound area
      will be assessed with a digital camera and image analysis software.

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  To assess the effect of iontophoresis of treprostinil on complete healing over 3 months

        -  To assess the effect of iontophoresis of treprostinil on the time to complete healing

        -  To assess the effect of iontophoresis of treprostinil on skin perfusion at the site of
           the ulcer and around the wound

        -  To evaluate the effect of iontophoresis of treprostinil on skin oxygenation around the
           lesion and on healed skin

        -  To assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) of topical administration of treprostinil over
           damaged (wounded)

        -  To evaluate the safety of the procedure

      The study will be divided into two consecutive parts:

      Part 1: 8 to 24 patients with DFU (depending on the total number of doses tested, and the
      number of doses per patient) will be included in a single ascending dose (SAD) safety study
      of treprostinil iontophoresis.

      Part 2: 36 patients with DFU associated with microvascular dysfunction (+/- neuropathy) will
      be randomized into three groups to receive either: 1. Treprostinil iontophoresis; 2. Placebo
      iontophoresis; 3. Standard care. Drug administration (placebo or treprostinil), but not
      standard care, will be double-blind. After a 10-day treatment, follow-up includes 6 visits
      over 10 weeks.
    
  