
    
      Main objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of smoking cessation advice combined with a
      detailed discussion of the spirometric results with the primary care practitioner on the
      smoking habit in adult smokers.

      Methodology:

      Design: Intervention study using a randomised control group. Setting: 12 primary care centres
      of two health areas. Participants: 600 smokers, aged 35 to 70 years, seeking medical advice
      from their primary care practitioner (GP) for any given reason (selection visit), excluding
      those patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

      Measurements and interventions: In the selection visit, all participants will be required to
      undergo a series of tests that will include spirometry, tobacco dependence test, a test to
      measure the motivation to stop smoking and a structured questionnaire on sociodemographic
      data, smoking habit, respiratory symptomatology, etc. Based on the spirometric results,
      patients presenting airflow limitation will be excluded.

      Randomisation will be performed using a computer programme. Randomisation will be carried out
      by the Coordinating Centre.

      All other patients will be scheduled for another visit with their primary care practitioner
      one month later. In this visit (visit 1) and depending on the randomisation into 2 groups,
      one group will be given brief but structured smoking cessation advice together with a
      detailed and structured discussion of the spirometric results while the second group will
      also be given the same brief smoking cessation advice but without discussing the spirometric
      results. Both groups will be scheduled for a visit at 6 months (visit 2), and at 1 year
      (visit 3). During visit 2, the patient will be asked about his or her smoking habit. One
      month before visit 3, patients will be required to undergo again the series of tests
      performed prior to visit 1. In visit 3, all those patients who claim to have stopped smoking
      will be required to take a carbon monoxide test.
    
  