
    
      Background Information Radiation therapy is used in a definitive manner or as an adjunct to
      surgery in most of the head and neck cancer patients which inevitably lead to xerostomia
      (salivary gland dysfunction) in almost all patients. Xerostomia is debilitating condition
      which adversely affects the deglutition, mastication, gustation, speech and lead to increased
      susceptibility of structures in mouth to infection. Xerostomia may also interfere with
      nutrition and sleep of patient and thereby has a significant negative impact on patient's
      quality of life. Various modalities have been explored to prevent or decrease the incidence
      of xerostomia and the most successful methods are; use of Intensity modulated radiotherapy
      (IMRT) to spare the parotid salivary gland from radiation, Sparing submandibular salivary
      gland from radiation by it's transfer to sub mental space, use of Amifostine to protect
      salivary glands from radiation and use of cholinergic agonists like pilocarpine to stimulate
      salivary secretion. Both amifostine and pilocarpine are associated with significant side
      effects and amifostine is too costly to be used in routine practice. At our center, we were
      successful in decreasing the incidence of xerostomia significantly by using either IMRT
      sparing parotid gland (Parliament et al 2004) or submandibular gland transfer (SGT) sparing
      submandibular gland (Jha et al 2003)without compromising the tumor control rates. Both these
      modalities were not associated with any added toxicity which makes these methods superior to
      pilocarpine and amifostine. To improve upon our results by sparing both the major salivary
      glands, we plan to explore a combined approach of IMRT and SGT in head and neck cancer
      patients after surgery. For IMRT we had used "step-and-shoot" technique on a Varian 2300 EX
      linac with 120-leaf Millenium MLC. Since December 2002, the Cross Cancer Institute has had a
      helical tomotherapy unit at its disposal for IMRT and a planning study (van Vulpen et al
      2005) conducted comparing the step-and-shoot IMRT and Helical tomotherapy for 5 oropharynx
      patients showed that tomotherapy plans compared favorably with step- and-shoot plans
      regarding sparing of the parotid glands. Hence we intend to use helical tomotherapy as an
      IMRT tool for this study.

      Objectives - primary and secondary Primary objective is to assess the feasibility of sparing
      parotid and transferred submandibular gland by combining IMRT using helical tomotherapy with
      SGT in cancers of oropharynx, larynx, hypopharynx after primary surgery and patients with
      unknown primary cancer with neck nodes after neck dissection.

      Secondary objectives are to assess the incidence of xerostomia subjectively by xerostomia
      specific &University of Washington Quality of Life Head and Neck Symptom questionnaire and
      objectively by sialometry and salivary scintigraphy after parotid-sparing IMRT+ SGT. We also
      intend to evaluate the speech and swallowing function of patients before and after radiation.
      All these functional outcomes will be correlated with the dose-volume histograms of salivary
      glands.

      Study Design Primary squamous cell carcinomas of oropharynx, larynx, hypopharynx Unknown
      primary with neck nodes with squamous cell carcinoma histology

      ? Radical surgery for primary cancers of oropharynx, larynx, hypo pharynx or Neck dissection
      for unknown primary with neck nodes

      + Selective neck dissection(level I-III) and SGT on opposite side for lateralized primary and
      on the side of N0 neck for midline primary

      ?

      IMRT with Helical tomotherapy sparing the parotid glands and transferred submandibular gland
      + chemotherapy

      Statistical Analysis - Power and/or Sample Size Relation This pilot study on 12 patients will
      be considered as feasible if we can limit the mean radiation dose to one parotid and one
      transferred submandibular gland to less than 26Gy while giving a radiation dose of 60Gy to
      PTV 1 and 54 Gy to PTV 2 .We intend to report only the descriptive statistics related to
      incidence and severity of xerostomia.

      Stopping Rules Radiation treatment will be withheld if any patient develops acute toxicity of
      RTOG grade?4 or any unpredictable adverse events. Other than this, the decision to stop/delay
      treatment if clinically indicated will be at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Data Safety Monitoring Committee Data will be handled by Juliette Jordan as per rules of
      Alberta Cancer Board. Recruitment & Eligibility Criteria " Twelve patients with
      histologically proven newly diagnosed squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx, larynx, hypo
      pharynx and unknown primary cancer with neck nodes after primary surgery will be recruited to
      this study.

      " AJCC stage I-IV patients are eligible provided they are M0 and N0-2b. " age 18, and
      Karnofsky performance status 70 " patients must sign a study-specific informed consent form "
      Patients with: N3/N2C/ M1 disease, salivary gland diseases like Sjogren's syndrome, prior or
      concurrent malignancy, prior or concurrent malignancy, pre-epiglottic space involvement on
      pathological examination, involvement of level I nodes on either side of neck, post op
      recurrent disease at presentation will not be eligible for this study.

      Additional procedures and investigations that will be done in this study are outlined below.

      Submandibular Gland Transfer We are using the retrograde flow method for gland transfer.
      Retrograde flow flaps are well established techniques that are extensively used in finger and
      hand reconstructions. The gland is dissected and left pedicled on the artery, vein, and
      submandibular region. The great auricular nerve is dissected, harvested and preserved for
      later use. The facial artery and vein are cut just proximal to their branches supplying the
      gland. The efferent nerves of the submandibular ganglion are also cut. The gland is then
      repositioned in the submental space after the mylohyoid muscle is cut to allow the
      repositioning of the submandibular duct. The efferent nerves of the submandibular region are
      then reattached to the gland with the greater auricular nerve interposition graft. In our
      experience (more than 200 patients so far) we have experienced only one case of recurrence of
      tumor in the grafted area.

      Sialometry Whole salivary flow rates, unstimulated and stimulated, will be measured from the
      floor of the mouth and labial vestibule preoperatively and at 2-3 weeks after surgery before
      start of radiation treatment. After radiation treatment, flow evaluation will be done at 6
      months and 12 months. Each time, the flow rate will be measured at rest and after
      stimulation. Stimulated flow rates will be measured by dropping 0.2 ml of 6% citric acid
      solution on the dorsal surface of the tongue every 30 seconds (Dawes 1975).Salivary samples
      will be collected by means of a an appliance (Pederson et al 1985) consisting of a Drummond
      micropipette holder (for use with 20 microlitre micropipettes) fitted with a 2 ml latex
      dropper bulb. A 2.5 cm length of 50 microlitre micropipette is inserted into the holder until
      its outer end no longer protrudes. During collection, the patient tips the head slight
      forward to produce pooling of saliva at the anterior floor of mouth and mandibular labial
      vestibule. The micropipette extruding from the end of the collection device is used to
      aspirate the pooled salivary secretions from these two sites. As saliva flows up the
      micropipette, it spills into the glass sleeve of the collection device between the top of the
      silicon end-piece and the top of the micropipette.

      Salivary Scintigraphy Salivary gland scintigraphy will be carried out using sodium
      pertechnate 99mTc 04,before surgery,2-3 weeks after surgery and 6 months,12 months after
      radiation therapy to evaluate the morphology and function of the "transferred gland". This
      will be compared with the salivary gland morphology and function that will receive radiation
      treatment. After 148 MBq of 99mTc 04 is rapidly injected with computer acquisition of 1 min
      frames, for a total of 30 min. After 15 minutes time point, the patient is requested to suck
      on the juice of a lemon by a straw, in order to provoke salivary secretion.

      Speech and Swallowing Assessments This assessment will be done at the Head and neck Surgery
      Functional Assessment Laboratory is housed within COMPRU at the Misericordia Hospital. Each
      patient will be scheduled for 4 predetermined assessment visits:1) preoperative; 2) 2-4 weeks
      postoperative; 3) 6-months post-radiation therapy; and 4) 1-year post radiation therapy. At
      each of these sessions, speech, mastication, deglutition, and quality of life will be
      assessed. Speech function will be assessed by recording the voice of patient using
      audiotapes. Masticatory efficiency will be assessed using an electrognathograph (BioPak,
      Version 2.0, Milwaukee, WI), a clinical tool that measures mandibular movement using a
      sensory array to track the position of a magnet placed on a patient's mandibular incisors.
      After placement of both the magnet on the mandibular dentition and the sensory array on the
      head, each patient will be asked to chew a wine gum and ¼ of a digestive cookie. Various
      aspects of mastication will be assessed including the number of chewing strokes and time
      passing before the first swallow of both the candy and the cookie. Swallowing function will
      be assessed by fluoroscopic visualization while the patient is swallowing food substances of
      different consistencies coated with Barium.
    
  