
    
      Trial procedure:

      As induction therapy, ≤4 courses of combination therapy with Pembrolizumab at 200 mg (day 1)
      and a platinum preparation will be performed at 3-week intervals until disease exacerbation
      or intolerable toxicity appearance. Concerning combination therapy with a platinum
      preparation, the combination of cisplatin (CDDP) at 75 mg/m2 (day 1) or carboplatin (CBDCA)
      at Area Under the Curve=6 (AUC=6) (day 1) + pemetrexed (PEM) at 500 mg/m2 (day 1) will be
      administered to patients with non-squamous cell carcinoma at 3-week intervals. To those with
      squamous cell carcinoma, carboplatin (CBDCA) at AUC=6 (day 1) + nanoparticle albumin-bound
      paclitaxel (nab-PTX) at 100 mg/m2 (days 1, 8, and 15) will be administered at 3-week
      intervals. If there is no exacerbation after the 4th course of induction therapy, it will be
      switched to maintenance therapy. For maintenance therapy, the combination of PEM at 500 mg/m2
      (day 1) + Pembrolizumab at 200 mg (day 1) will be administered to patients with non-squamous
      cell carcinoma at 3-week intervals. To those with squamous cell carcinoma, Pembrolizumab at
      200 mg (day 1) will be administered at 3-week intervals until disease exacerbation or
      intolerable toxicity appearance. Pembrolizumab administration should be continued for 2 years
      involving induction and maintenance therapies or until the 35th course.

      In each patient, diagnostic imaging will be performed every 6 weeks (42 ± 7 days)(every 9
      weeks after Week 18, every 12 weeks after Week 45) to evaluate tumor-reducing effects. Using
      images, the response rate (RR) and progression-free survival (PFS) will be evaluated based on
      the "Guidelines for evaluating the treatment response of solid cancer (RECIST 1.1)". It is
      possible to continue treatment until PD evaluated by the attending physician based on the
      RECIST 1.1, intolerable toxicity appearance, the appearance of concomitant diseases affecting
      the continuation of treatment, discontinuation based on the study investigator's evaluation,
      withdrawal, pregnancy, incompliance with investigational-drug administration or procedures
      described in the protocol, appearance of management-related reasons, or completion of
      Pembrolizumab administration for 2 years involving induction and maintenance therapies or the
      35th course. Even after PD is definitively diagnosed by the study investigator based on the
      RECIST 1.1, it is possible to continue treatment if the patient's condition is stable and if
      treatment is considered to be advantageous for the patient by the study investigator. During
      the trial period, adverse events should be examined,and severity grading should be performed
      according to the CTCAE（NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events）version 5.0.

      In cases without any response at first radiographic evaluation (6 weeks), local salvage
      therapy using radiotherapy is recommended by a discretion of doctors in charge. At that
      timing, such cases are treated as a censored case.

      After enrollment of 10 cases, the trial will be early terminated by confirmed PD according
      RECIST at their initial radiographic evaluation (6 weeks) more than 3 cases.

      Background:

      Lung cancer accounts for 13% of all cancer patients. In 2012, 1,800,000 persons were newly
      diagnosed with lung cancer. Internationally, the number of patients who died of lung cancer
      in 2012 reached 1,600,000. Lung cancer is the most frequent cause of cancer-related death in
      males and the second most frequent cause of cancer-related death in females. Non-small cell
      lung cancer accounts for approximately 85% of all lung cancer lesions.

      Concerning the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, tumorectomy is performed in a stage
      in which radical resection is possible, and cure may be achieved at a relatively high
      probability. When radical resection is impossible, therapeutic strategies differ between
      patients with locally advanced cancer and those with remote metastasis. Standard treatment
      for stage III (locally advanced stage in which radical resection is impossible) non-small
      cell lung cancer is chemoradiotherapy (CRT). In some patients, radical cure may be achieved,
      but severe irreversible toxicities, such as treatment-associated death, pneumonia, and
      esophageal stenosis, may appear. In two phase III clinical studies regarding CRT for stage
      III lung cancer in which radical resection is impossible in Japan (WJTOG0105 and Osaka Lung
      Cancer Study Group 0007 studies), treatment-associated death and grade ≥3 pneumonia were
      observed in 3/4% and 2/10%, respectively. A recent phase II comparative clinical study in
      Japan (WJOG5008L study) compared CDDP + S-1 therapy with CDDP + vinorelbine therapy, and
      indicated that the treatment-associated mortality rates and incidences of grade ≥3 pneumonia
      were7.4/9.3% and 9.3/7.4%, respectively.

      The rate at which radical cure was achieved by CRT was estimated to be approximately 20%
      based on the results of previous phase III clinical studies. In these studies, the PFS curve
      after CRT reached a plateau after 2 years. Briefly, if there is no relapse >2 years after
      treatment, the possibility of relapse-free survival may be high. This suggests that the
      2-year PFS rate, which is also adopted as a primary endpoint in this study, is a surrogate
      marker of overall survival (OS).

      Recently, the results of CRT in stage III patients in whom radical resection is impossible
      have not markedly improved, but it was demonstrated that additional immunotherapy after CRT
      prolonged the prognosis. A phase III comparative clinical study published in 2017 (PACIFIC
      study) indicated that the additional administration of a PD-L1 antibody, Durvalumab, to
      patients after CRT in stage III, in which radical resection is impossible, for 1 year
      prolonged the PFS (median: 16.8 vs. 5.6 months, respectively; HR 0.52; p<0.0001) and OS
      (median: not reached vs. 28.7 months, respectively; HR 0.68; p=0.0025) in comparison with a
      placebo. Based on the results of the study, 1-year Durvalumab administration following CRT
      was established as standard treatment for stage III cancer, which is impossible to treat by
      radical resection.

      However, in the above study, randomization was performed after CRT, and the subjects did not
      include those with PD during CRT, those with grade ≥2 pneumonia, those with a reduction in
      the performance status (PS), those in whom CRT could not be completed, or those in whom
      Durvalumab could not be introduced within 42 days after CRT; Durvalumab should be
      additionally administered to patients who completed CRT, but it is difficult to notice
      treatment options before CRT. Furthermore, the results of the PACIFIC study may have been
      obtained, excluding these patients with poor prognoses.

      In patients with PD-L1 ≥50% stage IV non-small cell lung cancer, the marked therapeutic
      effects of monotherapy with Pembrolizumab have been reported. In a phase III comparative
      study (Keynote-024), monotherapy with Pembrolizumab significantly prolonged the PFS (median:
      10.7 vs. 6.7 months, respectively; HR 0.50; p<0.001) and OS (median: non-reached vs.
      non-reached, respectively; HR 0.60; p=0.005) in comparison with combination therapy with a
      platinum preparation, as primary treatment, in patients with PD-L1 ≥50% stage IV non-small
      cell lung cancer. Based on the results of the study, monotherapy with Pembrolizumab was
      established as primary standard treatment for PD-L1 ≥50% stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
      In addition, a strategy to combine immunotherapy with chemotherapy was examined. A phase II
      comparative study involving patients with stage IV non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer
      (Keynote-021 cohort G) showed that CBDCA + PEM + Pembrolizumab therapy prolonged the PFS
      (median: 19.0 vs. 8.9 months, respectively; HR 0.54; p=0.0067) and OS (median: non-reached
      vs. 20.9 months, respectively; HR 0.59; p=0.03) in comparison with CBDCA + PEM therapy.
      Interestingly, a population in which a plateau was reached after ≥24 months accounted for
      approximately 45% regardless of PD-L1. Furthermore, 16 of 20 PD-L1 ≥50% patients responded to
      treatment, with a response rate of 80%. Grades 3-5 adverse events occurred in 39.0% of the
      patients. There was a treatment-associated death (1.7%). To confirm the data, a phase III
      comparative study (Keynote-189) was conducted, supporting the efficacy of CBDCA + PEM +
      Pembrolizumab therapy. In the study, the response rate (61.4 vs. 22.9%, respectively), PFS
      (HR 0.36), and OS (HR 0.42) were significantly higher/longer in the 3-drug combination group
      (involving immunotherapy) among PD-L1 ≥50% patients. As the observation period was
      insufficient, it is difficult to evaluate the 2-year PFS and OS rates in the PD-L1 ≥50%
      patients, but the PFS and OS rates at 18 months were estimated to be approximately 40 and
      70%, respectively, based on the survival curves. Concerning adverse events, the incidence of
      grade ≥3 toxicities and treatment-associated mortality rate in the 3-drug combination group
      were 67.2 and 6.7%, respectively, being slightly high. However, in the placebo group, the
      percentages were 65.8 and 5.9%, respectively; there were no differences. Furthermore, a phase
      III randomized controlled study of initial treatment for stage IV squamous cell carcinoma of
      the lung (Keynote-407) demonstrated the additive effects of pembrolizumab on combination
      therapy with a platinum preparation (CBDCA + nab-PTX). This therapy improved the response
      rate (58.4 vs. 38.0%, respectively), PFS (median: 6.4 vs. 4.8 months, respectively; HR 0.56;
      p<0.001), and OS (median: 15.9 vs. 11.3 months, respectively; HR 0.64; p=0.008). As the
      observation period was insufficient, it is difficult to evaluate the 2-year PFS and OS rates.
      However, the PFS and OS rates at 15 months were estimated to be approximately 30 and 50%,
      respectively, based on the survival curves. The hazard ratios (HRs) of PFS and OS in PD-L1
      ≥50% patients were 0.37 and 0.64, respectively. Furthermore, there was no difference in the
      incidence of serious adverse events (grade ≥3) (69.8 vs. 68.2%, respectively). These data
      suggest the potent therapeutic effects of chemotherapy + Pembrolizumab in both PD-L1 ≥50%
      non-squamous and squamous cell carcinoma patients.

      With respect to the effects of immunotherapy in an earlier stage, the efficacy of nivolumab
      as stage II/III preoperative therapy was reported. According to this report, nivolumab
      administered twice before surgery led to a major pathologic response (MPR rate: the rate of
      viable cells, <10%) in 9 (43%) of 21 patients. A higher MPR rate may be achieved by
      preoperative chemotherapy + immunotherapy. According to a report from the American Society of
      Clinical Oncology in 2018, the MPR rate after CBDCA + nab-PTX + Atezolizumab therapy (n=14),
      as stage II/III preoperative treatment, was 50%. In addition, at a meeting held by the World
      Conference on Lung Cancer in 2018, it was reported that pathological complete remission was
      achieved in 18 (60%) of 30 surgically treated patients after CBDCA + PTX + nivolumab therapy,
      and that an MPR was achieved in 6 (20%); the MPR rate was 80%. These data also suggest that
      immunotherapy is more effective in an earlier stage, and that the combination of chemotherapy
      and immunotherapy is much more effective. Considering that a durable response is achieved in
      most patients with complete or partial remission among stage IV patients, a durable response
      may be achieved at a high probability in stage III patients with an MPR after chemotherapy +
      immunotherapy. Furthermore, a study indicated that, among stage IV patients, PD-1 antibody
      therapy was more effective in those with a smaller tumor volume. In stage III patients, there
      is no remote metastasis, and the tumor volume may be smaller than in stage IV patients.
      Therefore, considering a high MPR rate after stage II/III preoperative therapy and a more
      favorable patient status with a small tumor volume and a small number of metastatic organs in
      stage III patients, chemotherapy + immunotherapy may be more effective than chemotherapy +
      Pembrolizumab in stage IV patients.

      Based on the above background, we hypothesized that Pembrolizumab + chemotherapy might
      exhibit sufficient therapeutic effects similar to those of CRT in the absence of radiotherapy
      if PD-L1 is ≥50% in patients with non-resectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
      Furthermore, the toxicity of CRT can be avoided, and there may be a marked improvement in
      tolerability. Therefore, we designed a phase II, multicenter, cooperative, single-group,
      physician-guided trial of combination chemotherapy with Pembrolizumab and a platinum
      preparation in the absence of radiotherapy involving PD-L1 ≥50% stage III locally advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer.
    
  