
    
      The treatments for people with apical HCM and symptoms are limited but include medicines. The
      use of a pacemaker in this situation is an experimental treatment which has not yet been
      fully explored. We believe symptoms are linked with abnormalities in blood flow through the
      heart muscle at the tip / apex of the heart and wish to see if using a pacemaker can improve
      such abnormalities. We want to test if this treatment works using a clinical trial to help us
      decide whether this is a viable treatment option that may be offered to other patients with
      the condition. The null hypothesis states that there will be no difference in blood flow
      through the heart muscle with pacing. The alternative hypothesis states that there will be a
      significant difference in blood flow through the heart muscle with pacing. This was chosen
      based upon our current knowledge that abnormal blood flow in the heart muscle in apical HCM
      is linked with abnormal squeeze at the apex / tip and symptoms. Echocardiography pilot data
      has demonstrated a reduction in squeeze at the apex of the heart when using the pacemaker to
      cause the heart muscle to contract in a different way.

      Our alternative hypothesis therefore is that we can use the pacemaker to reduce squeeze at
      the apex and improve blood flow through the heart muscle. This is a single centre,
      prospective pilot study. Because data on acute changes in perfusion with pacing in apical HCM
      are extremely limited, the most ethical methodology is to perform a two-phase study. Phase A
      of the study assesses acute changes in blood flow through the heart muscle during different
      pacemaker settings (active and back-up), looking for potential efficacy of the intervention.
      Secondary outcomes of Phase A include recruitment rate and proportion of patients willing to
      proceed to Phase B. Phase B of the study consists of entering those same patients into a
      randomised double-blind cross-over 6-month follow-up pilot to collect baseline statistical
      data and assess acceptability of study protocol to design a future study. Here, assessment of
      further secondary outcomes will allow establishment of baseline statistical data for the
      design of an outcomes-based clinical trial. Patients will only be entered into phase B of the
      study if an improvement is seen in myocardial perfusion with pacing during phase A.
    
  