
    
      To achieve the Food4me aims, investigators will undertake a large multi-centre
      proof-of-principle study carried out across 7 EU countries on options for the delivery of
      personalised nutrition.

      Recruitment Centres

      Recruitment to the Food4Me intervention study will be carried out using identical protocols
      in 7 centres across the EU involving a total of 1,288 study participants i.e. 184
      participants per country. The Proof-of-Proof of Principle study centres involve in the
      recruitment are:

        -  University College Dublin, Ireland.

        -  University of Maastricht, Netherlands.

        -  Universidad de Navarra, Spain.

        -  Harokopio University, Greece.

        -  The University of Reading, Uk

        -  National Food and Nutrition Institute, Poland.

        -  Technische Universitaet Muenchen, German.

      Study design

      Then, each proof-of-principle centre will recruit a sample of 184 participants and with 46
      subjects will be randomly assigned each of the following levels of personalised nutrition:

        -  Level 0: Control group - will receive non-personalized dietary advice for improved food
           choice based on standard population healthy eating guidelines.

        -  Level 1: Personalised dietary advice based on dietary intake data alone.

        -  Level 2: Personalised dietary advice taking dietary intake and phenotypic data into
           account.

        -  Level 3: Personalised dietary advice taking dietary intake, phenotypic and genotypic
           data into account.

      The study has been designed to mimic a fully Internet delivered personalized nutrition
      service. The route to recruitment will be via the Internet to mimic the real life conditions
      for a "proof-of-principle" study. However, to ensure adequate recruitment to this scientific
      study, the recruitment of study participants will be also based on local and national
      advertising of the service through internet, radio advertisements, other advertisements, use
      of social media or face to face meetings.

      Only participants aged 18 years of age and above will be included in the study. A minimal set
      of exclusion criteria will be applied (subject under 18 years old, pregnant or lactating, no
      or limited access to internet, following a prescribed diet for any reason, including weight
      loss in the last 3 months, Insulin dependent diabetes, celiac disease, Crohn's, or any
      metabolic disease or condition that alters nutritional requirements, such as diabetes. Other
      than balancing the male to female ratio among recruits (with not more than a 70/30 or 30/70
      distribution of males and females in each group) and balancing the age ratio (with not more
      than a 70/30 or 30/70 distribution of participants <45 years and > 45 years old in each
      group) no other stratification will be applied since the objective is to complete the
      proof-of-principle study in as real setting as possible. All age and sex stratification will
      be applied before randomisation of the participants to each level / group of personalised
      nutrition (0, 1, 2 and 3).
    
  