
    
      The MUST trial is a randomized controlled clinical trial comparing two treatments for
      patients with vision-threatening non-infectious intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis, or
      panuveitis:

        -  local therapy with fluocinolone acetonide intraocular implant in affected eyes; versus

        -  standard therapy: systemic corticosteroid therapy supplemented, when indicated, by
           corticosteroid-sparing potent immuno-modulator therapy.

      Study ophthalmologists, clinic coordinators, and patients will not be masked to treatment
      assignment. Masking will be applied to the determination of visual function at baseline, the
      six month visit, and thereafter . Patients will be followed until death, participant
      withdrawal, or a common study closeout. Patients will be seen at baseline, one month after
      randomization, three months after randomization, and every three months thereafter for data
      collection. Both ophthalmological and medical data will be collected to evaluate the outcomes
      of treatment of the uveitis, complications of the uveitis, and complications from therapy
      itself. Selected laboratory data related to the complications from systemic corticosteroid
      therapy will be collected.

      The planned sample size of 250 patients, 125 per treatment group, is expected to give
      sufficient power to detect clinically important differences in visual acuity outcomes.
      Patients meeting the eligibility criteria detailed above will be enrolled at approximately 23
      clinical centers in the United States, Australia and UK. Patients will be randomized on a 1:1
      basis to one of the two treatment groups.

      The MUST Research Group received additional funding at the completion of the MUST Trial to
      continue following patients enrolled in the study for an additional 7 years in the MUST Trial
      Follow-up Study (MUST FS). Since uveitis is often a chronic condition requiring long-term
      treatment, the objectives of the MUST FS are to evaluate outcomes of the two treatments over
      a longer period time. The outcomes specified for MUST FS are the same as those specified for
      the MUST Trial: visual acuity, ocular and systemic side effects of treatment, quality of
      life, and control of ocular inflammation. The primary analyses will be to compare outcomes
      between the original randomization groups, i.e., intention-to-treat. Secondary analyses will
      be based on treatment received. Study visits will be conducted every 6 months in MUST FS as
      opposed to every 3 months in the MUST Trial. Two analyses are planned for public release, one
      at 4.5 years and one after 7 years of follow-up. The Data Safety Monitoring Board reviewed
      and approved the analysis plan.
    
  