
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) in women with resected node-positive or high-risk
      node-negative breast cancer which is reported as human epidermal growth factor receptor
      (HER)2-low by all HER2 testing performed.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      disease-free survival (DFS)-ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in women with resected
      node-positive or high-risk node-negative breast cancer which is reported as HER2-low by all
      HER2 testing performed.

      II. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      breast cancer-free survival (BCFS) in women with resected node-positive or high-risk
      node-negative breast cancer which is reported as HER2-low by all HER2 testing performed.

      III. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      recurrence-free interval (RFI) in women with resected node-positive or high-risk
      node-negative breast cancer which is reported as HER2-low by all HER2 testing performed.

      IV. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      distant recurrence-free interval (DRFI) in women with resected node-positive or high-risk
      node-negative breast cancer which is reported as HER2-low by all HER2 testing performed.

      V. To determine whether the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP) improves
      overall survival (OS) in women with resected node-positive or high-risk node-negative breast
      cancer which is reported as HER2-low by all HER2 testing performed.

      VI. To evaluate the associations between amenorrhea and circulating reproductive hormone
      levels, and the associations between chemotherapy regimen, amenorrhea, and IDFS benefit in
      premenopausal women eligible at baseline for the menstrual history assessments.

      VII. To evaluate the toxicity associated with each of the regimens. VIII. To test the
      hypothesis that the HER2 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) level is the predictor of the
      degree of benefit from trastuzumab and the threshold for benefit in the adjuvant setting is
      lower than defined by current American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO)/College of
      American Pathologists (CAP) Guidelines for HER2 assays (immunohistochemistry [IHC] and
      fluorescent in situ hybridization [FISH]).

      IX. To identify and/or validate molecular predictors of the degree of benefit from the
      addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or AC→WP).

      X. To test the alternative hypothesis that the main determinant of trastuzumab response in
      the adjuvant setting of HER2-low breast cancer is through antibody-dependent cellular
      cytotoxicity (ADCC) by demonstrating that the polymorphism of the Fcgamma receptor gene is
      predictive of the degree of benefit from the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy (TC or
      AC→WP).

      XI. To examine the relationship between behavioral host factors (obesity, tobacco, alcohol)
      and comorbid conditions that may influence systemic inflammation and breast cancer outcomes,
      controlling for tumor/stage characteristics and treatment assignment.

      XII. To examine the relationship between medication exposures that may influence systemic
      inflammation and breast cancer outcomes, controlling for tumor/stage characteristics and
      treatment assignment.

      XIII. To examine the relationship between comorbid conditions, medication exposures, and
      behavioral host factors together and breast cancer outcomes, controlling for tumor/stage
      characteristics and treatment assignment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      NOTE: *Chemotherapy regimen is based on the investigator's preference.

      ARM I:

      GROUP IA: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP IB: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 or 3 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2-3 weeks after last dose of
      doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide, patients also receive paclitaxel IV over 60
      minutes once weekly for 12 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II:

      GROUP IIA: Patients receive docetaxel and cyclophosphamide as in Group IA. Patients also
      receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks for 1 year
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP IIB: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel as in
      Group IB. Patients also receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes weekly for 12 doses and
      then every 3 weeks for subsequent doses. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 1 year in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and
      then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  