
    
      Around 4% of total knee arthroplasties (TKA) are revised 15 years after the primary
      operation, most due to loosening of the implant. About 70 % TKA are fixed with bone cement
      and in general the results after total knee arthroplasty are excellent and with the existing
      technique about 95% well functioning prostheses can be expected 10 years post surgery. The
      most serious late complication to surgery is aseptic loosening of the implants; and this
      remains one of the main courses of failure of both uncemented and cemented total knee
      implants.

      Implant design, method of fixation, the quality of bone cement, surgerytechnique and the bone
      mass density are some of the factors that have a large influence on implant stability.
      Fixation of the tibia baseplates in total knee arthroplasty can be obtained by different type
      bone cement.

      In this project we are using a modular tibia component with a central wedge-shaped stem. Upon
      randomization at surgery the implant is consolidated in the bone with either low-viscosity or
      high-viscosity bone cement.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the early migration of a total knee implant fixated
      with two different bone cements using RSA (radio stereophotogrammetric analysis) for
      evaluation. Furthermore, we will make research into the periprosthetic bone and its changes
      post surgery using DEXA. Finally, the extend of the expected micromovements between the
      polyethylen liner and the metal backing of the titanium plateau will be compared and taken
      into account with the results.

      Several factors can influence the long-term survival of cemented TKA. Bone-sclerosing at the
      tibia condyles may induce a problem with cement penetration into the cancellous bone.
      Furthermore, blood-contamination in the cancellous bone may reduce the shear-strength at the
      bone-cement site by 50%. A solid cement-implant interface limits the amount of debris in the
      interface bringing down the risk of radiolucent lines and osteolysis. The tibial implant used
      in this study is designed with a rim under the plateau to support the cement layer on the
      tibial condyles at the time of fixation. The implant has a stem making it more resistant to
      shearing forces. In this study we primarily consider the bone cement viscosity on the
      outcome. Both types are used in hip-arthroplasties with good results.

      To evaluate both the implant-bone micromotions and the polyethylen-implant micromovements
      metal markers have been placed on the tibial implants pre-operatively. They will also be
      inserted into the tibial bone and into the tibial polyethylen intra-operatively allowing us
      to evaluate stereo x-rays by a photogrammetric computer analyses called RSA at the
      Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus University Hospital. Follow-up stereo x-rays will be scheduled for
      1 week, 3 months, 6 month, 1 years and 2 years post-surgery. Periprostetic bone density will
      be evaluated at 1 week, 1 year and 2 years upon inclusion at the Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus
      University Hospital.
    
  