
    
      -  Rationale and hypotheses: Acute renal failure is a relatively rare but serious illness
           in children. Early detection is important in preventing life threatening complications
           that can arise from acute renal failure. Presently, most methods of determining renal
           function are either too cumbersome, too invasion or too unreliable to be used in
           children. Current evidence has shown that serum cystatin C is more precise and
           cost-effective in determining renal function. Our objective is to compare serum cystatin
           C with other biomarkers as an early diagnostic detection for renal dysfunction in
           children with acute renal failure in an emergency setting.

        -  Study design and methods: This is a prospective double cohort control study to compare
           the serum creatinine and serum cystatin C in detecting early renal dysfunction in
           children presenting to the emergency department. The study will be conducted in CHEO
           emergency department. A study nurse will identify eligible patients and discuss whether
           to approach the families with either the bedside nurse or attending physician before
           meeting them. Interested families are than given an explanation of our study. Once
           written consent is obtained, a copy will be given to the family. Additional tests will
           than be requested from blood and urine samples of the patients. Only patients that
           already require an intravenous needling are eligible for this study. No additional
           needling is therefore needed as part of this study. Urine sample will only be obtained
           through bad or voiding samples. No catheter urine samples will be requested as part of
           this study.

        -  Subject selection: Our target population are patients presenting to the CHEO emergency
           department with the diagnoses of gastroenteritis and dehydration, and requiring
           intravenous rehydration. Our control group are patients with traumatic injury requiring
           conscious sedation and intravenous access. We will exclude patients who are known to
           have underlying kidney diseases, renal transplantation, thyroid dysfunction, chronic
           systematic steroid uses, genitourinary trauma and patients transferred from another
           hospitals for ongoing assessment and treatment.

        -  Specify the number of participants drawn from CHEO and other centres: CHEO is the only
           designated centre for the study. 464 patients will be recruited to complete the study,
           232 in each arm.

        -  Delineate the outcomes to be measured and analyzed: The primary outcome measures are to
           compare the sensitivity and the timing of detecting early renal dysfunction using either
           serum creatinine or serum cystatin C in the paediatric emergency setting. Our secondary
           outcome measures are to compare serum cystatin C to other surrogate renal markers for
           acute renal failure. Other renal markers include calculated Schwartz glomerular
           filtration rate, urine microprotein excretion, fractional excretions of sodium and urea,
           serum sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, urine Na/K ratio and regular urinalysis. Additional
           analysis will be conducted on the comparison of fractional excretion of urea to
           fractional excretion of sodium as an earlier marker of dehydration in children.

        -  Anticipated benefits/harms and how these will be addressed: Only patients who already
           require needling as part of their hospital care are eligible for the study. No
           additional needling is therefore requested. Additional tests will be requested that
           would otherwise not be part of the routine care of these patients. It is therefore
           possible that a kidney disorder will be identified in a child who was not yet diagnosed
           with this disease. We will discuss this possibility with the family before enrollment of
           the patient. All major abnormalities will be followed by both the attending physician
           and the principle investigators of the study and appropriate care will apply. We do not
           intervene with the ongoing care of the patients while the patients remain in hospital.
           The study will terminate when patients are discharged from the hospital.

        -  Data fields (if any) to be abstracted from the patient's health record: We will record
           patient's CHEO medical record number for the purpose of retrieving laboratory data; date
           of birth; biometric measurement (height, weight and sex). No other identifiable
           information will be record on the data sheet. No individual information will be used for
           publication or presentation.

      Informed consent documents and any advertisement notices must be appended to the application.
      Both English and French versions of the consent forms and information sheets are enclosed
      with this application.
    
  