
    
      While about half of pancreatic cystic lesions have little to no malignant potential, mucinous
      cystic neoplasms (MCNs) and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) carry a high
      potential for progression into pancreatic cancer. Therefore, either close radiographic
      surveillance or surgical resection is generally recommended for these cysts. However,
      pancreatic surgery is associated with a significant risk of morbidity and mortality and not
      all patients are good surgical candidates. As an alternative, endoscopic ultrasound-guided
      fine needle injection(EUS-FNI) has been shown to be moderately effective in ablating cystic
      lesions.

      The goal of this investigation is to improve the efficacy and safety of this procedure when
      compared with previous versions of the technique. This study is designed to evaluate the
      efficacy of a chemotherapeutic cocktail with or without prior ethanol lavage for ablation of
      pancreatic cystic neoplasms using EUS-FNI for agent delivery. This paired, prospective,
      double-blind, randomized study will include 78 patients referred to the Penn State Hershey
      Medical Center. Mucinous or indeterminate pancreatic cysts of 1-5cm with less than 5
      compartments and without clear communication with the main pancreatic duct will be included.
      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into a control arm or study arm. Patients
      randomized to the control arm will receive ethanol lavage of the cyst followed by injection
      of two carefully selected chemotherapeutic agents. Study arm patients will receive a normal
      saline lavage followed by injection of the same chemotherapy admixture. Patients will be
      monitored for 2 hours post-procedure, and a follow-up CT will be performed at 6, and 12
      months, or as determined necessary to evaluate cyst resolution. Patients may elect to undergo
      evaluation for surgical resection at any time, regardless of response, in which case a
      dedicated pathologist will evaluate any surgical specimens.
    
  