
    
      Schizophrenia is a chronic mental disorder that is characterized, in part, by psychotic
      symptoms. Psychotic symptoms include hallucinations and delusions, in which a person has
      abnormal experiences or beliefs, and are commonly treated with antipsychotic medications.
      Unfortunately, a side effect of many antipsychotics is unwanted weight gain, which can lead
      to physical illness. Use of the drug metformin has resulted in weight loss among diabetics.
      Metformin has also been shown to cause weight loss in preliminary studies of people taking
      atypical antipsychotics-a newer, second generation of antipsychotic medications. Metformin is
      currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat only people with diabetes.
      This study will test the usefulness of prescribing metformin as a second medication to treat
      people with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who are overweight and taking
      antipsychotics. The study will also provide important feasibility information for future
      larger studies.

      Participation in this study will last 16 weeks. After undergoing baseline assessments,
      participants will be randomly assigned to receive either metformin or placebo, both of which
      will be taken twice daily for the duration of the study. All participants will also receive
      behavioral therapy that will teach them about reducing their weight through diet and
      exercise. Participants will undergo assessments at 11 study visits: the first 2 will include
      screening and baseline testing, the next 2 visits will take place after the first and second
      weeks of receiving treatment, and the last 7 visits will take place every 2 weeks until the
      end of the study. Assessments will include measurements of body weight, waist-to-hip ratio,
      and vital signs; clinical interviews about medication adherence, side effects, and alcohol
      use; and monthly blood tests to assess levels of lipids, glucose, insulin, and hemoglobin
      A1c.
    
  