
    
      Introduction. Parents of children with sensory processing issues (SPIs) experience decreased
      levels of parental sense of competence (PSOC) in managing SPI-related behaviours that
      challenge conventional parenting skills. Occupational therapy (OT)-led parent education
      workshops (PEWs) have been found to increase the PSOC of parents of children with SPIs who
      have a formal Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) diagnosis. However, research is limited on how
      these interventions affect PSOC of parents of children with SPIs who do not have a formal
      diagnosis, and are still on the waitlist for a neurodevelopmental assessment. This is vital
      as children with SPIs and their parents may have limited access to specialist referrals,
      government-funded interventions, or support services while they await a diagnostic
      assessment. SPI-related workshops may provide an opportunity to support families and promote
      PSOC and well-being by providing strategies to address SPI-related behaviours while they wait
      (which may be beneficial regardless of whether their child eventually receives a formal
      neurodevelopmental diagnosis or not). Objectives. The primary objective of this pilot
      randomized waitlist control trial is to evaluate the impact of an OT-led parent education
      workshop on the PSOC of parents of children experiencing SPIs who are on the waitlist for a
      neurodevelopmental diagnostic assessment. The secondary objective is to obtain a subjective
      evaluation of the content, format, and delivery of the parent education workshop from the
      parents' perspectives. Methods. Parents will be recruited from the waitlist for a
      neurodevelopmental assessment for their children through the "Communication, Learning, and
      Behaviour" clinic at Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital. Participants will be
      randomly selected to attend one of two identical workshops scheduled two weeks apart. The
      PSOC Scale, along with demographics and follow-up questionnaires that include both closed and
      open-ended questions, will be administered to parents pre- and post-workshop attendance.
      Descriptive statistics, an independent sample t-test and a two-way Analysis of Variance
      (ANOVA) will be used to analyze quantitative data from these outcome measures. To analyze the
      qualitative data (parents' open ended responses on the follow-up feedback questionnaire), a
      content analysis will be completed, which will be used to complement the quantitative
      results, as well as provide feedback regarding the content, format, and delivery of the
      parent education workshop. Practice Implications. Results from this study can provide
      evidence to support the need for parent education workshops in improving the PSOC of parents
      of children on the waitlist for a neurodevelopmental assessment, promote mental health and
      wellbeing of parents while they wait for the assessment, promote parenting that helps
      children with SPIs engage in daily life occupations, and inform the development of future
      workshops. Conclusion. Information garnered from this study can inform the development of OT
      services that can address the current gap in care while parents and their children with SPIs
      are waiting for a formal neurodevelopmental assessment and referrals to publicly funded
      services funded for specific diagnosis.
    
  