
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an emerging respiratory infectious disease caused by
      severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that had infected more than 100
      million individuals and caused more than 2 million deaths worldwide by February 13, 2021. A
      safe and effective vaccination trials against COVID-19 is urgently needed. There are
      currently more than 160 COVID-19 candidate vaccines in development worldwide, and 25 are in
      different phases of clinical trials using different platforms.

      The efficacy and immunogenicity of vaccines varies depending on the study cohort. Race and
      ethnicity were shown to affect the antibody responses to the rubella vaccine, which elicited
      significantly higher titers in children of African ethnicity compared to those of European
      descent or Hispanic ethnicity, likely, disparities in serologic responses to vaccines were
      also observed between different ethnic groups for the Haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus
      toxoid conjugate vaccine , or the Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide-Neisseria
      meningitidis outer membrane protein conjugate vaccine . thus keeping the race an important
      factor in studding its effect on immunogenicity of vaccine. Thus keeping the race an
      important factor in studding its effect on immunogenicity of vaccine, which pushed us to
      estimate immunogenicity in Egyptian population after vaccination with the inactivated
      COVID-19 vaccine.

      Heamatological changes after vaccination had been detected in many researches; lecuocytosis
      was found shortly after vaccination of infants, which was primarily a neutrophilia but no
      participant received antibiotics and all remained well at follow-up . In a case series study,
      also leukocytosis with fever was detected following pneumococcal vaccine administration . On
      the other hand, neutropenia was detected following a new vaccine against Shigella sonnei .
      Platelets abnormalities also had been detected following vaccination, a previous example is
      idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, linked to the administration of measles-containing
      vaccines .
    
  