
    
      Mental illness is a major cause of disability worldwide[1]. Much of the adult population is
      employed and spends 28% of their waking hours doing paid work[2,3]. The occupational
      environment is therefore an opportune location for preventative mental health interventions.
      A growing number of employers provide programmes to improve well-being and work performance.

      Mindfulness is typically defined as "the awareness that emerges through paying attention on
      purpose, in the present moment, and non-judgmentally to the unfolding of experience moment by
      moment". Practising such awareness has been linked to reduction in symptoms of anxiety,
      depression, and stress in community populations. There is also evidence that mindfulness
      could improve life satisfaction, overall well-being, and quality of life.

      It has also been argued that mindfulness may yield workplace benefits beyond well-being.
      Mindfulness has been suggested to improve work performance, reduce the negative effects of
      multitasking, and enhance self-regulation of thoughts, emotions and behaviours. Empirical
      evidence to support these suggestions, however, is scarce. Furthermore, the mechanisms
      through which mindfulness impacts work performance are not clear. Understanding mechanisms of
      change (a) would help to design better, more targeted interventions, (b) would improve our
      attempts to assess MBPs via selection of more stringent control interventions and (c) may
      promote a personalised medicine approach by informing understanding of what works for whom
      and in which context.

      Current literature suggests that MBPs could improve work performance through increased mental
      well-being and/or cognitive control over emotional material. A definitive randomised
      controlled trial is needed to evaluate these potential mechanisms. However, methodological
      uncertainties need clarification to inform the design of such a trial. We aim to conduct a
      feasibility trial to clarify these uncertainties and complete a preliminary investigation of
      the relationships between mindfulness training, workplace performance and the proposed
      mechanisms of action: mental well-being and cognitive control.

      This feasibility trial will:

        1. Estimate the between-groups effect size for the effect of mindfulness, relative to a
           light exercise control condition, on our primary outcome of work performance, in order
           to inform power calculation for a larger trial;

        2. Explore whether improved cognitive control and/or enhanced mental health could be
           potential mechanisms underlying the effect of mindfulness on work performance;

        3. Determine procedural feasibility of a later stage trial by evaluating the willingness of
           the participants to be randomised and other practical implications of running a
           randomised controlled trial;
    
  