
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the efficacy of celecoxib when administered with standard chemotherapy
           comprising docetaxel or pemetrexed disodium in patients with advanced, recurrent
           non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) exhibiting cyclooxygenase (COX) dependence.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall response rate and time to progression in patients with
           COX-dependent recurrent NSCLC treated with celecoxib and docetaxel or pemetrexed
           disodium.

        -  To determine the effect of celecoxib on the urinary metabolites of PGE_2 , PGI_2, and
           thromboxane in patients with COX-dependent recurrent NSCLC.

        -  To correlate changes in urinary PGE-M and survival with intratumoral expression of
           COX-2, mPGES, and 15-PGDH as assessed by IHC.

      OUTLINE: Patients with no prior taxane exposure receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1;
      patients with prior taxane exposure or for whom docetaxel treatment is contraindicated
      receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment with docetaxel or
      pemetrexed disodium repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily
      beginning 5-7 days prior to the first docetaxel or pemetrexed disodium infusion and
      continuing for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection at baseline and periodically during study
      for biomarker correlative studies. Urine samples are assessed for PGE-M levels. Blood samples
      are analyzed for serum celecoxib levels, VEGF, endostatin, and cytokine assays.

      After completing the last dose of celecoxib, patients are followed at 4-6 weeks and then
      every 3 months thereafter for up to 2 years from study entry.
    
  