
    
      Background: Although anterior and posterior decompression surgery are both reported to treat
      patients with myelopathy caused by OPLL（Posterior longitudinal ligament ossification）. The
      surgical strategy of the disease is still controversial when the OPLL is multilevel and
      severe. Novel techniques for better and safer results are required. Dr. Shi recently proposed
      a new technique as Ossification of anterior decompression surgery, which is also called
      anterior controllable antedisplacement and fusion (ACAF) , for ossification of the posterior
      longitudinal ligament (OPLL) with myelopathy. The ACAF technology has been in clinical trials
      for some time. More and more doctors are starting to pay attention to this technology. There
      are many hospitals in China that have developed this technology. In order to prove that this
      technology has a significant effect on the treatment of cervical ossification of the
      posterior longitudinal ligament, we compared the efficacy of traditional ACCF surgery, in
      order to make the conclusion more true, we decided to carry out multi-center research.

      Purpose: The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of clinical
      outcomes between ACAF surgery and Anterior cervical corpectomy decompression and
      fusion（ACCF）in patients with OPLL. A study hypothesis is that ACAF surgery outcomes will be
      equal even better and lower surgical complications which compared to ACCF surgery.

      Methods: This study is a multi-center randomized clinical trial with randomized, controlled,
      multicenter research design. The OPLL patients will be randomly assigned in one of the two
      treatment groups: ACAF surgery and ACCF surgery. Five outcome measures will be collected
      pre-operative for baseline, and then at1, 12, 24, 48, 96,240weeks post-operative follow-up
      visits, including : (1) Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) scales to assess the spinal
      cord functions.(2)Visual analogue scale (VAS) to assess pain relief. (3)NURIC Graded to
      assess walking function.(4) Neck Disabilitv Index(NDI) to assess cervical function . (5)
      radiological parameters to assess ossification forward distance. And the pre & postoperative
      radiological parameters, and surgical complications were also investigated. The investigator
      performing the outcome measures will be blinded to group assignment, and therefore will not
      participate in treatment. After randomization, the ACAF group will receive anterior
      controllable antedisplacement and fusion and the ACCF group will receive anterior cervical
      corpectomy decompression and fusion.

      Data Analysis: T test or wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to examine the differences in
      the five measures between groups and at the six different time frames with the α level set at
      0.05. Chi square test will be used to compare the differences in the surgical complications
      data over time and between groups.
    
  