
    
      We aim to see whether ascorbic acid and zinc gluconate which has limited side effect profile
      and is readily available over the counter can decrease the duration of symptoms seen in
      patients with new diagnosis of COVID-2019. A secondary purpose is to see whether Zinc and/or
      Ascorbic acid supplementation can prevent progression of the severe manifestations of the
      disease including development of dyspnea and acute respiratory distress syndrome which may
      require hospitalization, mechanical ventilation, and or lead to death.

      This is a single-center, prospective, randomized study which plans to enroll 520 patients
      with a principal diagnosis of COVID-2019, managed in an outpatient setting, who presented
      after being sent by a healthcare provider to get tested and receive a PCR (Polymerase Chain
      Reaction) -assay based confirmed diagnosis of the disease. All patients who agree to
      participate in the study will answer a baseline questionnaire about their symptoms at the
      time of inclusion. Patients will then be randomized to one of 4 study arms. Patients in Arm A
      (n=130) will receive vitamin C (to be taken divided over 2-3 times a day with meals),
      patients in Arm B (n=130) will receive zinc gluconate to be taken at bedtime, patients in Arm
      C (n=130) will receive both vitamin C (to be taken divided over 2-3 times a day with meals)
      and zinc gluconate (taken at bedtime). Patients in arms A, B and C will take study
      supplements daily for 10 days. Patients in Arm D (n=130) will not receive any of the study
      medications and continue on standard of care. Patients will then track their symptoms daily
      from day 0 to day 28 answering 12 basic questions on illness severity.They will stop filling
      out their daily questions once they reach reach the end of the 28 day study period or at time
      of hospitalization; whichever comes first . Study team members will call patients at days 7,
      14, 21, and 28 of the study period to assess need for hospitalization, ER visit, or
      additional medications prescribed by a healthcare provider, and any side effects from the
      supplements that the patient could have experienced.
    
  