
    
      The results from previous studies agree that direct comparisons of the PAT and TAT are
      clinically comparable in the normal temperature range in adults. This was defined as a
      clinical significance difference of less than ±.5ºC (.9ºF. In the one study that assessed
      subjects with fevers (temperatures greater than 37.8oC (100.0oF) with some methodological
      criticism, compared the TAT to PAT in adults (n=15). There were poor correlations (r=0.3)
      among the adult measurements with a difference of 1.3+0.6o C. Eighty-nine percent of the TAT
      measurements were different than the PAT by more that ±.5ºC.

      With only one study that focused in those who had a PAT outside the normal temperature range
      to evaluate accuracy and precision, there is a need for further research to assess the
      accuracy and precision of the TAT for detection of hyperthermia. A new onset of temperature
      equal to or above 100.4oF is defined as a fever and a temperature of 100.9oF is considered a
      reasonable trigger for a clinical assessment according to the Society of Critical Care
      Medicine in their fever guidelines for adults. Researchers synthesizing the literature on the
      TAT and other noninvasive temperature measurements, indicate that noninvasive temperature
      measurements are accurate for normal temperatures but may fail to detect hyperthermia and
      hypothermia, depending on the thermometer used. The authors concluded that the TAT is
      clinically comparable to the PAT in only the normal temperature range.

      A repeated measures design will be used to describe the accuracy and precision of 2
      temperature measurements, the PAT and the TAT. Study subjects will act as their own control
      in order to investigate the difference in PAT readings and the TAT readings in both the core
      and oral mode. The PAT will also be compared to the TAT reading taken by the clinical staff.
    
  