
    
      Naratriptan has demonstrated efficacy in relieving headache. Other studies have demonstrated
      that primary headaches with at least one headache feature are likely to respond to triptans.
      In addition, there are anecdotal reports of triptans being effective in post traumatic
      headaches, especially if headache features are noted in the patient's history. Further, there
      are several small pilot studies with triptans demonstrating a prompt improvement in
      headache-induced cognitive changes. Cognitive performance can be measured by the Mental
      Efficiency Workload Test (MEWT), a handheld Palm neuropsychological test battery that
      measures mental efficiency. This tool can be used to demonstrate short and long term
      improvement in mental status beyond that seen at baseline.

      Informal observations by the protocol authors have suggested that the use of triptans on a
      routine basis may ameliorate the headache and associated symptomatology of post traumatic
      headache. Therefore, this study is undertaken to study the use of naratriptan in the
      treatment of post traumatic headache. Roger K. Cady, MD, serves as the sponsor. The study is
      funded by GlaxoSmithKline.

      56 subjects with a formal diagnosis of Chronic post-traumatic headache attributed to mild
      head injury (IHS/ICHD-II 5.2.2) and with self-reported mild cognitive inefficiency secondary
      to headache will be enrolled. Subjects meeting inclusion criteria will complete a physical
      examination and baseline testing and be randomized 1:1 to naratriptan 2.5mg bid x 30 days or
      a matched placebo bid x 30 days. A daily diary will document response to treatment. Subjects
      will return to the clinic at Day 10 and Day 30 and complete phone contacts at Days 5, 15, 21,
      32 and 90. Information will be collected throughout the study on questionnaires related to
      headache impact, general health, satisfaction with medication, and quality of life. Cognition
      will be measured using the MEWT.
    
  