
    
      Study: Prospective, multicenter study. The study will be double-blinded, i.e. the
      clinician/nurse performing the tests will not be involved in patient care and clinicians in
      charge of patients will not be aware of automated pupillometry data. Patient care will not be
      influenced by pupillometry.

      Patient population:

      The investigators plan to include 500 comatose post-CA patients. The centers have been
      selected based on their expertise and publication track record on the topic, and because they
      are actively involved in the Neurointensive Care section (NIC) of the European Society of
      Intensive Care Medicine (ESICM). The study will take place at the Department of Intensive
      Care of the participating centers.

      Patients will be managed according to standards of post-resuscitation care and based on local
      algorithms for the treatment of post-CA coma.

      Quantitative pupillary light reactivity (PLR, using the NeurOptics NPi-200 pupillometer) will
      be performed on ICU admission and then every 12 hours up to 72 hours after CA. At each time
      point, one measurement will be assessed on both eyes.

      The primary variables for analysis will be the neurological pupil index (NPi) and the pupil
      size for both eyes. Standard PLR using a manual pen light will be performed simultaneously at
      each time point, as part of standard care.

      EEG, SSEP and sampling for serum neuron specific enolase (NSE) will be performed at 24h and
      at 48-72h, according to local practices and as part of standard care.

      The predictive value of NPi will be analyzed using the area under the receiving operator
      characteristics (ROC) curve, and compared to that of standard PLR, EEG, SSEP and NSE:
      sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV),
      unweighted accuracy, with 95% binomial confidence intervals, will be calculated. Associations
      with outcome will adjusted for main baseline demographics (age, initial CA arrest rhythm,
      time from CA to tROSC), dose of sedation-analgesia and vaso-active agents, and the SOFA
      score, using a logistic regression model.
    
  