
    
      Subjects will be randomized into one of the four treatment arms: A) Diclectin (combination of
      doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride, 2 tablets/day at bedtime) + active
      acupuncture(30min once every other day); B) Diclectin (2 tablets/day at bedtime) + sham
      acupuncture (30min once every other day); C) Diclectin Placebo (2 tablets/day at bedtime) +
      active acupuncture(30min once every other day); D) Diclectin Placebo (2 tablets/day at
      bedtime) + sham acupuncture (30min once every other day). Participants will receive active
      acupuncture or sham acupuncture treatment every other day (or once every day if the symptoms
      are unrelieved (PUQE≧6)) for 2 consecutive weeks, 7-14 times in total, and receive Diclectin
      or placebo treatment every day (2 tablets at bedtime for the first day, if the symptoms are
      unrelieved (PUQE≧6), add one tablet in the morning, if the symptoms are still unrelieved
      (PUQE≧6), add another one tablet at three o 'clock in the afternoon) for 2 consecutive weeks,
      28-56 tablets in total. Daily measurement PUQE score, Visual analog scale (VAS) and AEs.
      Weekly visits will include global assessment of well-being, adverse events and concomitant
      medications, and a patient diary. The visit after treatment will assess NVP quality of life
      (NVPQoL), SAS and SDS, and primary and secondary outcomes. Participants will be followed up
      by telephone 30 days after treatment.

      Primary outcomes: PUQE scores.

      Secondary outcomes:

      (1)Change in Global assessment of well-being. (2)The day-by-day area under the curve for
      change in PUQE from baseline. (3)Adverse events. (4)Study withdraw. (5)The number of women in
      each group who reported concurrent use of other alternate therapy for NVP. (6)Time loss from
      employment. (7)The amount of Diclectin in each arm where women will continued with
      compassionate use of site package medication (OTC drug) during one-month follow-up if
      symptoms persist. (8)Reliability and validity analysis of PUQE, if it is associated with
      clinical outcomes that are related directly to NVP(such as a pregnant woman's ability to take
      multivitamins, rates of emergency room visits and hospitalization for NVP, health care costs
      for NVP, and a woman's self-reported scores of well-being in NVP). (9)Change in NVPQOL.
      (10)Change in Visual analog scale
    
  