
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In the summer of 1981, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) alerted the medical community to
      an unexpected outbreak of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and Kaposi's sarcoma in young
      homosexual men, individuals not known to be at risk for these uncommon diseases. Studies of
      immunologic functions in these patients demonstrated lymphopenia, cutaneous anergy, reduced
      helper T-lymphocyte (T4) subpopulations, depressed ratios of helper T-lymphocytes to
      suppressor T-lymphocytes (T4:T8), abnormal lymphocyte responses to mitogen stimulation,
      decreased natural killer-cell activity, and often hypergammaglobulinemia. The name of
      acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) was given to this disorder of immunologic
      regulation with opportunistic infections or Kaposi's sarcoma or both.

      Since that time, AIDS was reported in patients with hemophilia and in others receiving blood
      transfusions. The NHLBI was delegated responsibility for studies to elucidate, through a
      systematic prospective study, the possible association of blood product use with AIDS. The
      incidence of transfusion-acquired AIDS was so low as to preclude a general prospective study
      of transfusion recipients to determine the overall incidence of the disease. By focusing on
      patient groups that appeared to have a higher likelihood for developing AIDS because they
      required chronic, repeated transfusion therapy, information about the epidemiology of the
      disorder could be more readily obtained. Continuing medical evaluation of these patients from
      apparent high-risk groups in a prospective fashion allowed identification of significant
      emerging physiologic alterations and to follow the time-course of pathologic developments.

      The purpose of this study was to develop a clear picture of what immunologic changes occurred
      in patients who were transfused and to determine when these changes occurred and how long
      they lasted. Since most of the patient population was heavily transfused, some of the study
      subjects eventually developed AIDS. Information obtained during the study about these
      patients was then used to answer such questions as: Which factors determined a particular
      person's risk of developing AIDS and to what degree? What alterations occurred before the
      clinical manifestations of AIDS? Was progression from normal to defective cell-mediated
      immunity to AIDS strictly unidirectional or did altered cell-mediated immunity in the study
      cohort ever regress to normality? If progression was not unidirectional, what determined the
      outcome? Also, the importance of establishing a serum and cell repository could not be
      overemphasized, since, as new scientific information became available, these specimens
      enabled the performance of a number of different retrospective studies.

      In 1984 a serum repository for HIV testing was established. The task of the repository was to
      collect and store serum samples from blood donors in four blood transfusion units located in
      four major risk areas for AIDS, namely New York, San Francisco, Miami, and Los Angeles. Blood
      was obtained from the New York Blood Center in New York City, the Irwin Memorial Blood Bank
      in San Francisco, the Red Cross in Los Angeles, and the American Red Cross, South Florida
      Region, in Miami. The purpose of the repository was to determine the outcome of the
      transfusion of blood components retrospectively found to show HIV infection of the donor. The
      collected sera were separated, indexed, frozen, and stored.

      In 1984 the second part of the Transfusion Safety Study, the prospective study, was initiated
      by NHLBI under a separate request for proposal. The testing of the 201,000 serum specimens in
      the donor repository for antibody to HIV was carried out by laboratories in the prospective
      study. Those donors confirmed to be anti-HIV positive and matching donors confirmed to be
      anti-HIV negative were recruited as TSS subjects. Recipients of blood from the positive
      donors and the negative donors were also recruited as subjects.

      In September 1984, the TSS began a nine month planning phase during which the protocols and
      data systems for the prospective study were developed. Subjects were entered in July 1985
      through June 1989. Analysis continued through November 1997. There were clinical centers in
      Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York City, and Miami. The coordinating center was at the
      University of Southern California. The central laboratories including the immunological
      standardization laboratory, the immunological reagents laboratory, and the central processing
      laboratory were located in Los Angeles, with one of the immunology laboratories located in
      Seattle, Washington at the Puget Sound Blood Center.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      At baseline, each subject received a physical examination, was questioned as to medical
      history, and gave blood samples for immunologic and other studies. Each subject returned at a
      specified interval for a repeat of studies specified in the protocol. Blood studies included
      complete blood cell count, characterization of immunologic cells such as T- and B-lymphocytes
      and natural killer-cells. Plasma and Buffy coat cell suspensions were stored frozen. Alanine
      aminotransferase levels were determined. Serologic tests were performed for hepatitis,
      Epstein-Barr virus, and cytomegalovirus. Markers of immune status, including immune globulin
      levels were measured. The study ended in November, 1997.
    
  