
    
      Quality assurance Plan: The PI and collaborators will be overseen collection and processing
      of data.

      Standard Operating Procedures:

      Recruitment: A bilingual Research Assistant will review mother's records at Women & Infants'
      Hospital mother-baby unit to identify eligible mothers.

      Dyads will be excluded if the mother:

        -  Is not insured by Medicaid, Ritecare, or Neighborhood Health Plan.

        -  Is not fluent in either English or Spanish.

        -  Is younger than 18 years of age.

        -  Will not be taking the baby home at hospital discharge.

        -  Will be leaving USA within the following 6 months for longer than two weeks.

        -  Is discharged from the hospital prior to being approached or scheduling interview.

        -  Does not have access to DVD player

        -  Refuses to participate in the study.

      Dyads will be excluded if the infant:

        -  Is born premature (<37 wks G.A)

        -  Is born at low birth weight (<5 pounds or 2500 grams at birth)

        -  Spent >24 hours in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit

        -  Was born with a significant anomaly or genetic syndrome associated with delay

        -  Has a P.R.E with a hold with DCYF

      Data Collection/Management and Analysis:

      A convenience sample of 300 low income (insured by Medicaid) new mothers of healthy
      singleton, full term infants in the level 1 mother/baby unit at Women & Infants Hospital will
      be invited to participate in a Randomized Controlled Trial of educational videos and
      materials for parents. They will be randomized into one of two intervention groups. 1) The
      Ready to Learn (RTL) arm will receive a DVD in both Spanish and English and a bilingual
      booklet (both produced by Parents' action for Children) addressing the benefits of reading,
      talking and playing with young children, as well as a new children's board book. 2) The All
      Babies Cry (ABC) arm will receive a DVD in both, Spanish and English and a bilingual booklet
      (both produced by VIDA Health Communications, INC) explaining crying as part of normal infant
      behavior, highlighting signs of parental distress and providing strategies to sooth parents
      and their children. We will enroll 75 mothers who speak Spanish primarily at home in each
      intervention group, as well as 75 mothers who speak primarily English in each arm. The RTL
      mothers will serve as controls for the ABC mothers and vice versa. Before reviewing the
      materials, mothers will be asked to respond to a baseline interview with socio-demographic
      information, questions regarding Early Literacy promotion, reading with children and their
      own reading habits as well as general knowledge on the prevention of shaking a baby and
      handling their own stress. Follow up phone interviews will be conducted by a bilingual
      research assistant blinded to the intervention status at 2-5 months post-partum containing
      similar questions. Data will be entered into Excel and transferred into STATA for analysis.

      Sample Size calculation:

      For power analysis, we used categorical (behavioral) outcomes to arrive at conservative
      estimates of sample sizes with a 0.05 significance level. Effect sizes for differences in
      proportions are based on Cohen's h statistic (Cohen, 1988), computed for 80% power and
      Two-tailed significance test at alpha = 0.05 with equal numbers of participants in the
      intervention and control groups and a Confidence Interval of 95%.

      From a previous study of the All Babies Cry intervention at 5 weeks postpartum 36% of control
      group answered similar knowledge questions correctly, compared to 47% of those receiving the
      All Babies Cry Intervention. This resulted in a difference of 11% and SD of 18 in the control
      group and 19 in the intervention group.

      Based on this using Open Epi for sample size calculation we arrived at a group size of 45
      subjects in each branch of the study. Althouhg in the original All Babies Cry Intervention we
      had a follow up rate of 77% at 17 weeks, our current estimates are closer to 40-45%. To
      account for a possible loss to follow up of 60% of subjects we will increase the sample size
      from 45 to 75 individuals in each group for a total of 150 subjects in each branch of the
      study.

      Previous studies of Early Literacy interventions in low income families have shown larger
      differences in similar literacy outcomes to ours. We are therefore basing our calculations on
      a more conservative data assumption.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Frequency counts will be generated for demographic, literacy related and parental knowledge
      and stress variables in the two intervention arms. Chi-Square and T-tests will be used to
      compare literacy and parental knowledge outcomes for each intervention group at baseline and
      at both follow up interviews.
    
  