
    
      Methodology: Are included by the neurology service, pregnant women which are already under
      levetiracetam and / or obstetric gynecology services for her treatment of epilepsy, pregnant
      women at first consultation. Women are already taking levetiracetam and the drug is not
      provided by the study40 mother-child couples, as well as 10 women who undergo a medical
      termination of pregnancy will have to be included in the study, in 7 maternities in Paris.

      Women are already taking the drugs, according to the practices of the different services, and
      the study will not change their prescriptions of these drugs. The women will have a blood
      sample at 3 visits during pregnancy (11-14 weeks, 24-28 weeks and 35-39 weeks) and at the
      post-partum consultation. At delivery, a collection of the mother, cord blood and amniotic
      fluid will be performed. A salivary specimen will be routinely collected at the same time as
      the mother's plasma sample.

      The pharmaco-statistical analysis will be conducted using non-linear mixed-effect modeling
      programs (Monolix and Nonmem) to calculate the main pharmacokinetic parameters of the mother
      and fetus and to estimate their variability. This type of modeling makes it possible to take
      into account individual covariates (weight, gestational age ...) to explain the
      pharmacokinetic variability between mother - child pairs. The final model will be validated
      by a simulation technique. The final model will be used to rationalize the changes in
      antiepileptic doses during pregnancy and to explain the differences in passage, based on
      individual covariates, then to perform simulations to find out how to modify the
      administration for treatment to be effective as often as possible.

      The secondary endpoints are

        -  Exposure ratio (area under the concentration-time curve) between the mother and the
           fetus to describe the transplacental passage of levetiracetam levetiracetam.

        -  To correlate the evolution of the concentrations in the woman (value in the woman whose
           treatment is balanced before the pregnancy minus the value when she is pregnant) to

             -  the effectiveness (number of crises that the patient did).

             -  tolerance: presence or absence of clinical and biological abnormalities occurring
                in pregnant women and children
    
  