
    
      Colon cancer is a frequent disease in Denmark with over 3200 new cases and about 1350 deaths
      per year.

      CT scanning is currently the national standard method for determining the stage of disease
      planning for treatment. CT scan can sufficiently distinct between minor and advanced colon
      tumors. Prevalence of advanced tumors was well over 40% in the CT study from Vejle Hospital
      in 2013. Sensitivity and specificity of detection of advanced colon tumors in the CT study
      was approx. 70% and 80%, respectively. A small MRI pilot study showed higher sensitivity and
      specificity of 89% and 96%, respectively.

      MRI scan is currently performed in most patients with rectal cancer, which has resulted in
      better treatment planning and increased survival. MRI scan of the rectum is documented with
      higher accuracy than CT scan. There has been reluctance to introduce MRI scan in patients
      with colon cancer, as the colon has more peristalsis than the rectum, and movement of the
      bowel can result in image quality reduction in MRI. However, in recent years MRI has become
      faster and thereby less sensitive to movements.

      MRI scanning may in the future help to select the patients who will benefit from neoadjuvant
      treatment. In addition, with MRI it is possible to perform MRI diffusion measurements of the
      tumor, which gives an estimate of the tumor's cell density. It will also be possible to
      investigate whether this changes the MRI diffusion restriction during the neoadjuvant
      treatment.

      This study is prospective and uses state of the art equipment with a 3 tesla MRI unit.

      The main purpose of the study is to investigate whether MRI can be used in treatment planning
      with assessment of diagnostic accuracy. With the inclusion of 150 patients the study
      investigates whether MRI is useful and better than CT in patients with colon tumors. And also
      if MRI is useful after neoadjuvant treatment.
    
  