
    
      This randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind study will primarily assess the local and
      systemic safety and tolerability of CN54gp140 vaccine. We will also assess whether CN54gp140
      vaccine is effective at inducing systemic and/or local specific immune responses.

      Thirty healthy women volunteers will be enrolled in this study, at 2 clinical sites. Twenty
      will receive active CN54gp140 vaccine, and 10 will receive placebo. The placebo group will
      help us identify side effects caused by CN54gp140. The study is double-blind to eliminate any
      possibility of researcher or subject bias.

      Before administration, CN54gp140 or placebo will be mixed into an aqueous gel vehicle. The
      treatments will be administered intravaginally in a regimen of 9 immunisations over 3 weeks.
      Each immunisation of CN54gp140 vaccine will contain 100 µg of CN54gp140 protein, meaning that
      a total dose of 900 µg will be given to subjects in the active treatment group.

      Subjects will be required to make a total of 15 outpatient visits to their local clinical
      site, over 4 successive menstrual cycles.

      Menstrual cycle 1: Screening visits There will be 2 screening visits, at about 4 and 2 weeks
      before the first immunisation. During these visits the volunteers will be asked questions
      about their health history and to give permission for us to contact their General
      Practitioner. Blood and urine samples will be taken for routine laboratory safety tests, and
      tests for HIV and hepatitis, sexual health, and pregnancy. Blood will also be collected for
      immunology tests to establish the pre-immunisation state of the immune system. The volunteers
      will also have a cervico-vaginal examination, and sampling of cervico-vaginal secretions and
      cells will be done for immunology tests. A photograph of the cervix will be taken to help
      identify any changes that might occur during the trial. Also, a full medical history and
      examination will be done.

      The volunteers will be given a diary card to take home. They'll be asked to record in the
      diary any symptoms they have, and medication they take, during the course of the trial. The
      diaries be regularly checked by the trial staff, who will also make a symptom enquiry at each
      visit.

      Menstrual cycle 2: Immunisation visits There will be 9 immunisation visits, on successive
      Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The 1st of these visits will be about 7 days after the start
      of menses. At the 1st, 4th and 9th immunisation visits, blood and urine will be collected for
      routine laboratory safety and pregnancy tests, and blood collected for immunology tests.
      Subjects will also have a cervico-vaginal examination, and their temperature, blood pressure
      and heart rate measured, before self-administering the vaccine.

      At the rest of the immunisation visits, subjects will self-administer the vaccine. No other
      procedures will be done.

      Menstrual cycle 3: Sampling visits There will be 3 sampling visits, at about 9, 14 and 21
      days after the start of menses. At each visit, subjects will have a cervico-vaginal
      examination, during which sampling of secretions and cells will be done for immunology tests.
      Also, blood will be collected for immunology tests, and subjects will have their temperature,
      blood pressure and heart rate measured. At the 1st and 3rd sampling visits only, blood and
      urine will be collected for routine laboratory safety tests also.

      Menstrual cycle 4: End-of-study visit This visit will be about 10 days after the start of
      menses. Blood and urine will be collected for routine laboratory safety and pregnancy tests,
      tests for HIV, and immunology tests. The volunteers will also have a cervico-vaginal
      examination, during which sampling of secretions and cells will be done for immunology tests,
      and a full medical examination. A photograph of the cervix will be taken. This visit
      concludes the subject's participation in the study.
    
  