
    
      The ways in which family members communicate with one another about hereditary cancer risk
      may have a significant impact on screening use and choices about predictive genetic testing.
      There have been many studies examining aspects of family communication of hereditary cancer
      risk but few have included a significant number of African American families. The lack of
      studies addressing how African American patients communicate about genetic risks for cancer
      with their relatives is a hindrance to facilitating communication strategies in this patient
      population. The proposed study is a mixed methods investigation aimed at understanding how
      communication of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer risk occurs in African American
      families. This study will seek to describe how African American women communicate with their
      family members about the information received during the genetic counseling process for
      BRCA1/2 genetic testing by analyzing data from two sources. The data collected from data
      source one of this study will be from female analogue clients who were recruited from the
      general population in Baltimore, Maryland to watch a videotape of a pre-test cancer genetic
      counseling session. The analogue clients were asked to imagine they were the patients in the
      visit and to respond to several open-ended questions about what they would tell their family
      members about what they learned from the session. A quantitative content analysis of the data
      from the open-ended responses will be conducted to identify the frequency of commonly stated
      words, phrases and concepts related to the respondents characterization of the content of
      their family communication. From data source one of this study, we will obtain information on
      what women report they would share with their family members and the words they report they
      would use. Data source two of this study will involve in-depth qualitative interviews with 40
      African American women who have tested positive for a BRCA1/2 mutation. These interviews will
      seek to understand how test results and information from the genetic counseling process were
      actually shared with family members. These interviews will seek to not only further describe
      what information individuals reported sharing with their family members but also how the
      process of communication unfolded. From these two forms of data, this study will describe the
      family communication process of hereditary cancer risk among African American women.
    
  