
    
      This is a natural history study that will examine craniofacial anomalies that affect the
      normal development of the facial skeleton, including birth defects and dentofacial
      developmental abnormalities that express themselves with the growth of the individual.
      Craniofacial anomalies may be rare and present at birth, such as hemifacial microsomia (1 in
      every 7500 live births), or common, such as dentofacial deformities including the Habsburg
      Jaw or mandibular prognathism (1% of the US population) that becomes apparent as a child
      enters puberty. These are striking disorders as they involve the face and surrounding
      structures, which is a focal point of self-identity and are intimately tied to quality of
      life and daily function. The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. To characterize rare and common craniofacial anomalies using both extensive clinical
           evaluations, 3D cone-beam computed tomography-based geometric morphometric and
           cephalometric analyses and surface morphology

        2. To determine the genetic variants for rare and common craniofacial anomalies.

      The secondary objective is to establish a curated craniofacial phenomic/genomic database and
      to collect data related to clinically-indicated procedures and care performed at the NIH for
      the treatment of craniofacial disorders and anomalies. The study population includes
      individuals ages greater than or equal to 2 years with any craniofacial anomaly but will
      focus on two specific conditions that affect facial skeletal development: hemifacial
      microsomia and mandibular prognathism in children and adults. Up to 1920 subjects and family
      members as well as 480 healthy volunteers will be recruited through referrals from NIH or
      outside providers and institutions. This natural history protocol will generate research data
      that will improve the understanding and etiology of craniofacial dysmorphologies.
    
  