
    
      This proposal describes a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of the
      effect of saw palmetto extract on symptoms, objective parameters of disease severity, and
      quality of life in men with moderate-to-severe benign prostatic hyperplasia. BPH, one of the
      most common morbid medical conditions in middle-aged and elderly men, is generally treated
      with alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, finasteride, surgical interventions, or no specific
      therapy ("watchful waiting"). In the past several years, however, many patients have begun to
      self-medicate with an extract of the saw palmetto plant (Serenoa repens), a medicinal herb
      grown in the southeastern United States. Saw palmetto has become the fifth leading medicinal
      herb consumed in the U.S. and is considered first-line therapy for BPH in several Western
      European countries. Several small studies suggest that saw palmetto may have clinical
      benefit, but the methodologic quality of most prior studies has been poor. Very few side
      effects of the herb have been observed, but few studies have been conducted for more than
      three months. We propose to conduct a high-quality clinical trial of saw palmetto, with
      careful attention to the methodologic deficiencies of prior studies. After a single-blind
      placebo run-in period, 224 patients with mode moderate-to-severe BPH (American Urological
      Association Symptom Index score greater than or equal to 8) and objective measurement of
      urinary obstruction, will be randomized to receive either 160mg BID of the herbal extract or
      an identical placebo. Patients will discontinue any other medical therapy for BPH prior to
      enrollment and all participants will undergo a trans-rectal ultrasound examination at
      baseline and closeout. Participants in the trial will be seen at 3-month intervals for a
      total one-year follow-up. Outcome measurements include changes in the AUASI score (the
      primary outcome measurement), the peak urinary flow rate, the post-void residual urine
      volume, the BPH Impact Index, the Olmstead County Study Questionnaire of BPH-specific
      symptoms and quality of life, and the Short-Form 36 (a generic health status instrument).
      Numerous laboratory parameters will measured at intervals throughout the trial and
      symptomatic side effects will be assessed.
    
  