
    
      Pisa Syndrome is frequently associated with Parkinson Disease and it is characterized by a
      trunk lateral flexion higher than 10 degrees that is reversible with the lying position. Its
      pathophysiology is multifactorial, and it is probably different depending on disease onset
      duration. However, a relevant association between subjective visual vertical misperception
      and the PS involved side was recently described. Moreover, an impairment in postural control
      in PD-PS patients has been recognized. Nowadays, physical therapy is the standard treatment
      and it is proposed to ameliorate paraspinal muscle hyperactivity and balance, as showed by
      previews descriptive and clinical studies. Despite being physical therapy a cornerstone in
      PD-PS axial symptoms treatment, the therapeutic protocol for postural control in PD-PS
      patients is under active study.

      In recent years, preliminary studies described the effects of osteopathic manipulative
      treatment on motor functionality and balance in PD patients in a multidisciplinary setting,
      which is in line with the evidence of the need of a multidisciplinary and intensive approach
      to achieve better outcomes. However, the effect of OMT has never been investigated in PD-PS
      patients. The aim of the study is to evaluate the effects of OMT on postural control of PD-PS
      patients undergoing the MIRT program. Literature reported the possible benefit of OMT on the
      balance of healthy subjects, possibly interacting with the multisensorial integration of
      balance. 24 PD-PS patients are enrolled and randomized in two groups. Posturography is
      performed to assess Eye-closed Sway Area (ECSA) at baseline and 30 days after enrolment. The
      investigator who perform posturography and trunk inclination assessment is kept blinded.
      Trunk inclination is measured with "DIERS Formetric 4D". Other variables considered in the
      investigation are Eye-opened sway area (EOSA), Trunk Lateral Flexion (TLF), Kyphothic Angle
      (KA), Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Six-minute Walking Test (6MWT).
    
  