
    
      Chronic neck pain represents a common health problem. The mechanisms appear to be
      multifactorial. Researchers have suggested a disturbed interplay between the neck muscles and
      the facet joints. In Europe and the US radiofrequency neurotomy (RFN) has become a common
      treatment. The evidence base, however, is still insufficient. Thus, a double blind,
      sham-controlled, randomized, two-center trial will be carried out including 44 participants.
      To simplify the data collection a digital internet based program will be used. Patients with
      chronic unilateral neck pain, referred to Oslo University Hospital or St Olavs University
      Hospital and not responding to non-interventional treatment, will be screened. Those who are
      found eligible and achieve ≥80% pain relief after predictive and comparative test blocks,
      will be included in the primary analysis. Patients with ≥50% and < 80% pain relief will be
      included in a secondary analysis to examine whether a strict selection better predicts the
      effect of RF neurotomy. After 6 months participants who received sham and still suffers from
      neck pain, will be offered unblinded RF ablation and additional 12 month unblinded follow up
      if the results support this treatment. Demographic and clinical data will be recorded at
      baseline. The primary and secondary outcome measurements (including blinding test) are
      recollected after 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. Primary outcome measurements include self
      reported neck function (NDI) and pain relief after 6 months. Regression analyses will be used
      to identify how ≥80% vs. ≥50 and <80% pain relief of two test blocks and pain catastrophizing
      (Pain Catastrophizing Scale = PCS) predict response to RF neurotomy. If RF neurotomy is found
      superior to sham treatment, this may be implemented in the national treatment program for
      selected patients with chronic neck pain.
    
  