
    
      Objective:

      Mid-trimester preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM), defined as rupture of fetal
      mem-branes prior to 28 weeks' gestation (WG), complicates approximately 0.4-0.7% of all
      pregnancies and associated with very high neonatal mortality and morbidity. Antibiotics have
      limited success to prevent bacteremia, chorioamnionitis and fetal inflammation because of
      reduced placental transport. The repetitive amnioinfusion doesn't work because of immediately
      fluid lost after the intervention). The continuous amnioinfusion with Amnion Flush Solution
      through the perinatal port system in patients with classic PPROM prolonged the
      PPROM-to-delivery interval to 49 days in average by flush out of bacteria and inflammatory
      components from the amniotic cavity.

      Aim: This multicenter trial tests the effect of continuous amnioinfusion on the neonatal
      survival without major morbidities, like severe bronchopulmonary dysplasia, intraventricular
      hemorrhage, cystic periventricular leukomalacia and necrotizing enterocolitis.

      Design: randomized multicenter controlled trial; two-arm parallel design.

      Control group:

      34 PPROM patients between 22/0 (20/0) -26/0 WG treating with antibiotics and corticosteroids
      in according to DGGG guide-lines (7 days Amoxicillin/Clarithromycin therapy or 7 days
      Amoxicillin and once Azithromycin 1 g and corticosteroids' RDS prophylaxis).

      Experimental group:

      34 PPROM patients between 22/0 (20/0) -26/0 WG, continuous amnioinfusion (100 ml/h) in
      pregnant women with classic PPROM with oligo-/anhydramnion between 22/0- 26/0 weeks'
      gestation and systemic antibiotic therapy (7 days Amoxicil-lin/Clarythromycin or 7 days
      Amoxicillin and once Azithromycin 1 g) and corticosteroids' RDS prophylaxis.

      Duration of intervention: Maximum till 34/0 weeks of gestation, or preterm delivery if
      indicated.

      Follow-up per patient: 12 months post-partum. Subjects: Patients with classic PPROM between
      22/0 (20/0) -26/0 WG. Primary efficacy endpoint: survival without major morbidity (severe
      bron-chopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), and/or grades 3 and 4 intraventricular hemor-rhage (IVH
      3-4), and/or cystic periventricular leukomalacia (cPVL), and/or necrotizing enterocolitis
      (NEC)) since randomization (event time).

      Expected outcome: The envestigators expect significant reduction of neonatal mortality and
      morbidity in the "Amnion-Flush" group.
    
  