
    
      2.0 Background/Scientific Rationale

      PCa is the most commonly detected cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death among
      US men overall; however, mortality rates among African American (AA) and Black men are nearly
      twice as high compared to white men. The Stockholm3 test is the first of its kind to
      incorporate protein level measurements and germline mutation assays that have been shown to
      improve PCa detection and reduce unnecessary biopsies in a European white cohort, however
      these objective measurements have not been assessed in a primarily multiethnic cohort.

      3.0 Objective/Aims

      To test blood samples from multiethnic populations with the Stockholm3 test to find
      associated risk factors in the detection of prostate cancer and show improved prediction over
      PSA alone.

      3.1 Primary endpoint

      • Detection of International Society of Urological Pathology Gleason Grade Group 2 Prostate
      Cancer on prostate biopsy

      o Gleason Grade Group scale is used to grade prostate cancer if found on a scale from 1 to 5.
      A higher score means a worse outcome.

      3.2 Secondary endpoint

      • National Comprehensive Cancer Network Unfavorable intermediate prostate cancer or higher
      grade

      o National Comprehensive Cancer Network risk stratification scores range from very low risk,
      low risk, intermediate risk, high risk and very high risk. Intermediate risk is stratified
      into favorable intermediate risk and unfavorable intermediate risk. The higher the risk the
      worse the outcome

      4.0 Eligibility

      4.1 Inclusion Criteria

        -  Men with age range (45.0 - 75.0 years), without prior evidence of prostate cancer

        -  Meeting standard of practice clinical criteria for a prostate biopsy. Able to obtain
           informed consent.

      4.2 Exclusion Criteria

      • There are no specific exclusion criteria. If there is a paucity of data with regards to the
      defined variables being analyzed, those patients might be excluded from sub analyses but not
      all.

      5.0 Subject Enrollment

      The subjects will be consented for prostate biopsy as part of standard of care. No additional
      advertising will be used for enrollment. Study enrollment goal will be 2,000 men who have a
      self-described race/ethnicity of: African/Black (n=500), Asian (n=500), White Hispanic
      (n=500), and White Non-Hispanic (n=500) men.

      6.0 Study Design and Procedures

      The research coordinator will explain the information contained within the consent.
      Additionally, patient's blood will be drawn prior to their biopsy.

      Prior to the biopsy, blood will be collected in x2 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) 4
      ml tubes after obtaining consent from the subjects. One tube will be immediately centrifuged
      (10 minutes at 2000G) and plasma decanted to a tube without additives (this typically
      produces 1.5 ml of plasma). The decanted tube (with plasma) and the remaining EDTA tube (with
      whole blood) is then frozen and stored at the designated participating institutional site. It
      will be stored at -20 Celsius until being shipped.

      Patient data will be stored in a REDCap database, hosted on Sweden's secure server. Data will
      be stored for the duration of the study, and 5 years afterwards for data analysis purposes.

      Consented patients will be tracked by patient logs by each participating institution. The
      medical record number will be collected to keep a consistent identifier for data collection
      by key site personnel. Once all the patient data is recorded the data will be exported from
      REDCap with the MRN removed. There will be no patient identifiers used at the Karolinska
      Institute or A23 lab. The following PHI and non-PHI information will be logged of the
      patient:

      PHI:

      Medical record number (MRN)

      Non-PHI Demographic data

        -  Stockholm3 Identification number

        -  Race

        -  Zip code

      Clinical data

        -  Total PSA

        -  Age on sampling date [years]

        -  Family history of prostate cancer

        -  Use of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors

        -  Earlier biopsy conducted

        -  Prostate volume [Prostate volume as measure with US]

        -  Digital rectal exam status [Benign/normal, Nodule/induration felt, Asymmetry, Not
           performed]

      AND

      Outcome data - Results from biopsy performed immediately after blood venipuncture, i.e.:

      Results will be separated into targeted biopsy cores and systematic biopsy cores

        -  Gleason Score 1

        -  Gleason Score 2

        -  Gleason Sum

        -  Cancer length (mm) (total and highest grade)

        -  Number of cores

        -  Number of positive cores

        -  Time to perform biopsy after blood draw [days]

        -  Results from MRI, i.e. Prostate Imaging Reporting & Data System (PIRADS) (0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
           5)

      Permitted use:

      To run the Stockholm3 test defined by Gronberg et al AND Ancestry informative genetic markers

      Samples will be shipped to the Uppsala based laboratory (A23 Laboratory) in Sweden for
      analysis. Each patient will have two blood samples (plasma and whole blood) and will be
      frozen at -20 Celsius. The blood samples will then be tested for quantitative levels of serum
      protein levels and DNA will be extracted from white blood cells and will be tested for gene
      and small nucleotide polymorphic (SNPs) germline mutations and variants .

      Genotyping will be performed using custom genotyping assays. Plasma will be used for protein
      analysis. Plasma protein analysis will be performed using a custom protein assays including
      total and free PSA, human glandular kallikrein 2 (hK2), microseminoprotein-beta (MSMB), and
      Macrophage inhibitory cytokine 1 (MIC-1). PSA will be tested with a commercial assay.

      Based on the results from the plasma protein analysis, the genetic analysis and clinical
      data, the Stockholm3 Risk Score will be calculated. The participants' samples will be treated
      in accordance with the regulations of Sweden at the laboratory based in Uppsala, Sweden.

      Results of the tests will not be shared with the patient, nor will the results change or
      impact medical decisions.

      7.0 Expected Risks/Benefits

      Anticipated Risks:

      As this is retrospective analysis of deidentified patient information as well as deidentified
      biospecimens, there are few anticipated risks. A confidentiality breach as well as loss of
      privacy are possible, however every effort will be made to minimize this risk.

      Anticipated Benefits:

      Participants will advance scientific and clinical knowledge.

      8.0 Data Collection and Management Procedures

      This study will utilize REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), a software toolset and
      workflow methodology for electronic collection and management of clinical and research data,
      to collect and store data. The Karolinska Institute Information Technology (KI-IT) Department
      will be used as a central location for data processing and management. REDCap is hosted by
      KI-IT in the Biomedicum (Solnavägen 9, Solna, Sweden 17165)

      9.0 Data Analysis

      Data analysis will be performed by the PI, co-investigators and/or key research personnel.

      10.0 Quality Control and Quality Assurance

      Key research personnel will be responsible for ensuring all data collected adheres to the
      protocol.

      11.0 Data and Safety Monitoring

      This study is minimal risk and all efforts will be made to ensure there are no
      confidentiality breaches as well as no loss of privacy.

      12.0 Statistical Considerations

      Power analysis This study is being conducted among several sites and thus pooled analysis
      will be performed. Based on the framework developed a two-sided alpha of 0.05, 250 men in
      each ethnicity gives 80% power to detect 10 percentage points differences in sensitivity
      and/or specificity of the Stockholm3 test across different ethnicities. Pooled data from
      several sites will allow for comparison between non-Hispanic White, Africa/Black, Asian, and
      Hispanic White men. Within each ethnicity group of 250 men, the same sample size gives a 90%
      power for detecting differences in area under curve (AUC) between Stockholm3 and PSA for
      detection of PC that are at least 10 percentage points (primary aim).

      Goal accruement is 500 men within each race/ethnicity, interim analysis will be performed
      when 250 men in each race/ethnicity is enrolled.

      Data Analysis Descriptive univariate statistics will be used to compare groups. Binary
      endpoints will be assessed with a logistic regression model. Statistical analysis will
      involve logistic regression modeling, AUC calculation, calibration analyses and calculation
      of basic performance characteristics (sensitivity, specificity and predictive values).

      A genetic risk score will be calculated using allelic odds ratios based on genome-wide
      association study (GWAS) studies. The investigators will also test for differences in
      Stockholm3 score between these four groups using Wilcoxon tests, as well as construct
      receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves; AUCs and their 95% confidence intervals.
      Calibration analyses will be performed.

      All statistical analyses will be performed using R (R Foundation for Statistical Computing,
      Vienna, Austria).

      13.0 Regulatory Requirements

      13.1 Informed Consent The participants indicate their consent to participate in the study by
      signing informed consents for accessing medical records, conducting genetic research and
      undergoing venipuncture for blood samples.

      13.2 Subject Confidentiality Data used for this study will be stored in REDCaps and all data
      transferred between institutions will remain deidentified throughout the study.

      13.3 Unanticipated Problems Any unanticipated problems will be immediately reported to the
      Site-specific ethical review board by designated research personnel.
    
  