
    
      Cognitive disorders are a major problem in patients with epilepsy. A hypothesis supported by
      several authors postulated that abnormal EEGs (AIC) may be responsible for short periods of
      attentional fluctuations causing a reduction of intellectual efficiency of patients. Indeed,
      attention is a central parameter of human cognition, conditioning performance and welfare in
      virtually all areas of activity.

      In this project, we propose to evaluate the impact of AIC on cognitive performance,
      specifically on attentional performance (central parameter of cognitive functioning) through
      the use of a computerized cognitive test (called STABILO, detailed below after) to measure,
      with good temporal sampling, the level of attentional engagement of patients in relation to
      their EEG activity.

      The originality of this study lies in the synchronization of two examinations usually made
      independently (EEG and psychometric testing), respecting a precise temporal coupling. The aim
      is to provide clinicians with a tool to assess very quickly attentional fluctuations in
      epileptic patients, and to assess the potential impact of AIC on the occurrence of these
      changes, with possible therapeutic implications (treatment of AIC and / or specific treatment
      of attention deficit disorder).

      This study consists in a scalp EEG to detect, in real time, based on measurements of reaction
      time and accuracy of responses (recorded every two seconds), the level of attention given by
      the participant in a repetitive task of constant difficulty and correlate the behavioral
      results to AIC identified on the EEG recording. A computer equipped for the realization of
      the STABILO test is already available, its connection / synchronization with standard
      acquisition systems EEG data is already effective through an RS232 serial port.

      Included patients will see their EEG extended for fifteen minutes, during which they will
      carry out a computerized attention task (This is the STABILO experimental protocol developed
      by JP Lachaux and V. Herbillon) allowing the evaluation of the stability of 'attention.
    
  