
    
      Diabetes incidence is increasing rapidly in the United States. Diabetes increases the risk
      for CVD, the major cause of death in diabetic individuals. The conventional cardiovascular
      risk factors of hyperlipidemia and hypertension add to the progression of diabetic vascular
      disease. Appropriate treatment targets for LDL-C and blood pressure in diabetic individuals
      are currently being debated. The Stop Atherosclerosis in Native Diabetics Study is a
      randomized, open label, 3-year, clinical trial to examine the effects of aggressive LDL-C
      (goal < 70 mg/dL) and BP (goal < 115/75 mm Hg) reduction versus the standard goals of < 100
      mg/dL for LDL-C and < 130/85 mmHg for BP. Five hundred forty-nine American Indian men and
      women > age 40 with type 2 diabetes were randomized to one of two groups. Lipids and BP are
      managed using FDA-approved medications in an algorithmic approach. The presence and
      progression of atherosclerosis are evaluated by carotid ultrasonography; echocardiography
      assesses cardiac function. The primary endpoint is the composite outcome of change in carotid
      artery intimal medial thickness and fatal/nonfatal cardiovascular events. These outcomes are
      combined by using a ranked analysis for carotid thickness and assigning a "worst rank" for a
      cardiovascular event. Secondary endpoints include carotid plaque score, left ventricular
      geometry and function, serum CRP, and safety measures. Unique aspects of the study design and
      analysis plan involve changes during the trial of LDL-C treatment goals for participants with
      baseline or incident CVD in the conventional group, because of changes in the standard of
      care, and the use of a composite outcome. Study results will be valuable in understanding the
      effects of aggressive risk factor reduction on atherosclerosis burden and cardiac function in
      diabetic individuals in all U.S. populations and will provide evidence for determining
      optimal LDL-C and BP treatment goals for diabetic patients.
    
  