
    
      Two recent studies showed that having two attending spine surgeons performing complex adult
      spine deformity surgery instead of one, decreased complications, unplanned surgeries within
      30-days [Ames], 90-day readmissions, wound infection, pulmonary embolism/deep vein thrombosis
      and post-operative neurologic complications [Sethi]. However, both studies were retrospective
      and did not evaluate any cost-savings associated with having two spine surgeons instead of
      one performing complex spine deformity surgery. With increasing scrutiny on the efficient use
      of health care dollars, it would be important to determine if there are any downstream cost
      savings to justify paying the surgeon fees of two spine attendings for these complex and high
      cost cases.

      Most cost-effectiveness studies have used traditional accounting (TA) methods to determine
      costs. TA uses allocated expenses from the general ledger and payroll activity codes. These
      codes are derived from billable items and procedures entered into accounting software. Costs
      of services are grouped by cost types, across units of service.

      A few cost-effectiveness studies have used time-driven activity-based costing (TDABC)
      [Kaplan] in medicine [Au, Balakrishnan] and none in spine surgery. TDABC allows for detailed
      identification of costs during all phases of a patient's care cycle. While TDABC has been
      used in other industries, its use has been described only a few times in health care and
      rarely in the operative setting [Balakrishnan]. This may be due to the large amount of
      manpower necessary to collect TDABC data.

      Objectives: The objectives of the study are (1) to determine if dual spine attendings reduce
      downstream costs compared to a single spine attending for complex spine surgeries using
      traditional accounting methods; and (2) to demonstrate an application of the TDABC method to
      evaluate the operating room phase during complex adult spinal deformity surgery and compare
      it to traditional accounting methods (TA).
    
  