
    
      This study is an embedded mixed method case study design and will take place at the
      University of Johannesburg Homeopathic Health Centre, Doornfontein Campus, over a period of
      twelve weeks. These twelve weeks will consist of four consultations per participant at four
      week intervals. Ten female participants aged 40-60 years who meet the inclusion criteria will
      be recruited by means of advertisements placed at the University of Johannesburg Doornfontein
      Campus as well as at pharmacies and health shops in the Gauteng area (with relevant
      permission given).

      Once the volunteers agree to participate in the study, they will be requested to sign a
      Participant Information and Consent Form at the start of the initial consultation.
      Participants will also be requested to complete a screening questionnaire in order to
      determine whether they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. A complete case history
      will be taken for each participant who fits the inclusion criteria, using a detailed
      homeopathic case-taking form; vital signs will be checked and any necessary physical
      examinations will be performed. Participants will also complete the relevant Female Sexual
      Function Index (FSFI) subscales and Item 13 of the Female Sexual Distress Scale- Revised
      (FSDS-R).

      The appropriate individualised homeopathic remedy for each participant will be selected using
      Mercurius Repertorisation Software Complete Repertory 2014 and the appropriate homeopathic
      Materia Medicas, under supervision of the attending clinician. At the follow-up consultations
      the case will be re-taken and the homeopathic medicine will either be repeated or changed
      based on the response of the participant to the medication previously administered following
      the principles of homeopathic prescribing. A relevant physical exam will be conducted, and
      participants will complete the relevant subscales of the FSFI and item 13 of the FSDS-R at
      each of the four consultations.

      All data will be collected by the researcher during the course of the study. Qualitative data
      obtained from detailed case-takings will be used to write descriptive case studies. The FSFI
      subscales and FSDS-R Item 13 will be used to assess changes in desire and arousal across time
      and will be represented graphically. Due to the small sample size and qualitative nature of
      the cases no statistical analysis will be completed.

      The outcome of this study may possibly indicate the effectiveness of individualised
      homeopathic treatment in low sexual desire associated with perimenopause. This study may
      provide the groundwork for future research on the effect of homeopathy on low sexual desire
      in females.
    
  