
    
      Preterm, premature rupture of membranes complicates 140,000 pregnancies annually in the
      United States and is a major contributor to pre-term births and resultant neonatal morbidity
      and mortality. Typically, a brief period of latency exists after PPROM, with 70-80% of women
      delivering within the 1st week of membrane rupture. It has been shown through numerous
      well-conducted trials that antibiotics can prolong this latency time to delivery. Mercer and
      et al., demonstrated that the administration of ampicillin with erythromycin prolonged the
      median time to delivery, in comparison to placebo, from 2.9 to 6.1 days. This regimen has now
      become the standard protocol of treatment in PPROM patients. However, this protocol requires
      a multi-day dosing regimen of erythromycin and it has been known to have untoward
      gastrointestinal side effects leading to decreased patient compliance. To overcome these
      challenges, azithromycin, a newer 2nd generation macrolide, is now commonly being used as a
      substitution on many of our labor and delivery units nationwide. Azithromycin has a long
      intracellular half-life, which allows for a more patient friendly one-time dosing regimen; in
      addition many of the unwanted side effects seen with erythromycin are not seen or greatly
      reduced with azithromycin, making it an attractive alternative. Despite its popular use,
      there is a lack of evidence in the literature to support azithromycin as an agent to prolong
      latency. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that there is no difference in the
      clinical effectiveness of azithromycin and erythromycin for prolonging latency in PPROM
      patients. This trial will be a prospective randomized trial performed in singleton
      pregnancies with PPROM between 24 0/7 - 32 0/7 weeks gestation. The protocol will enroll 250
      eligible women who will then be randomized to receive either azithromycin 1 gm orally at
      enrollment or erythromycin 250mg IV every 6 hours for 48 hours followed by 500mg orally every
      8hours for 5 days. All women will also receive the standard ampicillin 2gm IV every 6 hours
      followed by amoxicillin 250mg orally every 8 hours for 5 days. The primary outcome measure is
      the time of latency between the two groups. Secondary outcomes of neonatal death, need for
      oxygen supplementation, ventilation, and neonatal infection, will also be reviewed. In
      addition, side effect profiles between the two will be assessed in a post treatment patient
      survey.
    
  