
    
      Supplemental oxygen remains by far the most commonly used 'drug' in neonatal intensive care
      units. The goal of oxygen therapy is to maintain normal oxygenation while minimizing
      hypoxemia and hypoxemia. Preterm infants are particularly vulnerable to oxygen toxicity and
      oxidative stress leading to retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), bronchopulmonary dysplasia
      (BPD), and periventricular leukomalacia (PVL). It's also well known that preterm infants
      experience hypoxic events which are primarily linked to cardiovascular instability and apnea
      of prematurity. These events vary as the infant matures. Martin R et al showed in their study
      that these hypoxic events peaked around 2-4 weeks and decreases by 6-8 weeks in preterm
      infants . Exposure to prolonged and frequent hypoxemic episodes has been associated with
      increased morbidity and mortality . Prolonged hypoxic events (Saturation less than 80% for
      more than 1 minute) have been associated with severe ROP and impaired neurodevelopmental
      outcome in survivors . Very high oxygen levels are equally harmful.

      Peripheral oxygen saturation monitoring is standard of care in infants admitted to neonatal
      unit. Traditionally oxygen saturation (SpO2) targeting is carried out by manual adjustment of
      fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) by the caregiver based on the monitored oxygen saturation.
      However, in practice this is only partially achieved during routine care[6]. Hagadorn et al
      conducted a study in 14 centers and showed that preterm infants under 28 weeks' gestation
      receiving oxygen spent on average only 48% of the time with SpO2 within the prescribed target
      range, about 36% of the time above and 16% of the time with SpO2 below the target range.

      Preterm infants have frequent fluctuations in SpO2 due to their cardio-respiratory
      instability requiring frequent adjustments of FiO2 . Consequently, these particularly
      vulnerable infants spend significant time with SpO2 outside intended range and are often
      exposed to extremes of hypoxemia and hyperoxaemia. The automatic oxygen control system
      continuously monitors the oxygen saturation and adjusts the oxygen delivery to maintain
      oxygen saturation within the target range. The safety, feasibility and efficacy of this mode
      of oxygen control have already been established. Automated control of FiO2 significantly
      improves compliance of oxygen saturation targeting and significantly reduces exposure to
      hypoxemia as well as hyperoxaemia. Automatic control of oxygen delivery is available in both
      invasive and non-invasive mode of ventilation. The HFNC Therapy is a common mode of
      non-invasive respiratory support in preterm infants. Oxygen Assist Module (OAM) is a system
      of automatic oxygen control available in the HFNC (Vapotherm Precision Flow).

      Previous study looking at the efficacy of automated oxygen control with HFNC support mostly
      have been a crossover model and the study duration less than 48 hours . As previously
      mentioned, preterm infants experience hypoxic events for few weeks before cardiopulmonary
      maturation is established. Hence, it's important to study these events over a longer period
      of time. The objective of this randomized control trial is to evaluate the efficacy of OAM
      (Automatic oxygen Control) in reducing the extremes of oxygen saturations in preterm infants
      (<80% and >98%) through the entire period of HFNC respiratory support.
    
  