
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with locally advanced
           squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with standard fractionation
           radiotherapy and high-dose cisplatin vs accelerated fractionation radiotherapy and
           panitumumab.

      Secondary

        -  To compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare local and regional PFS of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare distant metastasis in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare adverse events, including late radiotherapy-related adverse events in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare swallowing-related QOL of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare economic evaluation (cost effectiveness analysis and cost utility), including
           both healthcare utilization and indirect costs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to T category (T1-3
      vs T4), nodal status (N0-1 vs N2 vs N3), radiotherapy delivery modality (intensity-modulated
      [IMRT] vs 3-D conformal [3D CRT]), anatomic location (hypopharynx vs oral cavity vs
      oropharynx vs larynx), and participation in the optional swallowing impairment substudy (yes
      vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard fractionation radiotherapy (IMRT or 3D CRT) once daily,
           5 days a week, for 7 weeks. Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 22, and
           43 of radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo accelerated fractionation radiotherapy (IMRT or 3D CRT) once or
           twice daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Patients receive panitumumab IV over 30-90
           minutes 1 week prior to and on days 15 and 36 of radiotherapy.

      Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Quality of life (QOL) (FACT-H&N), swallowing-related QOL (MDADI, SWAL-QOL), swallowing
      function (FOIS), and economic evaluations (Lost Productivity questionnaire) are assessed
      periodically during the study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  