
    
      Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic, inflammatory rheumatic disease that mainly
      presenting with chronic back pain. In general, chronic low back pain is currently defined as
      a mixed pain including nociceptive and neuropathic properties. Nociceptive pain in several
      rheumatic diseases displays neuropathic characteristics over time. Patients with AS are
      suffered from spinal, entheseal pain or pain originated from peripheral and root joints.
      Although being scarce, there are trials investigating and reporting neuropathic component of
      spinal pain in axial spondyloarthritis/ankylosing spondylitis patients. However these trials
      either are not controlled or did not specify painful region of interest. In a few controlled
      trials control subjects were not defined clearly.

      Sleep problems are reported to be prevalent among patients with chronic pain conditions such
      as inflammatory rheumatic diseases and fibromyalgia. In patients with ankylosing spondylitis
      sleep disturbance is a well defined issue. The fact that sleep problem is a common problem in
      AS, raises the need to explore it's associates. In the trials measuring spinal neuropathic
      pain, sleep disturbances and it's association with neuropathic pain were not assessed.

      So, investigators have aimed to investigate prevalence of neuropathic spinal pain in AS
      patients and it's impact on sleep quality. For this purpose a case-control study design was
      planned. Age- and sex-matched control subjects will be chosen among individuals submitted to
      out-patient clinic with nociceptive/mechanical pain complaint lasting more than three months.
      Participants in control group will be subjected to same exclusion criteria too.

      This design will allow the investigators to determine whether spinal pain in AS patients
      displays neuropathic character more frequently than any chronic nociceptive pain does.
    
  