
    
      The ARCADIA Trial will assess the safety and efficacy of AZD1656 in 150 patients with either
      Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes who have been hospitalised with COVID-19.

      AZD1656 is a glucokinase (GK; hexokinase 4) activator which has been shown to reduce blood
      glucose for up to 4 months in humans. Diabetic patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19
      often present with hyperglycaemia and are particularly vulnerable to progression to severe
      COVID-19. Treatment with AZD1656 (in addition to their usual care) may provide additional
      glucose control which could help improve clinical outcomes in both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetic
      populations.

      In addition to its glucose lowering effect, AZD1656 may have additional benefits to COVID-19
      patients via its effects on immune function. In many patients with severe COVID-19, an
      overreaction of the body's own immune system can cause severe problems including damage to
      the lungs and heart, which can lead to breathing problems necessitating intubation and
      ventilation. AZD1656 has been shown to activate the migration of T regulatory cells to sites
      of inflammation in preclinical experiments. This migration of Treg cells to inflamed tissue
      is crucial for their immune-modulatory function (Kishore et al (2017)). AZD1656 could enhance
      Treg migratory capacity and may prevent the development of cardiorespiratory complications
      observed in hospitalised patients with COVID-19, leading to lower requirements for oxygen
      therapy and assisted ventilation, and reduced incidences of pneumonia and acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS).

      Diabetic patients hospitalised with COVID-19 will be randomised to receive either AZD1656
      tablets or placebo tablets on a 1:1 basis until they are discharged from hospital or until
      they require intubation/mechanical ventilation. The aim of the study is to determine whether
      AZD1656 improves clinical outcomes in diabetic patients hospitalised with COVID-19. The World
      Health Organization (WHO) 8-point Ordinal Scale for Clinical Improvement will be used as the
      standard methodology for measuring patient outcomes.
    
  