
    
      The process of restenosis, the re-narrowing of a coronary artery lumen following a
      revascularization procedure, begins at the time of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
      Restenosis has long been seen as a major impediment of effective long-term interventional
      cardiology, necessitating repeated procedures to deal with in situ recurrent stenosis of the
      original targeted vessel. The restenosis rates are between 30 to 50% of patients treated with
      balloon angioplasty and between 15 to 30% of patients treated with bare metal stents. There
      is currently high enthusiasm for drug-eluting stents already approved for the market and
      which have an overall restenosis rate of < 3% as reported in published reports for most
      clinical trial patient populations. However, there are subsets of patients (e.g., diabetic
      patients and patients with diffuse small vessel disease) that have restenosis rates around
      10% despite the use of drug-eluting stents. It is probably too early to conclude that the
      currently approved drug-eluting stents are a panacea to relieve coronary arterial obstruction
      due to atherosclerotic heart disease. In fact, with the increased usage of the current
      drug-eluting stents on the market, there are reports of problems such as late stent
      malposition, subacute and late thromboses, and aneurysm formations due to the vessel toxicity
      associated with this method of treatment. There remains a definite need for a simple, safe
      and durable solution to restenosis.

      The development of devices such as intravascular ultrasound has led to a greater
      understanding of restenosis mechanisms, especially after coronary artery stenting. It is
      presumed that the pathogenesis of coronary artery restenosis after a revascularization
      procedure entails two major processes. The first component (viz., recoil and remodeling)
      involves the mechanical collapse and constriction of the treated vessel; however, coronary
      stents provide luminal scaffolding that eliminates recoil and remodeling. The second
      component of coronary artery restenosis after a revascularization procedure is the
      endothelial response to injury. Whereas, the former focus in modulating the
      pathophysiological mechanisms involved in restenosis centered mainly on inhibition of
      platelet aggregation and function, current targets of pharmaceutical agents for this
      condition have shifted to inhibitors of the cell cycle, smooth muscle cell proliferation and
      migration, synthesis of extra-cellular matrix, and inflammatory mediators. Many different
      agents are currently being evaluated in pre-clinical and clinical studies.

      AVI-4126, the active ingredient of RESTEN-MP, is a proprietary antisense drug designed to
      interrupt the translation of the human <c-myc> gene by mRNA. Therefore, the basis for this
      study is to ascertain if RESTEN-MP is safe and has a therapeutic benefit. Slow-push
      intravenous administration of RESTEN-MP in pharmacological doses in the restenosis porcine
      model prevented subsequent in-stent stenosis.

      This clinical study will evaluate the safety and potential effectiveness of RESTEN-MP to
      reduce in-stent restenosis following balloon angioplasty. In order to objectively assess the
      therapeutic value of RESTEN-MP compared to other drugs used in combination with coronary
      artery stents and to utilize a sensitive method to assess the effectiveness of RESTEN-MP as a
      neointimal hyperplasia inhibitor, late loss between the time of stent placement and 6 months
      later is the therapeutic endpoint in this study.
    
  