
    
      Achilles tendinopathy is an overuse injury commonly seen in sports and physical activities
      that involve running, jumping and hopping. Patients with Achilles tendinopathy experience
      pain, morning stiffness and reduced ability to exercise. This condition can last for several
      years in some cases.

      Exercise therapy in the form of resistance training has been demonstrated to be the most
      effective rehabilitation tool to reduce pain and increase function in patients with Achilles
      tendinopathy. Patients often experience clinical improvements before any meaningful
      structural changes on MRI or ultrasound imaging are observed. Returning athletes back to
      competitive sport requires a progressive loading program to enable them to tolerate high
      stretch-shortening cycle loads appropriate to the demands of their sport.

      The SSC6 rehabilitation program is a six-stage pathway with a focus on strength development
      of the local muscle-tendon unit and the kinetic chain, the development of power and kinetic
      strength, running biomechanics and running load modification. The progression through each
      phase is guided by objective outcome criteria based on pain and function, strength and
      performance tests and achieving individualised resistance load targets. The strength and
      power exercises are performed at high intensity three days per week with 48 hours recovery.
      The Silbernagel program is a four-phase involves a daily exercise program of lower intensity
      with progression through each phase guided by symptoms and function.

      This study will compare the effectiveness of a comprehensive Achilles tendinopathy
      rehabilitation program with progression criteria with a common Achilles tendinopathy
      rehabilitation program. Sixty recreationally-active subjects aged between 18-45 years who
      meet the inclusion criteria, will be recruited to partake in this study. The subjects will be
      randomly assigned to one of two groups where they will undergo a multi-phase rehabilitation
      program. Data will be collected at baseline, 6 weeks and 12 weeks, to monitor pain and
      functional response, biomechanical and structural changes. At 6, 12 and 24 months following
      the commencement of the rehabilitation program, patients will be required to complete a
      follow-up questionnaire to monitor progress and any re-injury incidence that may have
      occurred.

      The following testing protocols will be performed:

        1. VISA-A Questionnaire The VISA-A questionnaire has been shown to be a valid, reliable and
           easy to use outcome measure tool for intervention studies on Achilles tendinopathy. It
           consists of eight questions regarding pain and function during both daily living and
           sporting activities. The overall score is between 0-100 where higher scores represent
           reduced pain and improved function. An improvement of 21 points between 2 and 12 weeks
           of a rehabilitation program have been typically observed. The difference in VISA-A score
           between both training protocols from baseline testing to the outcome testing at 6 weeks,
           12 weeks, 6 and 12 months; will formulate the primary outcome measure for this study.

        2. Ankle isokinetic testing Achilles tendinopathy has been associated with reduced plantar
           flexor strength. Isokinetic testing is commonly used to measure plantarflexor peak
           torque. The subjects will perform 2 isokinetic tests. In the first test the subjects
           will lie in a prone position in an isokinetic dynamometer with full knee extension and
           the foot securely strapped to a pedal a neutral ankle position (tibia perpendicular to
           the sole of the foot). The centre of rotation of the ankle axis will be aligned with the
           dynamometer. Subjects will be asked to perform a warm-up involving 5 sub maximal
           concentric plantarflexion and dorsiflexion contractions between 60-100% of their
           self-perceived MVC. The subjects will then be required to produce a maximal
           plantarflexion force 5 repetitions for 2 sets with a 1 minute rest between sets. In the
           second test the subjects will lie in supine position with the knee flexed to 80ยบ in
           order to specifically test the peak torque of the soleus. The same warm-up protocol and
           sets and repetitions as the previous test will apply. Both tests will use a speed of 60ยบ
           per second and operate through an ankle range of between 30ยบ plantarflexion and 20ยบ
           dorsiflexion.

        3. Running biomechanics Altered running biomechanics and muscle recruitment strategies have
           been highlighted in runners with Achilles tendinopathy. The subjects will be asked to
           run on the treadmill at a self-selected sub maximal speed. Using 3D motion analysis (Run
           3D, Oxford, United Kingdom), a number of biomechanical variables will be measured. These
           include: vertical and leg stiffness, contact time, flight time, stride length, stride
           frequency and joint angular displacements from initial contact to mid stance phase.

        4. Hop testing Achilles tendon material properties contribute to stretch shortening cycle
           performance during hopping tasks. Reduced tendon mechanical properties, plantar flexor
           muscle rate of force development and deficits on a single leg horizontal hop have
           previously been observed in patients with Achilles tendinopathy. Jump height, ground
           contact time and reactive strength index (RSI) will be measured using a double and
           single leg drop jump. Vertical, leg and ankle joint stiffness will be calculated using a
           novel single leg hurdle hop test. A pilot study has previously been carried out on 10
           healthy subjects prior to the commencement of the Achilles RCT study. Good to excellent
           reliability was found for of vertical stiffness, contact time, ground reaction force,
           hop distance and rebound distance and 3 trials were sufficient to obtain a true measure
           of performance across most variables.

        5. Subjective questionnaire After the completion of the rehabilitation program patients
           will be ask to provide feedback on the prescribed program and will complete a training
           diary where compliance and adherence to the program will be monitored.
    
  