
    
      This is a Phase III randomized, double-blind, multicenter study, with two groups of patients
      receiving radiotherapy and concomitant chemotherapy.

      The patients will be randomized as follows: Arm A = patients will receive a preventive and
      curative treatment by low-energy laser, and arm B = a control group treated with standard
      local treatments and a placebo laser (laser nonfunctional).

      Randomization will be balanced in a ratio 1: 1 and stratified by the investigator site.
      Assessments of mucositis, nutritional status, tolerance of the laser and pain will be
      performed throughout the treatment, once a week, by an investigator unaware of the patients
      treatment arm. The locoregional control will be evaluated every 3 months during the first
      year, then every 6 months up to 5 years. In case of progression, treatments undertaken and
      their results should be reported.

      Radiotherapy: All patients will be treated with conformal radiotherapy with or without IMRT.
      The dose should be adapted to the treatment indication (exclusive or postoperative) and the
      histological findings in case of tumoral resection.

      The radiotherapy will be prescribed in accordance with the recommendations of the ICRU 50
      report. The dose delivered will always be 2 Gy per day 5 times a week. All beams will be
      treated in each session. A radiological audit will be conducted for each beam treated by
      photons in the first session and at least once a week.

      Chemotherapy:

      Several chemotherapies concomitant to radiotherapy are possible:

        -  a combination of 5-FU and Cisplatin

        -  a combination of 5-FU and Carboplatin

        -  Cisplatin alone

        -  Cetuximab alone

      Dental care: All patients (except edentulous) will be seen in odontostomatology consultation
      prior to the treatment for dental care if necessary or potential production of fluorinated
      gutters During the treatment, all patients will receive oral care

      The dosimetric study will concern the cross section, the frontal and sagittal planes through
      the axis of the lateral beams.

      Arm A : laser low-level energy functional The material used will be a diode laser of 100 mW,
      with a wavelength of 658 nm. Application will be made after each radiotherapy session in an
      adapted room (low light intensity, possibility of ENT examination) on all grades superior or
      equal to 2 stomatitis injuries. The application is painless, athermal, odorless and
      completely silent. The patient will wear glasses for retinal protection. The operator will
      also wear glasses for his protection but allowing nevertheless the view of the beams and its
      limits.

      The tumor areas macroscopically invaded will be excluded from the areas application.

      The energetic dose delivered will be 4 J/cm2. The duration of the treatment for one will be
      determined by a corresponding abacus : [t(s) = energy (J/cm2) x surface (cm2) / puissance
      (W)]. The overall duration will be a few minutes varying depending on the surface to be
      treated The usual dental care will be prescribed when required.

      Arm B : laser low-level energy nonfunctional The procedure is identical to the one used in
      arm A but the laser will not be functional. The period of application will be around one
      minute. All applications will be performed by one single operator by center. The results will
      be assessed once a week by another physician (or nurse specifically trained) in each center,
      unaware of whether the patients had laser sessions or not, in order to respect the
      "blinding". The assessment will be detailed on a specifique sheet, specifying the degree of
      mucositis (WHO), the level of pain, body weight , type of feeding , any analgesic treatment
      taken by the patient, quality of life specific questionnaire, and the possible end of
      treatment or therapeutic modifications (number of cycles of chemotherapy, dosage).

      The laser should be started as soon as a grade 2 mucositis (WHO) is observed and will be
      continued throughout the radio-chemotherapy until improvement of the mucositis (grade <2).
    
  