
    
      AI viruses in their natural reservoir in waterfowl are the source from which novel HA and NA
      subtypes are introduced into the human population, and have the potential to initiate an
      influenza pandemic. This study will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a live,
      attenuated, cold-adapted reassortant AI virus vaccine, H9N2 (6-2) AA ca Reassortant
      (A/chicken/Hong Kong/G9/97 x A/Ann Arbor/6/60 ca).

      Patient participation in this study will be for at least 60 days, with patients followed for
      at least 42 days after vaccination. In this study, participants will be enrolled
      sequentially, from highest to lowest dose of vaccine, into one of three groups. At study
      entry at Day 0, participants will be admitted to the hospital in order to familiarize them
      with trial procedures. Blood and nasal wash samples will be collected prior to vaccination.
      On Day 2, participants will have a physical exam and will receive one dose of vaccine; the
      vaccine will be administered as nose drops. Participants will undergo directed physical
      examinations daily while they are in the hospital. Nasal washes will also be collected daily
      from the day of admission through the day prior to discharge to test for the presence of
      vaccine virus. Participants may be discharged from the hospital after 3 consecutive negative
      viral cultures, but not before Day 14. Additional blood collection will occur daily from Day
      0 to Day 7 and again on Day 21. Participants will return for follow-up visits 28 to 32 days
      and 42 to 46 days after receiving the vaccine. Blood and nasal wash collection will occur at
      these 2 study visits, and participants will also have directed physical exams.

      Depending on the immune response to the first dose of vaccine, some participants may be asked
      to return to the hospital 1 to 2 months after their first vaccination to receive an
      additional dose of vaccine.
    
  