
    
      Approximately 165 adult male and female subjects with a confirmed diagnosis of Idiopathic
      pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) (according to the most recent IPF guideline for diagnosis and
      management) will be randomized 1:1:1 (55 subjects per arm) to treatment with oral CC-90001or
      matching placebo for an initial 24 weeks.

      The randomization will be stratified based on the concurrent administration of SOC (Yes/No).
      Subjects completing the 24-week Double-blind Treatment Phase will continue onto the 80-week
      Active Treatment Extension Phase. At Week 24, all subjects originally randomized to receive
      placebo will be re-randomized 1:1 to blinded CC-90001 (200 mg or 400 mg PO QD). During the
      80-week Active Treatment Extension Phase, all subjects not on concurrent SOC therapy will
      have the opportunity, if deemed appropriate by the Investigator, to receive allowed standard
      of care (SOC).

      The exploratory Progressive Pulmonary Fibrosis (PPF) sub study will evaluate the efficacy,
      safety, PK, quality of life and exploratory PD of one PO treatment dose regimen of CC-90001,
      compared with placebo, for an initial 24 weeks of treatment, in subjects with PPF and
      long-term safety in the 80-week Active Treatment Extension Phase when all PPF subjects will
      receive CC-90001. Approximately 45 non-SOC subjects will be randomized in this sub study.

      All subjects who complete the study treatment phases and those subjects who discontinue
      investigational product (IP) prior to the completion of the study will participate in the
      4-week Post-treatment Observational Follow-up Phase.

      The study will be conducted in compliance with the International Council Harmonisation (ICH)
      of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use/Good Clinical
      Practice (GCP) and applicable regulatory requirements.

      An external DMC, comprised of independent physician experts and a statistician who are not
      affiliated with the Sponsor and for whom there is no identified conflict of interest will be
      responsible for safeguarding study participants' interests and for monitoring the overall
      conduct of the study.
    
  