
    
      This project aims to determine whether antenatal vitamin D supplementation alters postnatal
      bone formation in response to mechanical stimulation.

      The skeleton responds to mechanical stimulation by an increase in bone size and mass and that
      increment can persist into adult life and may lower the risk of osteoporosis (Daly, & Bass,
      2009). In contrast, without mechanical stimulation, bone is lost.

      Cells within bone - osteoblasts and osteoclasts - are involved in the removal and formation
      of bone; the biomarkers Pro-collagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (PINP) and C-terminal
      cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen (CTx) are surrogates for their respective tissue
      level activities.

      Whole body vibration (WBV) has been used as one of the methods to deliver mechanical
      stimulation in both adults and children.

      The investigators have recently shown in healthy boys aged 9-11 years, WBV experienced 10
      minutes daily for five days increases the P1NP by 25% and CTx by 11% (Harrison et al., 2015).

      The investigators undertook another study recently to determine the effect of reduced vitamin
      D intake during pregnancy and early life on the skeleton's response to mechanical loading
      using a mouse model.

      Our unpublished data show that antenatal vitamin D depletion substantially reduces the
      loading-dependent increase in both cortical and trabecular bone mass of offspring mice close
      to skeletal maturity.

      The available human and mouse data suggest that antenatal vitamin D deficiency in some way
      influences the bone to become less responsive to mechanical stimulation.

      The investigators are now ready to explore this in humans, to assess the responsiveness of
      the skeleton to mechanical stimulation by using WBV in the children who have been exposed to
      higher levels of vitamin D in-utero through maternal supplementation of vitamin D.

      Through this study the investigators will be able to determine whether the in-utero
      environment can be modified easily to improve the skeletal responsiveness to activity and
      this improved skeletal health in the short and long term.
    
  