
    
      The purpose of this study will be to generate the data required to thoroughly validate the
      ability of plague LFI assay (Lateral Flow Immunoassay) to accurately diagnose human
      infections with Y. pestis. These validation data will eventually be presented to US Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA; along with data from other studies that NAU will not participate)
      to seek approval for commercial license. The objective will be to validate this assay on the
      capillary blood of humans suspected to have plague as well as a study cohort likely to not
      have plague. From the suspected population; the specific aims of this study are to enroll up
      to 300 participants who present clinical signs of illness based on specific inclusion
      criteria. We will collect two types of blood samples from enrolled participants 1) capillary
      blood from a finger prick and 2) venous blood. The capillary blood will be used for direct
      testing on the LFI assay and the venous blood will be used to perform independent
      validations. This study is designed as a correlation study to understand 1) how LFI assay
      results compare with results from traditional diagnostic methods based on DNA detection
      methods and bacterial culture isolate on bubo aspirate or sputum and 2) effectiveness of
      capillary blood to serve as a diagnostic clinical sample as compared with traditional
      biological samples (venous blood, bubo and sputum). The study is designed to evaluate the
      outcome of LFI and how LFI results correlate with the standard plague diagnostics methods
      used in Madagascar and other methods. We are not examining the relationship between the
      results of the LFI and health outcomes of the participants. Decision of participant's medical
      treatment is solely based on the clinical judgment of the physician and guidelines set forth
      by Madagascar National Plague Control Program (PNLP); no formal test is involved with medical
      decision. All participants who are tested by LFI will have received medical treatment prior
      to the start of the study and the continuation of their medical treatment is guided by PNLP
      and physician judgment only. Again, we are not looking at the relationship between the
      results of the LFI and health outcomes of the participants.

      From the non-suspect cohort, greater detail will be provided as obtained. In brief, this
      subject population will consist of active duty US Naval personnel and DoD beneficiaries
      presenting to participating study sites in the United States with influenza-like symptoms
      (fever, cough, sore throat). Since the US is non-endemic for plague, all participants will be
      presumed to be negative for Y. pestis.
    
  