
    
      Online patient portals are convenient tools that improve patient access to healthcare
      services while often reducing burden to both patients and providers. However, many patients
      have not enrolled in such portals, including Geisinger's patient portal, known as
      myGeisinger.

      The purpose of the current study is to test whether sending myGeisinger enrollment
      information in a timely manner - when the benefits of enrolling are most readily available -
      increases enrollment. Specifically, messages will be timely in terms of lab test results
      having just been made available online, with the added benefit that patients can view their
      results prior to receiving them via mail. Unenrolled patients who recently had a laboratory
      procedure ordered and whose results are now ready for sharing will be informed via email that
      their lab results are available. At the same time, these patients will be reminded that these
      results can be viewed online through myGeisinger.

      The primary outcome measure of interest, myGeisinger enrollment rates, will be compared
      between the emailed population and a control group that similarly has lab results available
      but will not be contacted. In addition, two different versions of the email communication
      will be tested. One will highlight that the patient will have to go through a sign-up process
      before viewing test results (in the service of transparency). The other will provide a
      presumed direct link to view those results, via a button that potentially serves as a
      pre-commitment step to undergo the registration process ("foot in the door" effect).
      Secondary analyses will assess differences in enrollment rates as well as unsubscribe rates
      between the email versions. Exploratory analyses will further examine differences in the
      rates at which patients opened and clicked on enrollment links within the two emails.
      Statistical analyses will employ generalized linear models with a binary distribution and
      log-link function.
    
  