
    
      Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (aGVHD) is the most frequent complication in allogeneic
      Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (allo-HSCT). It affects up to 50% patients, among
      whom 15% to 25% develop severe forms, often lethal, yet impossible to predict even for donors
      with a Human Leukocyte Antigene (HLA) 10/10 compatibility. Global Overall Survival (OS) after
      transplantation is 40% to 60% only due to post transplant severe complications. There is a
      major medical need for a technology that would predict the risk of aGVHD and would allow the
      selection of a favourable donor among multiple Human Leukocyte Antigene (HLA)10/10 compatible
      donors.

      MT. Rubio and M. Bouillié at Pr Olivier Hermine's lab previously reported that enhanced early
      post-transplant invariant Natural Killer T (iNKT) cells reconstitution from donor cells was
      correlated to reduced risk of aGVHD, without impairment of the Graft Versus Leukemia (GVL)
      effect. They subsequently demonstrated that the expansion of donors CD4neg invariant Natural
      Killer T (iNKT) cells subpopulation was predictive of a reduced risk of aGVHD, and developed
      a method for predicting this risk based on the expansion factor of CD4neg invariant Natural
      Killer T (iNKT) cells in the peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) graft. This invariant Natural
      Killer T (iNKT) cells functional test reaches its optimal predictive capacity with 94%
      sensitivity and 100% specificity in allo-HSCT performed with Human Leukocyte Antigene (HLA)
      10/10 matched peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) grafts for non-progressive hematological
      malignant diseases, in complete response, which represent the majority of the indications of
      allogeneic HSCT. Similar predictive value was also observed when the test was performed from
      donor's peripheral blood before G-CSF mobilization. It was not associated with an increased
      risk of relapse. This test could therefore allow to easily selecting the best donor if
      different siblings or unrelated donors are available before PBSC allo-HSCT.
    
  