
    
      A total of 57 individuals were included in this study, 29 individuals with CP who constituted
      the experimental group and 28 individuals without deficiency, aged between 6 and 15 years,
      with understanding of the task to be performed. Of these, 14 formed the experimental group 1
      that performed the task on Kinect (CP-Group1) and 15 individuals formed the control group 1
      (TD-Group1), 15 formed the experimental group 2 (CP-Group2) and 13 individuals formed the
      control group 2 (TD-Group2), all control groups matched for age and sex with the experimental
      group 1 and 2, all without any disability.

      All individuals with CP who were evaluated manage to stay well seated to function in the
      upper limbs and have independent walking even necessary aid walker or crutches.

      Material and Apparatus Software specialists developed a package of games, named Team Bridge
      Games, and for this study, was used the Check Limit Game. This game allows the use of a
      Kinect sensor for motion capture (without contact interface), as well as a touch screen (with
      contact interface). The virtual reality tool used was developed by the Information Systems
      Laboratory of EACH / USP which features on the computer a task in which several balls are on
      the screen and must be touched to change color. The goal is to change the maximum of balls
      color in 15 seconds. The touch is performed through the touch screen corresponding to the
      physical environment with tap or by means of touchless environment using a virtual interface
      offered by Kinect system. Data regarding performance will be analyzed considering the number
      of hit balls.

      Procedure and Design To perform the task virtual research participants will be positioned at
      the computer so that they are adjusted in height (this will depend on the physical
      composition of each participant) and away from the computer screen, approximately 1.5m., and
      also the interface used thus enabling the beginning of the task.

      It were previously explained to the participant as it should do it with the Kinect, which
      through actual movement the individual has the ability to perform a task, using an avatar,
      each with their specific implementation, with one of the upper limbs and fingers of one hand
      respectively; should be aware of the start of the task as the verbal command of the
      researcher, for each phase of the task to be performed has duration of 7 minutes and 30
      seconds, 1 minute and 15 seconds respectively, with five-minute interval, consisting of the
      acquisition phase ( the activity will be repeated 30 times / attempts), retention (will
      repeat the activity 5 times / attempts) and transfer (activity will be repeated 5 times /
      attempts) respectively.

      Considering an estimated running time of approximately 30 minutes in just one meeting. Both
      the experimental group and the control group performed two tasks: real and virtual
      environment, where the control and experimental group-1 performed the following sequence:
      Acquisition = Kinect, Retention = Kinect and Transfer = Touchscreen; the experimental control
      group-2 and performed the following sequence: Acquisition = Touchscreen, Retention =
      Touchscreen and Transfer = Kinect.
    
  