
    
      Brief summary:

      This study will evaluate the effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in
      schizophrenia with treatment resistant auditory hallucination

      Detailed description:

      Auditory verbal hallucinations in schizophrenia disorders have been proposed to be associated
      with a source- monitoring deficit. The improvement of the monitoring deficit will have major
      impact on the improvement of hallucinatory symptoms and the social function. Brain network
      considered to play a major role in source monitoring is the default mode (DM) network. An
      increasing activity during the brain's resting phase and decreasing activity during
      stimulus-induced brain activity, increased rest activity in the primary auditory cortex which
      contributes to conditions, internal speech perceived as a tangible external sound, triggering
      the occurrence of verbal auditory hallucinations in schizophrenic disorders.

      This study will determine if

      1-Hz low-frequency, transcranial repetitive magnetic stimulus could be used to inhibit
      hyperconnectivity between these DM networks and other brain regions, allowing the
      source-monitoring capability to function properly. This study will measure the oscillatory
      strength and functional connectivity in the DM network via EEG resting-state activity in
      schizophrenic with auditory hallucinations before and after rTMS administration. With a
      seed-based analysis, using the region of interest (ROIs) in the posterior cortex area of the
      cortex (PPC), precuneus area (PCu), the inferior parietal area (IPC), the medial temporal
      (MT) area, the medial frontal area (MFC) and the singulatum cortex anterior (ACC) in
      bilateral hemispheres to create an EEG-based brain activity mapping, measuring cortical
      spectral power and functional connectivity in the ROIs.

      Before starting rTMS, participants will undergo : (1) general and psychiatric assessment, (2)
      neuropsychological test to evaluate hallucination and source-monitoring ability, (3) an EEG
      recording (which takes about 1 hour). After these assessment are completed, participants will
      be randomly assigned (by computer program) to receive either 1 Hz frequency rTMS or placebo
      stimulation for 20 minutes per day over a 10-day period. During this time, the participants
      will not know whether they received real or placebo TMS. For 10-days, stimulation will be
      administered to an area of the left temporal lobe of the brain (temporo-parietal junction).

      After trial is completed, participants will be told if they received real or placebo. If the
      participants have receive only place stimulation, they will then be offered a trial of real
      rTMS.

      TMS is not causing pain, but it can be uncomfortable due to a tingling or knocking sensation,
      contraction of scalp and facial muscles. There is also a small risk of seizure associated
      with TMS, but because of the lower frequency of stimulation used in this study (1 stimulation
      per second), this risk is significant only for participants who have a prior history of
      seizures, epilepsy, or other neurological problem. Investigators are also concerned that TMS
      may cause hearing problems. Therefore, investigators will carefully monitor participants for
      early signs of such problem, using hearing-safety aid to every stimulation session. If
      investigators suspect that a participant is experiencing problems with hearing, the trial is
      stopped.
    
  