
    
      Background:

      The VHA mission to serve the health care needs of America's veterans assumes a
      veteran-centered approach - one that evolves not only from the health team's assessment of
      needs, but especially one that begins with the veteran's assessment of his or her own needs.
      Preliminary data from the Alabama Veterans Rural Health Initiative study suggest that
      approximately 30% of rural Alabama veterans do not have an Advance Directive and want help
      completing one. Rural Alabama veterans live in counties with a higher percent of African
      American minorities, lower levels of education, and higher family poverty rates, than the
      average for the US population at large. Prior studies have demonstrated that disparities in
      Advance Directive completion rates may be related to race, level of income, and level of
      education. VHA research priorities include addressing the challenges of minority health care
      needs and the disparities that arise in healthcare delivery. Although many studies evidence
      the effectiveness of education and counseling in facilitating Advance Directive completion,
      data are lacking that demonstrate the efficacy of resource-conservative nursing interventions
      to enable Advance Directive completion by rural, southern minorities. This pilot lays the
      groundwork to address this evidence gap.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of the pilot study were to (1) test the feasibility of recruitment,
      randomization, and retention; (2) test the feasibility of a standardized Nurse-Supported
      Advance Care Planning Intervention; (3) evaluate the feasibility of the assessment process
      and data collection procedures; (4) evaluate the Veterans' satisfaction with the intervention
      and their Advance Directive decisions; and (5) evaluate preliminary effects of the
      Nurse-Supported Advance Care Planning Intervention.

      Methods:

      A prospective, randomized, controlled pilot study. Fifty Alabama veterans who receive care at
      the Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center were randomized to either the Nurse-Supported Advance Care
      Planning Intervention or Care-as-Usual. The Nurse-Supported Advance Care Planning
      Intervention was a manualized education, support, and guidance session provided by a
      Registered Nurse that included information about risks, benefits, and alternatives of
      specific choices. The Care-as-Usual was a session with the social worker who explained what
      the Advance Directive is, and guided the Veteran regarding the process of completing the
      Advance Directive document, without providing information about risks, benefits, and
      alternatives of specific choices. Data related to recruitment, randomization, and retention;
      study completion by subjects; completeness of data collection; Veterans' satisfaction; and
      preliminary effects of the intervention were collected, analyzed, and evaluated.

      Status:

      The Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center Institutional Review Board (IRB) has approved this study.
      Study is closed.
    
  