
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the most common cause of disability in the
      United States. According to the American Stroke Association, the prevalence of stroke in the
      U.S. is approximately 4.8 million with approximately 700,000 additional strokes occurring
      annually. Approximately 150,000 to 250,000 stroke survivors becoming severely and permanently
      disabled each year. A common neurological deficit among stroke survivors, and thus a
      substantial contributor to post-stroke disability, is aphasia. The loss of, or difficulty
      with language is extremely debilitating.

      Adequate written communication skills may be one of the barriers that has prevented
      individuals with aphasia from returning to work. Writing skills are also important for
      participation in social roles, such as household management, civic activities, or
      recreational activities with friends. Individuals with aphasia struggle to compose written
      documents such as personal letters, memos and reports. Furthermore, society's increased
      reliance on written forms of communication including email correspondence, instant messaging,
      texting, Twitter, and social networking sites such as Facebook, exacerbate the challenge that
      individuals with aphasia have in connecting with others, reestablishing and redefining their
      social roles and accomplishing their life-participation goals.

      Computer-directed treatment offers a practical alternative to one-on-one traditional
      treatment provided by a clinician and may be a cost-effective way of extending therapy beyond
      the hospital and clinic to meet the needs of the growing numbers of individuals with chronic
      aphasia and to help them reintegrate into the community and workforce. This project evaluates
      the efficacy of a theoretically-motivated writing program that has been integrated with novel
      computer-based virtual therapy systems and that can be provided intensively to individuals
      with chronic aphasia.
    
  