
    
      It has been established in scientific literature that patients with diabetes have a greater
      predisposition to oral complications and that oral infections may compromise their metabolic
      control. There is scant clinical evidence of a relationship between diabetes and an increased
      risk of infection after dental extractions. To our knowledge, no prospective longitudinal
      studies have been designed to prove this hypothesis.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate clinical healing after dental extraction and the
      occurrence of surgical complications in patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes and compare with
      non-diabetic patients, taking into account laboratory data such as blood count, glycated
      hemoglobin (HbA1) and immunological profile of the patients.

      Ninety patients shall be prospectively studied, divided into 3 groups: Group 1 will consist
      of 30 patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetics patients, group 2 will consist of 30
      controlled type 2 diabetics patients and group 3 composed of 30 non-diabetic patients
      (control group).

      All patients will undergo extraction of erupted teeth, always carried out by the same dentist
      (MS).

      A complete medical history and laboratory tests will be conducted for all patients including:
      glycated hemoglobin (HbA1), fasting glucose, complete blood count, platelets, prothrombin
      time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), immunoglobulins (IgA, IgG and IgM), CD3, CD4,
      CD8, testing of complement (C3, C4), dihydrorhodamine (DHR) oxidation, phagocytosis index
      test and neutrophil chemotaxis.

      At the end of surgery, blood pressure and plasma glucose by finger prick will be measured
      again. Surgery characteristics will be recorded, such as: length of surgery time from
      anesthesia to sutures, whether forceps and/or lever were used, the need to use a flap
      approach, the number of vials of anesthetic used, and intra-ligament anesthesia.

      The clinical assessment of healing will take place 3, 7, 21, and 60 days after surgery and
      will be performed by the same dentist who perform the surgeries (KSF), blinded to the group
      of the patient and laboratory exams. On these days, the region will be examined, photographed
      and will be applied to the Visual Analogic Scale (VAS).

      On day 60 after surgery, the postoperative period will be classified as: 1) no complications
      or 2) with complications, according to Cheung et al 2001. The following situations will be
      considered as complications after dental extraction:

        1. Acute infection of the alveolus: pain, erythema, edema, purulent discharge and fever;

        2. Acute inflammation of the alveolus: pain, inflamed alveolar tissue, absence of pus and
           fever;

        3. Dry socket: persistent pain and exposure of the alveolar bone.

      All this clinical information will determine the post-operative quality regarding the healing
      time and occurrence of infection and inflammation of the alveoli.

      Data will be statistically analyzed in order for us to understand the pattern of healing and
      occurrence of complications after dental extraction in the studied groups. The data analyzed
      will include hematological data, immunological profile and the glycated hemoglobin of
      patients.
    
  