
    
      Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is defined as a neurological deficit lasting less than 24
      hours, with most lasting less than one hour, brought on by focal cerebral or retinal
      ischemia. TIAs are common, with an estimated 300,000 events occurring annually and an
      estimated 5 million Americans having been given the diagnosis of TIA. Furthermore, a TIA is
      essentially the "smoke before the fire" for these patients. Studies have shown that within 90
      days of an emergency department diagnosis of TIA, 10.5% of patients will suffer a stroke,
      with most occurring within two days of the ED visit. Twenty one percent of these strokes are
      fatal and 64% are disabling. Additionally, 2.6% of TIA patients will die, 2.6% will suffer
      other adverse cardiovascular events, and 12.7% will have recurrent TIAs. Roughly 15% of
      patients who have had a stroke report a history of TIA. For many patients, stroke is
      considered to be a devastating event that is worse than death. In 1999 stroke was the third
      leading cause of death in the United States (National center for health statistics, U.S. dept
      of health and human services). The national direct and indirect cost of stroke is estimated
      to be $51 billion annually.7

      The management and disposition of emergency department patients with TIA is not entirely
      clear. It is mutually agreed upon in guidelines written by the American Heart Association
      (AHA) and the National Stroke Association (NSA) for the management of TIA, and standard
      emergency medicine textbooks, that patients with symptoms suggestive of a stroke or TIA
      require urgent evaluation in a setting such as the emergency department. Furthermore, that
      this evaluation should include a history, physical, and ECG. AHA guidelines and emergency
      medicine texts recommend that the initial evaluation include appropriate blood testing based
      on the history and CT imaging of the brain. All agree that patients with noncardioembolic
      causes of TIA should receive antiplatelet therapy and that TIA patients with atrial
      fibrillation should receive anticoagulation. "Prompt" or "Urgent" imaging of the carotid
      arteries to detect stenosis greater than 70% is also agreed upon since urgent carotid
      endarterectomy is believed to be most beneficial in this group. However the optimal timing of
      endarterectomy in patients with high-grade carotid stenosis is unclear. NSA guidelines and
      emergency medicine texts recommend hospitalization of patients with new onset TIA if imaging
      studies, such as carotid doppler, can not be performed urgently. However in a separate review
      of TIA management, hospitalization was identified as an area of uncertainty and it was
      suggested that management in a setting such as an Emergency Department Observation Unit
      (EDOU) might be a more cost effective alternative.
    
  