
    
      Suicide is consistently a leading cause of death among adolescents in the United States,
      making suicide prevention a serious public health concern. The risk factors for suicide vary
      but are often related to depression and other mental disorders, substance abuse, a major
      stressful event, and family history of suicide. Despite the morbidity and mortality
      associated with suicide attempts in adolescents, there is a lack of empirically supported
      treatment strategies and consensus regarding the best practices for suicide prevention. The
      SAFETY intervention is an individually tailored treatment strategy that integrates family-
      and community-based interventions and cognitive behavioral therapy and links youth to needed
      services and resources. SAFETY may be an effective means of reducing suicide attempts and
      improving mental health in at-risk adolescents. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of
      SAFETY in reducing suicide and suicide attempts in adolescents.

      This study will be divided into two phases. Participants in Phase I will all receive 12 weeks
      of the family-based cognitive behavioral therapy intervention SAFETY. Phase I will be used to
      develop the intervention manual, protocols, and adherence measures for SAFETY in Phase II.
      Phase I participants will undergo assessments at baseline and Week 12. Assessments will last
      90 minutes and will include a series of interviews and questionnaires concerning family,
      general health, and mental health-related issues.

      Participants in Phase II will be assigned randomly to receive 12 weeks of SAFETY or enhanced
      usual care. The frequency of sessions, which will involve both youth and parent participants,
      will vary on the basis of the individual needs of participants. SAFETY sessions will be
      individually tailored for each participant's specific needs and will include the following
      elements: (1) family- and community-based interventions aimed at mobilizing family and
      community networks that support youth safety, adaptive behavior, and reasons for living; (2)
      cognitive behavioral treatment modules that focus on decreasing suicidality and preventing
      repeat suicide attempts; and (3) an individualized care linkage strategy that links youth to
      needed services and resources. At baseline, Week 12, and Month 6, all youth and parent
      participants will undergo the same assessments that were performed during Phase I.
    
  