
    
      This is an open-label (patients and their doctors will know the identity of study drug
      administered), uncontrolled (patients are not assigned to treatment by chance), multicenter
      safety study of escalating dose levels of abiraterone acetate administered in combination
      with docetaxel plus prednisone in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate
      cancer (mCRPC). This study is conducted in 2 parts. Part I consists of Screening, Treatment,
      assessment of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), and determination of the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD). Participants are enrolled in sequential 6-subject cohorts (groups) and administered
      combination therapy (abiraterone acetate and docetaxel plus prednisone) according to a
      dose-escalation schedule. The abiraterone acetate dose in this study will escalate from 500
      mg to 1000 mg daily until the MTD is determined. The MTD is the highest combination dose
      among the dose combinations investigated in this study at which no more than 2 (33%) of the
      patients in a cohort experience a DLT. A DLT is defined by an adverse event occurring from
      Day 1 Week 2 (first dose of abiraterone acetate) to the day before the Day 1 Week 7 docetaxel
      infusion (3 weeks after the second docetaxel infusion); non-hematological toxicity >=Grade 3;
      Grade 4 neutropenia lasting more than 5 days, neutropenia complicated by fever, or systemic
      infection; thrombocytopenia <25,000/mcL, or any thrombocytopenia requiring platelet
      transfusion; and, any subjectively intolerable toxicity. Part II of the study consists of
      Continuing Treatment, when patients remain at the allocated dose level, escalate to the
      combination MTD, or discontinuation of docetaxel (if toxicity or intolerability develops) and
      continue abiraterone acetate (up to 1000 mg/day) plus prednisone, until disease progression;
      End of Treatment, when posttreatment efficacy and safety will be documented; and Follow-Up,
      when survival status and new antitumor therapy are monitored. Blood samples for
      pharmacokinetic and efficacy measurements will be collected at selected times during the
      study. Safety will be monitored. The total duration of study participation may be up to 36
      months. Oral abiraterone acetate will be administered as a single daily dose (500, 750, or
      1000 mg). Docetaxel will be administered once every 3 weeks as an intravenous (IV) infusion
      (60 or 75 mg/m2) over 1 hour. Study participants will premedicate with oral dexamethasone 8
      mg 1, 3, and 12 hours before the start of each docetaxel IV infusion. Oral prednisone 5 mg
      will be administered twice daily.
    
  