
    
      The study aims to enroll a total of 140 participants. Subjects would be enrolled with the
      following information: name, age, gender, contact, KPS score, preoperative ASA score, current
      ECOG score, tumor location, date of surgery, degree of tumor resection (modified Simpson
      grade), pathology type, Ki-67 Proliferation index, etc. The preoperative magnetic resonance
      image of the subject is stored. Tissue specimens are genetically examined.

      Using a simple randomization method and random assignment in a 1:1 ratio, a random sequence
      was first generated, and SAS version 9.1 statistical software was used to generate an
      allocation sequence table including subject numbers, 140 random numbers, and random
      groupings. 140 Subjects would be assigned to the test group (n=70) and the control group
      (n=70) in a 1:1 ratio. The table of the assignment sequence is duplicated and saved by the
      neurosurgical secretary and the trial designer of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang
      University. The secretary puts the group mark into the 140 opaque kraft envelopes with the
      serial number 1 to 140 according to the order of the allocation sequence table, and submits
      them to the test designer. Zhige Guo is responsible for enrolling the participants according
      to the inclusion criteria, assigning the subjects numbers according to the order of the
      treatment, and Qiang Zeng is responsible for disassembling the corresponding opaque envelopes
      according to the number of the subjects, and exerting interventions according to the group
      marks. Chenhan Ling is responsible for follow-up and regular measurement of various
      indicators, and Fei Dong is responsible for the images reports. Until the end of the trial,
      Zhige Guo, Chenhan Ling and Fei Dong would not know the grouping of the subjects.

      The test level of the study was α=0.05, and the two-sided test was used. All statistical
      analysis was performed by SPSS 16.0 statistical software.

        1. For PFS, OS, and DSS data, the COX proportional hazards model was used to calculate the
           hazard ratio (HR) of radiotherapy and to assess the statistical difference between the
           corresponding prognostic data between the two groups.

        2. For the 3-year progression-free survival, 3-year survival rate, and 5-year
           progression-free survival, 5-year survival rate data, the chi-square test was used to
           compare the differences between the two groups.
    
  