
    
      Completing evidence-based treatments for depression has been shown to be particularly
      problematic for Black adolescents. Their rates of participation in treatments for depression
      are lower due to negative perceptions of services and providers, and their reluctance to
      acknowledge the presence of symptoms.

      If Black adolescents' depression treatment needs are to be met, the engagement challenges and
      the factors that lessen the success of treatment in the "real world" must be addressed. This
      research examines the effectiveness of the Making Connections Intervention (MCI) and
      investigates key mediators of both engagement and response to treatment for depression. The
      MCI is a 1-2 session, evidence-based intervention designed to improve engagement, perceived
      relevance, and treatment satisfaction among depressed, Black adolescents. The study also uses
      tailored outreach strategies for adolescents and parents by including innovative digital
      content such as a web page/app along with other digital products.

      The investigators previously performed a small pilot study that used the MCI as an add-on to
      the IPT-A, an evidence-based intervention for depression delivered in schools typically over
      12 sessions. The results suggested that MCI has a positive impact on many aspects of change
      associated with treatment engagement and clinical outcomes.

      This study will be a randomized controlled trial. It will examine the effectiveness of the
      MCI in a multi-school trial involving adolescents in grades 6-12 who attend New York City
      (NYC) Department of Education (DOE) Public Schools. The investigators will randomly assign 60
      Black students with depression symptoms to two conditions: MCI+IPT-A vs. IPT-A-alone. The
      investigators will also do qualitative research, like interviews, before the digital content
      is created. This will enhance the relevance of the MCI. The main outcomes are adolescent-and
      caregiver-level engagement and adolescent depression. Suicidal ideation is a secondary
      outcome. This study will also test related factors, like adolescent helping-seeking behavior
      and parental knowledge of mental health services, that can account for treatment outcomes and
      that will allow the MCI to be strengthened in future roll-outs of the intervention in school
      settings.
    
  