
    
      The protein tyrosine kinase-7 (PTK7), also known as colon carcinoma kinase-4 (CCK4), is a
      member of the receptor tyrosine kinase superfamily, which is evolutionarily conserved and
      contains seven immunoglobulin domains, a transmembrane domain, and a catalytically inactive
      kinase domain. PTK7 controls tissue morphogenesis and patterning by affecting cell polarity,
      migration as well as tissue regeneration and wound healing. It's reported that PTK7 plays an
      important role in the motility and invasivity of cancer cells and is overexpresses in many
      different types of human cancers, including colon, lung, gastric, breast cancer etc, making
      it a potentially attractive target for quantitative imaging and therapy.

      Sgc8, a 41 oligonucleotides single-stranded DNA aptamer, which was selected by cell based
      systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX), has been identified as a
      specific ligand of PTK7. In this study, Sgc8 was linked to a bi-functional group NOTA for
      68Ga chelation. The previous studies showed that the Sgc8 derivatives have a high
      accumulation in PTK7 positive tumors, suggesting the feasibility of 68Ga-Sgc8 for clinical
      translation for cancer detection.

      Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents the third common type of cancer and the fourth leading
      cause of death in the worldwide, and has one of the highest rates of synchronous or
      metachronous malignancy among all cancers. According to the Colon Cancer NCCN Guidelines
      (version 3.2014), 50-60% CRC patients are with metastases, and 80-90% of these metastatic
      patients may have unresectable liver metastasis. Therefore, early detection of the lesions is
      of utmost importance with respect to administration of early treatment and improved survival.
      It's reported that PTK7 is overexpressed in CRC, and the expression was correlated with tumor
      differentiation, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis and TNM stage of CRC patients,
      suggesting that PTK7 may be a desirable target to predict the occurrence and prognosis of
      colorectal tumor.

      In this study, investigators will first measur the dosimetry of 68Ga-Sgc8 in healthy
      volunteers, and then evaluate the tracer in colorectal patients, to assess its diagnostic
      value.
    
  