
    
      Rationale:

      Regorafenib is a new oral multikinase inhibitor of angiogenic, stromal and oncogenic receptor
      tyrosine kinases. Regorafenib demonstrated to increase the overall survival of patients with
      metastatic colorectal cancer and has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA), as well as by The European Medicines Agency (EMA). In a recent phase IB study the
      combination of regorafenib with FOLFOX or FOLFIRI was shown to be a tolerable treatment
      regimen as first- or second-line treatment of colorectal cancer. Unfortunately, no data are
      available showing the effect of regorafenib on chemotherapy uptake in metastases. Here the
      investigators propose a phase IB study in advanced OGC with cytotoxic treatment consisting of
      paclitaxel together with regorafenib, to assess the tolerability of the combination as second
      line therapy for metastasized OGC and to assess the effect of regorafenib on paclitaxel
      uptake in OGC metastases.

      Primary objectives:

      To assess the tolerability of regorafenib combined with paclitaxel. Secondary objectives To
      assess the effect of regorafenib on uptake of paclitaxel in OGC metastases. To assess the
      effect of regorafenib on regorafenib targets in OGC metastases and blood samples.

      To assess the effect of regorafenib on paclitaxel pharmacokinetics. To obtain exploratory
      data on the efficacy of the combination of regorafenib with paclitaxel.

      Study design:

      A phase 1b study of tolerability of regorafenib in combination with paclitaxel.

      Study population:

      Patients with advanced oesophagogastric cancer, fit for second line treatment systemic
      treatment.

      Intervention:

      The investigators will perform a phase 1b dose finding study (phase I) and then expand the
      cohort for evaluating the uptake of paclitaxel in OCG metastasis.

      Paclitaxel will be tested as cytotoxic backbone for combination with regorafenib in advanced
      OGC. Paclitaxel will be dosed 80 mg/m2 I.V. infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 of every 28 day
      cycle as has been reported previously and has been used in the recent RAINBOW study
      (NCT01170663).

      Patients will receive regorafenib daily from day 1-21 of a 28-day cycle. The first cycle
      starting on day 2 after the first administration of chemotherapy for pharmacodynamics/kinetic
      purposes.

      From the second cycle onwards, regorafenib will be dosed from day 1-21. Four different dose
      levels will be assessed. After the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been defined, the
      corresponding patient cohort will be expanded to 33 patients to assess the effect of
      regorafenib on uptake of paclitaxel in OGC metastases on day 1 and 15 of the first cycle
      (phase II).

      Rationale for the starting dose:

      Paclitaxel will be dosed 80 mg/m2 I.V. infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 of every 28 day cycle as
      has been reported previously and has been used in the recent RAINBOW study The first dose of
      Regorafenib in the escalation scheme is 80mg per os qd. In phase 1 studies the optimum dose
      for regorafenib monotherapy has been set at 160mg per os q.d. However, considering the
      potential side effects of paclitaxel in combination with regorafenib the investigators chose
      a starting dose of 80mg per os qd.

      Dose level Paclitaxel dose Regorafenib dose Minimum number patients

      -1 80mg/m3 i.v 40 mg p.o. qd

        1. (starting) 80mg/m3 i.v 80 mg p.o. qd 3

        2. 80mg/m3 i.v 120 mg p.o. qd 3

        3. 80mg/m3 i.v 160 mg p.o. qd 3
    
  