
    
      The clinical study will be held in the clinic of conservative department, Faculty of
      Dentistry, Cairo University. The operator in charge will be Dina Fayez Diab. Patients will be
      examined and selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria, the purpose and method
      of the study will be explained to the selected patients for participation in the study. In
      the first visit , ADA caries risk assessment model will be done. Participants will be divided
      in to two groups according to the tested mouthwashes.

      All patients will be instructed not to have a breakfast and to refrain any oral hygiene
      measures on the day of sample collection to avoid the influence of food consumption and
      contamination on the composition of saliva. The patient will sit in an erect position on the
      dental chair and will be given paraffin block to chew. The stimulated saliva will be
      collected after 2 minutes of paraffin chewing in sterile container held near the mouth. The
      containers will be properly labelled.

      This study will be carried over one month , the saliva samples for each patients will be
      collected on the first dental visit. These samples will be sent to the laboratory for
      microbiological assessment. Patients will be provided with mouthwashes according to the
      tested groups and will be instructed to use it 2 times per day for 1 minute each time and no
      eating or drinking allowed for at least 30 minutes post rinsing. Each patient will be given
      the same instructions with respect to oral hygiene measures. They will be advised to continue
      on the same diet and will be instructed not to change their dietary habits.

      Patients will come after 2 weeks for salivary samples collection and samples will be sent to
      laboratory for microbiological assessment. After completing the treatment for another 2 weeks
      , patients will come for the last dental visit to collect salivary samples which will be sent
      to laboratory for microbiological assessment.
    
  