
    
      A total of 40 subjects will be enrolled in this study. Ten study volunteers will be enrolled
      in each of the following four groups:

        1. - Normal hearing (NH) without tinnitus (T-)

        2. - Normal hearing (NH) with tinnitus (T+)

        3. - Unilateral hearing loss (uHL) and ipsilateral unilateral tinnitus (uT+)

        4. - Bilateral hearing loss (bHL) and bilateral tinnitus (bT+)

      Application of the study treatment may occur at the initial Screening Visit (pending all
      eligibility requirements can be confirmed) or at Visit 1. The first visit (not including IV
      lidocaine infusion) should take no more than 3 hours. The investigators will assess patient
      eligibility and obtain a baseline MRI, audiometry with high frequency, and middle ear muscle
      reflexes. Three questionnaires (THI, TFI, VAS) will also be given prior to IV lidocaine
      infusion to assess patients' perception of their tinnitus.

      The patient visit and baseline screening may take up to 8 hours total. Patients may have
      completed the screening/baseline visit on a prior day, in which case the visit should take no
      more than 5 hours. At the screening/baseline visit, patient will be asked to complete three
      questionnaires; have an audiogram with high frequency and middle ear reflexes; a pregnancy
      test if the patient is a woman of childbearing age, and a baseline MRI to assess brain
      activity. We will also obtain a baseline EKG to evaluate the patient's heart and blood draw
      to check liver and kidney function. At the infusion visit, patients will receive IV lidocaine
      infusion for 30 minutes (500mg maximal dose) and an fMRI of the brain. After the infusion,
      the investigators will draw some blood samples to test for serum lidocaine levels, perform
      another audiogram with high frequency and middle ear reflexes, and administer the same three
      questionnaires (THI, TFI, VAS). The investigators will follow-up with patients via email 30
      (±7) days after the infusion visit for any adverse event and ask them to complete the three
      questionnaires (THI, TFI, VAS).
    
  