
    
      This is an open-label, interventional study to explore the effect of Cabazitaxel on survival
      pathways and androgen signaling in the tumor microenvironment (bone marrow) of patients with
      castration resistant metastatic prostate cancer.

      A total of 30 evaluable patients are needed. An estimated 50% chance of failure to harvest
      evaluable bone marrow biopsy or aspirate is anticipated based on investigators prior
      experience. Thus a total of 60 patients will be accrued in the study. This will provide the
      investigators an 80% power to detect an effect size of at least 0.82, using a two-sided
      paired t-test and at a 0.05 significance level.The changes in androgen signaling (androgen
      receptor expression and other survival pathway markers, between baseline and 9 weeks will be
      assessed by paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The association between serum
      Prostate-Specific Androgen (PSA) and bone marrow androgen signaling level will be evaluated
      using scatter plot and spearman's correlation coefficient. Similar methods will be used to
      explore the association between circulating androgens and those in the bone marrow.

      Biomarker data will also be summarized and compared between baseline and after treatment
      using paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test.

      ECOG changes from baseline will be provided for each treatment period. All Adverse Events
      (AE) will be graded using the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) classification, version 4.3.

      Summary tables of Adverse Events (AE)s, Treatment Emergent Adverse Event(TEAE), Serious
      Adverse Events (SAE)s and withdrawals for adverse events will be provided by treatment
      period. Adverse events will be summarized by worst severity grade AEs.

      All registered subjects who take at least 1 dose of agent will be included in the safety
      analyses. Adverse events will be summarized by worst severity grade. AEs, as well as
      treatment-emergent AEs, will be summarized by system organ class, and preferred term.
      Investigational Medicinal Products (IMP) -related adverse events, adverse events leading to
      death or to discontinuation from treatment, events classified as NCI-CTCAE v4 Grade 3 or
      Grade 4 (or moderate/severe if other rating scale is used), (IMP)-related events, and serious
      adverse events will be summarized separately.
    
  