
    
      Childhood obesity is a major public health problem and an important predictor of obesity
      later in life. Although early childhood is a formative period for dietary and activity
      habits, little research targeting this young age group has been conducted. Child care
      facilities are a prime setting for interventions targeting young children, given the number
      of families using some form of out-of-home care. Family child care homes (FCCH) are a
      particular type of child care facility in which the provider cares for children out of
      his/her own residence. FCCHs are generally less regulated than child care centers, and a
      significant percentage do not meet established recommendations for physical activity and
      nutrition practices. While there is a great need to intervene in these settings, there has
      been only one other published obesity prevention intervention in FCCHs to date. Interventions
      targeting FCCH providers could help promote healthy child weight by creating child care
      environments that provide and support active play opportunities and healthy food choices,
      while helping providers become role models for healthy lifestyles (physical activity and
      diet). However, the child care industry is faced with many challenges, including limited
      profitability. By incorporating strategies for overcoming some of these economic challenges,
      interventions may be able to more easily address barriers to implementing and sustaining the
      changes needed to promote regular physical activity and healthy dietary intakes in children.

      This project will use a cluster-randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of the
      9-month intervention, Keys to Healthy Family Child Care Homes, which targets FCCHs. Keys will
      be delivered in three modules which are designed to promote (1) provider health and providers
      as healthy role models, (2) physical activity- and nutrition-supportive environments at the
      FCCH, and (3) healthy business practices. Each module will be delivered via group workshops,
      on-site visits and phone contacts using Motivational Interviewing-inspired coaching and
      educational toolkits. By combining these components, the ultimate objective is to create
      healthy and stable FCCHs that promote healthy physical activity and eating behaviors in
      children.

      The project will recruit and randomize 165 FCCHs (83 per arm). At each FCCH, subjects will
      include one child care provider and 3 children (we are targeting children between the ages of
      1.5 and 4 years old, but one to two additional children who are younger than 18 months may
      also take part in height and weight measurements only). These 165 FCCHs and 825 children (495
      children ages 1.5-4.9 years old and 330 children ages younger than 18 months) will be
      recruited in five waves over the course of 3 years, each wave enrolling 30 or more FCCHs
      (half assigned to each study arm). For recruitment, we will target areas with lower income
      households and with higher prevalence of child overweight/obesity within a 100 mile radius of
      the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) and Duke University. For each wave,
      potential FCCHs will be identified through the online database of licensed programs provided
      by the North Carolina Division of Child Development and Early Education
      (http://ncchildcaresearch.dhhs.state.nc.us/search.asp). Trained project staff will contact
      potential FCCH providers by mail/email (informational flyer/packets), telephone, and
      promotion at local professional meetings and community events. Informed consent will be
      obtained from providers and parents of participating children. Data collection will occur
      before and after the 9-month intervention, and each participating child care provider will
      receive up to $200 for completion of measures at both time points. At follow-up, we will also
      recruit newly enrolled children between the ages of 1.5 and 5 years old (one or two per home,
      thus about 210 additional children) to take part in all measures to allow additional
      cross-sectional analysis.

      Increased child physical activity and improved quality of child diet while at the FCCH will
      be the primary outcomes used to assess the impact of this innovative, theory-driven
      intervention. Secondary outcomes and mediators include child body mass index, provider body
      mass index, provider weight-related behaviors (dietary intake and physical activity),
      provider motivation, self-efficacy and social support, and obesogenic (nutrition- and
      physical activity-related) environmental characteristics of the FCCH (including policies,
      practices and communication between providers and parents). Primary analyses for primary aims
      will involve testing each of these hypotheses under the intent-to-treat principle using
      Generalized Linear Mixed Models (GLMM) that will account for the correlation induced by the
      clustering of children within FCCHs. Statistical analysis will employ Statistical Analysis
      System (SAS).
    
  