
    
      Striae distensae (SD) are skin disorders characterized by linear parallel edematous plaques
      that evolve into atrophic depressions in areas of dermal damage. They commonly develop on
      sites of skin stretching including thighs, arms and gluteal areas in males and additionally
      breasts in females, abdomen in case of pregnant females or intertreginous sites in case of
      glucocorticoids therapy and cushing disease.

      All result in pathological changes comprising early dermal edema and perivascular lymphocytic
      infiltrate (manifest clinically as striae rubra) and end by epidermal thinning, flattening of
      dermal papillae, thinning of dermal collagen bundles and abundance of abnormally thinned and
      branched elastic fibers (manifest clinically as striae alba).

      Various preventative and active treatment modalities for SD which were proven beneficial
      included: topical therapeutics like topical retinoids, energy based devices like fractional
      radiofrequency (FRF) and light therapy including both non-coherent light like intense pulsed
      light therapy and coherent laser devices like fractional ablative CO2 laser and non-ablative
      Nd-YAG laser. However obtaining a single effective treatment is still a challenge especially
      in absence of randomized control studies for some modalities and low level of evidence (LOE)
      for others.

      Fractional ablative CO2 laser creates columns of focal dermo-epidermal tissue loss known as
      (microablative columns) with thermal damage, hemostatic effect and incomplete coagulation of
      tissues. This ablation of dermal tissues (including collagen and elastin) has the potential
      for stimulation of new tissue formation in SD. The efficacy of fractional CO2 laser in
      treatment of striae alba was discussed in various studies. In a LOE 4 retrospective study
      involved 27 patients each received one session of fractional ablative CO2 laser (at 10 mJ
      using ultrapulsed deep FX mode with spot diameter 1-10 mm) ; (7.4%) of patients have shown
      (>75 %) improvement, (51.9%) have shown (51 - 75%) improvement, (33.3%) have shown (26 - 50%)
      improvement and (7.4%) have shown (<25%) improvement. Another comparative study between both
      fractional ablative CO2 laser and non-ablative Erbium-glass laser with LOE=2 conducted on 22
      patients using three sessions with four weeks interval. Fractional CO2 laser parameters were
      set to (fluence = 40-50 mJ, 75-100 spots/Cm2 spot density and spot size = 8x8 mm in a static
      mode). Results have shown marked clinical improvement in 90.9% of patients from both
      modalities with no statistically significant difference between both. A third comparative
      study (LOE=2) between fractional CO2 laser, FRF and combination between both included 30
      patients using (fluence=700-1000 mJ and 0.7 mm spot density) for the fractional CO2 laser.
      Clinical improvement was noticed in all three groups with best results for the combination
      group. This result was supported by histopathological evidence in the form of increased
      epidermal and collagen thickness in analysis of biopsies retrieved from two patients. A
      Fourth comparative study (LOE=2) between combination of fractional ablative CO2 laser and
      microneedle FRF versus only microneedle FRF conducted on six patients using five sessions
      with four weeks interval. Fractional CO2 was conducted using (fluence = 14-18J/Cm2 and
      ablation depth = 400-600 micrometers in ultrapulsed mode using two passes). A statistically
      significant better result was noticed in the combination group with overall greater reduction
      in mean surface area of SD pointing to an additive positive role for fractional CO2 laser. A
      fifth comparative study between fractional CO2 laser versus combination of topical glycolic
      acid and tretinoin (LOE=2) conducted on six patients through five sessions with two to four
      weeks interval. Fractional CO2 was set to (fluence = 14-18 J/Cm2 in ultrapulsed mode).
      Statistically significant better results were noticed in fractional CO2 laser group with
      reduction in mean surface area of SD.

      Neodymium-Doped Yttrium Aluminum Garnet (Nd-YAG) laser is another successful therapeutic
      modality and is characterized by its safe profile compared to other lasers. Long pulsed
      Nd-YAG laser results in a non-ablative dermal heating with intact overlying epidermis which
      has shown a potential for dermal collagen remodeling in histological sections (14). El Saie
      and his colleagues compared the efficacy of two fluences (75 J/Cm2 and 100 J/Cm2) of Nd-YAG
      using (spot size = 5 mm, pulse duration = 15 ms and frequency = 1 Hz) in the treatment of SD
      (both striae alba and rubra patients). Improvement was noticed in both types of striae.
      However, patients with striae alba showed better improvement in the higher fluence group.
      Increased dermal collagen and elastin were supported by histopathological evidences for
      biopsies retrieved from six patients. Nevertheless, other studies pointed to higher
      effectiveness in cases of striae rubra than striae alba which suggests an additional role for
      Nd-YAG laser in targeting dermal vascular changes in SD.

      There were no previous attempts for comparing fractional ablative CO2 laser and long pulsed
      non-ablative Nd-YAG laser for treatment of striae alba patients. In a recent systematic
      review, a LOE=2 comparative study was conducted between 2940nm Erbium - Yettrium Aluminum
      Garnet (Er-YAG) ablative laser and non-ablative 1064nm Nd-YAG laser for treatment of patient
      with striae alba. Each group received three sessions with four weeks interval. Parameters
      were set to (power= 3.2 J and spot size= 7mm in a short pulsed mode) for Er-YAG laser and
      (fluence= 50 J/Cm2, spot size= 50 ms and pulse duration = 50ms) for Nd-YAG laser. Both groups
      have shown poor results. Overall conclusion from systematic review was that ablative lasers
      as an option for treatment of SD were less well-tolerated by patients and results were more
      variable among studies than non-ablative lasers.

      Clinical evaluation of patients shall be determined by Davey's modified score for the number
      and severity of the striae in the affected area, both before and after treatment to determine
      the degree of improvement or worsening.

      Objective evaluation of the efficacy of different therapeutic modalities is highly important
      to determine the optimal management. High frequency skin ultrasound (HFSU) is a rapid and
      non-invasive tool for measurement of skin thickness and can be used for this purpose, It is
      an ultrasound-based apparatus that emits ultrasound waves through a transducer in high
      frequencies that vary according to the designated visualized structure or tissue. In skin, 18
      MHz devices are used primarily for dermal component imaging and 50-100 MHz devices for
      epidermal component imaging. Using bimodal devices is a more advanced option for
      visualization of ultrastructures of the dermis like collagen, elastic fibers and dermal
      ground substance.

      Statistical analysis shall be done after study completion to determine the significance of
      the outcome parameters.
    
  