
    
      Blood has been previously taken from the patient and the donor to make the cells.

      To make the special cell line, special blood cells called dendritic cells (DCs)were made
      first from the donor blood. Then, a specially produced gene called a plasmid that carries the
      adenovirus, CMV, and EBV genes was introduced into the dendritic cells. Dendritic cells with
      these new genes are then mixed with T cells to stimulate them. This stimulation trains the
      donor T cells to kill cells that are infected with CMV, EBV, and adenovirus. Once a
      sufficient numbers of T cells were made, they were tested to make sure they killed the
      patient's cells infected with these viruses, but not the patient's normal cells, and were
      frozen.

      If the donor has never been infected with CMV, the CTLs made for the patient may not have
      activity against a CMV infection. If these donor CTLs show no activity against CMV infection,
      the cells will not be given.

      The patient may receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). Then, the
      donor's special cells will be thawed and injected into the patient's intravenous line. After
      the patient receives the cells, the levels of these three viruses in the patient's blood will
      be monitored. Investigators will also take blood to see how long the T cells given to the
      patient are lasting in the patient's body.

      If the special cell infusion has helped the infection or if the patient has had a treatment
      (for example with steroid drugs) that might have destroyed the T cells that were given to
      them, then the patient is allowed to receive up to 2 more doses of the cells.

      The patient will continue to be followed by his/her transplant doctors after the injection.
      The patient will either be seen in the clinic or contacted by a research nurse to follow up
      for this study every week for 6 weeks then at 8 weeks, and 3, 6, and 12 months. The patient
      may have other visits for standard care.

      The patient will also have regular blood tests done to follow counts and the viral infection.
      To learn more about the way the T cells are working in the patient's body, up to an extra
      30-40 ml (6-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion and then at 1, 2, 4, 6,
      and 8 weeks and 3 months. Blood should come from the central intravenous line, and should not
      require extra needle sticks. Total time participation for this study will be 1 year.
    
  