
    
      The investigators aim to recruit 150 participants for this RCT (50 per treatment condition).
      This will provided adequate power (0.80) to detect differences between groups of medium
      effect size (d=0.50). Note that detailed eligibility criteria are listed in the "Eligibility"
      section. Participants will be recruited via SONA, flyers, online postings, classroom
      announcements, and through the USU CBS lab website.

      All study procedures will be completed online, on a computer/mobile phone. After completing
      informed consent online through Qualtrics, participants will complete an online baseline
      survey. Participants will then be randomized to one of three groups: a CBT book, an ACT book,
      or a choice between the two books. Participants will be asked not to access other self-help
      books during the study duration. A link will be provided to access the book online along with
      a 10-week suggested reading schedule. Participants will be asked to complete a midtreatment
      survey 5 weeks after the beginning of treatment, and a posttreatment survey 10 weeks after
      the beginning of treatment. A follow-up survey will be sent to participants 3 months after
      the posttreatment survey. In addition to psychological measures, these surveys will also ask
      about adherence and use of strategies taught in the book. Researcher contact will involve
      reminders to complete assessments and weekly reminders of the suggested reading schedule.

      Participants assigned to the CBT condition will receive a link to access The Cognitive
      Behavioral Workbook for Depression (Knaus, 2008), based on a psychosocial treatment that has
      shown effectiveness in reducing depression symptoms (Jiménez, 2012). The primary treatment
      components in this book are psychoeducation (introducing the cognitive behavioral model of
      depression), self-assessment worksheets (e.g. identifying depressive thought patterns,
      separating sensations from appraisals), cognitive restructuring, using metacognition/logic,
      and avoiding perfectionism.

      Participants assigned to the ACT condition will receive a link to access The Mindfulness and
      Acceptance Workbook for Depression (Strosahl & Robinson, 2008), based on a modern cognitive
      behavioral therapy that combines acceptance and mindfulness methods with values and behavior
      change methods (Hayes, Strosahl & Wilson, 2011). The primary treatment components in this
      book are psychoeducation (introducing the ACT model of depression), values and goals,
      mindfulness, acceptance, defusion, committed action, and "rewriting" inflexible life stories.

      An additional subset of study participants will be given their choice of the two self-help
      books described above after completing the baseline assessment. Participants who are
      randomized to receive their choice of book will be provided a brief description of the
      contents of each book before making a decision.
    
  