
    
      Bardoxolone methyl (RTA 402) is an Antioxidant Inflammation Modulator (AIM) that is
      undergoing clinical testing in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Bardoxolone methyl and other
      AIMs inhibit immune-mediated inflammation by restoring redox homeostasis in inflamed tissues
      through the induction of the cytoprotective transcription factor Nrf2. In the diabetic
      population, adipocytes produce cytokines and mobilize free fatty acids which induce insulin
      resistance. Resultant hyperglycemia and increased cytokine production induces reactive oxygen
      and nitrogen species which in turn induce vascular inflammation and endothelial dysfunction.
      These stimuli cause further activation of NF-kB, promoting inflammation, mesangial cell
      contraction, mesangial expansion and endothelial dysfunction, the end result of which is
      decreased renal function. By inducing Nrf2 and suppressing redox-driven inflammation, we
      hypothesize that inflammation and resultant adverse renal functional changes in patients with
      chronic kidney disease resulting from diabetes can be suppressed.

      In a Phase IIa open label study of patients with CKD and type 2 diabetes, treatment with
      bardoxolone methyl for 28 days resulted in significant improvements in renal function,
      including increases in eGFR, and decreases in serum creatinine, cystatin C, BUN, phosphorus,
      uric acid, creatinine clearance, and angiotensin II; improvements in glycemic control as
      assessed by hemoglobin A1c; and improvements in markers of endothelial dysfunction and
      systemic inflammation, such as circulating endothelial cells and adiponectin. These data are
      consistent with the hypothesis that bardoxolone methyl improves renal function through
      suppression of renovascular oxidative stress and inflammation.

      A new formulation of bardoxolone methyl has been developed, which is the same chemical entity
      but manufactured to contain an amorphous dispersion rather than a crystalline solid state.
      The new amorphous dispersion formulation of bardoxolone methyl has been shown to be more
      orally bioavailable in non-human primates. The purpose of this study is to determine the
      appropriate dose of the new bardoxolone methyl formulation to use in future clinical studies
      by determining the dose response relationship on eGFR.
    
  