
    
      The investigators propose to compare rates of development of sarcopenia in critically ill,
      septic subjects with a reference cohort of critically ill, trauma subjects who are not
      septic. The null hypothesis is that the rates of muscle loss in subjects with sepsis (a
      condition associated with high levels of inflammation) are comparable with the rates of
      muscle loss in subjects without sepsis. As secondary outcomes, the investigators will
      evaluate whether rates of muscle loss correlate with clinical assessments in the ICU (body
      mass index, frailty score, illness severity score), with clinical course through the hospital
      (ICU length of stay (LOS), duration of mechanical ventilation, hospital LOS, ICU
      readmissions, hospital readmissions), and with outcomes (discharge destination, ICU
      mortality, hospital mortality and six-month mortality).

      To answer this question, the investigators propose to retrospectively analyze existing
      abdominal CT imaging of subjects treated in the ICU. Muscle mass estimations will be
      performed by determining skeletal muscle cross-sectional area for muscles at the level of the
      L3 vertebra using previously validated techniques. The CT images will have been gathered as
      part of routine care for subjects admitted to a mixed medical-surgical ICU. These data will
      be correlated with anonymized clinical and demographic information. Study participants will
      be grouped into two cohorts - subjects admitted to the ICU for sepsis, and subjects admitted
      to the ICU for trauma. People who experience both trauma and sepsis will be excluded. Only
      subjects with at least 2 or more abdominal CT imaging event will be included.

      Results from this study will be assessed using a generalized linear model to determine if the
      two groups are different. From earlier studies, the investigators estimate that 73 subjects
      will be required in each group to detect between-group differences for the primary outcome.

      The results of this study will add to the general understanding of the rates of muscle loss
      in a critical care setting for subjects admitted to ICU with sepsis, as compared to subjects
      with trauma. Secondary outcome information will be presented descriptively to show sarcopenia
      rates for the two cohorts, in the context of select clinical, demographic and administrative
      variables.
    
  