
    
      Psoriatic arthritis (PsA), an inflammatory joint disease associated with psoriasis (Ps),
      affects approximately 650,000 adults in the United States and is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. Bone damage develops in half these patients within the first two
      years of the disease, often leaving them with impaired function and diminished quality of
      life. The emergence of anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor therapies (TNFi) has dramatically improved
      clinical response and slowed bone and cartilage degradation in PsA patients, however, only
      50-60% of patients respond to these agents. To improve these outcomes, the investigators must
      address two major gaps: a limited understanding of key events that underlie pathologic bone
      destruction and the absence of biomarkers to predict biologic response and identify early
      biologic responders to facilitate optimization of therapy.

      Bone damage is mediated by osteoclasts which arise from monocyte precursors in the blood.
      Osteoclast Precursors (OCPs) are dramatically increased in PsA, compared to controls,
      particularly in patients with bone damage on X-ray. The number of these circulating precursor
      cells dropped rapidly following treatment with TNFi. OCPs may serve as response biomarkers,
      but cost, time and high variability limit these assays. Osteoclast precursors express
      Dendritic Cell-Specific Transmembrane Protein (DC-STAMP), which is a seven-pass transmembrane
      protein required for fusion of monocytes to form osteoclasts and giant cells. Monocyte
      DC-STAMP levels dropped rapidly following treatment with TNFi. TNF receptor-associated factor
      3 (TRAF3), an inhibitor of OC formation that correlates with extracellular TNF
      concentrations, is elevated in OCPs from PsA patients. These markers may predict TNFi
      treatment response.

      The goal of this study is to examine DC-STAMP in Psoriatic Arthritis patients prior to and
      after starting standard of care treatment with a TNFi or non-biologic DMARD. We will also
      examine PsA patients with low disease activity on standard of care TNFi and PsA patients with
      low disease activity on standard of care non-biologic DMARDs will serve as controls.

      Three groups of subjects will be recruited.

        1. Longitudinal: 30 subjects starting out on standard of care treatment with a TNFi or
           non-biologic DMARD will take part in the longitudinal section of the study. Subjects may
           be asked to have a blood draw at one additional visit before starting therapy for
           additional research assays if they are DC-STAMP positive. If the longitudinal subjects
           that return for an additional blood draw before starting medication have unusable sample
           data, they will be replaced by additional longitudinal subjects out of the 30 enrolled
           longitudinal participants to get sufficient data results of two subjects. The subjects
           with unusable data will continue in the longitudinal follow up study visits as intended.

        2. Cross sectional: 36 patients will take part in the cross-sectional part of the study. 18
           patients on stable non-biologic DMARDS and 18 patients on stable TNFi will be compared
           in the cross-sectional part. This population should be in good disease state such that
           their disease is controlled and treatment will not need to be changed. If longitudinal
           subjects fit the cross-sectional criteria and wish to participate, they will be
           re-consented for the cross-sectional part of the study.

           While 66 subjects will be studied in both the longitudinal and cross-sectional studies
           combined, up to 80 PsA subjects may be consented to allow for screen failures and to
           replace longitudinal subjects who withdraw or are lost to follow-up.

        3. Assay Development: Up to 40 PsA or healthy subjects may be enrolled for blood draw for
           assay development and to test development of techniques for ultrasound comparison and
           scoring system validation.
    
  