
    
      Chronic venous disorders (CVDs) often cause long-term disability for those who experience the
      worst manifestations of CVDs: disabling pain and non-healing leg ulcers. Such disabilities
      have significant socioeconomic implications in terms of lost work days and wages, decreased
      productivity,and ultimately increased health care costs that deteriorate the well-being and
      quality of life for those who have CVD-induced illnesses. Because no reliable preventive
      mechanisms exists for CVDs, this study proposes a preventive, self-management cryotherapy
      intervention that targets inflamed skin of populations with CVDs at highest risk of
      developing chronic leg ulcers. The proposed cryotherapy intervention will utilize a
      randomized controlled clinical trial to develop a method to reduce clinical symptoms by
      improving existing therapy - it is not a treatment for CVDs itself. In the proposed pilot
      feasibility study, subjects will be randomized to two groups; the cryotherapy intervention
      group (n=30) who will receive a four-week, cryotherapy gel wrap applied daily to the affected
      skin of the lower legs in addition to the standard of care (usual care). The control group
      (n=30) will receive the usual care of compression wraps or stockings applied to the lower
      legs and daily leg elevation. With this method, improvement of skin microcirculation, reduced
      leg pain, and improvement in quality of life will be observed. The following aims will test
      the hypothesis:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the feasibility of the novel intervention including treatment fidelity,
      subject training, safety, and side effects associated with equipment and recruitment efforts
      and further refine the intervention protocol, including questionnaires used in our previous
      studies.

      Aim 2: Estimate variability of outcome measurements and effect sizes needed to calculate
      sample size for a subsequent larger, adequately powered, randomized clinical trial of the
      efficacy of the novel cryotherapy intervention.

      Aim 3: Investigate the presence of a preliminary "signal" of clinical efficacy of the
      experimental treatment by evaluating trends toward statistical significance for the
      hypothesis that the experimental group will experience greater reduction in skin temperature
      and blood flow, greater improvement in pain, and greater improvement in quality of life.
    
  