
    
      The metabolic demands created by endurance activities, which include muscle and liver
      glycogen depletion as well as losses in body fluids and electrolytes, are significant
      limitations to the performance potential of the athlete. For this reason, a well-supported
      recommendation exists for such athletes to consume a carbohydrate (CHO) formula, in
      particular, one containing electrolytes during their activity. Furthermore, the current CHO
      recommendations to support prolonged activity have been developed specifically for
      able-bodied athletes, thus are potentially inappropriate for para athletes.

      Metabolic and physiological functions are altered in individuals with physical disabilities,
      so it is unknown how transferable these recommendations are to para athletes. As such, it is
      important to understand this population's unique carbohydrate requirements for performance
      optimization.

      Recently, our group showed stable elevated circulating glucose concentrations by utilizing
      two different sources of CHO dosed at 60 g/h when compared to water. Significantly improved
      performance was observed with both CHO conditions. These findings, combined with studies
      showing decreased net muscle glycogen degradation during intravenous glucose infusion (3.5
      g/min), show the importance of plasma glucose concentration for sustained performance.
      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the SCI-specific responses to
      exogenous CHO during a full marathon simulation (MS).

      Twelve highly trained men and women (20-50 yrs old) will be recruited to the study. The
      inclusion criteria are: 1.) Best marathon time lower than 2h 2.) and ≥6 months of prior
      training history. After initial screenings, participants will perform three marathon (MS)
      trials. In cross-over trials, each subject will participate in a MS trial consisting of a
      challenge (90% of subject's best marathon time) followed by a time trial (TT) representing
      the last 10% of the marathon time. During each MS trial, participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive either water, 30g, or 60g of carbohydrate (CHO) every 15 minutes in the
      form of a sports nutrition beverage. Repeated blood and breath sampling will occur throughout
      the MS. These samples will be used to determine glucose concentration, lactate concentration,
      as well as CHO and fat oxidation. Heart rate, core temperature, blood pressure, ratings of
      perceived exertion and GI symptoms will also be assessed throughout the MS and after the time
      trial.

      Completion of this research study will help to identify more appropriate CHO recommendations
      for para athletes to support prolonged endurance exercise. This will aid in the understanding
      of the unique physiological and metabolic needs of para athletes as compared to their
      able-bodied counterparts, thus enhancing inclusivity within sports nutrition literature.
    
  