
    
      Methods Data were collected retrospectively from the medical records from 23 patients,
      between January 2010 and December 2018. The data for patient's demographic (age, gender, body
      metabolic index (BMI) comorbidities, risk factors for avascular necrosis (AVN), (diabetes
      mellitus (DM), hypertension (HTN), alcoholic, smoking, steroid used, sickle cell disease,
      chemo or radiation therapy), pre- and post- treatment radiological stage (Steinberg's
      classification) [15],functional outcome (oxford hip score and SF 12), complications and need
      for further surgical intervention or Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) were collected.

      Patients who were 18 years old or more, with non- traumatic AVN in pre-collapse stage (stage
      1 or 2 Steinberg)[15] that was confirmed by MRI and underwent either hyperbaric oxygen
      therapy or core decompression with bone substitute augmentation with a minimum one year of
      follow up were included.

      Patient with traumatic AVN, advanced stages of AVN (stages 3, 4 and 5), core decompression
      without bone graft, combined therapy, other hip procedures and less than one year follow up
      were excluded from the study.

      Writing Informed consent was obtained from all patients and they were interviewed through
      their regular clinical follow up with a minimum of 1-year follow up after the treatment. The
      clinical outcome was measured using Oxford hip score(OHS) and short form 12 (SF12) for both
      groups, the forms were used in two languages Arabic and English, the Arabic form was
      translated through the institutional medical research center by a certified translator.

      Radiological progression of AVN stage was assessed by comparing radiographs before and after
      treatment. All radiographs and MRI images were reviewed and certified musculoskeletal
      radiologist did staging.

      Satisfactory clinical outcome was defined as OHS score of more than 30 and no further
      surgical interventions. Radiological progression was identified with more advanced stages in
      post treatment radiographs.

      Core Decompression surgical procedure:

      Data analysis Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the patients' demographic,
      comorbidities and radiological measurements. Chi-square test and Fisher Exact test were used
      to express the associations between two or more qualitative variables whereas unpaired
      Student t test was used to compare the quantitative data (Oxford Hip Score & SF12) between
      the two groups. Frequency (percentage) and mean ± standard deviation (SD) or median and range
      were used as appropriate for categorical and continuous values. The result was considered
      statistically significant if P value ≤.05. All statistical analyses were done using
      statistical packages SPSS 23.0 (SPSS Inc. Chicago, IL) and Epi information technology
      (InfoTM) 2000 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA)
    
  