
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic is currently a serious global public health concern. This disease is
      caused by a novel coronavirus which was first discovered in Wuhan, China in 2019 and later
      spread rapidly throughout the world. Symptoms of the disease can manifest as fever, cough,
      encephalitis, myalgia, fatigue, muscle weakness, arthralgia, anosmia, and impairment in other
      bodily functions in the acute phase. In 17% to 67% of cases, COVID-19 patients will develop
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and critical illness. Besides the impact on the
      respiratory system, coronaviruses have an effect on other systems including the central
      nervous system, cardiovascular system, musculoskeletal system, and gastrointestinal system.

      The term central sensitivity syndrome (CSS) describes a group of medically nonspecific
      disorders, such as fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and irritable bowel syndrome, for
      which central sensitivity might be a common etiology. Despite the lack of a solid outcome
      measurement, the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI) was previously introduced as a
      screening instrument for clinicians to help identify patients with a CSS. Furthermore,
      quantitative sensory testing can be used to identify and quantify sensory disfunctions by
      evaluating a variety of parameters including pain thresholds, temporal summation, and
      conditioned pain modulation (CPM). Previous research in patients with chronic pain resulted
      in less efficacious CPM, increased nociceptive facilitation and decreased pain thresholds.

      In post covid-19 patients, potential long-term secondary effects on the musculoskeletal
      system such as muscle weakness, decreased muscle mass, and myopathies have been brought under
      attention. Persisting symptoms are a frequently reported complaint in patients recovered from
      COVID-19 infection with at least 1 symptom, particularly fatigue and dyspnea. Fatigue is also
      one of the core symptoms in central sensitisation disorders, leading to the hypothesis that
      central sensitisation might be the underlying common etiology in chronic pain patients and
      patients post COVID-19 infection. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate whether
      there are indicators of central sensitisation in patients post covid-19 infection.
    
  