
    
      In this exploratory monocentric study performed at the Caen University Hospital in France,
      adult T2D patients consecutively enrolled for metabolic surgery will be prospectively
      included for continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) recordings during the month preceding
      bariatric surgery and during the 2 weeks following surgery. Changes in body weight will be
      evaluated using weight measurement, BMI measurement and the percentage of excess weight loss
      (% EWL), calculated using the formula: initial weight-actual weight/initial weight - (25 x
      height2). Changes in diabetic status will be evaluated by HbA1c assay and collection of data
      on anti-diabetic treatment maintained during the follow-up. The Ad-Diarem score for
      predicting diabetes remission will be calculated in each patient from several variables
      including age, diabetes duration, insulin use, other glucose-lowering agents used, number of
      glucose-lowering agents used and HbA1c level. The variables recorded by CGM will include :
      mean daily interstitial glucose concentration (mg/dL), standard deviation (SD) of glucose
      concentration (mg/dL), coefficient of variation (CV) of glucose concentration corresponding
      to the SD-to-mean daily interstitial glucose ratio, time in normoglycemia (ie in the
      stringent 70-140mg/dL target which better reflects normoglycemia than the 70-180 mg/dl
      target) or time in range (TIR) as a percentage over 24h, time spent in hyperglycemia (ie
      >140mg/dL) or time above range (TAR) as a percentage over 24h, and time spent in hypoglycemia
      (<70mg/dL) or time below range (TBR) as a percentage over 24h.

      Judgement criteria are defined as follows: the success of bariatric surgery will be defined
      as a % EWL >50%; normalization of glycemia will be defined as a mean 24-hr interstitial
      glucose level <100mg/d during the CGM recording period; diabetes remission after metabolic
      surgery will be defined as an HbA1c level at 1 year after surgery of < 6.0% without the use
      of any glucose-lowering agent. Such thresholds were chosen to meet the definition of complete
      remission by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery and the American
      Diabetes Association.

      Quantitative variables will be expressed as mean + standard deviation. Qualitative variables
      will be expressed as percentages. Differences in quantitative variables, when compared to the
      pre-operative period, will be examined using Students t-test for paired data or with ANOVA.
      Analysis of subgroups will be carried out using Chi-2 test. Identification of predictive
      factors for diabetes remission will be based on analysis of ROC curves and the calculation of
      area under the curve data, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV),
      negative predictive value (NPV), positive and negative likelihood ratio (LR+ and LR-) at
      different thresholds for each study variable including the pre-operative and post-operative
      CGM variables and the Add-Diarem score.
    
  