
    
      Spinal cord is composed of specialized neural networks, capable of executing different
      functions. Although the command for lower-limb functions such as standing and walking is
      primarily delivered from the brain, it was found that the spinal cord circuits not only
      execute it but also maintain the task and control the dynamics with proper feedback
      mechanisms with it's reflex circuitry. Simple bipedal standing and walking requires
      spatiotemporal coordination of muscles, limb joints, balance etc., their adaptation and
      control in gravity. For human, these physiological activities are well choreographed by sets
      of neural networks. In combination with afferent proprioceptive inputs, these network
      circuits work with the motor periphery to generate a series of motor acts during each task.
      Normally, the activity of these spinal networks are regulated supraspinally and by peripheral
      sensory inputs. In case of the loss of supraspinal inputs, resultant of a Stroke or spinal
      cord injury (SCI), motor tasks maybe enabled by directly activating these specialized spinal
      cord networks via external stimuli. Recent studies have demonstrated that neuromodulation via
      spinal cord stimulation can effectively restore lower-extremity functions in patients with
      chronic neurological injuries.

      Traumatic injury to the central nervous system (CNS) such as SCI is devastating events
      leaving patients with impairment of motor, sensory and autonomic functions. Mainstay for the
      treatment is still limited to rehabilitation by physical therapy and training. In few
      patients, however, neuroplasticity and repair mechanisms are considered to contribute to
      recovery of paresis in the acute stage of the injury and stops in the chronic stage. But,
      recent groundbreaking studies have shown that the recovery can be further amplified in the
      chronic stage by the novel treatment of trans-spinal electrical stimulation. However, the
      rehabilitation related to this recovery is not very significant, and thus it is a challenge
      to be convinced with the efficacy of this new therapy. A combination therapy of trans-spinal
      electrical stimulation along with body-weight would promote better recovery and benefit the
      patients more. The current study will further assist the researchers to design such
      combinational therapeutic intervention for neurologically impaired patients to stimulate to
      walk again. Successful translation of this novel technology would facilitate the paraplegic
      community to become more healthy, independent and happy.
    
  