
    
      After written informed consent was obtained from all patients, 50 adult patients were
      enrolled in the study.

      The patients met the following inclusion criteria: (1) body mass index (BMI, weight in
      kilograms divided by the square of height in metres) > 25 kg/m2; (2) American Society of
      Anesthesiology (ASA) physical status classification grade I or II (BMI by itself was not used
      as the basis for the ASA classification); (3) aged 20 - 65 years; and (4) scheduled for
      elective spine surgery in prone position.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients who have severe pulmonary disease:

      history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, or pneumothorax. Patients
      with haemodynamic instability, hypovolaemia, bronchopleural fistula, The enrolled patients
      were randomly allocated according to a predetermined allocation sequence to receive an I:E
      ratio of either 1:1 (group 1:1) or 1:2 (group 1:2).

      The allocation sequence with no blocking was generated in an Internet website Standard
      monitoring techniques, including electrocardiography, pulse oximetry, and noninvasive
      arterial blood pressure measurement, are applied upon arrival at the operating room.

      Anesthesia was induced with intravenous propofol 1.5 mg_kg-1 and rocuronium 0.8 mg_kg-1 was
      administered intravenously.

      After tracheal intubation, volume-controlled ventilation was initiated with an I:E ratio of
      1:2 or 1:1, no positive end-expiratory pressure, and a tidal volume of 10 mL per ideal body
      weight (kg). A respiratory rate was adjusted in order to end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) of
      33 - 36 mmHg during surgery. Anesthesia was maintained with an end-tidal concentration of
      2-2.5 vol% sevoflurane in 40% oxygen/air. The bispectral index score was monitored
      continuously in order to maintain an adequate anesthetic depth and was targeted at a range of
      40-60 during surgery.

      Radial artery cannulation was conducted for monitoring continuous arterial blood pressure and
      blood sampling.

      Respiratory, hemodynamic, and arterial blood gas data were assessed and recorded at three
      time points: ten minutes after tracheal intubation in the supine position (T1), 30 min after
      prone positioning (T2), 90 min after prone positioning(T3). Respiratory data consisted of
      peak airway pressure, plateau airway pressure, mean airway pressure, static compliance,
      EtCO2, respiratory rate, and minute volume. Arterial pH, arterial oxygen tension (PaO2),
      arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2), and lactate level were obtained from arterial blood
      gas analysis.
    
  