
    
      This is a single centre study, which will comprise of a cross-sectional analysis of the
      baseline data of a 3-arm 12 week Prospective, Randomised, Open label, Blinded End point
      (PROBE) trial of TDR and an exercise programme compared with standard care. Clinical
      follow-up will take place at 6-12 months.

      The trial has two primary objectives:

      1) Identify the determinants of diastolic dysfunction, assessed by MRI, in younger adults
      with T2DM through multivariate analysis of baseline dataset (cross-sectional study analysis)
      2) Determine if diastolic dysfunction (classified by diastolic strain rate) can be reversed
      by either TDR or an exercise programme (PROBE trial)

      Secondary objectives include:

        1. Determine the reference range for diastolic strain rate in healthy adults

        2. Determine the optimum field strength for the assessment of PEDSR

             -  Sample size:

           Cross-sectional Analysis: A sample size of 100 T2DM participants will have approximately
           80% power to test up to 10 variables in a multivariate regression analysis, with an
           estimated combined R2 of 15%, for the identification of determinants of diastolic stain
           rate.

           - PROBE Trial:

           All participants from Phase I who agree to take part in Phase II will be randomized. The
           Investigators expect, based on experience from previous studies, an attrition rate of up
           to 10% following the first data collection session. Therefore, approximately 90
           participants are expected to be randomized to the three arms (approximately 30/group).
           The power calculation is based on the Investigators pilot MRC study. The T2DM patients
           had diastolic strain rate of 1.5s-1 with standard deviation of 0.2 s-1. Based on this,
           30 patients per group will have 80% power to detect a between group difference in peak
           early diastolic strain rate (PEDSR) of 0.2s-1 assuming alpha=0.025 (to allow for two
           primary comparisons, i.e. TDR vs standard care and exercise vs standard care) and a
           maximum 30% drop-out. Such an improvement would result in a strain rate (1.7 s-1)
           similar to that seen in the obese controls (1.8 s-1) but still lower than the lean
           controls (2.0 s-1).

             -  Randomization:

           Randomization will be stratified by sex, given different left ventricular remodeling
           processes in males and females, and by baseline glucose lowering therapy (any GLP-1,
           DPP-IV or SGLT-2 vs none of these). The statistician undertaking the final analysis will
           be blinded to the treatment groups.

           - Healthy controls:

           Twenty healthy controls will be recruited and undertake all baseline measures only. This
           population will serve to confirm normal ranges on the relevant scanners and will inform
           the cross-sectional analysis of baseline data and provide a comparator group for the
           study endpoints i.e. determine if the interventions have caused reversion to normal
           diastolic function in the T2DM population.

           - Test Re-Test MRI sub-study:

           An optional sub-study examining test-retest reproducibility of MRS at 1.5 and 3T will be
           performed on selected participants willing to undergo a second scan. Details of this
           sub-study are provided below. As outlined above our preferred field strength for the
           assessment of PEDSR is 1.5T. However, due to higher signal to noise of 3T imaging, MRS
           for myocardial triglyceride may be better at 3T but there have been no direct
           comparisons.

           Participants enrolled for the main study will be asked if they would be willing to take
           part in the reproducibility sub-study, until ten participants have been recruited. These
           participants will then undertake an additional 20 minute scan on the same on the 3T
           platform to assess myocardial triglyceride and PEDSR. The 3T scan will consist of
           localisers, cine long axis 4 chamber, 3 chamber and short axis at mid for calculation of
           myocardial strain rates as previously described, followed by single voxel H+ MRS of the
           interventricular septum to allow calculation of myocardial triglyceride content. No
           contrast will be administered during this examination.

           - Statistical Analysis:

           Cross-sectional Analysis:

           The aim of these analyses is to identify determinants of diastolic dysfunction in
           individuals with T2DM. Outcome and potential explanatory variables will be summarized
           using mean (standard deviation) for normally distributed continuous variables, median
           (interquartile range) for non-normally distributed continuous variables, and count
           (percentage) for categorical variables. We anticipate including the following potential
           explanatory variables: duration of diabetes, age, sex, myocardial and liver triglyceride
           content, myocardial perfusion reserve, blood pressure, HBA1c, blood pressure and
           myocardial extracellular volume. Univariate linear regression models will then be fitted
           with diastolic strain rate as the outcome, and each of the explanatory variables under
           consideration as the covariate in turn to identify factors associated with diastolic
           strain rate. Variables that have a significant univariate association with diastolic
           strain rate will be entered into a multivariate regression analysis to determine
           independent associations with diastolic strain rate. Redundant variables will be removed
           in a stepwise manner, based on a significance level of 0.05.

           - PROBE trial/Phase II:

           The aim of these analyses is to compare the primary outcome (diastolic strain rate) at
           12 weeks between the TDR and standard care arms, and between the exercise and standard
           care arms. The primary analysis will be a per protocol analysis as this is a proof of
           principle study where we are primarily interested in the size of the treatment effect,
           rather than the practicability of the intervention. A CONSORT diagram will be produced.
           At baseline and each follow-up, outcome and descriptive variables will be summarized by
           arm using mean (standard deviation) for normally distributed continuous variables,
           median (interquartile range) for non-normally distributed continuous variables, and
           count (percentage) for categorical variables. Each intervention will be compared with
           the control group (i.e. TDR v standard care and Exercise v standard care) using linear
           regression to allow missing outcome data to be imputed using multiple imputation
           methods. If necessary, the outcome variable will be appropriately transformed so that
           the assumptions of the linear regression model are held.

           - Healthy controls:

           The aim of these analyses is to quantify the diastolic strain rate of healthy
           individuals as this is currently unknown. These analyses will provide context in which
           to interpret the results of the PROBE trial, and are not powered for a formal comparison
           between the T2DM patients and healthy controls as they are considered to be exploratory.
           A baseline summary of the outcome and descriptive variables used in the PROBE trial will
           be produced using mean (standard deviation) for normally distributed continuous
           variables, median (interquartile range) for non-normally distributed continuous
           variables, and count (percentage) for categorical variables.

           Should any unexpected and significant findings occur as a result of these tests, they
           will be communicated to the patients GP. This will be stated in the consent form for the
           healthy controls.

           - Test re-test:

           The aim of these analyses is determine whether diastolic strain rate measured on a 3T
           scanner (gold standard) is comparable with that measured on a 1.5T scanner. Descriptive
           characteristics of those participating in the test-retest sub-study will be summarized.
           Diastolic strain rate will be summarized using mean (standard deviation) or median
           (interquartile range), as appropriate, by scanner. Bland-Altman Limits of Agreement will
           be produced.

           The formal end of the study will occur following the final 12 week assessment of the
           final patient recruited

           We will conduct two further follow-up visits to assess maintenance at 6 and 12 months
           (or at study end). We will collect data for weight, blood pressure, lipid profile and
           glycaemic control. Patients will be asked to consent to the investigators accessing
           long-term follow-up (10 years) through review of clinical records and Hospital Episode
           statistics through flagging with the Health and Social Care Information Centre.

             -  Study interventions:

           Recruited participants will be randomised to one of three groups for the PROBE study; 1.
           Standard of care as per NICE guidance plus lifestyle advice or 2. Total Dietary
           Replacement (TDR) or 3. Supervised exercise training.

             -  Participant Compliance:

           TDR Group Participant Compliance:

           Previous studies with LED/VLED with TDR have indicated that compliance is between
           70-80%. The patients in both the TDR and exercise groups will have regular contact with
           investigators to encourage compliance and offer support. The standard care group will
           also receive weekly telephone calls to encourage compliance to suggested lifestyle
           changes. Participants will be offered £50 compensation for completing each of the three
           assessments, which will take approximately 3-4 hours. However, those patients in the TDR
           arm that do not achieve a loss of >4% body weight at week 1 and 10% at week four will be
           considered non-compliant and excluded from the study.

           Exercise Group Participant Compliance:

           Compliance will be assessed by attendance at the supervised sessions. Participants in
           the exercise arm who attend less than two thirds of the supervised sessions in the first
           4 weeks will be excluded (PI discretion will be applied to this determination where
           necessary).

           - Alterations to medication regime:

           Due to the potential risk of hypoglycaemia and symptomatic hypotension; medication at
           enrolment will need to be adjusted initially and throughout the study for both the TDR
           and the exercise training groups.

           Participants randomised to the TDR group:Will be asked to discontinue with all glucose
           lowering therapies before the baseline study, as previously advised for a recently
           published study with similar intervention (of 8 weeks). Metformin and Sulphonylureas are
           to be discontinued 72hours prior to initiation of TDR. DPP IV inhibitors 2, GLP-1
           therapies and SGLT2s will be discontinued 2 weeks prior to the initiation of the TDR.
           Antihypertensive drugs will be stopped on the day the TDR is commenced. This is a safety
           measure because blood pressure is likely to fall substantially (mean drop in SBP ~
           20mmHG) on the diet. Medication will be adjusted DiRECT study protocol (see
           supplementary material) however, individual clinical decisions may be necessary for a
           patient's best interest and therefore any alterations to medication are ultimately made
           at the discretion of the study clinician(s). Blood pressure will be monitored throughout
           the study at the clinical review sessions as per the DiRECT protocol. Treatments for
           other conditions and primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (e.g. statins) will be
           continued. This will be discussed in detail and decided upon at the level of the
           individual, at the initial consultation. Furthermore, their medical history will be
           taken and any participant with a history of constipation other bowl related problems
           will be prescribed a fibre supplement i.e. fybogel to help to prevent its occurrence. We
           will ask participants to continue with their habitual levels of physical activity
           throughout the course of the study.

           Participants who achieve a 50% reduction in excess body mass before completion of the
           12-week programme will revert to a maintenance diet and will complete the assessments at
           12 weeks.

           Participants randomised to exercise training: Will have their medication reviewed by the
           study clinician. Those with a HbA1c ≤ 8% who are currently taking a sulphonylurea will
           initially have the dose reduced by 50% 72hours prior to the first exercise session.
           Their regimes will be continued to be down titrated starting with the sulphonylurea and
           then moving, where applicable, onto their current SGLT or DPP-IV or GLP-1 therapies
           according to glycaemic control. The latter therapies will be titrated down last given
           their relative low risk of hypoglycaemic events. For those participants with a HbA1c ≤
           8% who are not taking a sulphonylurea the study clinician will down titrate
           glucose-lowering therapy on an individual basis, taking into account the class and
           combination of therapies prescribed. All other medication will be maintained unless the
           study clinician deems alterations are necessary for a patient's best interest. Any
           alterations will be recorded in the CRF and statistically adjusted for in the analysis.

           - Psychological support:

           This support will be provided in the form of a health coaching approach with the
           inclusion of relapse prevention strategies. This model of working is based upon a
           patient centered approach that employs principles from health psychology and behavioral
           medicine, and the skills and attitude from health coaching and motivational
           interviewing. The aim is to focus upon the participants own intrinsic motivators,
           explore barriers and encourage the development of personally determined solutions. The
           initial clinical consultation will allow a review of the participant's gains from
           engaging in the TDR or training programme and potential barriers that may arise and
           individualise solutions. This will be recorded for the participant to take away and will
           form the basis of the telephone/face to face follow up and group support. There is a
           convergence of evidence from multiple sources that these approaches beneficially impact
           behavioural change.

           - Participant clinical review:

           All participants will have an initial clinical review post-randomisation at the time of
           their health coaching. In order to ensure the continued safety of each participant
           following the discontinuation and/or reduction in mediation regime they will be invited
           for a basic clinical review once a week for the first four weeks and fortnightly
           thereafter. They will attend six reviews after randomisation in total (weeks 1,2,4,6,8,
           and 12), as well as receiving a telephone consultation at weeks 3 and 10. At these
           clinical reviews their blood pressure, fasting glucose and weight will be measured. This
           is to inform; a) any additional alterations to medication that need to be made and b)
           compliance to TDR (if in that group). In addition, all participants will have access to
           telephone support from the diabetes team in the case of any symptoms or concerns over
           glycaemic control. The reviews will be performed by a qualified nurse, under the
           supervision of a study clinician specialised in diabetic medicine at the Leicester
           Diabetes Centre. Any changes to medication made at these visits will be communicated to
           the patients GP by letter.

           At the end of the 12 week intervention all participants' medication will be reviewed
           again and any medication re-introduced will be tailored to the individual based on
           previous and current HbA1c and blood pressures. This review will be undertaken by an
           experienced study clinician(s) and the outcome communicated to the patient's usual
           physician and GP.

           - Blood glucose monitoring:

           Each participant will be provided with the provisions to enable multiple daily
           finger-stick testing which they can record in a standardized blood glucose diary that
           will be provided. This will allow us to capture any hypoglycaemic events (as defined
           below) and adjust medication accordingly if required. We will additionally be able to
           capture any hyperglycaemia which can again be addressed by alterations to medication and
           review of compliance to intervention. In addition, glycaemic control will be monitored
           at clinical review sessions with fasting glucose and HbA1c levels.

           - Recruitment strategies:

           The recruitment phase will commence as soon as ethical, research governance and
           regulatory approval has been granted. Potential participants will be identified and
           approached to participate in this study from a number different settings as outlined
           below. It is envisaged that those participating in phase I will enter into phase II of
           the study and therefore these strategies are applicable to both phases.

           We have extensive links across primary care that we will draw upon for this study. We
           will target specialist's diabetes outpatient clinics located in the community (for
           example Hinckley, Melton Mowbray and Oakham), the intermediate Care Division (ICD) for
           diabetes and secondary care.We have good links with the Leicester Royal Infirmary
           bariatric surgery service where a large cohort of eligible people exists on the referral
           list for surgery.Potentially eligible patients who have previously participated in other
           research studies at the LDC and have indicated a willingness to take part in additional
           studies will also receive a postal invite. We hold a volunteer database with the contact
           information and basic data of people who have expressed an interest in participating in
           more research further, we have a list of young adults with T2DM who have recently
           participated in two research studies, co-ordinated by the LDC, who have consented to
           being contacted for future research studies that they may be eligible for. Our PPI
           committee has also recommended approaching at-risk groups, such as slimming clubs/weight
           watchers. Therefore we will contact such groups within the local community and the
           research team will run recruitment fares in those groups who agree.

           Additional awareness and interest in the study will be generated through locally
           organized events for Clinicians, GPs, nurses and other health care professionals.
           Further members of the research team will partake in other appropriate community events
           and meetings to publicise the study and distribute information. We will create a study
           website which will contain basic study information and a link to the most recent patient
           Information sheet, with a contact us button allowing patients to self-refer directly to
           the study team via email. We will also create a link to this study on the Leicestershire
           diabetes website that is designed and maintained by our group
           (http://www.leicestershirediabetes.org.uk), the NIHR Leicester Cardiovascular BRU and
           the NIHR Leicester-Loughborough Diet, Lifestyle and physical activity BRU. We will
           provide some background information about this area of research, what the study is about
           the inclusion criteria and contact details for further information. This will all be
           written in lay terminology as per usual for these websites. Previous studies conducted
           by our group have also had success by advertising the study on the UHL Trusts and the
           University of Leicester intra-net which we will also do for this study. This involves a
           small advertisement with the study logo, name very brief synopsis and contact details of
           the research team. Anyone interested can then request further information. They will be
           sent a postal invitation pack should they express interest and met the basic
           inclusion/exclusion criteria. We will recruit members of the public who self-refer and
           who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. We will put posters advertising the study in
           other community settings such as GP practices (who agree), diabetes clinics pharmacies,
           gyms and notices boards. We will also use digital and social media (such as facebook and
           twitter) to help promote the study, whilst interest and patient feedback regarding the
           study will be generated via other media outlets (e.g. press releases, radio) where
           possible.

           Healthy controls will be recruited through posters advertising the study in the
           University and the Trust, both of which have diverse ethnic staff groups, and through
           the study advertisements listed above.
    
  