
    
      Colorectal cancers are the third most common type of cancer in the world. Peritoneal
      carcinomatosis and intraabdominal ascites development occur in advanced stages of colorectal
      cancers.

      It is known that the immune system plays an important role in tumor development or tumor
      eradication. Differentiation of T cells towards Th2 and regulatory T cells is also reported
      to be effective in tumor progression.

      Among the mechanisms of escape from the immune system, changes in the tumor microenvironment
      play an important role. The role of regulatory T lymphocytes, a subgroup of T cells that play
      a regulatory role by suppressing the function of other T lymphocytes, is to reduce the
      chronic immune response against viruses, tumors and patient's own antigens. The common
      feature of all Tregs is that they secrete one or more anti-inflammatory molecules such as
      IL-10, TGFβ or IL-35. High levels of Tregs have been found in peripheral blood, tumor tissue
      and lymph nodes in patients with malignancy.

      The role of the immune system in colorectal cancers has been demonstrated with the effects of
      tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and immune control points on TILs or immune control
      point ligands on patient survival, especially in recent studies. Studies in the literature
      usually include immunological examinations of patient blood or tumor tissue.

      There are many publications in the literature evaluating immunological markers from ascites
      fluid samples for various reasons. In these studies, T and B cell subtypes were examined from
      ascites fluid samples taken from patients with ascites, especially ovarian cancer and liver
      cirrhosis. In the only study on gastrointestinal cancers, immunophenotyping was performed in
      intraabdominal ascites and blood in 22 advanced gastrointestinal tumor patients and some cell
      subgroups were associated with worse clinical outcome. In the literature, there is no study
      on cytokine analysis from intra-abdominal ascites fluids specific to colorectal cancer.

      In our study, it is aimed to evaluate whether there is a difference in intraabdominal ascites
      fluid cytokine level in patients with end-stage colorectal patients compared to patients
      without malignancy.
    
  