
    
      Treatment with PARP inhibitors could represent a novel opportunity to selectively kill a
      subset of cancer cells with deficiencies in DNA repair pathways. For example, a tumor arising
      in a patient with a germline BRCA mutation (gBRCAmut) has a defective homologous
      recombination DNA repair pathway and would be increasingly dependent on NHEJ, alt-NHEJ, and
      BER for maintenance of genomic integrity. PARP inhibitors block alt-NHEJ and BER, forcing
      tumors with BRCA deficiencies to use the error-prone NHEJ to fix double-strand breaks.
      Non-BRCA deficiencies in homologous recombination DNA repair genes could also enhance tumor
      cell sensitivity to PARP inhibitors. The rationale for anticancer activity in a subset of
      non-gBRCAmut tumors is that they share distinctive DNA repair defects with gBRCAmut carriers,
      a phenomenon broadly described as "BRCAness." DNA repair defects can be caused by germline or
      somatic alterations to the homologous recombination DNA repair pathway. Homologous
      recombination is a complex pathway, and several genes other than BRCA1 and BRCA2 are required
      either to sense or repair DNA double-strand breaks via the homologous recombination pathway.
      Therefore, PARP inhibitors are also selectively cytotoxic for cancer cells with deficiencies
      in DNA repair proteins other than BRCA1 and BRCA2.

      In melanoma, genetic HR mutation/ alterations are rather common. Retrospective data showed
      that nearly 30.5% of cutaneous melanoma harbors a mutation in at least 1 of the HR genes in
      their tumor. The most commonly altered gene was ARID2, followed by ARID1A, FANCA, ATM, BRCA1,
      ATRX and BRCA2, ATR, BRCA1 and BRIP1.

      These findings provide a strong rationale to evaluate the clinical efficacy of a PARP
      inhibitor in patients with advanced cancers with HR mutation/alteration or HR deficiency.
      Therefore, the investigators propose a phase II study of niraparib in patients with advanced
      melanoma with genetic homologous recombination mutation/ alteration.

      In this clinical study, clinical efficacy of niraparib will be evaluated by assessing an
      objective clinical response rate in patients with advanced, metastatic melanoma with the
      homologous recombination (HR) pathway gene mutation / alteration. All participating patients
      will receive niraparib 300 mg a day until disease progresses or they experience intolerable
      toxicity.
    
  