
    
      Open-heart surgery is routinely conducted using a heart-lung machine. In order to conduct
      operations involving heart-lung machines a patient's coagulation system needs to be reliably
      suppressed to avoid clot formation. Clot in the extracorporeal circuit generally has fatal
      consequences.

      In the vast majority of cases (>99%) the desired suppression of the blood clotting system is
      achieved by administering heparin. Although relatively short acting, with a half-life of
      about 150min for a full adult dose, heparin needs to be reversed after weaning from the
      heart-lung machine in order to avoid catastrophic bleeding post-operatively.

      Heparin reversal is achieved by using protamine. This drug is derived from salmon sperm and
      is generally safe to use. However, in a reasonable number of cases it can have severe side
      effects, ranging from dangerous hypotension to high blood pressure in the lung circulation
      with adequately oxygenate the patient. Severe anaphylactic reactions have also been
      described. There is also increasing evidence that inadequately high doses of protamine may
      lead to an increased bleeding tendency.

      There is controversy about the right dosing of protamine. Traditionally a pragmatic and
      empirical '1:1' formula is used reversing 100 Units of heparin with 1mg of protamine. This
      dosing regime does not take the decay of heparin during the time spent on the heart-lung
      machine into account and potentially exposes patients to unnecessarily high doses of
      protamine.

      The research team was previously able to demonstrate in a pilot project that using a
      pharmacokinetic algorithm, which takes heparin decay into account, can reduce the protamine
      dose given to patients without increased bleeding or transfusion requirements.

      The team have continued to develop this algorithm into a 2 compartmental model and are
      seeking to test the hypothesis that using the new formula can reduce patients' risk of the
      unwanted side-effects of protamine by reducing its dose.
    
  