
    
      Creating a regression model among selected bedside tests for predicting difficult
      laryngoscopy )defined as Grade III or IV view during laryngoscopy according to Cormack-Lehane
      classification) is the primary objective. Recruiting of 145 ASA I-II adult patients who would
      have an elective surgery under general anesthesia were planned.

      Criteria for exclusion were: a history of craniofacial surgery or restriction of cervical
      mobility, edentulous patients, pregnant women, patients who did not have a proper mouth
      opening (< 3 cm), and those who might require awake intubation or rapid sequence induction,
      cancellation of the surgery or change in the anesthetic strategy.

      The selected tests and clinical situations were:

      The presence of retrognathia (reduced temporomandibular joint-incisor distance) Buck teeth
      Modified Mallampati test (MMT) in the sitting position without phonation. A scale ranging
      between 1 and 4 points is used and scores of 3 or 4 are considered as predictors of DL. Upper
      lip bite test (ULBT) performed in a neutral position. ULBT is graded as 1-3 according to the
      extension ability of lower incisors.

      Sternomental distance - The distance between the mentum and upper border of the manubrium
      sterni when the head is fully extended and the mouth is closed.

      Thyromental distance (TMD) - The distance between mentum and the thyroid notch when the head
      is fully extended.

      Interincisor distance (IID) - The distance between upper and lower incisors when the mouth is
      fully opened.

      Neck circumference (NC) - It was measured at the level of the cricoid cartilage,
      perpendicular to the cervical axis.

      The patients are premedicated with 0.03 mg/kg and oxygenated with the help of a bag-mask.
      Anesthesia is induced by consequent administration of 2 mcg/kg fentanyl, 1 mg/kg lidocaine, 2
      mg/kg propofol, and 0.7 mg/kg rocuronium bromide thereafter. Two minutes after induction, the
      laryngoscopy is performed
    
  