
    
      Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) remains the most effective and scientifically-validated
      approach to remediate the deficits caused by Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and intellectual
      disabilities (ID). Clinical trials will evaluate the efficacy of expert guiding technology to
      support instructors to better help individuals with developmental challenges due to ASD and
      ID learn life and vocational skills. Single Case Research Designs (SCRD) will be used to
      evaluate expert guiding technology interventions to support Task Analysis. SCRDs are a viable
      alternative to large group studies such as randomized clinical trials. Single case studies
      involve repeated measures, and manipulation of an independent variable. SCRD studies allow
      for rigorous experimental evaluation of intervention effects and provide a strong basis for
      establishing causal inferences.

      Research design: A multiple baseline across tasks or participants will be used to evaluate
      the impact of the expert guiding technology on staff and consumers' performance.

      Dependent Variables. DV1: Staff performance: The percentage of teaching steps correctly
      implemented will be calculated and monitored. The teaching steps are predetermined including
      what types of prompts will be used for each step of the task analysis of the identified
      consumer's adaptive living skills, record data on consumer's performance, and the timing of
      delivery of reinforcers and prompts. DV2: Consumers' performance: The percentage of
      Independent completion of the steps of task analyses for identified daily living skills will
      be calculated and monitored. The completed step is considered "independent" when the consumer
      completed the step without prompts from the staff within five seconds of the initial
      instruction (discriminative stimulus) given or the completion of the previous step. DV3:
      Consumers' performance: the amount of time taken to independent completion.

      Independent Variable: Versions of expert guiding technology to support instructors in
      providing Task Analyses instruction while collecting data on consumer performance.

      GAINS: During the GAINS sessions, the staff will follow the pre-programmed teaching protocol
      in the expert guiding technology. The system will provide step-by-step verbal prompts to the
      staff throughout the sessions. This includes which prompt to use for each step, when to
      provide reinforcers, and which target task to work on. The system will also monitor the
      consumer's progress and notify the staff if the target task is mastered or not.

      Procedural fidelity: procedural fidelity checklist will be implemented to ensure the accuracy
      of implementation of baseline and intervention procedures. The percentage of accurate
      implementation will be calculated by dividing the number of steps implemented accurately by
      the total steps of procedures multiplying by 100.

      Develop and conduct survey of staff and consumers to evaluate social validity of expert
      guiding technology.
    
  