
    
      2. Objectives

        1. Primary Objective Influence of preoperative consultation to "D-8" on the average length
           of stay of a randomized series multi-operator.

        2. Secondary objectives

      1. Evaluation of patient satisfaction and clinical status 2. Evaluation of the analgesic
      consumption 3. Evaluation of complications

      3. Population concerned

        1. Inclusion Criteria All patients undergoing total hip replacement

        2. Exclusion criteria

      1. Patient choosing immediately a supported SSR in postoperative 2. Geographical remoteness
      3. Social isolation 4. Medical pathology requiring special monitoring (phlebitis history,
      coagulation disorders, anticoagulant therapy ...) 5. psychiatric pathology 6. Patients opting
      for the protocol "overnight"

      4. Methodology and duration of the research This will be a prospective mono-centric
      multi-operator on the assessment of the management of patients in the surgical practice
      referred to above.

      The inclusion of patients will take place over a period of 12 months, the goal is to include
      90 patients (Figure 1).

      Justification of Sample Size In 2013, for patients operated in a planned way, and with
      degenerative osteoarthritis, the length of stay was 7.5 days with a standard deviation of 3
      days.

      With such a length of stay, a staff of 2 to 45 subjects will detect a difference in length of
      stay of at least 1.8 days (significance level of 5%, 80% power). Such a difference is
      reasonably possible with the proposed organizational intervention.

      Early preoperative consultation will be proposed to the randomized patient. When the patient
      is included in the group studied, it will be presented during the preoperative consultation
      early an information document with advice and guidance for patients to anticipate acts
      provided for its release "post-operative" (cf. . Appendix 2: patient information delivered
      early consultation J-8). This consultation will educate patients about what will happen when
      they leave, specifying concretely how their articulation with the city and the various
      professionals involved will have been planned and respond to all the issues raised.

      Data collection Clinical data will be collected anonymously by an internal orthopedic surgery
      service for all patients included in the study by the realization of the Oxford hip score
      before the intervention (J-1), an assessment of pain through verbal validated scale (VAS), of
      St Joseph satisfaction questionnaire (validated questionnaire Saphora) accompanied by a
      verbal scale patient discharge and a telephone call 30 days after surgery to achieve again
      the Oxford hip score, evaluation of pain by VAS and patient satisfaction by simple verbal
      scale (see Annex 1) (4).

      The criteria for hospital discharge are:

        -  Clinically: clean dressing, no fever, no comorbidity decompensation, EVA <4 with
           analgesics.

        -  Biologically: Hemoglobin> 10.

        -  Functionally: 3 steps climbing ability, ability to walk twenty meters and to go to the
           bathroom alone.

      The assessment criteria will be used:

      Primary endpoint:

      - Average length of stay

      Criterion of secondary judgments:

        -  Score Oxford Hip before and after the intervention

        -  Patient satisfaction (verbal scale: 0 to 10) before and after the intervention

        -  St. Joseph Satisfaction Questionnaire (validated questionnaire Saphora)

        -  Evaluation of pain by VAS before and after the intervention

        -  Morbidity and mortality

      randomization: Randomization in the 2 groups (usual care without consultation with J-8 versus
      consultation with J-8) will be carried by the patient. The patient list will be balanced by
      randomly alternating blocks. orthopedic service personnel will not be notified in advance of
      schedule to avoid a bias in the management of patients with the service.

      Data processing :

      For each subject will be awarded an identifier (original name and surname - year of birth)
      and the data will be entered on a computer file which will be sent to the statistician in
      charge of analyzing the GHPSJ site. There will be no exchange of personal data.

      Statistical analysis :

      To find and test differences, univariate analyzes will use the test t-Student for continuous
      variables and the chi of 2 for categorical variables or their nonparametric equivalents. The
      significance level was set at p <0.05. If imbalance groups, a multivariate model is developed
    
  