
    
      Schizophrenia is a severe, debilitating illness that typically begins during the teen-age
      years and early twenties, and worsens over time as it evolves into a chronic, life-long
      disorder. Existing treatments suppress psychotic symptoms but do not prevent the evolution of
      underlying disease processes that results in poor, long term outcomes. Recent studies have
      shown that progressive erosion of cortical mass occurs during the early stages of
      schizophrenia (1-3). The investigators hypothesize that arresting cortical erosion during the
      early phases of schizophrenia will prevent subsequent clinical deterioration and the
      descending course of illness associated with this disorder. The investigators propose to
      establish a research program that will assess the ability of agents with neuroprotective
      properties to halt cortical loss and thereby prevent subsequent clinical deterioration.

      N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) is an attractive molecule for the proposed study because of two of
      its mechanistic properties. First, it is an established neuroprotective agent. NAC is a
      precursor to glutathione which is a primary detoxifier of reactive oxygen and other radical
      molecules which damage neuronal tissue (4-6). Glutathione deficiencies have been well
      documented in schizophrenia (7, 8). Second, NAC modulates glutamate release. NMDA
      hypofunction and altered glutamate release have been hypothesized to contribute to the
      cortical atrophy observed in early stage schizophrenia (9, 10). NAC has been shown to
      antagonize both the phencyclidine (PCP) effects of increased frontal glutamate levels and
      induction of social isolation in rodents (11). PCP is a pharmacological model of
      schizophrenia. In a controlled clinical trial of patients with chronic schizophrenia, NAC
      improved mismatch negativity, a pre-attentive measure of cortical information processing that
      has been consistently implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and has been shown
      to correlate with cortical erosion in early stage patients (12, 13). In a double-blind,
      placebo controlled clinical trial of chronic schizophrenic patients, NAC significantly
      improved general psychopathology scores, negative symptoms and extrapyramidal symptoms (14).
      NAC was well tolerated with no significant effects on any safety parameter or adverse events.
      The favorable tolerability of NAC has been further demonstrated in a recent study conducted
      at IUSM Riley Hospital in children (ages 4 to 12 years) with autism at relatively high doses
      (dose range of 900 to 4200 mg/day) in which there were no serious adverse events reported and
      NAC was well tolerated (15).

      The investigators propose to determine if NAC has disease modifying potential in early stage
      schizophrenia. The investigators hypothesize that NAC will improve measures of cortical
      integrity in early stage schizophrenia and these brain effects will be related to
      improvements in negative symptoms and cognitive functioning. Primary outcome measures in the
      trials will be serial assessments of cortical integrity using magnetic resonance structural
      (cortical thickness, cortical volume, diffuses tensor imaging, DTI). In addition the
      investigators will assess the possible effects of NAC treatment on other parameters linked to
      cortical erosion including fMRI coupled with working memory and semantic memory tasks, MR
      spectroscopy (cortical glutathione, N-acetylaspartate, and glutamine/glutamate levels) and
      electrophysiological measures (e.g., mismatch negativity, P300). The investigators will also
      determine the relationship between effects of NAC on negative symptoms, positive symptoms,
      functional status, cognition (BACS), and safety parameters; and brain indices.
    
  