
    
      Study design and methodology The study will have two phases.

      The phase I will use traditional dose escalation model (3-6 patient per dose level) to
      determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

      *[In phase II, either level III or (MTD) will be used in the same every 21 day cycle to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of the regimen in first line treatment of advanced NSCLC]*
      not conducted.

      Treatments administered

      In phase I, three dose levels of weekly bortezomib will be studied in conjunction with fixed
      dose carboplatin and bevacizumab on a 21 day cycle to define the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD).

      A maximum of six cycles will be administered. Patients with complete response, partial
      response or stable disease after six cycles will be allowed to continue on single agent
      bevacizumab every 3 weeks as maintenance therapy until disease progression.

      If no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed in 3 patients during the first cycle, the next
      dose level will be accrued. If 1 DLT is observed, 3 additional patients will be accrued to
      the dose level. If no additional DLTs are observed, the next dose level will be accrued.
      However, if 2 or more DLTs are observed in a given dose level, MTD will be defined. MTD will
      be defined as the dose below which ≥2 DLTs were observed.

      The following three levels will be studied:

      Level I (every 21 day cycle): D1: carboplatin AUC 6, bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, bortezomib 1.3
      mg/m2 D8 : bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2

      Level II (every 21 day cycle): D1: carboplatin AUC 6, bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, bortezomib 1.6
      mg/m2 D8 : bortezomib 1.6 mg/m2

      Level III(every 21 day cycle):D1: carboplatin AUC 6, bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, bortezomib 1.8
      mg/m2 D8 : bortezomib 1.8 mg/m2

      If 2 or more DLT are observed in Level 1, level -1 will be accrued.

      Level -1: (every 21 day cycle): D1: carboplatin AUC 6, bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, bortezomib 1
      mg/m2 D8: bortezomib 1 mg/m2

      *[In phase II, either level III or the MTD dose level will be used in the same every 21 day
      cycle to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the regimen in first line treatment of advanced
      NSCLC.

      Efficacy data collected

      The following evaluations will be conducted to assess the efficacy of the combination:

        -  response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria

        -  disease free and overall survival, time to progress (TTP) and duration of response
           Safety data collected

      The following evaluations will be conducted to assess the safety of the combination
      chemotherapy:

      • toxicity based on National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (NCI-CTCAE) version 3.0]* Not conducted

      Statistical procedures

      In phase I portion, 9-18 patients will be enrolled. The patients treated at recommended dose
      level for phase II will also be eligible for response evaluation as part of phase II.

      *[The primary objective of the phase II study is to estimate the efficacy and safety of the
      combination therapy with carboplatin, bortezomib and bevacizumab as the first line therapy in
      patients with advanced NSCLC. The primary endpoints are response rate and progression-free
      survival (PFS).

      (NOT CONDUCTED) In phase II portion, the optimal two-stage design for phase II clinical
      trials described by Simon et al. will be utilized.

      Overall survival, progression free survival and time to progression will be estimated using
      Kaplan-Meier methods. Time to progression, progression free survival and survival will be
      calculated from the date of study entry.]* (Phase II not conducted.)
    
  