
    
      1. Purpose To determine if a virtual-care based system can effectively provide care for
           patients with diabetes.

        2. Hypothesis Alternative: Virtual-care is associated with achieving glycemic control in
           patients with diabetes.

           Null: Virtual-care is not associated with achieving glycemic control in patients with
           diabetes.

        3. Justification The potential study participants would normally receive care from a
           primary care physician and have no access to a diabetes specialist. In the study, they
           would have access to an Endocrinologist through online communication and by telephone.

        4. Objectives The primary end-point is to determine if patients using virtual care have
           reduced HbA1c values at followup. The data may be used to write a white paper guiding
           diabetes treatment guidelines within the province of British Columbia, Canada. The goal
           is for diabetes specialists to be able to provide care to underserved areas without
           requiring to be physically at the location.

        5. Research Method Participants satisfying the inclusion criteria will be recruited and
           followed for six months. Their family physician or Diabetes Center will provide a
           referral to one of the investigators, who are diabetes specialists, for a virtual
           consult via telephone. Relevant medical records will be transferred for this consult.

           After the consult, participants will be asked to submit self-monitored blood glucose
           levels via email to the diabetes specialists for follow-up every two weeks. These
           follow-up reports may lead to the diabetes specialists making adjustments to therapy.

           Concurrently, the participants during the followup period will be provided access to a
           free website containing modules on diabetes education similar to a diabetes clinic
           education program. They will be allowed to view them at their own discretion..

           Every 3 months participants will be asked to have regular blood work done to assess
           management, including A1C levels. This is part of routine care, but the data will be
           used for analysis.

        6. Statistical Analysis Outcomes will be tested for significant differences via t tests, as
           well as the other clinical measures, while the summarized survey responses will be
           tallied and tested for correlation with changes in clinical measures.

      The planned sample size of 100 was estimated from previous studies' mean changes in A1C and
      standard deviations involving similar methods. For calculating the sample size, a statistical
      power of 0.80 and alpha of 0.05 were used.
    
  