
    
      This study will explore the hypothesis that Ivabradine will decrease heart rate (HR) and
      improve hemodynamics in patients with advanced HF on inotropic treatment. This is a
      randomized, double blind, single center trial will include 40 consecutive patients admitted
      for Stage D HF/ CS who will require continuous infusion of Dobutamine and will develop ST (HR
      >100 beats/min).

      Eligible patients will be randomized (1:1) using blocked randomization with random block
      sizes of 2 or 4 to start Ivabradine versus placebo. The procedure of randomization to receive
      either Ivabradine or placebo twice daily will be performed by computerized sequence
      generation. The hospital pharmacies will be responsible for drug randomization and
      dispensing, and the investigators and the patients will be blinded to the treatment option.

      Ivabradine will be started 3 hours after Dobutamine initiation at dose 5 mg and further
      increased in 12 hours to 7.5 mg bid if patient is stable with mean BP≥ 60 mmHg, systolic
      blood pressure ≥ 90 mmHg and HR ≥100 bpm. Increase of Ivabradine dosage will be individually
      stopped for reasons of safety if three episodes of minimal HRs of less than 70 beats per
      minute, or a drop in mean blood pressure < 60 mmHg or systolic blood pressure < 80 mmHg
      occur.

      HR, blood pressure and invasive hemodynamics will be monitored, along with standard right
      heart cath and echocardiogram measurements obtained.

      Patients will be followed for a total of 72 hours. The adverse events that will be collected
      include bradycardia, defined as a heart rate less than 70 bpm, hypotension defined as a
      systolic blood pressure less than 80 mmHg and any side effect requiring drug discontinuation
      or dose adjustment. Review of laboratory including renal, hepatic and hematologic counts will
      be reviewed for any significant changes due to the use of Ivabradine.
    
  