
    
      Dialysis treatment non-adherence is a prevalent problem among the end-stage renal population
      receiving chronic hemodialysis. The complications associated with missed or shortened
      dialysis sessions are serious and frequently require emergent medical care or
      hospitalization. Previous studies have shown that electronic messages have significantly
      improved attendance rates in a primary care setting, but have not been validated in the
      chronic dialysis population.

      An electronic intervention has been developed by Epharmix, a WUSTL IDEA Labs
      (ideas.wustl.edu) team, which has the capacity to use SMS text messaging to phone call
      recordings to notify patients prior to each of their upcoming appointment times, with the
      option of also alerting a designated patient advocate. Patients receiving the messages are
      provided with key contact information for a dialysis rescheduling phone line, transportation
      resources, social work services, etc. This intervention may potentially improve patient
      adherence with scheduled sessions, increase patient satisfaction with their treatment and
      prevent medical complications associated with missing dialysis.

      This study aims to determine whether an electronic intervention, which sends SMS text
      messages or phone calls of key dialysis treatment information, is able to improve dialysis
      session attendance among patients with a history of poor attendance. Our secondary aim is to
      identify factors that may be barriers to dialysis appointment attendance and are associated
      with emergency department (ED) or hospital utilization.

      Procedures: Dialysis patients of the Chromalloy American Kidney Center (CAKC) at Barnes
      Jewish Hospital (BJH) and the Washington University Dialysis Center (WUDC) will be included
      in this study. Two cohorts will be prospectively identified, one group consisting of
      individuals with a history of occasional non-attendance to treatment sessions, defined as 2-3
      missed sessions out of 24 consecutive sessions in the past 8 weeks; the other group
      consisting of individuals who are frequently non-adherent (4-6 missed sessions in the past 24
      consecutive sessions). Patients from each cohort will be recruited and then randomized to
      either the experimental or the control group. Group A will receive the electronic
      intervention featuring automated SMS text message and/or phone call prior to their
      appointments; Group B will not receive any electronic intervention. After 8 weeks, crossover
      will occur for both groups and the study will continue for an additional 8 weeks.

      At time of enrollment, all subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire to determine
      the demographic characteristics of the study population of interest and identify possible
      socio-economic factors contributing to non-adherence to the prescribed 3 times weekly
      dialysis schedule. The participants' clinic records will be reviewed to determine the numbers
      of missed and attended appointments, as well as records of ED visits and hospital admissions
      through BJH. Subjects will be asked to complete a post-questionnaire to rate their
      satisfaction with their current schedule of dialysis and their satisfaction with the
      electronic intervention.
    
  