
    
      -  Type of Study: Randomised controlled clinical trial.

        -  Study Setting: This study will be conducted at Ain Shams University's Emergency
           department of the Maternal Hospital.

        -  Study Period: From January 2018 to June 2018 (6 months)

        -  Randomization: Will be done using computer generated randomization sheet using MedCalc©
           version 13. ( Appendix 1)

        -  Allocation and concealment: Fifty opaque envelops will be numbered serially and in each
           envelope the corresponding letter which denotes the allocated group will be put
           according to randomization table. Then all envelopes will be closed and put in one box.
           When the first patient arrives, the first envelope will be opened and the patient will
           be allocated according to the letter inside.

        -  Study Population: Fifty pregnant women.

             -  Inclusion Criteria:

                  -  Primigravida.

                  -  From 20 to 30 years old.

                  -  Singleton term (between 40 to 42 weeks of gestation).

                  -  Good general condition with straightforward enthusiasm for the trial.

             -  Exclusion Criteria:

                  -  IUGR.

                  -  Rupture of membranes.

                  -  Favorable cervix (Bishop score : '8' or more)

                  -  Cephalopelvic disproportion,fetal malpresentation.

                  -  Antepartum hemorrhage, any abnormal placentation such as placenta previa,
                     morbidly adherent placenta.

                  -  Uterine fibroid.

                  -  Previous uterine major surgery such as : myomectomy.

                  -  Any medical disorder such as : gestational diabetes, diabetes mellitus,
                     hypertension, preeclampsia, coagulation disorders, renal and hepatic
                     dysfunction.

        -  Sampling Method: Convenience sampling.

        -  Sample Size: Fifty women.

        -  Sample Justification: Using data from previous study by Abdellah et al. 2010, which
           compared isosorbide mononitrate and misoprostol versus misprostol only. Misoprostol only
           group induction to delivery interval was 23 hours while in the isosorbide mononitrate
           and misorprostol group it was 19.6 hours. We will use sample size of 25 women in each of
           the two groups to achieve 91% power to detect statistical difference of atleast 3.4
           hours. With estimated group standard deviations of 4.0 and 2.6 and with a significance
           level (alpha) of 0.05 using Mann-Whitney test; the sample size of 50 women as stated
           before is satisfactory to detect difference between initial dose to delivery.

        -  Ethical Considerations: An informed consent will be taken from all participants, it will
           be in Arabic language and confirmed by date & time. No harm will be inflicted & no
           benefit will be deprived in this study.

        -  Study Procedures:

             -  Fifty Primigravida women will be recruited according to inclusion and exclusion
                criteria.

             -  History taking.

             -  Physical examination.

             -  Ultrasound: for placental localization excluding abnormal localization, exclude
                Fetal IUGR, oligohydraminos, polyhydraminos, fibroids.

             -  Laboratory investigations: CBC (complete blood count) , Coagulation Profile, Liver
                function test, Kidney function test, ABO Rhesus D (RhD).

             -  Counseling of the patient about isosorbide mononitrate and misoprostol.

             -  Recruited patients will fill a written consent.

             -  Two types of envelopes will be available, one with misoprostol & placebo, other
                will contain misoprostol & isosorbide mononitrate which will be given by vaginal
                route.

             -  Patient will choose an envelope from the previous 2 types.

             -  2 groups will be formed; group 1 will take both misoprostol & isosorbide
                mononitrate, group 2 will take Misoprostol only. Group 1 will take intial dose of
                40mg isosorbide mononitrate (Mono-Mak) in the posterior vaginal fornix which will
                not be repeated; followed by intravaginal 25mcg of misoprostol (Vagiprost),
                misoprostol will be repeated every 6 hours for maximum of 5 doses (i.e. 125mcg),
                (FIGO recommendation for misoprostol regimen 2017 & WHO recommendations for
                induction of labour 2011). Misoprostol will be stopped when labour is established
                defined by 3 contractions every 10 minuites, each contraction of 30 seconds
                duration, with amplitude of 40 mmHg or if 6 hours passed after the last misoprostol
                dose and labour is not established as defined before with unfavorable cervix
                defined by bishop score of 6 or less, cesarean delivery will be performed. Group 2
                will take only misoprostol with same scheme for misoprostol as before in group 1.

             -  Induction of labor process will take place, during which:

                  -  Maternal blood pressure & pulse will be assessed every 30 minutes for the
                     first 2 hours then hourly after that; temperature will be assessed every 4
                     hours.

                  -  Fetal auscultation will be carried out every 15 minutes in 1st stage of labor,
                     every 5 minutes in 2nd stage of labor after uterine contraction for at least 1
                     minuite.

                  -  CTG will be performed every 2 hours or if there are concerns during fetal
                     ausculatation. Continuous CTG maybe continued upon maternal request or if
                     there are high risk factors such as contractions that last longer than 60
                     seconds(hypertonus) or more than 5 contractions in 10 minutes(tachysystole),
                     Oxytocin use.

        -  Study Interventions: Cesarean Delivery will be performed in the following circumstances:

             -  if Induction of labor failure is established defined by unfavorable cervix after 6
                hours from the last dose of 5 doses of Misoprostol each is 25 mcg (maximum dose of
                125mcg)

             -  If management of protraction & arrest disorders failed.

             -  If CTG monitoring was classified as pathological and conservative management
                failed; or if CTG monitoring warned the need for urgent intervention.

        -  Statistical Analysis: Descriptive statistics for measured variables will be expressed as
           range mean and standard deviation (for metric data); range, median and interquartile
           range (for discrete data); and number and proportion (for categorical data). Demographic
           data and primary and secondary outcomes of all women will be compared using t-test (for
           quantitative parametric measures), Mann-Whitney's U-test (for quantitative
           non-parametric measures) and chi squared and Fisher's Exact tests (for categorical
           measures). Pearson's correlation coefficient (for metric variables) and Spearman's
           correlation coefficient (for rank variables) will be used to estimate association
           between variables.

        -  Statistical Package: Data will be collected, edited and entered into suitable software
           for data entry & analysis such as 'SPSS version 20'.
    
  