
    
      Between August 2004 and June 2006 195 patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction
      underwent MRI for the definition of myocardial viability. Onehundred-ten patients with
      non-ischemic cardiomyopathy or acute coronary syndromes were excluded from the study to avoid
      possible acute ischemia or stunning. Within the 85 patients with chronic ischemic heart
      disease, six patients refused participation in this study and five patients had
      echocardiographic windows insufficient for participation. Within the remaining 74 patients 55
      patients underwent revascularization and 19 had no revascularization. These 55 patients form
      our study group! Functional recovery will be assessed using echocardiographic images before
      and 9±2 months after revascularization with a Vivid Seven System (GE Vingmed, Horton,
      Norway). Parasternal long-axis and short-axis views at basal, midventricular and apical
      levels, as well as 3 standard apical views (4 chamber, 2 chamber, and long axis) have been
      acquired (frame rate 56 to 92 frames/s). Segmental wall motion will be determined using the
      following score: 1=normokinetic, 1.5= mildly hypokinetic, 2= moderately or severely
      hypokinetic, 3= akinetic, or 4= dyskinetic. A segment is considered to demonstrate functional
      improvement during follow-up if it improved by at least 1 grade. Global functional recovery
      was considered in case of an increase in ejection fraction>5% at follow-up.

      The three acquired parasternal short axis views will be analysed with the aid of a dedicated
      software package (EchoPAC BT 05.2, GE Vingmed, Horton, Norway). This system allows analysis
      of peak systolic circumferential and radial strain from short axis views based on detection
      of natural acoustic markers. The system calculates mean strain values for whole predefined LV
      segments, including all myocardial layers from the endocardium to epicardium.

      All patients underwent cMRI within a few hours of the baseline echocardiographic study on a
      1.5-T whole-body MR scanner (Intera, Best, Philips, the Netherlands). The assignment to a
      hyperenhancement category reflects the extent of hyperenhancement within each segment by
      visual assessment considering a 5-group scale: 0% hyperenhancement (group 1), 1 to 25%
      hyperenhancement (group 2), 26 to 50% hyperenhancement (group 3), 51 to 75% hyperenhancement
      (group 4) and 76 to 100% hyperenhancement (group 5).

      In addition, the maximal thickness of myocardial tissue without late hyperenhancement will be
      determined for each LV segment. This is considered to be a parameter of the remaining viable
      myocardium.
    
  