
    
      The methodological model of the study is the validity and reliability study. Individuals who
      applied to Fırat University Training and Research Hospital after ethical approval and
      diagnosed with MS by a neurologist will be included in our study. It is planned to collect
      data from individuals who meet the inclusion criteria on a voluntary basis with the Helsinki
      Declaration. As demographic characteristics; Patients' age, gender, body weight, height, EDSS
      score, occupation and education status, as a history of the disease, the number of falls in
      the last year and the type of MS will be recorded. Inclusion criteria for the volunteers;
      Individuals with relapsing-remitting MS, with an EDSS score between 05≤ and ≤5.5, with an
      EDSS score between 18-65, and individuals with a score of 24 and above in the Mini Mental
      State Examination and who can independently walk a minimum of 10 m will be included. Also
      exclusion criteria for volunteers; High level spasticity of the lower limbs (Ashworth score 3
      or 4), who had an acute MS attack or had a history of an attack within the last 1 month, had
      orthopedic or systemic problems that prevented participation in tests, had another known
      neuromuscular disorder other than MS, had visual involvement or diplopia, and Having a
      cardio-pulmonary problem that will prevent him from participating in tests.

      Our study will be done as a "test-retest" design and psychometric properties of 3 m backward
      walking test in MS patients will be examined. Mini Mental State Examination, 3 m walk back
      test, Berg Balance Scale, Timed Up and Go, Timed 25 Step Walking Test and 4-Square Step Test
      will be applied to the patients. All evaluations will be made by the same physiotherapist.
      The second and third evaluation (retest) will be performed by the same physiotherapist two
      days after the first evaluation (test) and 2 weeks later to measure test-retest reliability.
      It will be preferable to collect data with the same evaluator to avoid inter-rater error rate
      between evaluations.

      The sample size, according to Lexell and Downham, 30-50 participants should be included in
      reliability studies . Considering this recommendation, which defines the reliability of
      3MBWT, it is planned to include 50 individuals with MS in our study.

      Statistical analysis SPSS for Windows 20.00 computer package program will be used for all
      statistical analyzes. Descriptive statistical information will be given as mean ± standard
      deviation (x ± SD) or%. Interclass Correlation Coefficients (ICC) and Cronbach's coefficients
      values will be examined for the reliability and internal consistency of 3MGDYT. The data will
      be analyzed with appropriate statistical methods and the statistical significance level will
      be accepted as p <0.05.
    
  