
    
      In order to meet all the challenges in the diagnosis and treatment of pituitary diseases in
      China, CAPASITY was founded in 2020. With advanced medical equipment and Internet of Things
      (IoT) technology, CAPASITY is committed to creating an online and offline integrated solution
      for pituitary disease, and for the entire spectrum of pituitary disease, to achieve a more
      convenient and precise model of care for patients. aiming to establish a platform with
      diagnosis and treatment of pituitary disease and their long-term follow-up. It allows the
      application and evaluation of treatment strategies at these centers.

      Objective:

        -  The purpose of the present study is to establish a multi-center nationwide prospective
           database of patients with pituitary adenomas to explore the epidemiology, biochemical,
           and clinical outcome related to pituitary tumors and its complications, as well as other
           pituitary disease.

        -  To collect cross-sectional data from patients seen and treated at each center so as to
           evaluate: the current status of care of patients with pituitary disease and its related
           complications, as well as other risk factors treatment strategies at multiple centers.

        -  To collect the prospective data of patients treated at each center in order to evaluate
           the strategies for the achievement of treatment goals, changes in management, control of
           risk factors, incidence and progression of related clinical endpoints (including
           mortality), behavioral changes, as well as QoL.

      Methods: After obtaining informed consent, patients will be invited and initiated with a
      comprehensive baseline evaluation at each CAPASITY center. Then patients will be followed by
      clinical/laboratory visits on according to individualized patient's treatment plans. A
      repeated comprehensive clinical and laboratory assessment for hormones and imaging, as well
      as complications will be scheduled once a year.
    
  