
    
      The average age of developing Tourette's Syndrome is 7 years, with a range from three to
      eight years. Most patients with childhood tics disorder show remarkable symptoms improvement
      by the age of 19 years. Adult-onset cases of Tourette's Syndrome are usually the most severe
      forms of presentation...

      Motor or phonic tics often begin with the patient experiencing some psycho-sensory phenomena
      known as the "premonitory urge" which may be localized to an area of the tics or a
      generalised inner tension. Most individuals with Tics/ Tourette's Syndrome also experience
      feelings of momentary relief after the tic has occurred. TICS Disorder are typically
      exacerbated by stressful life-events associated with high levels of emotional excitements and
      fatigue, and can include normally routine activities such as the start of school, birthdays,
      arrival of a new sibling, changes in the social or physical environment like moving house or
      going on holidays. The symptoms of childhood Tics Disorder / Tourette's Syndrome are usually
      mild and they are almost invariably co-morbid with other mental health and behavioural
      problems including ADHD, Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), learning disabilities (LD) and
      mood disorders. Tics/ Tourette's Syndrome can significantly impair the patient's self-esteem,
      peer and or family relationships[3]. Although tics often improve after adolescence, recent
      studies suggest that comorbid OCD and ADHD often persist.

      Other common comorbidities in children with Tics/ Tourette's Syndrome include anxiety
      disorders, depression, autistic spectrum disorder (ASD), conduct disorder (CD), oppositional
      defiant disorder (ODD), self-injurious behaviours, sleep disorders, rage attacks and
      personality disorder.

      ADHD :

      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the commonest neurobehavioural disorder in
      children and adolescents, with prevalence ranging between 5% and 12% in the developed
      countries[2]. Up to 80% of ADHD patients have one or more co-morbid conditions which include
      Tics disorders (TD). There is a complex interplay between Tics Disorder and ADHD in children
      and young people. TDs are common comorbidities in paediatric ADHD patients with or without
      treatment with pharmacotherapy. ADHD and other co-morbid disorders like Tics/ Tourette's
      syndrome (TS), especially if left untreated, can have lasting impairing effects on several
      aspects of daily functioning. Tics naturally wax and wane in clinical severity and are
      exacerbated by stress, including consequences of untreated ADHD. There has been conflicting
      evidence of the role of psychostimulants in either precipitating or exacerbating TDs in ADHD
      patients. Some evidence also suggests that tics may improve with ADHD treatment Tics
      naturally wax and wane in clinical severity and are exacerbated by stress, including
      consequences of untreated ADHD. There has been conflicting evidence of the role of
      psychostimulants in either precipitating or exacerbating TDs in ADHD patients. Some evidence
      also suggests that tics may improve with ADHD treatment
    
  