
    
      Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) and vinblastine IV on day 1 of
      weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7; mechlorethamine hydrochloride IV on day 1 of weeks 1 and 5; vincristine
      sulfate IV and bleomycin IV on day 1 of weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8; etoposide IV on day 1 of weeks
      3 and 7; and prednisone orally (PO) three times daily every other day for 8 weeks. Two to 3
      weeks after all chemotherapy is given, patients not achieving a complete response undergo
      radiation therapy to individual nodal sites (tailored fields).

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      1. To increase the complete response rate of favorable risk patients (excluding all patients
      with stage IA nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma) after 8 weeks Stanford V by at
      least 20% compared to favorable risk patients on HOD 99 after 8 weeks vincristine,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride, methotrexate and prednisone (VAMP).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To estimate the disease failure rate within the radiation fields.

        2. To examine patterns of treatment failure for children treated with low dose tailored
           field radiation therapy.

        3. To describe acute hematologic and infectious toxicities as they relate to transfusion
           requirements, growth factor support, episodes of febrile neutropenia, and
           hospitalizations, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
           Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0.

        4. To compare the survival distributions (event-free and overall) and cumulative incidence
           of local failure and toxicities of favorable risk patients treated with 8 weeks of
           Stanford V chemotherapy and low-dose tailored-field radiation to those on the favorable
           risk group of the HOD 99 study that received VAMP and low-dose involved-field radiation.

        5. To compare the survival distributions between patients that will not be prescribed
           radiotherapy after 8 weeks Stanford V and those patients on HOD 99 that did not receive
           radiotherapy after VAMP.

        6. To estimate the event-free survival distributions of favorable risk patients treated
           with Stanford V chemotherapy alone and patients treated with Stanford V chemotherapy
           plus low dose tailored field radiation.
    
  