
    
      SURVEY OF THE FIELD Ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) - elicited tissue injury contributes to
      morbidity and mortality. In organ transplantation, it is a major challenge. The imbalance in
      metabolic supply and demand within the ischemic organ results in tissue hypoxia and
      microvascular dysfunction. The following reperfusion enhances the activation of innate and
      adaptive immune responses resulting in a cell death program.

      A damaged endothelium increases the risk of allograft rejection within 1-year after
      transplantation and a drug treated rejection increases the risk of chronicle rejection and
      five-year mortality. An improved preservation of the endothelium of the coronary arteries is
      therefore instrumental to achieve an improved short- and long-term outcome for the
      transplanted patients.

      Standard heart preservation before transplantation consists of cold ischemic storage of the
      heart. Clinical studies have shown that the mortality risk increases sharply with extension
      of the allograft ischemic time over four hours. For each additional hour, the mortality risk
      increases with 25% the first year. Different myocardial cardioplegic preservation solutions
      and ex-vivo perfusion machines have been developed. Despite some promising experimental
      results, no consistent differences in outcome have been found. Our first-in-man pilot study,
      including 6 NIHP cases, show the device's feasibility and provide the first pieces of
      evidence that machines improves outcome of heart transplantation. However, as these results
      are based on a non-randomized study design with a few patients, a randomized study is needed
      to ensure the effect.

      PURPOSE AND AIMS The purpose of this study is to compare a new state-of-the-art non ischemic
      heart preservation (NIHP) method, on heart allograft function, rejection episodes, and
      quality of life, with the standard ischemic cold static storage (SCS) method of donor hearts
      in adult heart transplantation.

      STUDY DESIGN The study is a multicentre, prospective, randomized, open, blinded endpoint,
      controlled clinical trial. The study will randomly assign eligible patients to be
      transplanted with a donor heart preserved with either a new ex-vivo perfusion method (NIHP)
      or the standard cold static storage (SCS). The study will be performed at Skane University
      Hospital, Karolinska University Hospital, Linköping University Hospital, and Uppsala
      University Hospital, which cover two-thirds of the population in Sweden. Patients listed at
      these centres will be transplanted at Skane University Hospital and then returned to their
      centre for post-transplant care. The data collection, statistical analysis, and presentation
      of results will be done according to the CONSORT criteria. The main outcomes will be reported
      on intention to treat basis.

      PICO Population: Adult patients with end-stage heart failure eligible for heart
      transplantation.

      Intervention: Recipient transplanted with a donor heart preserved using NIHP. Control:
      Recipient transplanted with a donor heart preserved using SCS. Outcome: Survival, rejection,
      graft function, and quality-of-life.

      STATISTICAL ANALYS PLAN Populations for analysis The full analysis set will consist of all
      randomized patients. Following the intent-to-treat principle, patients will be analyzed
      according to the preservation methods (NIHP and SCS, respectively) to which they were
      assigned at randomization. Efficacy variables will be analyzed based on all randomized
      patients as the primary population.

      Patient demographics/other baseline characteristics Baseline value is defined as the last
      non-missing assessment prior to the transplantation. Summary statistics will be provided by
      treatment group for demographics and baseline characteristics, including age, sex, weight,
      height, body mass index (BMI), diagnosis, prior hospitalization, need for inotropic support
      pre-transplant and/or ECMO, CK-MB, TnI, proBNP, and vital signs. Continuous variables will be
      summarized using n, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Categorical
      variables will be summarized using frequency and percentage. The difference between treatment
      groups will be compared using the Chi-square test for categorical variables or using
      Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables. The p-values will be provided for descriptive
      purposes and will not be considered to define any formal basis for determining factors to be
      included in statistical models.

      Analysis of the primary efficacy variable and outcomes The primary objective of this study is
      to evaluate the survival free of allograft rejection and re-transplantation after heart
      transplantation comparing two preservation methods (NIHP versus SCS).

      Time-to-event variables (primary efficacy variable) will be analyzed using the Cox
      proportional hazard model. The estimated hazards ratio and the corresponding two-sided 95%
      confidence interval will be provided. A supplemental log-rank test will be performed.
      Survival function for each treatment group will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and the
      Kaplan-Meier curves will be presented. The frequency and percentage of patients who reach the
      primary composite endpoint will be provided by treatment group for the population.

      Analysis of secondary efficacy, exploratory, and safety variables and outcomes The secondary
      objects of this study are to test if the new preservation technique (NIHP) is superior to
      standard preservation technique (SCS) in I/R injury (cTnI and CK-MB), immediate graft
      function, QoL and severe adverse events. Furthermore we will analyse the postoperative renal
      function (minimum creatinine clearance, need for CRRT), postoperative liver function (ASAT,
      ALAT), postoperative pulmonary function (hours in ventilator), SAE, time to no improvement in
      physical activity, resource utilizations (length of stay, and number of visits to
      professional healthcare).

      Continues variables (cTnI, CK-MB, inotrope score, minimum creatinine clearance, hours of
      ventilator, physical activity (calorie use), length of stay, and number of visits to
      professional healthcare, EQ-5D index and EQ VAS) will be analysed using Mann-Witney U-test.
      Additionally, the baseline value of the corresponding variable may be included as a covariate
      if appropriate. The estimated treatment effect and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence
      interval will be provided.

      Binary variables (primary graft dysfunction, LVEF<40%, RVEF<40%, severe adverse events) will
      be analysed using logistic regression. Additionally, the baseline value of the corresponding
      variable may be included as a covariate if appropriate. The estimated treatment effect and
      the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval will be provided. EQ-5D descriptive
      system will be analysed by using χ2-test and Fisher's exact test.

      SAFETY The assessment of safety will be based primarily on the frequency of adverse events
      and laboratory abnormalities. Other safety data will be summarized as appropriate. Laboratory
      data will be summarized by presenting shift tables using extended normal ranges (baseline to
      most extreme post-baseline value), by presenting summary statistics of raw data and change
      from baseline values (mean, medians, standard deviations, ranges). An interim assessment of
      the initial 10 patients in the intervention group will be performed when all of them has
      passed 30-days post-transplant or expired.
    
  