
    
      Determination of the insertion technique

      The insertion technique (with anatomical landmarks or ultrasound-guided) will be determined
      by randomization. To that aim, we will use a software available on an intranet server and
      available from all ICUs involved in the study.

      All central venous catheters included in the study will be inserted by experienced physicians
      trained to the use of ultrasound for the placement of access (minimum 2 previous CVC
      installations with ultrasound).

      The central catheters used in the study (Arrow International, Inc.) are single, double or
      triple lumen (16 and 20 cm in length). The choice will be made by the clinician in patient
      management. Catheters impregnated with antibiotics or antiseptics are excluded.

      The ultrasound used will be a Site~Rite ® V (C.R. Bard Inc) type equipped with a
      multifrequency probe of 5-10 MHz.

      Acts and examinations performed in the protocol:

        -  Systematic culture of the CVC and achievement of blood cultures in cases of hyperthermia

        -  Systematic ultrasound examination at D4 to look for thrombosis.

      The examinations and the necessary samples required to the strict follow-up of the patients
      will be made in the ICUs participating in the study and sent to the usual laboratories for
      analysis. Ultrasounds will be performed by physicians of the departments participating in the
      study.

      The primary endpoint is the rate of complications related to a composite criterion
      incorporating mechanical, thrombotic and infectious complications.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Rate of failure / success when placing catheters (failure is defined by three skin
           biopsies which did not lead to the laying of the venous access).

        -  The time required for the installation of CVC (time between the first puncture and the
           introduction of the catheter)

        -  The number of punctures before final laying

        -  Type of complications according to the method and site of installation

        -  The overall mortality according to the technique used

        -  The duration of stay in ICU / hospital

      We define complications as follows:

        -  Mechanical complications:

             -  Number of failed insertion,

             -  Number of bleeding which required a compression for more than 30 minutes,

             -  Number of arterial wound,

             -  Number of misposition visualized on the radiological picture,

             -  Rare complications (pneumothorax, hematoma, air embolism).

        -  Infectious complications (according to the recommendations of the Twelfth Conference of
           Society Consensus resuscitation French updated in 2002):

             -  Colonization of the catheter: Positive culture (≥ 1 000 CFU / ml) according to the
                quantitative method described by Brun-Buisson of the catheter's distal end (4-5 cm)
                aseptically removed. This technique can diagnose colonization induced not only by
                subcutaneous infection, but also by intra vascular pathway. However, it does not
                differentiate the mode of colonization.

             -  Catheter-related infection:

                  -  In the absence of bacteremia, diagnosis of catheter-related infection will be
                     based on:

                       -  a positive culture (> 1 000 CFU / ml) and total or partial regression of
                          signs of infection within 48 hours after catheter removal or

                       -  purulence of the inlet of the catheter or

                       -  tunnelite.

                  -  Bacteremic infection related to the C.V.C. will be defined by:

                       -  the association of one positive bacteremia occurring within 48 hours
                          before or after the withdrawal of CVC (two in case of Staphylococcus
                          epidermidis) and a positive culture of the insertion site by the same
                          organism or a culture of CVC > 1 000 CFU / ml of the same organism or

                       -  a quantitative central / peripheral blood cultures ratio > 5 or

                       -  a differential blood culture positivity delay > 2 hours.

                  -  The infection is NOT related to CVC if :

                       -  the CVC is finally sterile or

                       -  the CVC culture is positive, but the strain is different from that
                          isolated in the blood and / or other focus of infection present at the
                          removal of the CVC and sepsis does not regress to the removal of the CVC
                          or

                       -  the CVC culture is positive and the strain is identical with that found
                          in other infected site found at least 48 hours before removal of the CVC
                          whether or not responsible for bacteremia and sepsis does not regress
                          after the removal of the CVC.

        -  Thrombotic complications:

      A venous Echo-Doppler exploration is performed within four days following the catheter
      ablation to look for a loss of compressibility of a venous segment under the pressure of the
      probe associated to an intravascular image measuring more than 3 mm in the anteroposterior
      diameter (maximum diameter).
    
  