
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the combination of doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed
      by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly
      paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of disease free survival (DFS). (Stage I) II. To compare
      the combination of AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC followed by
      the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of the rate of cardiac events.
      (Stage I) III. To compare the combination AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the
      sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of
      DFS. (Stage II) IV. To compare the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly
      paclitaxel, and trastuzumab with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly
      paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of DFS. (Stage II) V. To compare the combination AC
      followed by weekly paclitaxel with the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly
      paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of the rate of cardiac events. (Stage II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the combination of AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the sequential
      schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of overall
      survival (OS).

      II. To compare the combination AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC
      followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of OS.

      III. To compare the sequential schedule of the combination AC, weekly paclitaxel, and
      trastuzumab with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and
      trastuzumab in terms of OS.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether higher levels of shed ECD (extracellular domain) or autoantibodies to
      human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2 and HER-1 measured in the serum prior to
      treatment are prognostic for DFS and survival.

      II. To determine the concordance of central review of HER-2 overexpression as measured by the
      HercepTest (DAKO) and Vysis fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).

      III. For each treatment arm, levels of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), troponin-T (TnT),
      troponin-I (cTnI), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) and
      interleukin-6 (IL-6), CD40 ligand, and troponin levels will be compared and contrasted.

      IV. To determine whether genetic markers are prognostic for cardiac adverse events associated
      with treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I*: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) and cyclophosphamide IV
      over 20-30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then
      receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour beginning on day 1 of week 13 and continuing weekly for 12
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. NOTE: *Patients who
      completed paclitaxel on or after October 25, 2004 may receive trastuzumab for a maximum of 52
      weeks either concurrently with paclitaxel or following completion of paclitaxel treatment.

      ARM II*: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel as in
      arm I. Patients then receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes beginning on day 1 of week 25
      and continuing weekly for 52 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. NOTE: *Patients who completed paclitaxel on or after October 25, 2004 may receive
      trastuzumab for a maximum of 52 weeks either concurrently with paclitaxel or following
      completion of paclitaxel treatment.

      ARM III: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide as in arm I.
      Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes
      beginning on day 1 of week 13 and continuing weekly for 12 courses. Patients then receive
      trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes beginning on day 1 of week 25 and continuing weekly for 40
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 5 weeks after completion of paclitaxel, patients may undergo radiotherapy. All
      postmenopausal estrogen receptor (ER)- or progesterone receptor (PR)-positive patients
      receive oral tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor once daily for 5 years beginning no later
      than 5 weeks after the last dose of paclitaxel. Patients may also receive an aromatase
      inhibitor once daily for 5 years after 5 years of daily tamoxifen. Patients who receive
      tamoxifen once daily for less than 4.5 years may receive an aromatase inhibitor daily until
      they have received a total of 5 years of adjuvant hormonal therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually for 15 years or until disease progression.
    
  