
    
      NK Cells, T-Cells, and the Study Drugs:

      NK and T-cells from a donor may decrease the risk of relapse (reappearance of disease) after
      stem cell transplantation. NK cells and T-cells are kinds of white blood cells. Both types of
      cells have the ability to fight infection and "kill" tumor cells in the body. NK cells are
      called "natural killers" because, unlike T-cells, NK cells do not need to be activated
      ("turned on") by an antigen (a foreign substance) in order to "attack" and "kill" tumor
      cells.

      Screening Tests:

      Before starting treatment on this study, "screening tests" will be performed to help the
      doctor determine eligibility to take part in this study.

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood drawn (about 6 1/2 to 8 tablespoons) for routine tests, to check the effects of
           the transplantation, and for a liver function test. This routine blood draw will also
           include a pregnancy test for women who are able to have children. To be eligible to take
           part in this study, the pregnancy test must be negative.

        -  Urine collected for routine tests.

        -  Bone marrow biopsy performed to check the status of the disease. To collect a bone
           marrow biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small
           amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle.

        -  Chest x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scans, and an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test
           that measures the electrical activity of the heart).

      Study Treatment:

      Treatment will begin within 30 days after the screening visit. All of the study drugs will be
      given through a central venous catheter (CVC) that will be left in place throughout
      treatment. A CVC is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you
      are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure in more detail, and a
      signed separate consent form for this procedure is required

      Before starting the chemotherapy in this study, 21 or more days must have elapsed since the
      last biological therapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or other investigational therapy.

      PATIENTS RECEIVING BEAM, CAMPATH-IH, AND RITUXIMAB AS CONDITIONING:

      BEAM is designed to kill leukemia and lymphoma cells by inserting itself into the cell DNA
      (genetic material of cells).

      Alemtuzumab is designed to attach to a foreign substance (antigen) that is found on certain
      immune cells, which may cause the cells to die.

      Rituximab is designed to attach to lymphoma cells, which may cause them to die.

      On Day 1, BCNU will be given over 1 hour.

      On Days 2-5, Ara-C will be given over 1 hour and etoposide over 3 hours. This will be
      repeated every 12 hours during these 4 days.

      On Days 2-4, alemtuzumab will be given over 30 minutes. Hydrocortisone and tacrolimus will be
      given by vein during this time to help prevent or ease side effects, such as chills, skin
      rash, and/or hives.

      On Day 6, melphalan will be given over 30 minutes.

      Rituximab will also be given over 5-7 hours, 13 days before the transplantation and then once
      a week for a total of 4 doses.

      On Day 7, after completion of chemotherapy, the blood or marrow stem cells that were
      collected earlier will be transplanted (given to your body) through the CVC over 30-45
      minutes. This is the standard treatment.

      On Days +1, +3, and +6 after the stem cell infusion, methotrexate will be given by vein to
      help decrease the risk of graft-versus-host disease.

      G-CSF (filgrastim) will be injected just under your skin once a day until the neutrophil (a
      type of white blood cell) counts recover.

      About 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      FOR PATIENTS RECEIVING FLUDARABINE, CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE, CAMPATH-IH, RITUXIMAB,AND TBI:

      TBI is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material of cells) of cancer cells, which may
      kill the cancer cells.

      Alemtuzumab is designed to attach to a foreign substance (antigen) that is found on certain
      immune cells, which may cause the cells to die.

      Cyclophosphamide is designed to interfere with the multiplication of cancer cells, which may
      slow or stop their growth and spread throughout the body. This may cause the cancer cells to
      die.

      Fludarabine is designed to make cancer cells less able to repair damaged DNA (the genetic
      material of cells). This may increase the likelihood of the cells dying.

      Rituximab is designed to attach to lymphoma cells, which may cause them to die.

      On Days 1-3, alemtuzumab will be given over 30 minutes, fludarabine over 1 hour, and
      cyclophosphamide over 1 hour. Hydrocortisone and tacrolimus will be given by vein during this
      time to help prevent or ease side effects, such as chills, skin rash, and/or hives.

      Rituximab will also be given over 5-7 hours, 13 days before the transplantation and then once
      a week for a total of 4 doses.

      On Day 5, after completion of chemotherapy, TBI will be given, and later on the same day, the
      blood stem cells that were collected earlier will be transplanted (given back to your body)
      through the CVC over 30-45 minutes. This is the standard treatment.

      On Days +1, +3, and +6 after the stem cell infusion, methotrexate will be given by vein to
      help decrease the risk of graft-versus-host disease.

      G-CSF (filgrastim) will be injected just under your skin once a day until the neutrophil (a
      type of white blood cell) counts recover.

      About 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      ALL PATIENTS:

      Infusion of NK Cells and T-Cells:

      A "boost" of NK cells or T-cells from a donor may be given after blood stem cell
      transplantation, depending on the disease status and the amount of donor cells in the blood.

      If a complete remission (disappearance of cancer symptoms) is achieved at 3 months after
      transplantation with more than 80% donor T-cells, no additional T-cells will be given.

      If donor T-cells are less than 80% in the blood, then a boost of NK cells or T-cells will be
      given. The type of cells given will depend on results of DNA testing that was done during the
      screening visit to check the presence of molecules that may be able to activate ("turn on")
      NK cells in a specific area of your DNA. The same type of cell infusion may be repeated 8
      weeks later, if the percentage of donor T-cells does not reach 100% in the blood.

      If active disease persists at 3 months after transplantation, 1 dose of rituximab will be
      given once a week, or NK cells or T-cells will be given between the second and third dose of
      rituximab. Infusion of NK cells or T-cells may be repeated every 6 weeks (up to 12 weeks), if
      the disease does not achieve complete remission with the first infusion of cells.

      It will be required to stay in the hospital from about 2 weeks before the transplantation
      until about 2-3 weeks after the transplantation. The additional cells will be infused on an
      outpatient basis.

      Epinephrine and antihistamines will be available at the bedside during the NK cell infusion
      to help treat any allergic reactions.

      Study Visits:

      It will be required to stay in the Houston area for about 100 days after the transplantation.
      During initial study visits, the following tests/procedures will be performed after the
      transplantation.

        -  Blood transfusions of blood and platelets as needed.

        -  Blood drawn (about 6 teaspoons) for routine tests.

        -  Blood drawn (about 6-10 tablespoons) to check the effects of the transplantation.

        -  Urine collected for routine tests.

        -  Imaging scans, such as the ones performed during the screening visit.

        -  Bone marrow biopsy performed, when it is necessary.

      Between Days 25-35 after transplantation, and then at 3 months, CT scans, positron emission
      tomography (PET), routine blood draws (about 6 teaspoons), and a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate
      will be performed. These tests will be done to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      Length of time on this study up to about 3 years, unless the disease gets worse or any
      intolerable side effects are experienced.

      Follow-up:

      After Day 35, if the disease is in remission with 100% donor cells, an evaluation will be
      performed every 3 months during the first year and then every 6 months up to 3 years.

      If the disease is not in remission by Days 90-100, CT scans, PET scans, routine blood tests
      (about 6 teaspoons), and a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate will be performed every 6-8 weeks
      (after each NK or T-cell infusion until remission is achieved ). Then, these tests will be
      repeated every 6 months.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are FDA approved and
      commercially available. The use of NK cells is not FDA approved and commercially available.
      The use of the drugs and NK cells together in this study is investigational.
    
  