
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of integrating molecular imaging (PET with FLT tracer) into
      current state-of-the-art image-guided adaptive radiation therapy (IGART) of head and neck
      cancer.

      II. To determine within a predefined range the maximum tolerated radiation dose for
      concurrent cisplatin and molecular and anatomic image-based IGART of head and neck cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To compare gross tumor volumes defined by FDG-PET, FLT-PET, CBCT, and
      regular FBCT before, during, and following completion of chemo-radiation therapy.

      II. To evaluate the impact of escalated doses to tumor sub-volumes with high FLT and FDG
      uptake prior to and during radiation therapy using post-treatment FDG images as an early
      surrogate for sub-volume-specific local control.

      III. To develop a database consisting of all molecular and anatomic images, including daily
      CBCT data sets, obtained during chemo-radiation therapy to support further research.
      Potential applications include determination of optimal adaptive re-planning frequency and
      the benefits of basing IGART on 4D anatomic data sets derived from deformably registering
      daily CBCT and FBCT data sets.

      IV. Determine patient long-term toxicities and survival. V. To evaluate the impact of daily
      image-guided setup; off-line every other week adaptive re-planning; and molecular-image based
      targeting on sparing of tissues and organs responsible for late and early treatment sequelae.

      OUTLINE: This a dose-escalation study of intensity-modulated radiotherapy.

      Patients undergo intensity-modulated image-guided adaptive radiotherapy once daily 5 days a
      week for 6 weeks. Patients also receive cisplatin IV on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 and 4 weeks, 2, 3, 4, 5,
      6, 9, and 12 months, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  