
    
      This study comprises two Specific Aims: SA-1) Development of a Balance Assessment and
      Training Platform (BATP) based upon the existing BRT; and SA-2) Evaluation of the BATP
      Assessment Module's test-retest reliability and the Training Module's motor learning effect.

      Methods related to Specific Aim 1 SA-1.1: Develop a BATP based on the BRT that incorporates
      real-time computing and an Adaptive Staircase Algorithm to establish subjects' Limit of
      Balance. Modify the BRT's experimental control algorithm and hardware setup such that data
      from our extant measurement systems are continuously streamed to a Real Time Computing
      Workstation and read by the experimental control algorithm, enabling it to monitor foot
      movement and compute key performance measures on an ongoing basis. These measures will
      include Root Mean Square tracking Error (RMSE) and Root Mean Squared Deviation (RMSD) between
      the ground plane projection of Center of Mass (CoM) and the center of the Base of Support
      (BoS). Incorporate an Adaptive Staircase Algorithm into the real time experimental control
      algorithm to establish the target positions corresponding to Limit of Balance, based on foot
      movement (i.e., stepping).

      SA-1.2: Replace the projection screen with Virtual Reality eyewear. The experimental control
      algorithm will be further modified to display a virtual sphere in the virtual reality
      eyewear. The virtual reality eyewear will provide a direct view of the actual physical
      environment but also show the sphere following the trajectory specified by the Adaptive
      Staircase Algorithm, or the assessment or training modules. When the subject's tracking
      fingertip contacts the center of the target sphere it will provide visual feedback by
      changing color.

      SA-1.3: Develop the BATP's Assessment and Training modules. The Assessment Module consists of
      measuring the subject's Limit of Balance, computing the manifold bounding target motion, and
      the target's motion within the manifold; as just described. The harnessed subject then tracks
      the disk for 90 sec. After a 2 1/2 minute rest the process is repeated a second time.
      Tracking and resting durations can be varied to optimize measurement quality and accommodate
      individual subject needs and capabilities.

      The Training Module operates in a loop that presents an operator-specified number of training
      bouts. One training bout consists of measuring Limit of Balance, computing the manifold and
      target motion, presenting the tracking target for five minutes, and pausing for a 2 1/2
      minute rest period before signaling the operator to begin the next bout. Tracking and resting
      durations can be varied to optimize training efficacy and accommodate individual subject
      needs and capabilities. For this proposal a training session will consist of five bouts and
      last approximately 60 minutes. As in the Assessment Module, subjects will be harnessed while
      performing the tracking task to guard against falling.

      The Assessment and Training modules both collect the same data (All data will be saved for
      offline, post-test analyses: a) The values of r and corresponding to each Limit of Balance,
      and Limit of Balance; b) The motion (position vs. time) of the target sphere; c) The motion
      of each of 13 body segments, as well as the tip of the tracking finger [these data will be
      used to compute tracking error (RMSE), balance stability (RMSD), and to inform the Adaptive
      Staircase Algorithm when stepping occurs]; d) Ground reaction forces and moments for each
      foot.

      Methods related to Specific Aim 2 SA-2.1: Evaluate the Assessment Module's test-retest
      reliability and compare subject performance in it to that in established clinical measures of
      balance, reach, and Fear of Falling. Twenty stroke (STR) adults will undergo two tests with
      the Assessment Module 48 hours apart. Clinical measures will be administered before each
      test. Test-retest reliability will be evaluated

      SA-2.2: Evaluate the Training Module's motor learning effect of three one-hour training
      sessions over one week. Ten subjects randomly selected from those that participated in SA-2.1
      will undergo three one-hour training sessions for one week. The SA-2.1 test-retest data will
      also serve here as double baseline data to establish before-training balance performance.
      Subjects will be evaluated using the clinical measures at the beginning and immediately after
      training. Motor learning will be assessed using data from the baseline assessments, the
      clinical measures, and from the Training Module taken from the last 90 sec of the last
      training bout of each training session.
    
  