
    
      Choledocholithiasis refers to the presence of gallstones within the common bile duct. It is
      proposed to look for markers that help in the diagnosis and in differentiating between
      retained and migrated gallstones. The selection of patients to perform endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is a very important aspect, due to the economic aspects and
      possible complications. By making a proper patient selection for additional studies or
      procedure, then the costs, complications and days of stay would be reduced. Avoiding the
      unnecessary use of ERCP would avoid its complications. Taking advantage of the development of
      technology, the improvement in computer systems, the use of artificial intelligence and a
      Symbolic Regression Model that works to predict the presence of choledocholithiasis and
      provide evidence that clarifies the treatment of patients with this pathology, especially in
      this group where there is a bigger controversy.

      Having the historical database of the University Hospital (HU), regarding clinical,
      laboratory and image variables of patients with suspected choledocholithiasis, using a
      symbolic regression method, several randomly formed equations are generated. Each equation
      deducts its coefficient of linear correlation (Pearson's correlation).

      For the following study we admitted to the emergency department of adults at the University
      Hospital all patients with clinical suspicion of choledocholithiasis, who meet the inclusion
      criterion. The study which is realized is a normal one based on the method of clinical
      predictors, obtaining laboratory studies, image studies, and patient management will be
      carried out based on the method of clinical predictors. The calculation is made with the
      equation obtained, and the patient is monitored until discharge. The calculation obtained
      from the equation will not be taken into account for the decisions in the management of the
      patient. The variables studied as white blood cells, total bilirubin values, direct
      bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (AP), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) at
      admission will be taken from the clinical record. Transabdominal ultrasonography will be
      performed upon admission by the diagnostic radiology department of the HU and the size of the
      bile duct in mm, presence of gallbladder gallstones and bile duct stones will be taken from
      the report. ERCP, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) or intraoperative
      cholangiography will be performed and one will be taken as a confirmation of
      choledocolithiasis, and its absence would rule it out.
    
  