
    
      The study involves a baseline questionnaire, educational intervention, primary care follow-up
      phone call questionnaire (approximately 2 weeks after primary care appointment), and
      follow-up questionnaires by phone calls at 3 months and 1 year. All eligible, consented
      patients will complete the baseline questionnaire, conducted by a REPAIR research staff
      member. The baseline questionnaire will include the following instruments that have been
      field-tested by our team in previous and ongoing studies: 1.) Willingness to Consider Joint
      Replacement Question 2.) Knowledge Regarding Knee OA and Joint Replacement (developed by The
      Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making) 3.) Hospital for Special Surgery Knee
      Expectations Survey 4.) Socioeconomic Survey 5.) Access to Health Care, Charleson Comorbidity
      Index 6.) Quality of Life SF-12v2. This survey can be done over the phone or in person. It
      should take approximately 30-40 minutes. At the completion of the baseline questionnaire,
      patients will be randomized into either study Decision Aid (DA) supplemented by motivational
      interview (MI) (hereafter referred to as DA/MI intervention) arm or the attention control
      arm. Patient appointments for the DA/MI intervention or attention control activity will be
      scheduled to occur 2 weeks prior to the patients next primary care appointment (up to the
      date of the appointment). The DA/MI intervention (referred to as an information session in
      patient material) will be completed by a REPAIR research study interventionist (the
      interventionist will not administer the baseline assessment). In the intervention arm,
      patients will be shown a decision aid video entitled, Treatment Choices for Knee
      Osteoarthritis. Following the viewing of the decision aid video, the participant will be
      engaged in a motivational interview by the research study interventionist.The completion time
      for the educational intervention will vary from 30 to 80 minutes. The attention control arm
      will be conducted by the REPAIR research staff. Patients will be given written educational
      material adapted from the NIH/NIAMS publication Osteoarthritis to review at his/her
      leisure.The completion time for the attention control arm is approximately 10 minutes.
      Follow-up procedures will occur at the following time points: 1.) approximately 2 weeks after
      the participants primary care appointment, 2.) 3-months post intervention, 3.) 12-months post
      intervention, and 4.) medical chart assessment. All followup procedures will be administered
      by a REPAIR research team member that was not involved in the educational intervention.
      Participants in both the DA/MI intervention and the attention control will complete a primary
      care follow-up survey approximately 2 weeks following the patients next primary care
      appointment. This survey will be comprised of the following: 1.) Willingness to consider
      joint replacement question 2.) Hospital for Special Surgery Knee Expectations Survey 3.)
      Knowledge Regarding Knee OA and Joint Replacement 4.) Communication questions regarding who
      the patient talked to about their knee pain and/or the intervention. The follow-up will take
      10-15 minutes to complete, and will be administered preferably by phone. Participants in both
      the DA/MI intervention and the attention control will complete a 3-month follow-up (completed
      approximately 3 months post intervention) survey over the phone. This survey will be
      comprised the same as the primary care followup survey. This survey will take 10-15 minutes
      to complete. Lastly, participants in both the DA/MI intervention and the attention control
      will complete a 12-month follow-up (completed approximately 12 months post intervention)
      survey over the phone. The survey will be comprised of the following: Willingness to consider
      joint replacement, Hospital for Special Surgery Knee Expectations Survey, Knowledge Regarding
      Knee OA and Joint Replacement, and a survey regarding referrals to orthopedics and for joint
      replacement. At the time of the 12-month follow-up, the patients medical record will be
      accessed to check for a referral to orthopedics and a joint replacement procedure.
    
  