
    
      There may be physiologic and pathologic pulmonary changes because of inflammatory cytokine
      release during total hip replacement surgery due to surgical invasivity or advanced age,
      comorbidities, perioperative immobility of patients. Also intraoperative mechanical
      ventilation can cause volutrauma, barotrauma or atelectrauma risk because of lateral position
      during hip replacement surgery. All these factors can cause pulmonary complications and
      vascular permeability increase in dependent and independent regions due to neutrophil
      response increase. Intraoperative hypovolemia is often observed in this group patients
      because of preoperative prolonged fasting periods, insufficient fluid intake due to
      preoperative delirium and depression. Also mechanical ventilation with positive pressure
      slightly decreases venous return to the heart resulting decrease in cardiac output. It is
      more obvious in the presence of hypovolemia. Providing continuous sufficient intravascular
      volume is necessary for prevention of tissue hypoxia and providing optimal cardiac output. It
      is known that intra operative hemodynamic optimisation, has positive effects on mortality
      ratio. But proper intravascular volume is not always easy to maintain, and it is not always
      easy for anaesthetists to identify deficiency or overload of intra operative intravascular
      volume. In recent years, intravascular volume therapies are goal directed by the reflections
      of respiratory mechanics on arterial pressure and pulse oximetry. Plethysmographic wave
      changes observed in pulse oximetry induced by positive pressure ventilation is accepted as
      indicator of hypovolemia. Hemodynamic changes induced by respiratory mode can be measured by
      invasive arterial monitorization. This dynamic variable is called as pulse pressure variation
      index and is correlated with amplitude changes observed in pulse oximetry signals. These
      variations are based on changes observed in pulse wavelength due to the changes in
      intrathoracic pressure. In some pulse oximetry devices, this is done as standard function as
      path variability index (PVI). PVI is measurement of dynamic changes of perfusion index during
      a whole respiratory cycle. Pulse oximetry wave length changes enables the evaluate
      hypovolemia noninvasively.

      PVI is gaining importance as a dynamic parameter in evaluating fluid treatment during
      surgery. Goal directed fluid therapy has shown positive effects on results on patient
      survival. In a study which fluid therapy was guided by PVI changes and it was reported that,
      goal directed fluid therapy had positive results.The investigators also, use some invasive
      and noninvasive monitorization techniques, including PVI and CVP, to monitor static and
      dynamic hemodynamic parameters during hip replacement surgery and we apply fluids according
      to our fluid therapy protocols. The investigators use blood gas analysis to monitor the
      efficiency of this treatment.

      In this study, in both groups the investigators will apply fluid according to PVI values, so
      if any difference detected is observed between groups will be because of the differences of
      respiratory parameters between groups. And the investigators can detect, PVI stability and
      less fluid needs differences between groups.

      PETCO2 is, another parameter which will be evaluated in this study, is a factor of tissue CO2
      production (VCO2), alveolar ventilation and cardiac output (mainly pulmonary blood flow). It
      is known that, when CO2 produced at the tissues and formed in lungs are constant, the changes
      of etCO2 are due to the blood flow differences and it is related to changes of cardiac
      output. For this reason, PETCO2 is suggested as a noninvasive measure for continuous
      assessment of cardiac output. At the same time, it is possible to comment about changes of
      dead space by measuring arterial CO2 pressure.

      Decrease of PETCO2, resulted from cardiac output decrease, can not be explained only with the
      decrease rate of excretion of CO2, but also can be explained by the changes of production of
      CO2 caused by dependency to oxygen supply. On the contrary, when cardiac output is high,
      pulmonary blood flow is no longer a limiting factor for PETCO2 formation, and PETCO2 is
      related to sufficiency of alveolar ventilation.

      As a result, etCO2 measurement has some advantages; it is simple noninvasive and does not
      require a invasive hemodynamic measurement.
    
  