
    
      1. Henan institute of cardiology epidemiology is responsible for design, data quality
           control and statistical analysis.

        2. Data were collected using a uniformed Case Report Form(CRF) by trained staff at each
           hospital.

        3. Sample size estimation: Based on retrospective observational cohort of ACS patients,
           1-year mortality in normal renal function and renal disfunction were 2.8% and 7.9%,
           respectively. To achieve a precision of 15% with an α of 0.05, the loss ratio of
           following-up is 10%.The investigators would need a sample of 2000.

        4. Statistical analysis plan: the investigators will report summary statistics for patient
           characteristics, renal function status, comorbidities, treatment strategies and
           outcomes. the investigators will also undertake the following prespecified subgroup
           analyses: age, sex, STE-ACS or NSTE-ACS, history of diabetes, history of hypertension,
           smoking and Syntax score.

        5. Quality assurance plan 1)Diagnosis of ACS is according to the third universal
           definition.2)Before registry, a training program on study objectives, data collection,
           and ACS management is given to the primary investigator and related staff at each
           participating center.3)Henan institute of cardiology epidemiology will regularly
           monitored at least 10% of CRFs for accuracy against medical records. If the CRFs are not
           completed with 98% accuracy, all CRFs are considered unqualified and this staff will be
           retrained.4)Before entering into the computer, data is queried for invalid and illogical
           values by research staff in Henan institute of cardiology epidemiology. Participating
           centres who has the high error rate of data, and no change in 6 months shall be deemed
           abandoned automatically; participating centres who has the high quality of data will be
           issued a certificate to reward.5)Investigator meeting will be annually held to conclude
           the progress, solve existing problems and strengthen program training.
    
  