
    
      The Czech National Lymphoma Registry (NiHiL) was established in 1999 in order to monitor
      epidemiologic data and to improve the diagnostic evaluation and quality of treatment of
      patients with non-Hodgkin´s lymphoma (NHL). The database NiHiL includes majority of patients
      with NHL in the Czech Republic, treated in one of seven University Hospitals and other
      smaller centres. This represents approx. 75% of all lymphoma patients in the Czech Republic.
      Since 1999 until the end of year 2016 there were registered 14000 pts.

      The patients are registered into the registry in anonymized form at the time of diagnosis
      after signing informed consent and data are updated/collected at the end of first line
      treatment, at each relapse including therapy for relapse and then annual follow-up and at the
      time of death. The registration is submitted electronically via secure internet system. For
      each patient are available following forms: registration form, diagnostic form, treatment
      form, follow- up form, and other malignancy form. The content of diagnostic form consists of
      diagnosis according WHO classification including the copy of original histology description,
      date of diagnosis, clinical stage, B symptoms, nodal and extranodal involvement, laboratory
      findings and prognostic systems (IPI, aaIPI, MIPI, FLIPII and others). The prognostic system
      is calculated automatically. The diagnostic form is the same for the first diagnosis and for
      the relapses. The treatment form consists of detailed information on the treatment:
      chemotherapy regimens, therapy with monoclonal antibodies, radiotherapy, autologous or
      allogeneic transplant. Response assessment has been adjusted to the different version of
      Chesson criteria for malignant lymphoma. It is expected that comorbidity score and toxicities
      evaluation will be added into the therapeutic form too.

      The follow-up form is requested to be updated annually, besides that in case of relapse or
      death. This form includes information about clinical status, date of relapse or death.

      The exports made from NiHiL content all data from registry and survival data (overall
      survival, progression survival and disease free survival).

      Data quality in the NiHiL has been checked by audits recently, which have been carried out in
      each centre twice a year.

      The data is analyzed according to NHL subtypes with endpoints: lymphoma distribution,
      epidemiological data, prognostic characteristic, treatment characteristics, response rate,
      relapse rate, mortality, PFS, OS, DFS, Lymphoma specific survival, longterm toxicity.

      The registry has been repeatedly supported by the grants of Ministry of Health. A substantial
      number of papers originated from the NiHiL have been published in last 15 years in both Czech
      and international journals. The main aim of the registry is to collect data for malignant
      lymphoma for better understanding of epidemiological and clinical data about this disease.
    
  