
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the incidence and severity of acute- and chronic-graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) after HLA-matched or -mismatched unrelated donor hematopoietic peripheral blood
           transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies scheduled to receive
           immunosuppressive combination of sirolimus, tacrolimus, and anti-thymocyte globulin as
           GVHD prophylaxis.

        -  To determine the safety of this combination in the first six months post-transplant.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the time-to-engraftment, non-relapse mortality rate, overall and
           disease-free survival, incidence of disease relapse, and incidence of opportunistic
           infections with this GVHD prophylaxis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to conditioning regimen (fludarabine phosphate and
      melphalan vs fractionated total-body irradiation [FTBI] and etoposide vs FTBI and
      cyclophosphamide) and degree of donor/recipient HLA mismatch (high-risk vs low-risk).

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive 1 of 3 standard conditioning regimens beginning
           on day -9 or -8 and continuing to day -1 or 0.

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation: Patients receive HLA-matched or mismatched
           unrelated donor peripheral blood stem cells on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously
           beginning on day -3 and then orally when tolerated, oral sirolimus on days -3 and -2,
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -3 to 0, and methotrexate* IV on days
           1, 3, and 6. Tacrolimus and sirolimus continue for 3-6 months (with taper).

      NOTE: *Only patients with high-risk HLA mismatch receive treatment with methotrexate.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  