
    
      BACKGROUND: We previously conducted a retrospective cohort study of 12,193 patients evaluated
      for infertility between 1960-1988 at five clinical sites. Detailed information abstracted
      from the medical records, along with questionnaires administered to located patients and
      cancer incidence and mortality data derived from cancer registries and the National Death
      Index, allowed us to examine cancer risk related to different causes of infertility and
      treatments while controlling for other patient characteristics. Although there were some
      increases of certain cancers related to various causes of infertility, we generally did not
      observe substantial relationships related to use of different fertility drugs. The one
      exception was some increased risk of uterine cancers with clomiphene use, of interest given
      the drug's chemical similarity to tamoxifen. Our numbers of patients with certain cancers
      (e.g., ovarian, uterine) were, however, limited and we had insufficient power to evaluate
      subgroup effects (e.g., drug relationships among nulligravid women).

      OBJECTIVES: We therefore conducted an updated follow-up of these patients in order to assess
      cancer risk in relation to causes of infertility and therapeutic regimens used to treat these
      causes.

      ELIGIBILITY: This study gained an additional 10 years of follow-up among the patients deemed
      eligible for the previous investigation. This included women with both primary and second
      infertility. Approximately 39% of the cohort previously were prescribed clomiphene citrate,
      while 10% received gonadotrophins.

      DESIGN: Passive follow-up was attempted for patients who previously did not participate and
      for whom only information available in clinic records could be retained. All other patients
      were traced for active as well as passive follow-up. Active follow-up involved requesting
      that patients complete a short questionnaire, whereas passive follow-up was via linkage to
      cancer registries and the National Death Index. While cancer risks were assessed in relation
      to the general population, the majority of comparisons were internal ones, involving the
      calculation of relative risks (RRs) associated with different causes of infertility or
      treatment regimens while controlling for other cancer risk predictors.
    
  