
    
      Background: Transgender women are disproportionally affected by substance abuse and HIV.
      Evidence-based interventions that can address both issues simultaneously may efficiently
      improve the overall health of transgender women and reduce burdensome health and societal
      costs associated with substance abuse and HIV. In South Florida, the majority of transgender
      women identify as Black or Latina, or transgender women of color (TWOC). TWOC are at highest
      risk for substance abuse and HIV acquisition, due to multiple external stressors arising as a
      consequence of being a gender minority, and also a racial/ethnic minority. Studies have
      demonstrated Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) to be effective
      in mitigating development of substance use disorders (SUD) in other at-risk, marginalized
      populations. An adapted culturally-tailored SBIRT focused on linkage to substance use
      services and HIV pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP and nPEP) may effectively reduce
      the odds of individuals in this special population developing a SUD and also facilitate their
      voluntary election of HIV screening and use of PrEP/nPEP for HIV prevention. Objectives: K99
      -In preparation for the independent phase, the career development phase will include training
      in qualitative research methods and intervention development. R00 - In the independent phase,
      the study objectives will be to (a) use a mixed-methods approach to obtain formative data
      among 40 transgender women that will aid in adapting and developing an adapted culturally
      tailored SBIRT intervention (SBIRT-A), (b) pre-test and refine SBIRT-A in 15 transgender
      women based on formative work and, (c) pilot test SBIRT-A in a sample of 76 transgender to
      assess feasibility and acceptability. Pilot Design: Randomized trial among 76 adult (18 years
      or older) HIV uninfected transgender women at moderate risk for developing a substance use
      disorder who will be randomized to either SBIRT-A or the control condition (INFO-C). The
      INFO-C group will be a time-matched comparison control where information will be provided on
      substance use and PrEP services in a non-SBIRT format via printed and audio-visual study
      material. There will be a follow-up visit in three months to assess linkage, and barriers and
      facilitators to substance use services and PrEP/nPEP. Analysis: Bivariate difference tests
      (chi square and t-tests) will be used to test differences between SBIRT-A and INFO-C
      participants for the primary outcome measures (linkage to substance use services, PrEP, and
      nPEP) at the three-month visit. Multivariate binary logistic regressions (post- and
      pre-intervention) will be used to determine substance use as a predictor of (1) HIV/STI
      screening in the past three months and (2&3) PrEP and nPEP uptake in the past three months.
      Significance: Results derived from this study will help elucidate the relationship between
      substance use and HIV among transgender women, including TWOC, in South Florida, and will
      provide evidence for a larger study that can test the efficacy of SBIRT-A to reduce
      prevalence of substance abuse and HIV in this special population. The aims of this study are
      parallel to the NIH/National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) strategic plan to decrease
      HIV/AIDS health disparities, prevent HIV transmission, and better understand the interaction
      of drug abuse and HIV/AIDS.
    
  