
    
      Study population:

      The evaluation will abstract screening data for adult (≥18 years old) patients newly
      initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) who are screened for depression at the two clinics
      before and after the integration of the depression treatment program, and additional
      treatment and outcome data for those patients who screen positive for depression.

      Study Size:

      Across the two clinics, the investigators expect to abstract depression screening data for
      approximately 2,300 patients. The investigators expect to abstract further treatment and
      outcome data for approximately 640 patients who screen positive for mild, moderate, or severe
      depression.

      Study Duration:

      Evaluation and dissemination activities will last two years.

      Study Evaluation:

      To evaluate the impact of the mental health treatment program on HIV care outcomes, the
      investigators will collect data on HIV appointment adherence and viral load at 6 months
      following ART initiation.

      To evaluate the impact of the mental health treatment program on mental health outcomes the
      investigators will collect data on depression symptoms at baseline through 6 months following
      ART initiation.

      Study Design Overview:

      The study will employ a pre-post design in two HIV clinics in Lilongwe to evaluate the impact
      of integrating the depression treatment program within existing clinic operations on HIV and
      mental health outcomes. The investigators will use existing medical records and the
      depression patient registry maintained by the Ministry of Health-run clinics to abstract
      routinely collected clinical data. Using these data, the investigators will compare mental
      health and HIV outcomes before and after the integration of the depression treatment program.
      Depressive symptoms will be measured with the Patient Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9). The
      PHQ-9 is a self-report questionnaire designed to assess depression through nine questions
      that come directly from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th
      Edition (DSM-IV) signs and symptoms of major depression. Additionally, the investigators will
      conduct short qualitative interviews with clinic and Ministry of Health staff about the
      integration of the depression screening and treatment program and with patients on their
      understanding of depression and satisfaction with depression screening and treatment.
    
  