
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you may be asked to fill out a questionnaire called
      the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) before your scheduled pleural effusion treatment
      procedure, 24 hours after your procedure, and then weekly for the next 4 months. During this
      time, a member of the study staff or a computer system will call you at home on your desired
      day and time to complete the questionnaire. The MDASI for lung-related symptoms has 22
      questions about the possible symptoms caused by the disease, and how the symptoms may affect
      the activities of your daily life, which you will rate on a scale of 0-10. The MDASI will
      take about 5 minutes to complete each time.

      You will also complete 2 questionnaires called the SF6D Patient Self Assessment and Borg
      Scale before your scheduled pleural effusion treatment procedure, 2 weeks later, and then 1
      time a month for 1 year. These questionnaires are part of your standard of care. There are 7
      questions total about how the symptoms may affect the activities of your daily life. If you
      are not in the clinic, a member of the study staff will call you at home on your desired day
      and time to complete the questionnaires. The questionnaires should take about 5 minutes total
      to complete each time.

      Your information will be stored in a password-protected database for use in future research
      related to cancer for up to 5 years after the study is completed.

      Before any of your information that is stored in the database can be used for research, the
      people doing the research must get specific approval from the Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) of MD Anderson. The IRB is a committee made up of doctors, researchers, and members of
      the community. The IRB is responsible for protecting the participants involved in research
      studies and making sure all research is done in a safe and ethical manner. All research done
      at MD Anderson, including research involving your data from this bank, must first be approved
      by the IRB.

      Your information will be given a code number so that none of your personal identifying
      information will be directly linked to your information. Only the researcher in charge of the
      database will have access to the code numbers and be able to link the information in the
      database back to you. Other researchers who use the database will not be able to link your
      information or file back to you.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 445 participants will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  