
    
      The following list indicates the sequence and timing of our study procedures:

        -  Inpatients will be screened for study eligibility by one of the co-investigators via
           review of the electronic medical record (EMR) for administration of intravenous (IV)
           diuretics and documentation of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) as the
           indication for diuresis.

        -  Eligible patients will be invited to participate by a research assistant.

        -  All consenting patients' demographic data will be recorded. A Study Identification
           Number will be assigned and personal identifiers will be logged in a "key" separate from
           the dataset. The number of subjects who are approached but decline enrollment will be
           documented.

        -  Baseline adherence to heart failure self-management regimen will be assessed by
           administration of the Medical Outcomes Study Specific Adherence Scale, a 3-item
           questionnaire for patients with heart failure (MOSSAS-3HF). The 3 questions in the
           MOSSAS-3HF ask patients to rate how often in the past 4 weeks they adhered to their
           medication regimen, low-salt diet, and daily weight measurement. Answer choices for each
           of the 3 items range from 0 (none of the time) to 5 (all of the time), so a maximum
           total score would be 15, for adherence "all of the time" to each of the 3 items.
           Baseline health beliefs regarding benefits of treatments for heart failure and
           self-efficacy will be assessed.

        -  Patients who consent will be randomized into attention control group or educational
           intervention group using sealed envelopes (randomization generated in sets of 6 for a
           total of one hundred participants by using Research Randomizer).

        -  All participants will undergo a limited bedside HCU examination of the inferior vena
           cava.

        -  A patient education tool and the patient's own IVC images will be shared with each
           patient in the intervention group in real time.

        -  All images will be acquired by an experienced registered board certified
           ultrasonographer between 36 and 60 hours after admission using an HCU device by
           Sonosite®.

        -  Each HCU examination is estimated to last 3-10 minutes. All IVC studies will be
           performed with the patient in the supine position using the HCU machine (Sonosite Inc.,
           Washington). Ultrasound probe will be at subxyphoid placement. Measurements will be
           taken using 2-D images at approximately 2 cm from the IVC/right atrium juncture, taking
           care to avoid any hepatic veins emptying into the IVC at the approximation of IVC/ right
           atrium interface. The IVC normally collapses with inspiration and expands with
           expiration. For this reason, patients may be asked to "sniff" to measure IVC
           collapsibility with inspiration.

        -  For patients under isolation precautions, standard hospital disinfectant procedures as
           recommended by the manufacturer and as followed by echocardiography department will be
           followed.

        -  The ultrasonographer will calculate and document the patient's IVC max and qualitative
           Inferior Vena Cava Collapsibility Index (IVCCI).

        -  Two weeks after discharge, a follow up phone call will be made to the all participants.
           The scripted phone call for intervention patients will reinforce heart failure
           self-management education from the Patient Education Tool. The scripted phone call for
           control patients will only ask neutral questions about progress since hospital discharge
           and whether the patient remembers getting an ultrasound in the hospital as part of the
           research study.

        -  A phone call will be made and a letter will be mailed to the participants approximately
           3 weeks after the study enrollment date to serve as a reminder for the final 30-day
           phone call.

        -  A research assistant will contact all enrolled patients by telephone 4 weeks after
           discharge to administer MOSSAS-3HF and to ask whether the patient required hospital
           admission or emergency department care since the original hospital discharge where
           patient was enrolled in the study.

        -  Review of electronic medical records will be used to determine length of stay and
           whether patients were readmitted to Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center or Johns
           Hopkins Hospital within 30 days; for those patients not readmitted within 30 days, an
           attempt will be made to determine whether the patient has been readmitted to another
           hospital or sought care at another Emergency Department during the follow up telephone
           call.

        -  All HCU examinations will be recorded and available for review by a board-certified
           cardiologist.

        -  If an enrolled patient requests termination of the HCU examination at any time, it will
           stop immediately.
    
  