
    
      The Ontario Health Technology Advisory Committee recommended that a study should be completed
      due to the large numbers of patients needing chronic wound care and the increasing use of
      NPWT based on poor quality evidence to identify any potential indications for the use of
      NPWT. This study is designed to provide evidence regarding NPWT as compared to standard
      dressing regimens in Ontario and the results will serve as a benchmark for the utilization of
      NPWT in chronic pressure wounds, establishing and providing guidance regarding the use of
      NPWT in this population of subjects and to support policy decision making regarding the
      funding of the NPWT in the province. Specifically, this will compare the efficacy,
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of NPWT with standard dressing regimens for the
      treatment of chronic pressure ulcers of the pelvic region.

      This is a prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled clinical trial comparing
      standardized wound dressing (control arm) to NPWT (experimental arm) for the treatment of
      chronic pressure wounds of the pelvic region. NPWT will be performed using the
      Vacuum-Assisted Closure System (V.A.C.® Therapy™, KCI Medical Canada Inc., Mississauga,
      Ontario). NPWT will be compared to the present recommended state of the art wound dressings
      in subjects who would be candidates for either type of wound therapy. Both arms will receive
      standard wound care (e.g., debridement, preventative care, infection control, etc.). The
      efficacy, effectiveness, safety, and quality of life will be evaluated for standardized wound
      dressing versus NPWT. Complications associated with either form of wound care will be
      documented. An economic evaluation will be conducted in order to assess the
      cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of NPWT compared to standard wound dressing. It is
      anticipated that 184 subjects will be enrolled and randomized over a 1.5 year period. All
      subjects providing consent and meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized to
      either treatment arm and followed for 12 weeks. Patients who have wound closure within the
      12-week study period will continue to have wound care visits as scheduled. All subjects will
      have Wound Evaluation Visits and Wound Dressing Change Visits. Wound Evaluation Visits will
      occur at baseline, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 weeks after the date of randomization, where following
      removal of the dressing, a detailed wound assessment (e.g., wound characteristics,
      measurements) will be done and healthcare resource utilization will be collected. Disease
      specific quality of life measures and preference based quality of life measures (EQ-5D) will
      be collected at baseline, 6 weeks and at 12 weeks. Dressing Change Visits will occur as
      clinically required and the frequency of dressing changes per week will be allowed to vary
      over the 12 weeks of the study. During the dressing change visits, subjects will be monitored
      for wound infection and other complications. Subjects may be enrolled and randomized in the
      clinic and transferred to the community with continued follow-up completed by the appropriate
      Community Care Access Centre.
    
  