
    
      Selection of High Dose Immunosuppressive Therapy and Autologous HSCT Strategy for this Trial

      Selection of the Regimen for High-Dose Immunosuppressive Therapy Cyclophosphamide with ATG
      (Cy/ATG) is a common conditioning regimen with two decades of experience in the treatment of
      aplastic anemia and has been used safely without reported mortality in the treatment of
      autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. Cy/ATG not
      only has less acute toxicity, it has less chronic side effects. Cy/ATG is not associated with
      late malignancies or cataracts. Cyclophosphamide and anti-thymocyte globulin (horse or rabbit
      ATG) and rituximab are potent immunosuppressive agents. Rituximab and ATG contribute
      additional immunosuppression without additional cytotoxicity. Rituximab and ATG given shortly
      pre-transplant will contribute to the elimination of host T lymphocytes that survive
      cyclophosphamide or that contaminate the CD34+selected graft. SLE, an autoimmune disease
      responsive to cyclophosphamide, responds well to a Cy/ATG/rituximab conditioning regimen. For
      these reasons, Cy/ATG/rituximab will be the conditioning regimen utilized in this study.

      To justify any new therapy such as HSCT, the risk of dying from the disease must be higher
      than that expected from its treatment, or the morbidities associated with the disease must
      justify the treatment risks. Autologous stem cell transplantation has a mortality of 1-3% in
      breast cancer patients using intense conditioning regimens with multiple alkylating agents,
      and up to 10-15% in patients with lymphomas and other malignancies. The latter patients
      usually have been heavily treated before transplant and the accumulation of treatment
      toxicities is thought to play a role in their increased transplant-related mortality.
      Cyclophosphamide and ATG/rituximab have been used to transplant of extremely ill patients
      with systemic lupus erythematosus and multiple organ dysfunction at Northwestern University
      without mortality.

      Since patients in this study are earlier in the disease course, a conditioning regimen that
      has historically been associated with less toxicity will be employed. The regimen will be
      Cyclophosphamide at 200 mg/kg with ATG 5.5 mg/kg and rituximab 1000 mg divided over 2 doses.
      Cyclophosphamide 200mg/kg with or without ATG has been used safely and effectively in a
      variety of autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis,
      and aplastic anemia. Rabbit ATG will be used instead of equine ATG due to the lower incidence
      of hypersensitivity and fever with rabbit ATG compared to equine.

      Method of Harvesting Stem Cells Based on the experience of the pilot studies, the current
      protocol will mobilize stem cells with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte-colony stimulating
      factor (G-CSF), and collect stem cells by apheresis, with subsequent bone marrow harvest
      performed only if needed to supplement the peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC). Based on
      experience of autoimmune flares in patients receiving G-CSF alone for mobilization (56),
      patients will be mobilized with cyclophosphamide 2.0 g/m2 and G-CSF 10 mcg /kg.

      Regimen for Autologous HSCT

      Cyclophosphamide Cyclophosphamide is an active agent in patients with a wide variety of
      malignancies. It is used frequently in the therapy of lymphoid malignancies and has potent
      immunosuppressive activity. It is frequently used as a cytotoxic and immunosuppressive agent
      in patients undergoing marrow transplants and as a treatment for patients with autoimmune
      diseases. It is an alkylating agent that requires hepatic metabolism to the active
      metabolites, phosphoramide mustard and acrolein. These active metabolites react with
      nucleophilic groups. It is available as an oral or intravenous preparation. Bioavailability
      is 90% when given orally. The half-life of the parent compound is 5.3 hours in adults, and
      the half-life of the major metabolite phosphoramide mustard is 8.5 hours. Liver or renal
      dysfunction will lead to prolonged serum half-life. CY is administered intravenously at a
      dosage of 50 mg/kg on each of two successive days (use adjusted ideal body weight if
      patient's actual body weight is greater than 100% ideal body weight). The major dose limiting
      side effect at high doses is cardiac necrosis. Hemorrhagic cystitis can occur and is mediated
      by the acrolein metabolite. This can be prevented by co-administration of MESNA or bladder
      irrigation. Other notable side effects include nausea, vomiting, alopecia, myelosuppression
      and SIADH. Refer to institutional manuals for more information about administration, toxicity
      and complications.

      Rabbit-Derived Anti-Thymocyte Globulin (ATG) Rabbit-derived anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) is
      a gamma globulin preparation obtained from hyperimmune serum of rabbits immunized with human
      thymocytes. ATG has been used predominately in solid organ transplant immunosuppressive
      regimens. ATG is a predominantly lymphocyte-specific immunosuppressive agent. It contains
      antibodies specific to the antigens commonly found on the surface of T cells. After binding
      to these surface molecules, ATG promotes the depletion of T cells from the circulation
      through mechanisms, which include opsonization and complement-assisted, antibody- dependent,
      cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The plasma half-life ranges from 1.5-12 days. ATG is administered
      intravenously at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg recipient body weight on day -6 and a dose of 1.0 mg/kg
      recipient body weight on days -5, -4, -3, -2 and -1. Unlike equine ATG, rabbit ATG does not
      require a pre-infusion skin test to check for hypersensitivity. Methylprednisolone 1 gram
      will be given before every dose of ATG. Additional medications such as diphenhydramine may be
      given at the discretion of the attending physician. Although rare, the major toxicity is
      anaphylaxis. Chills, fever, pruritus or serum sickness may occur.

      Regimen for allogeneic HSCT

      Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) Cyclophosphamide (CY) is administered intravenously at a dosage of
      50 mg/kg on each of four successive days (use adjusted ideal body weight if patient's actual
      body weight is greater than 100% ideal body weight). The major dose limiting side effect at
      high doses is cardiac necrosis. Hemorrhagic cystitis can occur and is mediated by the
      acrolein metabolite. This can be prevented by co-administration of MESNA or bladder
      irrigation. Other notable side effects include nausea, vomiting, alopecia, myelosuppression
      and SIADH. Refer to institutional manuals for more information about administration, toxicity
      and complications.

      Fludarabine Fludarabine phosphate is rapidly dephosphorylated to 2-fluoro-ara-A and then
      phosphorylated intracellularly by deoxycytidine kinase to the active triphosphate,
      2-fluoro-ara-ATP. This metabolite appears to act by inhibiting DNA polymerase alpha,
      ribonucleotide reductase and DNA primase, thus inhibiting DNA synthesis. The mechanism of
      action of this antimetabolite is not completely characterized and may be multi-faceted.

      Phase I studies in humans have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is rapidly converted
      to the active metabolite, 2-fluoro-ara-A, within minutes after intravenous infusion.
      Consequently, clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2-fluoro-ara-A pharmacokinetics.
      After the five daily doses of 25 mg 2-fluoro-ara-AMP/m2 to cancer patients infused over 30
      minutes, 2-fluoro-ara-A concentrations show a moderate accumulation. During a 5-day treatment
      schedule, 2-fluoro-ara-A plasma trough levels increased by a factor of about 2. The terminal
      half-life of 2-fluoro-ara-A was estimated as approximately 20 hours. In vitro, plasma protein
      binding of fludarabine ranged between 19% and 29%.

      CAMPATH Campath-1H is a humanized fusion protein that is directed to CD52 antigen that is
      expressed on all lymphocytes, monocytes and macrophages. It has very potent immunosuppressive
      property and is effective for prevention of graft-versus-host disease. 30 mg/day of CAMPATH
      will be given intravenously over 2 hours on days -4, -3 and -2. The most commonly reported
      adverse reactions are infusion reactions fever, chills, hypotension, urticaria, nausea, rash,
      tachycardia, dyspnea), cytopenias (neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia), and
      infections (CMV viremia, CMV infection, other infections). In clinical trials, the frequency
      of infusion reactions was highest in the first week of treatment. Other commonly reported
      adverse reactions include vomiting, abdominal pain, insomnia and anxiety. The most commonly
      reported serious adverse reactions are cytopenias, infusion reactions, and
      immunosuppression/infections. About 30 minutes before the patient gets Campath, he/she will
      be given other medications (such as acetaminophen or diphenhydramine, given orally, not IV)
      to help reduce side effects.
    
  