
    
      Background:

      Since 2014, the project "ICU-Cockpit" has been set up at the Neurointensive Unit of the
      University Hospital Zurich in collaboration with the University of Zurich and ETH Zurich.
      State-of-the-art information technology collects, synchronizes and encrypts data from
      numerous medical devices in real time. The project is aimed at initiating a fundamental
      development in emergency and intensive medicine - and bringing about a substantial
      improvement in the way diagnostics, treatment and risk management are handled in everyday
      clinical practice.

      Based on video monitoring, algorithms for early alarm systems and therapy support have been
      already developed. In order to make the algorithms usable for clinical practice, a user
      interface (GUI) is currently being developed in cooperation with the University of Applied
      Sciences Northwestern Switzerland (FHNW), see appendix 15. The GUI allows to visualize and
      interpret the multimodal patient data in a comprehensive manner.

      In 2016, a research project started at the NICU of the University Hospital Zurich started
      with the title "ICU Cockpit: Integrated platform for multimodal patient monitoring and
      therapy support in neurocritical care" (BASEC No. 2016-01101). The purpose of the single site
      project is to set up an integrated platform (scientific prototype of ICU Cockpit software
      platform) for multimodal patient monitoring and therapy support in neurocritical care, and as
      a second step to develop and validate algorithms for some first clinical applications.
      Furthermore, automatic artefacts detections (i.e., number of false and true alarms in ICU
      Cockpit in comparison to standard monitoring system) are assessed and algorithms are
      developed for the early detection of epileptic seizures and secondary impairment of cerebral
      perfusion.

      The objective of this current clinical investigation is the verification and validation of
      the ICU Cockpit software platform and the following three different applications for
      prognostication and prediction of complications:

      a) ICU Cockpit COVID-19 for remote monitoring of isolated patients, b) ICU Cockpit Stable
      State for a comprehensive visualization of vital parameters and as additional aid in early
      detection of imminent critical complications c) ICU Cockpit Cerebral Ischemia for the
      prediction of delayed cerebral ischemia in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).

        1. ICU Cockpit COVID-19 for remote monitoring of isolated patients Having infected more
           than 100 000 people in 100 countries, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become
           a pandemic. In China, up to 10% of patients with COVID-19 became severely ill requiring
           intensive care treatment mostly due to pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome
           (ARDS) and multiorgan failure. In Italy, having about 5200 beds in intensive care units
           (ICUs), already 1028 were already devoted to patients with COVID-19 by March 11.
           Furthermore, 20% of health-care professionals, at this time, have become already
           infected, and some have died. For the United States, without self-isolation and for R0 =
           2 and R0 = 2.5, respectively, ICU admissions are projected to become 17.4 to 25.7 per
           1,000 population, which would significantly exceed the capacity of the existing 100,000
           ICU beds in the US. Also, in Switzerland the health care system and especially ICUs are
           facing extraordinary challenges as human resources for ICU professionals are limited.

           Advances in medical informatics have the potential to facilitate medical care and save
           personnel resources not only in the ambulatory sector but in the ICUs especially during
           epidemics. In intensive and emergency medicine, the situation is compounded by real-time
           signals from multiple sensors on, as well as inside the human body. In an emergency
           situation, in particular, it is not possible to integrate this flood of information
           rapidly into the decision-making process.

           Remote monitoring of strictly isolated patients especially reduces routes and walking of
           the staff, the number of close contacts with infected patients and therefore, virus
           transmission. The safety of patients will be increased by a reduction of stress and
           burnouts in nurses and medical doctors, which often work in crisis over time.

        2. ICU Cockpit Stable State As a first application a software called "stable state" has
           been developed recently. Vital parameters as arterial blood pressure, intracranial
           pressure and many others are hard to read in a glance due to their high information
           density. Since the human body is a complexly inter-connected system, these biosignals
           are also heavily correlated. Experienced clinicians can recognize deviations in the
           correlational structure of several signals, but it is impossible to grasp the full
           picture for the huge amount of available data. However, subtle correlational changes may
           indicate an instable state of a patient before these changes are visible in a specific
           signal or its compound measure.

           An algorithm which computes the inter-dependencies in an arbitrary set of signals during
           a stable phase of the patient was recently developed. This stable state is compared to
           an on-line estimate of the current state. Correlational changes are didactically reduced
           and visualized in a Mondrian-like display for quick comparisons of current and past
           states.

           The application "stable state" as part of the GUI ICU Cockpit is planned to be
           implemented as an additional aid in early detection of imminent critical complications.

        3. ICU Cockpit Cerebral Ischemia Cerebral vasospasm (CVS) is a delayed morphologic
           narrowing of cerebral arteries, occurring 4 to 10 days after aneurysmal subarachnoid
           hemorrhage. Classically, CVS has been associated with delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI),
           which ultimately leads to cerebral infarction associated with morbidity and mortality.
           This has been sort of a paradigm, and the term CVS has been often misused to describe
           clinical signs of DCI. The majority of research was focused on the assumption CVS to be
           solely responsible for DCI. Today, it is well accepted that not all patients with CVS
           develop DCI. Inversely, DCI can occur in the absence of CVS. Recent review of the
           literature indicates that CVS is not the only cause of DCI and that the entire picture
           of DCI is multifactorial. There is an ongoing debate about this issue, however cerebral
           infarction on imaging studies might be the most appropriate measure of DCI beside
           functional outcome. Therefore, an algorithm to predict DCI based on a random forest
           model has been developed, which allows to identify biomarkers for the occurrence 24h to
           48 hours before.
    
  