
    
      How the investigators plan the study:

      This is a prospective clinical study, risk category A. It is one-armed (all participants have
      the same procedure/rehabilitation) and single-blinded (participants doesn't knows the repair
      tension).

      The investigators are an orthopaedic clinic in Zurich (Universitätsklinik Balgrist, Zürich)
      with about 250 arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs per year. Our plan is to recruit at least
      100 participants in a year for this prospective clinical study. The participants have to
      fulfill the inclusion criterions. The diagnosis for the rotator cuff tears are made on the
      basis of arthro-MRI scans. The investigators do the operations in our clinic. The entire
      follow-up is one year for each participant. We plan three regular postoperative
      consultations. The tendon healing is controlled postoperative by ultrasound (six weeks and 4
      month postoperative) and by MRI (one year postoperative).

      Visit 0: participant recruitment:

      The participants who are suitable for the study, will be recruited in the clinic for the
      study. They are aware of the essential information and the process and have 14 days time to
      read the information paper.

      Visit 1: preoperative phase:

      The following parameters are collected by default:

        -  Constant score

        -  Begin of symptoms (subjective shoulder value, visual analogue scale)

        -  Questionnaire

        -  Arthro-MRI (fatty infiltration, tear size, tendon retraction, length of central tendon)

        -  RX (Critical Shoulder Angle)

      Visit 2: intraoperative phase:

      The intraoperative procedure is standardized:

      Postoperative immobilisation in an abduction splint in 40° abduction with passive
      mobilisation (physiotherapy) without adduction for six weeks.

      Visit 3: 6 weeks postoperative phase:

      The following parameters are collected by default:

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Subjective shoulder value

        -  Pain-VAS

        -  Questionnaire

        -  Complications

        -  Ultrasound (retear yes/no) The abduction splint is removed. Other six weeks mobilisation
           active and active-assisted without weights and strength until the 12th week (clinic
           standard).

      Visit 4: 4 months postoperative phase:

      The following parameters are collected by default:

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Active ROM (abduction, flexion, external rotation)

        -  Passive ROM (glenohumeral abduction, external rotation)

        -  Subjective shoulder value

        -  Pain-VAS

        -  Questionnaire

        -  Complications

        -  Ultrasound (retear yes/no) There is an increase in strength and agility

      Visit 5: 1 year postoperative phase:

      The following parameters are collected by default:

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Passive ROM (glenohumeral abduction, external rotation)

        -  Subjective shoulder value

        -  Pain-VAS

        -  Constant score

        -  Questionnaire

        -  Complications

        -  MRI (fatty infiltration)

        -  X-ray (critical shoulder value) The study is finished for the patient

      How the investigators can realise the aims:

      Aim 1: Correlation of intraoperative repair tension in 0° and 40° abduction on footprint with
      postoperative healing.

      The investigators measure intraoperative repair tension for each participant in 0° and 40°
      abduction in gram with a spring balance. Then, measurement of healing rate of these tendon
      reconstructions over one year. The investigators do three regular follow-ups. In week 6 and
      month 4, control of healing with ultrasound and one year postoperative with an MRI scan.
      Intraoperative repair tension is correlated with retear rate. Cut-off value to separate high
      risk and low risk tension repairs is evaluated.

      Aim 2: Correlation of other parameters with postoperative healing: The investigator correlate
      other parameters with the postoperative healing. Following parameters are collected in
      preoperative MRI scans: tear size in cm, tear retraction in cm, central tendon length in cm,
      fatty infiltration with the classification of Goutallier I-IV. In preoperative x-rays we
      measure the critical shoulder angle in degree. Intraoperative measurement of: tendon quality
      in four stages and the tear pattern visual (see above, "Visit 2").

      Aim 3: Can intraoperative repair tension be predicted preoperative by MRI findings?: For this
      question, measurement of following parameters: tendon size in cm, tendon retraction in cm,
      length of central tendon in cm and fatty infiltration with the classification of Goutallier
      I-IV. Statistical evaluation with correlation of intraoperative repair tension with these MRI
      findings.

      Aim 4: Correlation of high repair tension with pain: Correlation of pain with repair tension.
      Measurement of pain in each consultation with a visual analogue scale from 0-10 (0 no pain,
      10 very much pain). Measurement range of motion of the participants (active and passive) and
      correlate stiffness with pain and with repair tension.

      Aim 5: Correlation of repair tension with postoperative muscle atrophy, fatty infiltration
      and tendon length: Measurement of muscle atrophy, fatty infiltration and tendon length in the
      MRI scan preoperative and one year postoperative to compare. The muscle atrophy is quantified
      with tangent sign and occupation ratio. Fatty infiltration with the classification of
      Goutallier and tendon length in cm. Then, correlation pre- and postoperative changes with the
      repair tension.

      Aim 6: Lower retear rate in type B- and C-reconstruction compared to type A- reconstruction?
      (type A-C) If possible, the investigators want to correlate different reconstruction types
      (A-C) with similar tension repairs.
    
  