
    
      The BedMed trial (led out of the University of Alberta and funded by both Alberta Innovates
      Health Solutions, and the Canadian Institutes for Health Research) is a pragmatic
      multi-provincial trial intended to determine whether bedtime antihypertensive use, as
      compared to conventional morning use, reduces major adverse cardiovascular events in
      community dwelling primary care patients.

      BedMed-Frail, led by the same group of investigators, is a complementary but separate
      randomized trial evaluating whether the risks and benefits of bedtime antihypertensive use
      differ in a long-term care (LTC) population. To accomplish this, within participating Alberta
      LTC and supportive living facilities, eligible residents with hypertension will be randomized
      at the patient level to the antihypertensive medication timing intervention (i.e. bedtime
      versus continued morning use). Trial outcomes and baseline characteristics are drawn from
      routinely collected electronic health data - using both provincial administrative health
      claims data and the Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set (RAI-MDS), which is a
      standard instrument for collecting clinical information in Canadian LTC facilities.

      BedMed-Frail is event driven, receiving quarterly reporting of total events from the Alberta
      Support for Patient Oriented Research (SPOR) Unit's Data Platform. The trial will end upon
      observation of 368 primary outcome events. Upon observation of half that number, an
      independent data safety monitoring board (IDSMB) chaired by Dr. James Wright (Cochrane
      Hypertension Review Group Co-ordinating Editor) will examine all available outcomes. If p is
      ≤ 0.001 for benefit (the Haybittle-Peto boundary - recommended to reduce the chance of
      stopping too early and magnifying benefit), or if p is ≤ 0.05 for harm, the IDSMB will apply
      clinical judgement and make recommendations to the steering committee on whether the trial
      should break early.

      The outcomes of BedMed-Frail are primarily designed to be analogous to the cardiovascular and
      safety outcomes monitored for in the community BedMed study. However BedMed-Frail is also
      examining for differences in behaviour issues between groups. Both behavioural problems, and
      blood pressure, have circadian rhythms. Blood pressure is normally lower overnight and
      behavioural problems in long term care residents typically worsen during the same period - a
      phenomenon known as "sundowning". Conceivably, there could be a relationship between the two
      such that behaviour problems might improve, or worsen, with bedtime antihypertensive use. The
      investigators will report the behavioural outcomes as a secondary analysis, in a separate
      publication, with the primary outcome for that secondary analysis being an MDS record by the
      care team that problem behaviours are present a minimum of 4 days per week and not easily
      altered (see detailed description below).
    
  