
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, patient blinded trial of standard surgical retraction
      versus Mobius® retraction at cesarean delivery. Women will be approached by their provider at
      their 36 week prenatal visit regarding potential study participation. They will be given a
      letter describing the study. If a woman is interested, she will be contacted by a study nurse
      who will obtain informed consent. Ideally, women will be approached prior to the onset of
      labor or date of scheduled cesarean delivery so as to provide adequate time to review the
      study and ask questions. Women who undergo antenatal admission will be also approached by
      their provider regarding possible study participation and given a recruitment letter. If they
      are interested, then a study nurse will obtain informed consent.

      Consenting women will be randomized after the decision to deliver by cesarean section is
      made. Randomization will be performed in blocks to control for scheduled versus unscheduled
      cesarean deliveries using a random numbers generator. Assignments will be kept in
      sequentially number opaque envelopes. Women will not be informed of their assignment until
      after discharge from the hospital. Efforts will be made in the operating room to avoid
      disclosing group assignment and the consent forms will not contain the specific name of the
      retractor under study. The operative team will be aware of group assignment.

      Participants will complete a 7 item pain scale each post-operative day until discharge. This
      pain scale has been used in a pilot study and found to be accurate. The pain scale is a
      single page and takes less than 5 minutes to complete.

      Charts will be reviewed to obtain clinical information which may have an impact on
      post-operative pain. This includes information about current and past substance abuse.
      Because of the increased amounts of post-operative pain experienced by women who use
      methadone during pregnancy, this group of women will be excluded from the study. To protect
      the information regarding substance abuse, a certificate of confidentiality has been obtained
      from the NIH.
    
  