
    
      This study will evaluate the pharmacokinetics, feasibility, acceptability, and safety of
      FTC/TDF as oral daily PrEP to prevent HIV during pregnancy and postpartum in adolescents and
      young women and their infants. The study will be conducted in two consecutive components: 1)
      Pharmacokinetics (PK) Component and 2) PrEP Comparison Component.

      In the PK Component, women will be enrolled in one of two groups. Group 1 will include
      antepartum women at 14 to 24 weeks' gestation and Group 2 will include postpartum women who
      delivered 6 to 12 weeks prior to enrollment. Both groups will receive a fixed-dose
      combination of FTC/TDF administered once daily from Day 0 through Week 12.

      In the PrEP Comparison Component, women will be enrolled in one of two cohorts. Participants
      in both Cohorts 1 and 2 will receive a behavioral HIV risk reduction package, including
      cohort-appropriate short message service (SMS) messages from Day 0 through Week 26. Cohort 1
      will also receive daily oral FTC/TDF as PrEP from Day 0 through Week 26 and enhanced
      adherence support, including SMS messaging and feedback of drug levels with tailored
      counseling.

      Mothers in the PK Component will have weekly study visits through Week 12 to be evaluated for
      drug levels and monitored for adverse effects, with their infants. Mothers in the PrEP
      Comparison Component will have several study visits through Week 26 (post-partum). Infants in
      the PrEP Comparison Component will have four study visits from birth through week 26 of life.
      For mothers, study visits may include physical examinations, blood and urine collection,
      vaginal and rectal swab collection, vaginal secretions collection, ultrasounds, and
      dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans. For infants, study visits may include physical
      examinations, rectal swab and blood collection, and DXA scans.
    
  