
    
      New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is a complication of solid organ
      transplantation. In the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) Kidney-Pancreas
      Transplant Clinic, the frequency of this complication exceeds 50% of kidney transplant
      recipients without diabetes prior to transplantation. NODAT is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. As this complication appears to occur rather soon after
      transplantation, potential preventative strategies need to be instituted soon after
      transplantation. Although traditional risk factors, such as family history, obesity, and
      minority status, explain some of the additional risk, it is thought that the
      immunosuppressive agents themselves are responsible for the increased risk of NODAT. The
      immunosuppressive agents are needed to prevent rejection, and we are left to consider
      additional strategies to prevent the onset of NODAT. We propose to conduct a pilot study
      utilizing the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, sitagliptin, in a randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled study in consecutive kidney transplant recipients at the University of
      Nebraska Medical Center. We have tested sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes who have
      received a kidney transplant and have shown no major side effects or alterations in
      immunosuppressive drug levels. This agent is FDA-approved for the treatment of type 2
      diabetes, but it has a low rate of hypoglycemia. It is thought to work by inhibiting the
      enzyme that naturally breaks down glucagons-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), thus increasing
      endogenous levels of GLP-1. GLP-1 inhibits glucagons and has stimulatory effects on beta cell
      function. Although the current study will treat all non-diabetic patients in the hope that
      NODAT is delayed or prevented, this incretin-based therapy is thought to have a low risk for
      hypoglycemia and other side effects. In addition, it can be safely used during low-GFR
      conditions. The study will attempt to recruit 40 subjects (20 sitagliptin and 20 control
      subjects). Patients will initiate placebo or control at 2 weeks after transplantation.
      Subjects will be followed in the UNMC Transplant Clinic. Initially, patients will be seen
      weekly and later will be followed every three months for up to 1 year. The primary outcome is
      the development of NODAT based on the 2003 Consensus International Guidelines. Fasting
      glucose levels will be followed according to usual post-transplant monitoring with testing as
      frequently as weekly during the recent post-transplant period and eventually going to at
      least monthly. Secondary outcomes include HbA1c values and glucose, insulin, C-peptide, and
      proinsulin levels after a 75 oral glucose load that will be obtained at baseline and then
      every three months. In addition, we will follow side effects, including hypoglycemia. The
      study will have a local Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). Consent will be obtained prior
      to transplantation.
    
  