
    
      Video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has become an increasingly popular technique in
      thoracic surgery with improvement in technology. It provides significant advantages over open
      thoracotomy procedures including reduced acute pain, reduced mortality, improved
      post-operative pulmonary function, and shorter hospitalization stays. Nevertheless, there is
      still considerable amount of post-operative acute pain with VATS lobectomies. Controlling
      post-operative pain is crucial because increased acute pain has been associated with the
      development of chronic pain.

      Many patients receive either thoracic epidural (TEA) or paravertebral blocks (PVB) to treat
      post-operative pain in thoracotomy procedures as these techniques remain the gold standard.
      In contrast to thoracotomy procedures, it is unclear which is the best approach to analgesia
      is in VATS. A few studies have found no benefit in pain scores, patient satisfaction,
      pulmonary function, and incidence of side effects when comparing TEA with opioid patient
      controlled analgesia in VATS. Other studies have found minimal benefit in pain scores with
      TEA. The PVB has been used as alternative to TEA. One prospective observational study using
      PVB and continuous intercostal catheter demonstrated lower pain scores in VATS lobectomy. A
      randomized control trial (RCT) comparing PVB with wound infiltration in VATS lobectomy showed
      lower pain scores, lower morphine consumption, and higher patient satisfaction. However, both
      TEA and PVB have potential serious side-effects and complications. Complications of TEA
      include severe hypotension, epidural abscess, epidural hematomas and spinal cord injury. PVB
      have less incidence of hypotension but may involve risks like pneumothorax, pleural and
      vascular puncture, and higher systemic absorption of local anesthetics. PVB is also
      technically challenging and its spread is not reliable likely due to the presence of the
      endothoracic fasica. In addition, placement of both TEA and PVB require appropriate
      discontinuation of anticoagulants. Intercostal nerve blocks have been used as an analgesic
      alternative to TEA and PVB. One RCT found patients who had received intercostal blocks
      undergoing bilateral VATS for hyperhidrosis had lower pain scores in the post-anesthesia
      recovery unit (PACU). A combined retrospective and prospective study examined the analgesic
      effect and duration of intercostal blocks in patients undergoing VATS. The authors found that
      intercostal blocks decreased morphine consumption in the first 24 hours and the analgesic
      effect of the block lasted approximately 16 hours. Intercostal blocks appear to have some
      analgesic effect in the immediate post-operative period but are short-lived unless a catheter
      is placed. The standard practice for post-operative pain management for VATS lobectomy at St.
      Joseph's hospital consists of intercostal blocks performed by the thoracic surgeons at the
      end of surgery in combination with patient-controlled analgesia (PCA).

      A novel regional technique called the Erector Spinae Plane (ESP) block has been recently
      described. This interfascial block involves ultrasound guided injection of local anesthetics
      posterior to the erector spinae muscle and superficial to transverse process of thoracic
      vertebrae at appropriate level. The ESP block appears to target the dorsal and ventral rami
      of the spinal nerves as they leave the intervertebral foramen. Cadaveric examination of ESP
      block showed extensive cranial-caudal spread of the block, approximately four dermatomes
      above and below the site of injection. The ESP block has been successfully applied in
      multiple clinical settings. For example, several patients suffering from chronic thoracic
      neuropathic pain achieved significant analgesia after receiving ESP blocks. ESP blocks have
      also been used as a rescue analgesia for a patient who failed a TEA after thoracotomy. Other
      applications include ventral hernia repair in abdominal surgery. The simplicity and safety of
      the ESP block has been proposed as its main advantages. Because it is a superficial
      interfascial plane block, it is distant from both the spinal cord and pleura. The ESP block
      is technically an easy to perform under ultrasound guidance due to its superficial location.
      There is also theoretically less possibility of needle related complications as the
      transverse process acts as a backstop for needle advancement. A catheter can be placed easily
      during the ESP block allowing continuous infusion and prolonged analgesia.

      Given the importance of providing adequate analgesia in VATS lobectomy and wedge resections
      and lack of consensus amongst surgeons and anesthesiologists for the optimal analgesic
      technique, the investigators are proposing a prospective observational study to examine the
      analgesic efficacy of the ESP block in VATS lobectomy or wedge resections as a potential
      alternative to TEA, PVB and intercostal blocks. The investigators are hoping the results of
      this study will provide framework for future larger comparative studies.
    
  