
    
      The study is an international multi-centre trial using an experimental strategy of once daily
      abdominal massage using MOWOOT for 4 weeks.

      The trial includes a 2-week pre-intervention period with the usual constipation treatment
      without MOWOOT, followed by a 4-week intervention period consisting of 20 minutes' daily
      massage with MOWOOT (with or without the usual constipation treatment, as required by
      subject), followed by 1week wash-out period and finished by 2 weeks' post-intervention
      follow-up period. The same outcome measures will be assessed before and immediately after the
      treatment, and again after a washout period.

      The principal endpoint of the procedure will be based on constipation improvement (complete
      bowel movements per week). The secondary endpoints will be based on chronic constipation
      defined as Rome III criteria assessed by the KESS score, Bristol scale, colonic transit time,
      dose of laxatives and/or other measures to assist defecation and quality of life. These
      secondary endpoints regarding defecatory function will be evaluated during intervention and
      compared with 2 weeks before intervention and 2 weeks after intervention following one week
      of wash out.

      The null hypothesis (H0) is that there is no difference between before and after treatment,
      against an alternative hypothesis (H1) assuming a difference between the treatments.

      Two tailed tests with 95% confidence intervals will be produced for the comparisons of
      interest in order to investigate the magnitude of treatment effects.

      MOWOOT is a "wearable" medical device which emulates the massage techniques used by the
      professional therapists in order to provide a colon-specific abdominal massage. The product
      is focused on people who suffer from chronic constipation due to neurogenic bowel disease and
      prolonged intestinal transit time.

      MOWOOT is composed by two main pieces: the desktop device and the massager belt. The desktop
      device provides the source of energy as well as it contains the panel control which allows
      the management of the device function and allows to select the treatment time and pressure.
      The massager belt is connected to the desktop device and is the component which is in contact
      with the subject giving the abdominal massage action.
    
  