
    
      Individuals with Type 2 diabetes smoke at rates similar to those found in the general
      population, and the health consequences of smoking are particularly severe among smokers with
      diabetes. In fact, there appears to be a synergistic effect between smoking and diabetes on
      mortality. However, despite reports that highlight the importance of this work, a paucity of
      studies have been conducted to develop and test smoking cessation interventions tailored to
      meet the needs of individuals with diabetes. The small number of extant studies have yielded
      mixed results. Distress tolerance (DT) focused, acceptance-based interventions have
      demonstrated efficacy for smoking cessation, and there is increasing support for the
      conceptual model underlying these interventions among individuals with diabetes. The
      long-term objective of this research program is to improve smoking cessation treatment for
      individuals with Type 2 diabetes by developing and establishing the efficacy of a DT smoking
      cessation intervention tailored to this population. Furthermore, we seek to advance knowledge
      of the relationships among nicotine withdrawal, negative affect, distress tolerance, and
      smoking cessation outcomes among individuals with diabetes.

      In the present study, we will develop a DT intervention tailored to meet the needs of smokers
      with Type 2 diabetes. In the first phase of this project, we will develop and pilot the
      intervention with 18 patients. In the second phase of the project, we will conduct a
      preliminary, randomized trial with 54 patients to examine the efficacy of the DT intervention
      relative to a standard smoking cessation treatment (ST) that equates for therapist contact
      time. Patients in both conditions will receive the transdermal nicotine patch.

      We expect that, relative to the ST condition, patients randomized to the DT condition will
      have increased likelihood of smoking abstinence and increased latency to both smoking lapse
      and relapse. If the efficacy of this intervention can be established in this trial and in
      subsequent large scale randomized controlled trials, smokers with diabetes will have improved
      smoking cessation treatment options. The need for this work is great given the paucity of
      extant work in this area, the significantly heightened risk of morbidity and mortality from
      smoking among diabetic patients, the rapidly increasing rate of diabetes in the U.S., and an
      apparent stabilization of the smoking rate in recent years.
    
  