
    
      Approximately 8-10 million patients complaining of chest pain present to an Emergency
      Department (ED) annually in the United States. The total cost of chest pain evaluations has
      been estimated at $5-10 billion annually, yet only 10% of these patients are ultimately
      diagnosed with an acute coronary syndrome. American College of Cardiology/ American Heart
      Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines recommend that patients at low-risk for acute coronary
      syndrome should receive serial cardiac markers followed by objective cardiac testing (stress
      testing or cardiac imaging). However, many have questioned the value of objective cardiac
      testing in all low-risk patients.Cardiac testing for all patients at low-risk for acute
      coronary syndrome (ACS) is not sustainable from a healthcare quality or economic perspective.
      In addition to increasing costs, objective cardiac testing is associated with a substantial
      number of false positive and non-diagnostic tests, which lead to additional unnecessary and
      often invasive procedures.

      Implementation of accurate risk stratification care pathways designed to eliminate
      unnecessary cardiac testing could improve the efficiency and quality of care by decreasing
      false positive/non-diagnostic testing, radiation, and costs. The HEART pathway, which
      combines a clinical decision rule, the HEART score, and two serial troponin measurements, is
      a recently developed care pathway designed to identify chest pain patients for early
      discharge without objective testing.

      Primary Hypothesis: The HEART Pathway, when compared to usual care, will reduce 30 day
      objective cardiac testing, hospital length of stay, and cost, while maintaining patient
      safety.

      Methods: Participants (n=282) at risk for ACS will be recruited into a clinical trial from
      Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center (WFBMC) ED. Patients will be equally randomized to HEART
      Pathway or Usual Care. HEART Pathway participant's treating physician will follow HEART
      Pathway guidelines for identifying patients to be admitted to the hospital or observation
      unit for cardiac testing or to be discharged home without testing. Usual Care participant's
      treating physicians will decide whether the patients should be discharged home or admitted to
      the hospital or observation unit based on ACC/AHA guidelines without using the HEART pathway.
    
  