
    
      Background:

      Excessive exposure to psychosocial stress can be a potent trigger for somatic diseases and
      psychological disorders, a cause for missing work, and eventually lead to high economic loss.
      Therefore, for health and economic reasons the assessment of effectiveness of stress
      preventive interventions is of high relevance. According to several clinical studies, Taiji,
      a Chinese form of mindful and gentle movements, can significantly reduce symptoms of somatic
      diseases and psychological disorders. Some recent Taiji-studies with healthy subjects
      indicate a stress protective effect. However, since these findings mainly focus on effects
      during or immediately after a Taiji training session, their study designs and outcome
      measures are not comparable with existing stress prevention efficacy studies and their sample
      sizes are generally too small, the present available results remain inconclusive. Also, the
      impact of a Taiji training on psychosocial stress has not been assessed so far.

      Objective:

      The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of a 12 week Taiji training as a stress
      prevention program by measuring psychosocial stress reactivity in a laboratory setting,
      subjective perception of stress and coping-resources of 70 healthy subjects in daily life.

      Methods:

      The Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) will be used to measure the psychobiological stress
      reactivity. Salivary cortisol, alpha amylase, heart rate and heart rate variability will be
      measured in each subject to asses stress reactivity, Also, the primary appraisal secondary
      appraisal (PASA) questionnaire and the multidimensional mood questionnaire (MDBF) will be
      used to assess psychological stress reactivity, and a visual analogue scale (VAS) to measure
      perceived stressfulness.

      Additionally to the TSST setting, pre-, post-intervention and 2 months follow up measurements
      will be taken. The following tools will be used: Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Stress
      Reactivity Scale (SRS)(to assess perceived stress), and self-efficacy-expectancy
      questionnaire (SWE), questionnaire for measuring wellbeing (FEW-16), Freiburg mindfulness
      inventory (FMI) and self compassion scale (SCS) (to assess perceived coping resources).
    
  