
    
      Informed consent procedure: Potential participants will be approached in clinic and given a
      patient information sheet and adequate time will be given for the individual to read through
      the patient information sheet and for clarification of any queries or concerns. Informed
      consent will be obtained by one of the investigators involved in the conduct of the study
      prior to participation in the trial, following adequate explanation of the aims, methods,
      anticipated benefits and potential hazards of the study.

      Screening Period: Before any screening procedures occur, participants will sign an Informed
      Consent Form.

      During the screening evaluation the following procedures will be conducted and recorded for
      all patients:

        -  Informed Consent

        -  Evaluation of compliance with inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  Demography and Past Medical History

        -  Vital signs including weight

        -  Physical examination including neurological examination

        -  Review of concomitant medications

      Baseline assessments: A urine sample will be tested for an infection using Urine multistix in
      the Department of Uro-neurology, which is a routine clinical practice. Participants will
      enter a discussion about the symptoms of a urinary tract infection and be taught the use of
      Urine multistix. They will complete standardised validated questionnaires for overactive
      bladder syndrome (ICIQ-OAB, sf-Qualiveen® and EQ5D-5L™).

      Treatment procedures: Patients will receive D-mannose powder to be used 1.5 gm (one
      level-teaspoon) twice daily, to be added to any beverage, for 16 weeks. D-mannose is classed
      as a food supplement and is widely available in the United Kingdom for purchase. D-Mannose
      will be sourced from D-Mannose Limited.

      Subsequent assessments: Compliance will be assessed by using a Usage diary, on which the use
      of D-mannose will be marked and any problems noted. Acceptability and tolerability to
      D-mannose will be assessed through the diary. Additionally, patients will be phoned after one
      week, and after 8 weeks, to enquire about well-being and compliance.

      Participants will be asked to note the number of prescriptions they receive during the 16
      week course in a urinary tract infection diary. Suspected self-reported urinary tract
      infections will be noted in a diary, as well as the results of the urine multistix. Standard
      clinical practice will be followed and participants with a suspected urinary tract infection
      will inform their general practitionner, mid-stream urine samples sent to the lab and
      antibiotic treatment started. Patients will continue to take D-mannose. The usage diary has
      to be sent by the patients every week.

      At week 16, patients will be asked to return for a second visit. Compliance and urinary tract
      infection diaries will be collected and reviewed. They will be asked to complete
      questionnaires (ICIQ-OAB, sf-Qualiveen® and EQ5D-5L™) and neurological status will be
      evaluated.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonization
      Good Clinical Practice guidelines and the Declaration of Helsinki, and within local laws and
      regulations.
    
  