
    
      The study will follow the regulatory norms of research in humans with favorable opinion of
      the Research Ethics Committee of the University Nove de Julho number, and the responsible
      ones of the participants will sign the consent form free after clarifications for
      authorization of the participation in the research, according to Resolution 466/12 of the
      National Health Council.

      Type of study: A controlled, quantitative cross-sectional clinical study. Hypothesis Null
      hypothesis: There is no alteration of halitosis after the use of photodynamic therapy
      employing the use of blue dye and red LED.

      There is no microbiological alteration after antimicrobial photodynamic therapy.

      Experimental hypothesis: There is a decrease in halitosis after the use of photodynamic
      therapy using blue dye and red LED associated or not with the tongue scraper.

      There is microbiological alteration after antimicrobial photodynamic therapy.

      • Research Subjects For this study will be evaluated young adults of both sexes, enrolled
      regularly in the Dentistry Clinic of the University Nove de Julho - São Paulo.

      Inclusion criteria Included in this study are young adults between the ages of 18 and 25,
      with an informed consent form and authorization for the diagnosis and treatment of halitosis.

      Young adults diagnosed with halitosis presenting Oralchroma S2H ≥ 112 ppb and / or CH3SH ≥
      26.

      The selected subjects will be divided into 3 groups. There will be 1 session for each group.
      All samples from the subjects will be submitted to microbiological analysis and evaluation
      with Oral ChromaTM before and after treatment followed by controls of 7, 14 and 30 days.

      Microbiological analysis

      Samples of the lingual plaque will be collected using a sterile swab that will be passed on
      the surface of the tongue back with unique movement and light pressure. Samples will be
      deposited in sterile tubes that will be identified and stored at -80 ° C until analyzed.
      After thawing, the samples will be vortexed for one minute. For extraction of the bacterial
      DNA samples will be boiled for 10 minutes and then centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 10 minutes.
      The supernatant will be placed in a new microtube containing 100μL phenol / chloroform /
      isoamyl alcohol (25: 24: 1), followed by ethanol precipitation. The purified DNA will be
      resuspended in TE buffer. The levels of P. gingivalis, T. forsythia and T. denticola will be
      analyzed by quantitative PCR. The quantitative analysis will be performed using real-time PCR
      using the Step One Plus Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystem, Foster City, CA, USA) and
      fluorescently detected products using the Quantimix Easy SYG Kit (Biotools, Madrid, Spain),
      following the protocol recommended by the manufacturer. To the reaction 10 l will be used
      SYBR Green 0.5 ul DNA template, 200 mM of each primer (P. gingivalis CATAGATATCACGAGGAACTCCGA
      TT and AAACTGTTAGCAACTACCGATGTGG; T.forsythia GGGTGAGTAACGCGTATGTAACCT and
      ACCCATCCGCAACCAATAAA, T. denticola CGTTCCTGGGCCTTGTACA and TAGCGACTTCAGGTACCCTCG; Universal
      bacteria CCATGAAGTCGGAATCGCTAG and GCTTGACGGGCGGTGT) in total volume of 20 μl. For the
      standard curve, reactions containing template DNA 2 to 2X105 copies of the analyzed gene (16S
      rRNA) will be performed using pTOPO plasmids in which the 16S genes of the 14 different
      organisms will be cloned. As a negative control will be added sterile milliQ water instead of
      DNA template. Reactions to 16S rRNA will be performed with initial denaturation at 95 ° C for
      2 minutes followed by 36 cycles of 94 ° C for 30 seconds, 55 ° C for 1 minute and 72 ° C for
      2 minutes and final extension at 72 ° C for 10 minutes 46. Fluorescence will be detected
      after each cycle and plotted using Step One Plus Real-Time PCR System software (Applied
      Biosystem, Foster City, CA, USA). To ensure the specificity of the products detected by
      fluorescence and to avoid detection of primer dimers, the detection will be performed to a
      degree below the dissociation temperature of the amplicons. All samples will be analyzed in
      duplicate and each dilution of the plasmids to the standard curve in triplicate. The purpose
      of the microbiological evaluation will be to verify the effectiveness of the photodynamic
      therapy for the treatment of halitosis, complementing the clinical evaluation.

      Assessment of halitosis level The air collection will follow the OralChromaTM Manual
      Instruction, where the participant is instructed to make a mouthwash with cysteine (10 mM)
      for 1 minute to differentiate the CSV origin and remain mouth closed for 1 minute. A
      manufacturer's own syringe for collection of mouth air will be introduced into the patient's
      mouth with the plunger fully inserted. The patient closes his mouth, breathes through his
      nose and waits with his mouth closed for 1 minute. You will be asked not to touch the tip of
      the syringe with your tongue. The plunger will be pulled out, re-empties air from the syringe
      into the patient's mouth and again pulls the plunger to fill the syringe with the breath
      sample. Clean the tip of the syringe to remove moisture from the saliva, place the gas
      injection needle in the syringe, adjust the plunger to 0.5 ml. It is injected into the door
      of the appliance in a single movement.

      OralChromaTM allows the capture of gas concentration values by measuring the CSV thresholds
      (from 0 to 1000 ppb), very accurately after 8 minutes.

      The results are stored on the device itself and can be retrieved and viewed at any time for
      comparison before and after treatment.

      From the analysis of CSV captured by the system:

        -  Sulfide: originates mainly from the bacteria present on the back of the tongue. Values
           above 112 ppb are indicators of halitosis.

        -  Methylmercaptan: predominantly higher in the periodontal pockets. Values up to 26 ppb
           are considered normal. Periodontal disease typically results in a high ratio of
           methylmercaptan / sulfhydride (> 3: 1)

        -  Dimethyl sulphide: both may be of periodontal origin or systemic (intestinal, hepatic,
           pulmonary) origin. It can also be caused, temporarily, by the ingestion of certain foods
           and beverages. The perception threshold of dimethylsulphide is the lowest, 8 ppb.

      To avoid changes in halimetry, the examination will be conducted in the morning and
      participants will be instructed to follow the following guidelines: 48 hours before the
      evaluation avoid ingesting food with garlic, onion and strong seasoning, alcohol consumption
      and use of oral antiseptic. On the day of the evaluation, in the morning, you can eat up to 2
      hours before the exam, abstain from coffee, candies, chewing gum, oral hygiene products and
      perfumed personnel (aftershave, deodorant, perfume, creams and / or tonic) and the brushing
      will be only with water.

      For the photodynamic therapy will be used an equipment developed for this project with
      emission of red LED (660nm) and tip of 2.84 cm² in diameter.

      At the moment of application of the aPDT will be present only the volunteer to be treated and
      the professional responsible, both using specific eye protection glasses. The active tip of
      the laser will be coated with clear disposable plastic (PVC) (avoiding cross contamination
      and hygiene) and the professional will be properly dressed.

      One session of the Chimiolux® photosensitizing aPDT will be performed, at a concentration of
      0.005% (165μm), to be applied enough to cover the middle third and back of the tongue for 5
      minutes for incubation, the excess will be removed with sucker in order to maintain the wet
      surface with the photosensitizer itself, without the use of water. Four points will be
      irradiated with a distance of 1cm between the points, considering the scattering halo and the
      effectiveness of aPDT (figure 5). Based on previous studies carried out with the aPDT for the
      treatment of halitosis the apparatus will be previously calibrated with wavelength 660 nm,
      with energy of 72 J, power of 800 mW for groups 1 and 3 that will be irradiated for 90
      seconds per point, creep of 282mW / cm².

      Organization and Statistical Processing of Data

      The data will be tabulated and treated in the program Bioestat 5.0 The descriptive statistics
      of the data will be performed. For the evaluation of the association of categorical
      variables, the Chi-square test and Fisher's Exact Test will be used to compare the means will
      be used Student's t test and Analysis of variance (ANOVA) and to analyze the correlation
      between the continuous variables will be applied the test of Pearson correlation. In the
      analyzes of the experimental differences in each group the Wilcoxon test will be used. For
      all analyzes a level of significance of 95% (p <0.05) will be considered.
    
  