
    
      The present study was approved by the local Institutional Review Board. A written informed
      consent form was obtained from each patient. Patients were informed on the purpose of using
      the INOM system to potentially assist in the localization and identification of RLNS during
      the operation as well as to evaluate their functions.

      The study includes patients between the ages of 18-65 who were implemented total
      thyroidectomy, those with ASA I-III, patients who were approved by the otolaryngologist to
      have a normal cord examination before and after surgery and patients operated by 2 surgeons
      who were general surgery specialists and accepted as endocrine surgery consultants and
      anesthetized by the only anesthesiologist who was included in the study.

      The exclusion criteria were determined as predicted difficult intubation, severe liver or
      renal dysfunction, asthma, drug abuse, morbid obesity, and the presence of drug use that may
      affect neuromuscular diseases or neuromuscular transmissions.

      The study was designed as a prospective randomized controlled and double-blind study.
      Accidental numbers were produced in order to prevent selection bias. In the numbers produced,
      1: 0,3 mg/kg rocuronium, 2: 0,6 mg/kg rocuronium group was predefined and patients were
      assigned to groups in this direction. Random numbers made MedCalc 18.2.1. The double-blind
      study was designed in a way that the anesthesia technician who gave the rocuronium to the
      anesthesiologist knew, and the anesthesiologist and surgeon who intubated and carried out the
      TOF and INOM follow-up didn't know the groups.

      The group 1 patients were determined as those who were administered 0.3 mg/kg rocuronium, and
      the group 2 patients as those who were administered 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium.

      For the patients who were taken to the operation table, EKG, SPO2, TA, TOF monitorization
      will be performed and the values will be recorded during the operation. The anesthesia
      induction of both groups will be done with 3 mg/kg propofol, 2 mg/kg fentanyl and rocuronium
      bromide according to the relevant group and an intubation tube with the appropriate number
      and having the IONM electrode will be used as intubation tube for each patient (NIM).

      The neuromuscular blockade was followed up quantitatively with an acceleromiograph (TOF
      Guard; Organon Teknika NV, Turnhout, Belgium). The stimulation of the ulnar nerve and
      acceleration measurements for the adductor pollicis muscle were used for the
      acceleromiography. Electrodes were placed on the ulnar nerve at the volar surface of the
      wrist. The distal electrode was placed at the point where the proximal bending line passed to
      the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle.

      The proximal electrode was placed 2 or 3 cm proximally on the distal electrode. The converter
      (TOF-Watch Handadapter; Organon) was positioned in a way that the largest flat surface
      corresponds to the thumb. The converting cable was placed so that no traction was applied to
      the converter and the movement of the thumb was not restricted in any way.

      Following the anesthesia induction, rocuronium was administered to the group at an
      appropriate dosage and the patients who had a TOF value below 90% were intubated. The EMG
      endotracheal tube (Nerve Integrity Monitor [NIM]; Medtronic Xomed, Jacksonville, FL) was
      placed directly by an anesthesiologist with laryngoscopy. The position of the electrodes was
      checked by a laryngoscopic examination after the patient's neck was placed in the full
      extension position according to our standard IONM procedures.

      The anesthesia maintenance after induction was achieved with 2-3% severane and 0.05-0.2 micgr
      / kg remifentanil. A 40 mg-propofol was added as the recovery dose during the surgery.

      Vagal stimulation is the routine procedure prior to the definition of RLN during thyroid
      operation. This step is important to ensure that the monitoring system is working correctly
      and that the RLN remains on a normal path. The vagus nerve was found first when the skin flap
      was removed.

      The nerve was then stimulated every 5 min after 30 to 70 minutes following the administration
      of the rocuronium. 8 EMG signals were measured at 30th, 35th, 40th, 45th, 50th, 55th, 60th,
      and 70th minutes, respectively. To obtain an EMG response, the vagus nerve was directly
      touched with a 2 mA monopolar nerve stimulus bar (Prass; Medtronic Xomed).

      The Helbo-Hansen score (Steyn's modification, Table1) was used to evaluate the ease of
      intubation. The sum of the scores of these five individual variables was calculated as the
      Helbo-Hansen score (Steyn's modification, Table 1). A total score of 5 points was considered
      to be excellent, 6-10 points to be good, 11-15 points to be bad, and 16-20 points to be too
      bad.

      The statistical analysis of continuous variables between groups was compared using 2 samples
      t-tests. The intra-group statistical analyses of continuous variables were compared by using
      the paired t-test. The categorical nominal variables were analyzed by the chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test. All statistical tests were 2-tailed and the probability of p<0.05 was
      considered as statistically significant. All data were expressed as mean ± standard
      deviation.
    
  