
    
      Insomnia is highly prevalent in adolescence, particularly in post-pubertal girls and tends to
      persist over time. Insomnia is considered a hyperarousal disorder, in which abnormally
      elevated levels of cognitive and physiological activation, particularly evident at bed-time,
      prevent individuals from falling asleep and having a restorative night's sleep. Hyperarousal
      is a major pathophysiological mechanism linking insomnia with poor mental and physical
      health, including cardiovascular (CV) disease. The investigators and others have shown
      evidence of autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysfunction such as hyperactivation of the
      sympathetic branch of the ANS - a major etiological factor in CV disease - in young and
      midlife adults, both before and during sleep. It is unknown if ANS hyperarousal is evident in
      adolescents with insomnia.

      The biological basis for an emerging sex difference in insomnia prevalence in adolescence is
      unknown. The investigators' pilot data reveal intriguing evidence of sex-differences in basic
      and stress-dependent ANS modulation during sleep in adolescents with girls showing a greater
      ANS response to stress. These data suggest the existence of a predisposing and
      stress-dependent ANS vulnerability in female adolescents, a potential pathway to develop
      insomnia. This study takes a novel approach to investigating the manifestation of
      physiological ANS and CV hyperarousal in adolescents with insomnia by experimentally
      manipulating the pre-sleep arousal state via stress-induced ANS up-regulation and
      relaxation-driven ANS down-regulation. In addition, the study focuses on sex differences in
      ANS and CV responses to pre-sleep ANS manipulation, potentially addressing the question of
      why female sex is a major risk factor for insomnia.

      The investigators aim to test 110 male and female high-school students (16-20y) with and
      without DSM-5 Insomnia Disorder, during a regular in-lab polysomnographic night (baseline)
      and under experimental pre-sleep stress (psychosocial stressor) and pre-sleep relaxation
      (Virtual reality ANS bio-feedback) intervention nights, using state-of-the-art, noninvasive,
      beat-to-beat ANS and CV measures, including blood pressure, to assess nocturnal ANS and CV
      function in adolescents with insomnia (Aim 1); the impact of pre-sleep ANS arousal levels on
      nocturnal ANS and CV function, and sleep in adolescents with and without insomnia,
      considering possible sex differences (Aim 2), and the extent to which nocturnal ANS and CV
      function mediate the effect of pre-sleep arousal levels on objective and perceived sleep
      quality (Aim 3).

      This study has the potential to elucidate pathophysiological ANS hyperarousal underlying
      Insomnia Disorder in adolescence, including potential reasons for the vulnerability to
      insomnia in girls, leading to better recognition and potentially new treatment strategies of
      this disorder targeted at the state of ANS hyperarousal in the pre-sleep period.
    
  