
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of sorafenib tosylate and everolimus in
           patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, or
           multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the pharmacokinetic interaction of this regimen.

        -  Correlate clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) effects with
           pharmacologic (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) parameters and/or biologic (correlative
           laboratory) results.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation, phase I study followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 2/10/2009): Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate
           and oral everolimus on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib tosylate and everolimus until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which at least 2 out of at most 6 patients experience a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT).

        -  Phase II: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily and oral everolimus once
           daily at the MTD determined in phase I. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and bone marrow are collected periodically during the study and analyzed by flow
      cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Patients enrolled in
      phase I also undergo blood sample collection on days 8 and 15 during course 1 and on day 1 of
      each subsequent course for pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 103 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  