
    
      The recent statistics showed that mental disorders affect one in four people in the world. In
      this context, informal caregivers are key actors in the health care system through their
      support. This support can be associated with very high burden and distress. Informal
      caregivers can experience serious situations with potential negative consequences on their
      quality of life, their own health and the health of patients. Data recommended to intervene
      at the onset of disease to improve the impact of an intervention. It seems important also to
      intervene while the patient is in an acute phase of illness to better support informal
      caregivers' emotional needs. In addition, providing emotional support for informal caregivers
      at the beginning of an illness in particular is recommended because this is a critical phase.
      The experience of painful emotions, such as denial of disease and feelings of being
      overwhelmed or shocked can have serious consequences on their health and on the patient's
      recovery. Previous studies identified that informal caregivers need tailored knowledge about
      the patient's illness, clarification about their roles and responsibilities, better control
      over their own life and effective collaboration with health professionals. Most of the
      interventions published in the literature focus on the ill family member and its support but
      not on the specific needs of the informal caregivers as the core intervention. To reduce the
      gap between scientific recommendations and actual practice, the investigators developed,
      tailored and tested a new intervention called Ensemble.

      Ensemble is a brief individualized intervention designed to promote the well-being of
      informal caregivers who experience the effects of patients' psychiatric disorders. The
      five-session Ensemble program provided to informal caregivers targeted support to address
      their specific unmet needs, emotions and social resources. A professional addressed this
      programme to the informal caregiver delivered independently of the patient's treatment.

      Ensemble assesses the needs of informal caregivers and provides a tailored brief support.
      Results of a pilot study showed that psychological health and optimism of informal caregivers
      were improved. For these reasons, there is a clear research and clinical need to establish
      whether Ensemble programme is clinically effective by using a randomized, controlled, and
      assessor-blind trial. A combination of Ensemble plus support as usual (SAU) will be compared
      to SAU alone. Informal caregivers of individuals suffering from mental disorders will undergo
      either intervention for five sessions, during a six weeks average time. Measure will assess
      participants' current psychological health state and optimism. These different measures will
      be performed at the time of inclusion, at the end of the intervention, and at two months
      follow-up. At the end of the program, individual qualitative structured interviews will be
      performed to assess acceptability of the programme.
    
  