
    
      Many children with spastic Cerebral Palsy and other types of muscle dystonia are injected
      with Botulinum toxin A (Botox) to reduce pathological reflexes and improve muscle function.
      Such treatment requires injections to each affected muscle group, which can be both painful
      and distressing. Music therapy has been shown to reduce pain and decrease stress and anxiety
      for pediatric patients undergoing other types of medical procedures.

      The goal of this study is to determine whether music therapy can be effectively integrated as
      a means of procedural support during Botox injections. This study investigates the efficacy
      of music therapy in reducing manifestations of pain during Botox injections. Secondary
      benefits may include increased satisfaction among medical personnel and parents.

      Patients between the ages of 2-17 being treated with Botox were eligible for enrollment.
      Prior to the start of this study, patients had the option of receiving music therapy support
      during their Botox injections; these subjects continued to receive music therapy upon
      enrolling in the study. Subjects who had not previously received music therapy were
      videotaped for two Botox sessions before having a music therapy intervention. The percentage
      of crying time during the procedure was calculated from videotapes taken during the sessions.
      Surveys were given to parent/guardians and the healthcare provider performing the procedure
      to provide feedback on the effectiveness of the music intervention for the child and
      themselves.

      Comparing average crying times for 44 children's first study visit with or without music
      therapy shows that children who receive music therapy cry less than children who do not,
      although the difference is not statistically significant. Both parent and healthcare provider
      surveys indicate a high level of satisfaction with the music therapy intervention.

      The current data indicate that music therapy may be a highly effective means of procedural
      support, but strong conclusions cannot be drawn without more data.
    
  