
    
      Coronary death rates among first-generation migrants from South Asia are higher than those of
      the White majority population. Understanding the relative contribution of incidence and case
      fatality to overall coronary death rates allows preventive interventions to be targeted where
      they are likely to be more efficacious.

      We seek to do this by meta-analysing new data with previously published work identified after
      systematic review of published literature. We will combine studies spanning different modes
      of presentation with coronary disease from 'normal' populations to suspected stable angina to
      higher-risk patients diagnosed with ACS within a national registry [MINAP].

      Initially we will undertake retrospective cohort studies using four new databases (The
      aetiologic healthy population study, the Whitehall II Study; The chest pain clinic cohort
      with new-onset chest pain; the coronary angiography cohort (ACRE) and an acute coronary
      syndrome cohort, the Myocardial Infarction National Audit Project (MINAP).

      We will define ethnicity according to the UK Office for National Statistics 1991 census
      categories. All four cohorts are flagged for mortality with the Office for National
      Statistics.

      We will use a combined non-fatal outcome (non-fatal myocardial infarction and admission with
      angina) in the aetiologic cohort, as well as risk of coronary death. We will assess risk of
      coronary death in the chest pain clinic and coronary angiogram cohorts and all-cause death in
      the acute coronary syndrome cohort as cause-specific death is unavailable. We will assess
      prognosis for coronary death in Whitehall-II among those who had had typical angina at
      baseline. We will perform Cox proportional hazards regression adjusted for age (as a
      continuous variable), sex, hypertension, blood cholesterol, smoking and diabetes in all
      cohorts. We will then stratify these analyses in our prognostic studies by age, diabetes, ACS
      type, deprivation, smoking and secondary prevention management and formally examine whether a
      statistical difference exists between the hazard ratio of strata with the Bland-Altman
      two-tailed test of interaction.

      We will combine results of new and older studies and calculate pooled odds ratios, weights,
      and 95% confidence intervals using a random effects model. Heterogeneity will be examined
      using the I2 statistic.
    
  