
    
      Previous work conducted by our group during the 2003 SARS outbreak demonstrated symptoms of
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression in healthcare workers (HCWs) working in
      high-risk areas. Similar reports are emerging with regards to HCWs during COVID-19 which may
      affect staff mental health outcomes which may have effects on staff absenteeism and
      retention.

      The study is a cross-sectional, multi-centered, hospital-based online survey conducted at
      several Toronto hospitals. Participants will be recruited to participate in the voluntary
      study via an internal e-mail that will contain a short description of the study and a link to
      the online survey. The survey will take approximately 25 minutes to complete. The study group
      will include HCW s from high-risk units (Emergency, ICU, and COVID-19 units) with a
      comparison group of HCWs who are not directly involved in the assessment or management of
      patients with COVID-19.

      This study will evaluate the psychological impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on HCW's and
      identify risk factors that may place HCWs at greater risk for negative psychological
      outcomes. The survey will gather information such as s basic, non-identifying demographic
      information, hospital and unit of work, quarantine and isolation, work with patients
      diagnosed with COVID-19, loss of loved ones to COVID-19, understanding of the reasons for
      PPE/ infection control directives, perceptions of risk to self and family, sources of
      support. As well, Toronto is in the unique situation of having been at the centre of the 2003
      Canadian SARS outbreak and presently experiencing the impact of the COVID-19. The
      investigators propose that COVID-19 might have a differential impact on the psychological
      wellbeing of current HCWs depending on whether they practiced during SARS. Our survey will
      explore the differences of the psychological impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on healthcare
      workers who lived through the SARS outbreak and those who did not. The following validated
      scales are embedded in the survey to evaluate the psychological impact of the COVID pandemic:
      Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), Generalized Anxiety Disorder -7 (GAD-7) , and Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Open-ended questions will also provide respondents the
      opportunity to relate aspects of working during the COVID-19 pandemic that are most difficult
      and to provide additional comments on their unique experiences.
    
  