
    
      Sample Data were collected at the Children's Hospital (CH) at the National University
      Hospital of Iceland (NUHI) in Reykjavik, Iceland. The population of Iceland is about 340,000
      people. The incidence of diabetes among children in Iceland is 18 per year, and similar
      frequency among children and adolescents is reported regarding arthritis, epilepsy and
      sleeping disorder with ADHD. Participants in this study were 31 primary caregivers who all
      were the mothers of the children/adolescents with diabetes, arthritis, epilepsy or sleeping
      disorder with ADHD (see Table 1). A research assistant offered all the primary caregivers (N
      = 39; n=38 mothers and n=1 father) of children with one of the above-mentioned
      illnesses/disorders at the time of the data collection, to participate in the study. The 31
      primary caregivers, who signed the consent form, participated in the study and represented
      80% response rate. Parents completed online the questionaires at the clinic, before they
      started the first session and then again after the second session. Three APN ,specialists in
      the child illness diagnosis and who had special graduate educational training in family
      system nursing or had a doctorate degree in family nursing, offered the families the FAM-SOTC
      intervention. The parents meet with the APN at the Children´s Hospital without the child in
      both sessions, but each session lasted for 45 to 90 minutes. The sessions were offered with
      4-8 weeks interval.

      Description of the FAM-SOTC intervention The description of the development of the FAM-SOTC
      as well as a figure of the FAM-SOTC intervention, has been published elsewhere.

      The first FAM-SOTC session:

      When the APN had greeted the parents and made them comfortable, a family assessment was
      conducted by drawing a family tree and the quality of the family relations indicated, as well
      as asking them who belonged to their family. Therapeutic questions were used and parents
      asked questions like where they got support from? The parents were encouraged to talk about
      their child's illness experience and to reflect on how they perceived the diagnose of the
      child/adolescent. Further, the main concerns of each of the parent where explored by using
      therapeutic questions such as: (a) What is your greatest challenge now? and (b) If something
      could be different, what would that be? Throughout the therapeutic conversaton's the nurse
      acknowledge the suffering of each family member and normalized their emotional responses. The
      nurse than drew attention to the family strengths that had been observed. Potential resources
      were then discussed and the nurse offered advice and education. At the end of the therapeutic
      conversations the nurse again mentioned the parents strengths and resources and a time was
      set for the next appointment.

      The second FAM-SOTC session:

      In the second session a revision was made from the first session. Parents were encouraged to
      talk about their experience and change in their daily life and how the chronic illness or
      disorder affected them and the family as a unit. In addition, therapeutic questions were used
      such as (a) What is the greatest challenge facing your family now? (b) Who in your family do
      you think the illness has the most impact on? (c) What has been most/less helpful for you to
      do, to cope with the illness diagnose(s)? The parents were told what the APN had learned from
      their conversation, from their strengths and from their concerns. Furthermore, the parents
      emotional responses were acknowledge by telling them that their feelings and worries were
      normal for parents of children with chronic illnesses/disorders who were in similar
      situations'. Potential resources for each family were identified. Information and advice was
      offered and before finishing this session, parents were reminded of taking care of their own
      health and well-being.

      Procedures Data were collected from March 2015 to december 2016 using online LimeSurvey
      program (a professional online survey). The parents signed an informed consent which was
      provided by a clinical nurse specialist on each of the units, who participated in the study.
      The parents were given a code to login to online LimeSurvey where they could fill out the
      questionnaires.

      Ethical approval Approval for the study was received from the Scientific Ethical Board of the
      participating hospital (39/2014). A notification of the study was sent to the National
      Bioethics Committee in Iceland (S7110).
    
  