
    
      Acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarctions (STEMI) is a systemic prothrombotic milieu,
      often involves more than one coronary artery, even though it predominantly affects plaque
      rupture and its consequences in one coronary artery territory (culprit artery territory)(1).
      Also, Multivessel disease (MVD), a well known predictor of poor clinical outcomes occurs in
      acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients (pts) between 40% and 65%(2, 3).

      In acute STEMI, achieving the maximum myocardial reperfusion and salvage by primary
      percutaneous intervention of culprit lesion is the preferred reperfusion strategy as per the
      latest ACC/AHA and ESC guidelines(4, 5). At presently there is no consensus regarding the
      management of significant non culprit lesions during the initial presentation in
      hemodynamically stable STEMI pts(6, 7).Although multivessel revascularization seems to
      improve the myocardial reperfusion and its salvage by limiting infarct size, improving
      ejection fraction (EF) and stabilizing the vulnerable plaques in acute AMI presentation,
      revascularization of non IRAs yielded conflicting results in the BMS era(2, 7-13). Balancing
      the above merits with increased risk of having higher periprocedural MI due to multivessel
      stent implantations in non IRAs are paramount importance in deciding the revascularization
      strategy in MVD STEMI pts(13-15). Drug eluting stents (DES) implantations after primary PCI
      are increasing in the real world scenario after the establishment of its safety by the
      multiple Meta analyses and few randomized trials(16-19).Even though DES reduces recurrent
      revascularizations in acute STEMI pts, the merits and demerits of its usage in treating non
      IRAs in multivessel disease pts with STEMI are largely unknown in this modern PCI era(16,
      19). The aim of the study was to compare the clinical outcomes between culprit lesion
      revascularization (CLR) group and complete revascularization (CR) group where CR group
      includes treatment of both IRA and non IRAs) strategy in MVD STEMI pts in the real world
      scenario utilizing DES.

      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is established as the treatment of choice
      for acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). During the procedure, the
      culprit artery recanalization allows reperfusion of the myocardium and improves healing of
      the injured tissue (20, 21). Recent studies showed that in the AMI setting, the
      pathophysiology involves the whole coronary artery tree (21), and nearly 40% to 65% patients
      presenting with AMI have multivessel disease (22), (23), (24), (25) and plaque instability
      might develop in a multifocal pattern, resulting in unstable plaques in anatomically remote
      locations and may emerge as the cause of recurrent acute coronary syndrome. Current
      guidelines of primary PCI recommend treating the culprit vessel in the urgent procedure,
      leaving the other untreated vessels to another elective procedure. Multivessel PCI is
      recommended only for patients with cardiogenic shock (20, 21, 26). By this strategy, the
      operator intends to avoid the potential procedural complications that may deteriorate the
      patient's left ventricular function and clinical condition during acute myocardial
      infarction. Therefore, only few reports describe the results of simultaneous non culprit
      vessel PCI for patients undergoing mechanical reperfusion for STEMI.

      An early study of primary PCI for patients with multivessel disease showed favorable results
      with a strategy of staged percutaneous revascularization after acute recanalization of the
      culprit artery (24). In recent years with the use of stents and platelet glycoprotein
      IIb/IIIa inhibitors, the outcome of elective multivessel PCI has markedly improved (27, 28).
      More recent reports on simultaneous percutaneous revascularization of non-culprit arteries
      indicate that this may be a good strategy for patients with AMI found to have multivessel
      disease during primary angioplasty (29). According to some studies involving Coronary artery
      bypass graft (CABG) surgery, complete revascularization showed to be associated with better
      outcomes as compared with incomplete revascularizations (30), (31). In the Bare Metal Stent
      (BMS) era, long term event free survival rates of patients undergoing primary intervention
      for multivessel disease was shown to be as low as 48.5% (32). In-Stent Restenosis was seen as
      one of the major drawback which varied from 8% to as high as 80% at 6 months, according to
      both anatomic and clinical risk factors (33). However, introduction of Drug Eluting Stent
      (DES) showed promising results and similar results with either PCI with DES or CABG for
      patients with multivessel disease were seen(34), (35), [12].
    
  