
    
      During the last 20 years, with the rediscovering and development of noninvasive brain
      stimulation (NIBS); techniques such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have flourished thanks to the advancements in
      functional imaging, elegant neurophysiological assessments, computer generated modeling, and
      most importantly, the groundwork of well-designed research methodology.

      TDCS represents a safe, inexpensive and straightforward technique that could be easily
      integrated in rehabilitation programs. In a first sham-controlled double-blind randomized
      crossover study, the effect of a single prefrontal tDCS was evaluated in a heterogeneous
      population of patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC), vegetative state (VS) and
      minimally conscious state (MCS), acute-subacute (< 3months) and chronic, with traumatic or
      non-traumatic etiologies. At the individual level, tDCS responders were defined as patients
      who presented a new sign of consciousness (e.g., command following; visual pursuit;
      recognition, manipulation or localization of objects); after the active tDCS session, that
      was not present before nor during the sham tDCS session. 13/30 patients in MCS showed a
      tDCS-related improvement. 2 acute (<3 months) patients in VS out of 25 showed a tDCS response
      (i.e. showed command following and visual pursuit present after the anodal stimulation not
      present at baseline or pre- or post- sham-tDCS). At group level, a treatment effect, as
      measured by the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised (CRS-R) was observed in the MCS but not in the VS
      patients' group. In addition, no tDCS related side effects were observed. In another
      sham-controlled study tDCS was applied for five days either over the primary motor cortex or
      over the left prefrontal cortex in 10 chronic patients with DOC. In this trial, the effect of
      tDCS have been assessed up to 12 months post stimulation. This study highlighted that even
      chronic patients in DOC could improve and the effect could last up to 12 months post tDCS.

      Several tDCS studies have been performed by the Coma Science Group (Dr Thibaut) and other
      groups. So far, a total of 221 patients with DOC have been included in eight studies without
      any serious adverse event. In addition, three other trials performed by Naro et al including
      a total of 59, did not report any adverse event either. Therefore, tDCS appears as a safe
      technique, especially when applied by experts and highly trained investigators with a strong
      background in both non-invasive brain stimulation and patients with disorders of
      consciousness.

      From a neurophysiological point of view, tDCS increases the neuronal excitability by
      facilitating the action potential release and modification of the excitability of NMDA
      receptors. Moreover, tDCS may strengthen task-related dynamical synaptic connections. The
      effect of a single tDCS session last about 60 to 90 min. While, when the stimulation is
      repeated for 10 to 20 sessions, the effects have been found to last up to 3 months after the
      end of the stimulation sessions.

      A major challenge in the application of tDCS to patients with DOC is the variability in the
      individual behavioral response. Indeed, in previous studies conducted by the Coma Science
      Group and other groups, the rate of responders was inconsistent across studies. As stated
      above, a responder is a patient who showed a new sign of consciousness following the
      application of active tDCS that was never observed beforehand nor before or after sham
      stimulation. However, given the specificity of crossover designs used in these studies, this
      definition was recently updated as a patient who showed a new sign of consciousness for the
      first time after the application of active tDCS.

      The next steps to optimize the applications of tDCS include a better identification of tDCS
      responders beforehand. To that end, Thibaut and colleagues conducted a retrospective study
      comparing the structural and metabolic neuroimagery profiles of patients who responded to
      tDCS (n=8) and patients who did not (n=13), by the means of structural MRI T1 data and
      18-fluorodeoxyglucose position emission tomography. The results showed a greater atrophy in
      non-responders in regions including the left DLPFC, the medial-prefrontal cortex and the left
      thalamus as compared to responders. The same areas as well as the thalamus were hypometabolic
      in non-responders as compared to responders. This suggest that response to tDCS requires at
      least partial structural and metabolic preservation of the stimulated area, as well as in
      subcortical brains areas involved in attention and working memory. Later, the authors used
      the same sample and retrospectively analyzed resting state EEG brain connectivity. The
      results showed higher theta centrality in responders (as compared to non-responders) meaning
      this new biomarker can be used to predict tDCS response in patients with DOC (Thibaut et al.
      2018). Another key component to responsiveness is the timing of the stimulations. Indeed,
      patients with DOC typically present fluctuations in vigilance impacting their responsiveness
      to any kind of external stimuli. Patients in MCS even show a periodicity of 70 minutes in
      these fluctuations (range 57-80), comparable to the fluctuations in attention observed in
      healthy controls, while patient in VS do not present this type of periodicity. Piarulli and
      colleagues used the spectral entropy measured with resting EEG to highlight the periodicity
      in its fluctuations and suggested that the EEG spectral entropy variability in MCS could
      mirror the fluctuation of awareness previously described in this population. Administering
      tDCS during specific time windows (i.e., periods of low or high arousal) could therefore
      influence its clinical efficacy in patients in MCS since it is known that the positive
      effects of tDCS are dependent on the brain neural state. To this end, recent advances in
      information technology enable the implementation of a closed-loop set-up by complex
      computations being performed in real-time. Using this technology to target specific levels of
      vigilance with tDCS in patient in MCS could provide insight in understanding the patterns of
      responding to that treatment and optimize future applications.
    
  