
    
      Before Communication Training Activities Tier 1 (education-only subjects): Three to four
      weeks prior to the subject's two-week palliative care elective they will be sent an email to
      complete an online confidence survey. They will receive email reminders to complete the
      survey until survey is completed.

      Tier 2 (education + psychological measurements of subjects): Subjects will have reviewed and
      signed consent documentation. In addition to the above online confidence survey, they will
      also receive email to complete electronic ERSQ and MBI.

      Two week palliative care elective Tier 1 - Integrated into the two-week elective with the
      palliative care department, subjects undergo a 1) four-hour training focused on the SICG©; 2)
      two simulated patient encounters with trained actors and feedback provided after training, 3)
      participant sent electronic notification to take post intervention survey of confidence Tier
      2 - In addition to above, these subjects will also complete a Priming intervention. They will
      receive a list of patients whom 1) the study subjected documented at least one note on in the
      past and 2) have a high likelihood of serious illness as determined by an electronic process.
      This list will be shared securely through Dartmouth secure file electronically, and
      participants will be asked four "yes or no" questions for each patient: 1) do they believe
      the patient has serious illness?; 2) would you be surprised if the patient died within the
      next year?, 3) Is this patient an appropriate patient to use the serious illness conversation
      guide? and 4) If you saw this patient again, would you use the serious illness conversation
      guide with him/ her? Subjects will be asked to review no more than 30 patients. Subjects will
      be asked to return the completed email via Dartmouth secure file share.

      Electronic communication every two months following completion of elective Tier 1 - Every two
      months after completing the training, participants will receive email compare his or her own
      documentation of the taught template to top and average performers (comparison results given
      are anonymous). Non-top and top performers will receive different messages, customized
      through pre-testing with non-study residents and fellows. For example: "Talking to patients
      about their values is important but can take some pre-visit planning. Choose a patient you
      will see in the next two weeks to use the SICG" (non top-performers) or "Good job! Talking to
      patients about their values is important. The way we continue to improve is by having more
      conversations. Choose a patient you will see in the next two weeks to use the SICG."
      (top-performers). At four months, subjects will be asked electronically to complete their
      final confidence survey.

      Tier 2 - For this part of the study, identical to Tier 1

      Semi-structured interviews Tier 2 only - Planned to occur about three months following
      training. Subjects are asked a series of questions designed to assess subject perception of
      serious illness communication, obstacles to implementing the training in practice, barriers
      to documentation and coaching sessions in real patient encounters with trained faculty.
      Interviews will be recorded, and expected duration is 20-40 minutes.

      Simulated Patient encounter at six months Tier 1 - Subject is contacted to arrange one-hour
      for simulated patient encounter, about 20-30 minutes for skill practice and the remainder for
      debrief. Subject has permission from program to have this hour to be away from their clinical
      duties.

      Tier 2 - identical to Tier 1.

      Six and 12 month ERSQ and MBI assessment Tier 2 only - emails will be sent to subject to take
      ERSQ and MBI at month six and 12 following training
    
  