
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Estimate the response, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients with
           metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) treated with bevacizumab and high-dose
           interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      Secondary

        -  Compare the response and survival of patients with metastatic RCC treated with
           bevacizumab and high-dose IL-2 with the historical data of patients treated with
           high-dose IL-2 alone.

        -  Compare the toxicity of bevacizumab and high-dose IL-2 in patients with metastatic RCC
           with the historical data of patients treated with high-dose IL-2 alone, in terms of
           number of doses of IL-2 administered during the first course of therapy, toxicity after
           the scheduled ninth dose of IL-2, and frequency of grade III and IV or unexpected or
           rare toxicities.

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in patients with metastatic RCC treated with
           bevacizumab and high-dose IL-2 with the historical data of patients treated with
           high-dose IL-2 alone.

        -  Evaluate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of bevacizumab and high-dose IL-2
           during course 1.

        -  Correlate serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels, DC function, TCR zeta
           chain expression, and arginase or arginine levels with toxicity, response, and survival
           of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate the utility of known prognostic criteria for RCC patients on clinical outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prognosis (good vs
      intermediate vs poor).

      Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days -13, 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, and 71
      during course 1 and on days 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, and 71 during courses 2 and 3. Patients also
      receive high-dose interleukin-2 every 8 hours on days 1-5 and 15-19. Treatment repeats every
      84 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 65 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  