
    
      For decades, clinicians and scientists have focused on finding a cure for paralysis. However,
      research has shown that individuals with SCI more highly prioritize bladder, bowel and sexual
      functioning over the ability to walk again. There is still a major lack of research towards
      improving these critical components of autonomic recovery following SCI. This clinical study
      examines the EFFECTS OF TRANSCUTANEOUS SPINAL CORD STIMULATION (TCSCS) in promoting recovery
      of bladder, bowel and sexual functions in individuals with SCI. This NON-INVASIVE THERAPEUTIC
      METHOD utilizes electrodes applied over the skin, and is based on ground-breaking work (from
      the investigator's group and others), showing that spinal cord stimulation can promote motor
      and autonomic recovery in individuals with chronic SCI. This study is a collaborative effort
      between clinicians and scientists with expertise in: SCI care, rehabilitation, bladder,
      bowel, cardiovascular and sexual functioning.

      Safety will be routinely monitored. Six weeks after completion of stimulation experiments,
      bladder, bowel and sexual function will be reassessed to examine the longevity of
      TCSCS-induced effects. TCSCS COULD OFFER A SIMPLE, COST-EFFECTIVE SOLUTION TO TREAT AUTONOMIC
      DYSFUNCTIONS (i.e. urine and faecal incontinence, erectile difficulties etc.) that would
      undoubtedly significantly improve overall health related quality of life for individuals with
      SCI.

      Recent findings have demonstrated that electrical stimulation to the spinal cord (i.e.
      implanted electrodes) can significantly recover bladder, bowel, and sexual function after
      injury. While promising, a major drawback is that individuals must undergo a highly invasive
      and expensive surgical procedure to implant the stimulator on top of the spinal cord.
      Moreover, the inability to re-position the implanted stimulator considerably limits the
      flexibility of this procedure.

      In this project, the investigators propose a comprehensive clinical study examining the
      effects of TCSCS in promoting recovery of these crucial functions in individuals with SCI.
      This non-invasive therapeutic modality uses electrodes applied over the skin to deliver
      electrical stimulation. It is based on the same principles of ground-breaking work from the
      investigator's group and others, showing that stimulation of the spinal cord can promote
      motor and autonomic (cardiovascular, bladder, bowel) recovery in individuals with chronic
      SCI.

      Electrical neuromodulation has recently emerged as a leader in potential therapies for
      restoring voluntary control of functional movements in lower limbs after SCI. In addition to
      functional motor recovery, numerous studies from the investigator's group and collaborators
      have shown efficacy of both epidural stimulation (invasive) and non-invasive stimulation
      (TCSCS) in restoring autonomic function. For example, in the investigators preliminary
      examination of several individuals with SCI, the investigators have demonstrated that
      epidural stimulation acutely restores cardiovascular control, improves lower urinary tract
      (LUT) function and reduces time needed for bowel routine. These studies were highly
      influential in developing stimulation protocols and establishing spinal cord stimulation as a
      safe and effective therapy. The next logical step is to conduct a wider-scale clinical trial
      for TCSCS as a novel, efficacious and inexpensive alternative therapy to epidural
      stimulation. By uniting experts in the field of SCI, physical medicine/rehabilitation,
      urology, colorectal health and sexual functioning, the investigators are well-equipped to
      assess TCSCS as a novel means of improving recovery of LUT, bowel and sexual function. The
      investigator's team has a strong history of collaborative research in these fields and
      extensive experience in the evaluation of these three aspects of autonomic function using
      physiological measures/clinical assessments in addition to well-validated questionnaires.

      The investigators anticipate that individuals with SCI who participate in this trial will
      receive a therapeutic benefit in at least one of the multiple outcomes (i.e. LUT, bowel and
      sexual function) and will also obtain greater insight into the nature of their current health
      status in these areas post-SCI. This project will also have a high degree of impact on the
      SCI-community by further developing TCSCS as a more accessible and inexpensive therapy for
      autonomic dysfunctions. Ultimately the investigator's goal is to improve quality of life for
      individuals with SCI, which the investigators anticipate in turn will decrease caregiver
      burden and health care costs due to LUT, bowel and sexual issues associated with SCI.

      Eligible individuals who sign the consent form will first undergo screening and initial
      evaluations (total of 6 visits completed within 6 weeks) and then will be randomly assigned
      to either a moderate TCSCS treatment group (2 days/week for a total of 12 treatment sessions)
      or intense TCSCS treatment group (5days/week for a total of 30 treatment sessions) during the
      6 weeks treatment period. After completion of total protocol, each participant will undergo 4
      follow up assessments that will be completed within 12 weeks following the treatment.
      Overall, the total duration of participation will be approximately 25 weeks.

      Visit 1 Screening Approximately 1.5 hours After a participant has provided informed consent,
      he/she will be assigned a unique study number will be invited for a screening assessment to
      confirm study eligibility.

      Visit 2: Baseline Assessments Approximately 1 hour. All eligible participants will be guided
      through a series of questionnaires on bladder function, bowel function, cardiovascular
      function and sexual health (outcomes 6-10 below). Participants will also undergo baseline 24
      hours ambulatory evaluation of cardiovascular functions (outcome 1).

      Visit 3 /Baseline EMG Mapping of Spinal Cord Segments with TCSCS Approximately 2 hours.
      Participants will undergo baseline mapping using surface EMG and concentric needle EMG as per
      an established protocol to record muscle activation during transcutaneous spinal cord
      stimulation (mapping) at different spinal cord levels and different intensity (outcome 2).

      Visits 4,5 and 6: Bladder and bowel function assessment procedures with and without
      non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation Approximately 2.5 hours per visit.

      Visits 4, 5, and 6 will include assessments of bladder function (urodynamics, outcome 3) and
      bowel function (Anorectal Manometry, outcome 4). Bladder assessments will take place at the
      Blusson Spinal Cord Centre and bowel assessments will take place at St. Paul's Hospital.

      The order of these 3 visits will differ randomly between individuals and will be one of the
      following:

        -  Pathway #1: you will start with Urodynamics, (UDS 1, Visit 4), followed by a second
           session of Urodynamics (UDS 2, Visit 5), followed by bowel function assessments(Visit
           6).

        -  Pathway#2: you will start bowel function assessments (Visit 4), followed by Urodynamics
           (UDS 1, Visit 5), and a second session of Urodynamics (UDS 2, Visit 6)).

      Visits 7-18 or 36: Long Term Non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation
      Approximately 1.5 hours per visit.

      Participants will be asked to come to ICORD for TCSCS either 2 days/week (moderate treatment
      group with total 12 treatment sessions) or 5 days/week (intense treatment group with total 30
      treatment sessions) for 6 weeks. Participants will be randomly assignment to either the
      moderate or intense treatment groups. Whether a participant are assigned to the moderate or
      intense group will be determined by chance (like the flip of a coin). Each TCSCS session will
      last approximately 90 minutes. Stimulation will be applied for a total of 60 minutes in three
      20-minute intervals with 2 minute breaks. Skin temperature, blood pressure and heart rate
      will be monitored. Mid-way through the 6 weeks, participants will be set up with an
      ambulatory blood pressure monitor to wear at home on the day of the participant's bowel
      routine. We will also provide a diary for participants to log their activities while wearing
      the blood pressure monitor.

      Visit 19 or 37: Bladder assessment and SCI severity assessment - Approximately 3 hours

      After the 6 weeks of TCSCS, a third urodynamics assessment will be performed at the Blusson
      Spinal cord centre, following the same procedure described above, both without and with
      TCSCS. During this visit, a clinician will also perform a SCI severity assessment
      (International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI)
      exam).

      Visit 20 or 38: Immediate Follow up Telephone Questionnaires - Approximately 1 hour

      Visit 20 or 38 will take place by telephone or video conference call (considering the present
      COVID-19 pandemic environment). Participants will be guided through the same series of
      questionnaires as in visit 1 and 2, on bladder function, bowel function, cardiovascular
      function and sexual health.

      Visits 21-22 or 39-40: Long Term follow up Telephone Questionnaires and Semi Structured
      Interview:

      Approximately 1 hour (visit 21/39) and approximately 1.5 hours (visit 22/40)

      These visits will take place over the telephone to evaluate existing and new adverse events
      and concurrent treatments. During each of these follow-up phone Visits (39 and 40) at 6 and
      12 weeks post completion of long term TCSCS, participants will be guided through the same
      series of questionnaires on bladder function, bowel function, cardiovascular function and
      sexual health described above.

      During visit 22 or visit 40, a sexual health clinician, with experience providing clinical
      care to individuals with SCI, will also conduct a semi-structured qualitative interview
      (outcome 11) during which they will ask participants questions about the following: sexual
      history and current relationship status, level of sexual drive, ability to orgasm, barriers
      to sexual activity, self-esteem, the use of performance enhancing aids, and the participant's
      perceptions of the role of TCSCS on sexual functioning.
    
  