
    
      This active surveillance program will monitor for any signal indicating a possible
      association between treatment with long-acting GLP-1 RAs and the development of MTC in the
      United States population. Given the very low incidence of MTC in the general population, the
      expected rate of exposure to long-acting GLP-1 RAs, the anticipated long latency of the
      potential outcome under study and the limited data on underlying risk factors for development
      of MTC other than RET proto-oncogene mutations, an active surveillance program is the most
      efficient means of identifying a possible association between MTC and products in the
      long-acting GLP-1 RAs class. Given the uncertainty of the association of MTC in humans
      treated with these drugs, a study duration of at least fifteen years from the time of market
      introduction of the first long-acting GLP-1 RA was thought to provide evidence of an
      association, if one exists. If such an association is identified, a case-control study will
      be initiated to quantify the association.

      The MTC registry is a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) post-marketing requirement for
      long-acting GLP-1 RA products. Because of the rarity of MTC and in order to minimize
      inconvenience to patients, physicians, and state cancer registries, FDA encouraged sponsors
      of long-acting GLP-1 RAs to work collaboratively to conduct this registry. Consequently, the
      MTC Registry Consortium has been formed for this purpose.

      The MTC Registry Consortium refers to the Sponsors with approved long-acting GLP-1 RAs who
      have a contractual agreement to participate in the MTC Registry.

      This active surveillance program for cases of MTC will be conducted with assistance from the
      North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR). NAACCR is a collaborative
      umbrella organization for cancer registries, government agencies, professional organizations,
      and private groups in North America interested in improving the quality and use of cancer
      registry data. All of the central cancer registries in the U.S. and Canada are members of
      NAACCR, including those that participate in SEER.
    
  