
    
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is characterized by decline in one or more cognitive domains,
      including memory, attention, executive functions, language and visuospatial abilities, and in
      a significant portion of cases may evolve to Alzheimer's Disease. According to established
      diagnostic criteria, independence for daily life activities is preserved, but activities are
      carried out less effectiveness and efficiency, affected subjects usually take more time and
      make more mistakes, when compared to their pre-morbid performance. Different studies have
      observed that impairments in functional performance in older adults with MCI are associated
      with impairments in executive function. This study intends to verify the impact of the use of
      digital cognitive training for executive function on the functionality of older adults with
      MCI. Digital cognitive exercises, used in the intervention group, have the primary objective
      of stimulating executive functions, and will be made available through the Internet using the
      BrainHQ platform. The active control group will play computer games available online. Both
      groups will play for 1 hour at least 2 times per week.

      After baseline assessments, older adults with MCI will be stratified by age, education,
      gender, functional measurement and cognitive assessment, and randomly assigned to the
      intervention group with digital cognitive exercises or to the control group with computer
      games, in a stepped wedge design. Subjects will be evaluated at baseline and after completing
      10 and 20 hours of intervention. After the first 10 hours of intervention both groups will be
      assigned to the intervention with digital cognitive exercises for additional 10 hours. Both
      groups will be comparable in terms of personal contact with staff and computer time. Our
      hypothesis is that the training using digital cognitive exercises will improve the executive
      function and that this gain has a positive impact on the functionality and accomplishment of
      the daily life activities of older adults with MCI.
    
  