
    
      For marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) Rituximab in combination with conventional chemotherapy is
      widely used for those patients who fail local therapy or do not qualify for such. Depending
      on the MZL subtype Rituximab/chemotherapy is able to induce in part long remissions, but do
      not prevent relapse later on. In addition, chemotherapy associated toxicity is often
      problematic in MZL patients, who are mostly of advanced age. Thus, chemotherapy - free
      approaches are highly attractive for this patient group. Rituximab single agent is a widely
      used chemotherapy - free approach in MZL, but was significantly inferior compared to
      Rituximab/chlorambucil in a large randomized prospective clinical trial in treatment naïve
      MZL with a CR rate of 56 % vs. 80%, respectively (P<0.001). Thus, it is the major aim to
      develop chemotherapy - free approaches for MZL, which approach efficacy of
      Rituximab/chemotherapy combinations, but avoid chemotherapy associated toxicities. This in
      particular important in MZL as many physicians are reluctant to treat these often elderly
      patients with more intense treatments and prefer single agent therapies in these very often
      well and long responding lymphoma subtype. The PI3K inhibitor Copanlisib has shown high
      clinical activity in indolent B - cell lymphomas among them MZL. Based on these observations
      it is the aim of this study to test the toxicity and efficacy of Copanlisib in combination
      with the anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab in patients with newly diagnosed or relapsed MZL in
      need of treatment, who are not eligible or failed local therapy, following the assumption
      that this novel chemotherapy - free combination is significantly more effective than
      Rituximab single agent therapy and at least as efficient as Rituximab/chemotherapy, but
      avoids chemotherapy - related toxicity.

      The objective of the trial is to test the efficacy and toxicity of the treatment of
      Copanlisib/Rituximab in patients with MZL in need of treatment, who have failed or are not
      eligible for local therapy or relapsed after local or systemic therapy. For efficacy the rate
      of complete remissions (according to the GELA criteria for gastric MALT or to the Cheson 2007
      criteria for non-gastric extranodal, nodal and splenic MZL) after induction therapy will be
      primarily analysed. For toxicity treatment associated adverse events, quality of life and
      cumulative incidence of secondary malignancies will be documented.
    
  