
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), epilepsy afflicts more than 50 million
      people worldwide. Older antiepileptic drugs are still commonly used, despite a diverse range
      of side effects. New AEDs approved since the early 1990s have shown an improved tolerability
      profile. Nonetheless, approximately 30% of patients, particularly those with partial onset
      seizures, are not well controlled even on the newer treatments or they experience significant
      side effects secondary to treatment. Therefore, the development of new drugs with
      effectiveness or safety and tolerability advantages over currently marketed antiepileptic
      drugs is needed. This is a randomized (study medication assigned by chance), double-blind
      (neither the physician nor the patient knows the name of the assigned study medication),
      placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study. The study has 3 phases: an 8-week
      pretreatment phase including screening and a baseline period, a 14-week double blind
      treatment phase, including a 2-week titration period and a 12-week maintenance period, and a
      4 week posttreatment phase. During the 56-day baseline period, patients will be required to
      have at least 6 partial onset seizures, no more than >= 100 partial onset seizures per 28
      days, and no seizure-free period for more than 3 weeks to be eligible to enter the
      double-blind treatment phase of the study. During the double-blind treatment phase of study
      CARISEPY3013, patients will be randomly assigned to receive 800 mg/day carisbamate, 1,200
      mg/day carisbamate, or placebo for 14 weeks. The total duration of study CARISEPY3013 is
      approximately 26 weeks for each subject. Patients who complete the double-blind treatment
      phase will be eligible to enter the separate extension study CARISEPY3014. Safety assessments
      include the monitoring of the frequency, severity, and timing of adverse events, clinical
      laboratory test results, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings, vital signs
      measurements, physical and neurologic examinations, the Physician Withdrawal Checklist for
      symptoms of withdrawal for those patients who taper and/or discontinue study drug, and
      pregnancy tests for females of childbearing potential. Assessments of effectiveness include
      seizure counts at every visit and the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 Patient Inventory
      questionnaire. A Medical Resource utilization questionnaire will be used to obtain
      cost-effectiveness information on carisbamate. The study hypothesis is that carisbamate is
      superior to placebo as add-on therapy (i.e., in addition to the current antiepileptic drugs
      that patients are taking) for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with
      epilepsy. Carisbamate 800 mg/day, 1,200 mg/day, or placebo taken twice daily in 2 equally
      divided doses, with or without food, and taken with noncarbonated water. A double-dummy
      design will be used so that all patients will take the same number of active drug and placebo
      tablets each day during the 14 weeks of the double blind treatment phase. Patients will
      continue to take a stable dosage or dosages of up to 3 antiepileptic drugs that they are
      already taking for their seizures during the entire study.
    
  