
    
      There will be a total of sixty participants recruited for the study, with an anticipation of
      40 to complete the study. Participants will complete the Physical Activity Readiness
      Questionnaire (PAR-Q) to ensure that they are able to participate in the structured exercise
      programme. If the participants' answers "yes" to any question on the Physical Activity
      Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q), he/she is ineligible to participate. Participants will also
      read a participant information leaflet and sign an informed consent before participating in
      the study. Baseline demographic will be collected at the start of the study. Participants
      will complete the SF-36 Health Survey at session one and session 2 (week 12). Baseline
      testing will be conducted. The following measures will be employed in the study through a
      baseline testing and repeated at the end of the study period (week 12): Functional ambulatory
      measurements, physical activity measurements, isokinetic testing, duplex ultrasound
      screening.

      Upon completing baseline testing participants will have the warm-up, cool-down, stretches,
      all exercise demonstrated and explained to them. Participants will go through each exercise
      with the principal investigator to ensure understanding. The principal investigator will then
      describe each section of the "Strength From Within" Booklet. At the end of the first session
      the participants will be administered their at home structured exercise booklet, recording
      booklet, resistance band, warm-up and cool-down information sheet and their ankle range of
      motion information sheet.

      The baseline meeting and the week 12 meeting will take roughly 90 minutes to complete all
      baseline measurements, questionnaires, isokinetic testing and demonstrations. Isokinetic
      testing will take a total of 32 minutes with resting periods included in the time, baseline
      measurements including the muscle strength and functional ambulatory measurements will take a
      duration of 10.5 minutes, demonstration of the home structured exercise programme will take
      up to 20 minutes, both questionnaires will take 5-minutes total and time left for any other
      questions or concerns. Extra time will be given at any point during both meetings if needed
      by the participant.
    
  