
    
      Obesity is a known risk factor for invasive breast cancers that occur post-menopause. Obese
      women also die twice as frequently from breast cancer than those of normal weight. Numerous
      preclinical studies show the benefits of caloric restriction on cancer progression in animals
      - but, will similar effects be seen in humans? In response to a call for translational
      studies that will identify biological/biobehavioral pathways through which weight loss may
      affect cancer prognosis (PAR-12-229), the investigators propose a pilot study that builds on
      the investigators success of pre-surgical interventions to answer the research question,
      "does negative energy balance with concomitant weight loss invoke anti-cancer effects on
      tumor biology and the host environment?" The investigators will randomly assign 40 overweight
      or obese postmenopausal women diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or early stage
      breast cancer who elect mastectomy or lumpectomy to 1-of-2 study arms: 1) an Attention
      Control Group that receives instruction on dietary approaches to correct nutritional
      deficiencies and progressive resistance training (PRT) that targets the arm ipsilateral to
      the affected breast; or 2) an Experimental Group that will receive PRT and guidance to
      correct nutritional deficiencies plus an intensive intervention to promote a 1.5-2 pound/week
      weight loss through diet, exercise, and behavior modification. This study will explore and
      contrast changes in body mass index (BMI) observed from enrollment to the time of surgery in
      the experimental vs. attention control arms, and also monitor changes in energy intake and
      physical activity. These changes will be studied in relation to the following endpoints: a)
      changes in select circulating biomarkers and gene expression related to cancer progression,
      hormonal status, inflammation and other energy-related factors; b) rates of tumor
      proliferation and apoptosis; c) tumor markers, e.g., insulin receptor, Vascular Epithelial
      Growth Factor (VEGF), Nuclear Factor kappa beta (NFkB), and phosphoproteins associated with
      the Convergence of Hormones, Inflammation and Energy-Rated Factors (CHIEF) pathway; and d)
      functional and health-related outcomes. Because both tumor tissue and blood will be examined
      from pre-to-post-intervention, this study will provide exciting new data that can elucidate
      pathways by which energy balance affects breast cancer progression from a non-invasive to an
      invasive state. Although longer term weight loss is recommended for overweight and obese
      breast cancer survivors, it is not known whether placing the body in a state of negative
      energy balance will have a favorable impact on the tumor. If beneficial changes in tumor
      biology and the host environment occur with short-term, pre-surgical weight loss, this study
      provides proof of concept that weight loss may offer an acceptable and complementary
      treatment option that could be combined with standard therapies. Thus, the research that is
      proposed will not only increase the investigators understanding of the impact of negative
      energy balance on tumor biology, but could change the standard of care and offer a more
      conservative treatment option for the 50,000 American women who are diagnosed with DCIS each
      year, as well as a novel adjunct therapy for women with early stage invasive disease.
    
  