
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with decitabine, by
      evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and
      duration.

      II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose(s)/schedule (MTD) and phase 2 recommended dose(s)/
      schedule (RP2D) of the combination for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and high-risk
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      III. Obtain preliminary estimate of complete remission (CR/CR with incomplete hematologic
      recovery [CRi]) rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Obtain estimates of remission duration and survival probabilities (overall and
      progression-free) at 2 years.

      II. Explore the possible association between pre-treatment PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2 and
      clinical response.

      III. Evaluate change in PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2 levels as a result of the combination therapy.

      IV. Explore the possible association between specific T cell subsets (e.g. CD4 T regulatory
      cells, T naive, effector and memory cells), other immunological correlatives (e.g. T-cell
      receptor [TCR] repertoire analysis) including post-treatment changes, and clinical response
      to combination therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients with AML receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      1 and 22 and decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-10. Patients who achieve a CR receive
      decitabine on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 8 cycles or 1 year from
      start of therapy, whichever comes first, in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients with MDS receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 22 and
      decitabine over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 8 cycles or 1
      year from start of therapy, whichever comes first, in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, then every 3 and 6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  