
    
      ENL is confined to leprosy patients classified as BL or LL (Ridley-Jopling), which in turn
      comprise the multi-bacillary (MB) patient group, as defined by WHO. ENL presents as new, red,
      painful and tender nodules in the skin, usually on the legs and arms, and sometimes on the
      trunk. ENL varies in severity. When the reaction is mild, only the skin is affected and there
      may be low grade fever. When the reaction is severe, the nodules are multiple and may
      ulcerate, and other organs may be inflamed, such as the nerves, eyes, joints, testes, and
      lymph nodes. ENL may occur before, during or after MDT treatment, and several years later. It
      can occur as a single acute episode, but frequently develops into a chronic condition with
      recurrent episodes. Immune responses causing ENL are triggered by high loads of fragmented
      bacilli in skin tissue. The complex mechanisms underlying ENL are not fully understood yet
      which makes treatment difficult.

      Treatment of ENL is much debated and a very challenging issue. There is no universally
      accepted regimen that is fully effective. Most therapies for ENL aim to control the acute
      inflammation, relieving the pain and preventing further damage or new episodes. Several
      treatments are available for ENL. The conventional treatment for mild ENL is rest and
      anti-inflammatory medication. Aspirin was the most commonly used anti-inflammatory
      medication, but indomethacin, chloroquine and colchicine have been tested as well. There is
      not much evidence that these drugs are more beneficial than aspirin. For severe ENL,
      prednisolone, the most widely available corticosteroid, and clofazimine are most commonly
      used. ENL is often recurrent or chronic and requires high-dose and prolonged courses of
      prednisolone for disease control. This increases the risk of adverse events, such as
      hypertension or diabetes, and steroid dependency.

      Apremilast is a novel, phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE 4) antagonist, and an orally administered
      small molecule, acts by specifically targeting a central pathogenic mechanism, binding
      directly to the PDE-4 enzyme and evading complex antigen-receptor interactive
      immunoregulatory mechanisms. Apremilast is an immune modulator rather than an
      immunosuppressant.

      Anti-inflammatory actions of Apremilast includes

        1. Increased levels of cAMP, which reduces the levels of pro- inflammatory cytokines (such
           as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-23, IL-12, and leukotriene B4) and
           also increases the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines (such as IL-10)

        2. Binds to toll-like receptor 4 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which further
           decrease the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines

        3. Decreases the activity of nitric oxide synthase Because of its anti-inflammatory
           actions, Apremilast may have a significant role in the treatment of patients with
           Erythema Nodosum Leprosum who have not responded to other conventional treatment.

      Use and safety of apremilast in other dermatoses Apremilast has been extensively used in
      dermatology in psoriasis and psoriatic arthropathy and is FDA-approved for both the
      indications. Multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have shown efficacy of oral
      apremilast in moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. In an RCT involving 352 adult
      patients of moderate to severe psoriasis, oral apremilast was well-tolerated, safe and
      produced significant improvement in psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) scores, when
      used in dosage of 20 mg twice daily or 30 mg twice daily as compared to placebo and lower
      doses (p<0.0001).

      In another multi-centric RCT in 259 patients of psoriasis, apremilast produced significant
      reduction in PASI scores over 12 weeks and was well-tolerated20.

      In the three programs conducted under the title of Psoriatic Arthritis Long term Assessment
      of Clinical Efficacy (PALACE), when given in dose of 20 or 30 mg twice daily for 52 weeks,
      apremilast was significantly effective in improving the swollen joint count and the tender
      joint counts in psoriatic arthropathy without any serious adverse effects.

      In a study performed in 15 patients with cutaneous sarcoidosis, oral apremilast at a dose of
      20 mg twice daily, was shown to produce clinical improvement in paired photographs as well as
      significant decrease in sarcoidosis activity and severity index (SASI) scores with 12 weeks
      of therapy. The therapy was safe and no serious side-effects were reported.

      The most common adverse drug reactions (ADRs) recorded in previous studies were diarrhoea,
      nausea, upper respiratory tract infection and headache. Other ADRs included dyspepsia,
      decreased appetite, migraine, back pain, bronchitis etc. However, most of these side effects
      have a mild to moderate intensity, with a self limiting nature. In a study by Crowley et al,
      safety findings were reported for 0 to ≥156 weeks from the Efficacy and Safety Trial
      Evaluating the Effects of Apremilast in Psoriasis (ESTEEM) 1 and 2 and the authors concluded
      that apremilast had an acceptable safety profile and was well-tolerated despite use for ≥156
      weeks. Although there are no reports of use of apremilast in leprosy, the use is not expected
      to cause any significant adverse effects in view of its relative safe profile in other
      inflammatory dermatoses.

      AIMS AND METHODS

      Primary objective To assess the efficacy of apremilast in patients of chronic and recurrent
      ENL, who have not responded to either clofazimine or minocycline

      Secondary objective To evaluate the safety profile and document adverse effects of oral
      apremilast in chronic recurrent ENL

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Study period: November 2018 to April 2019 Number of patients to be enrolled in pilot study:
      10 This will be a pilot study to assess the efficacy and safety of Apremilast in chronic and
      recurrent Erythema Nodosum Leprosum (ENL) conducted in the department of Dermatology,
      Venereology and Leprology, PGIMER, Chandigarh after obtaining approval from the institutional
      ethics committee.

      Definitions Erythema Nodosum Leprosum (ENL) is diagnosed when a patient with leprosy has
      crops of tender subcutaneous skin lesions. Systemic features are recorded separately and
      include: fever (temperature >38°C), neuritis, joint pain, bone tenderness, orchitis, iritis,
      oedema, malaise, anorexia and lymphadenopathy

      Chronic ENL: ENL occurring for 24 weeks or more during which a patient requires ENL treatment
      either continuously or where any treatment free period has been 27 days or less.

      Recurrent ENL: If a patient experiences a second or subsequent episode of ENL occurring 28
      days or more after stopping treatment for ENL

      Data collection All the diagnosed patients of chronic and recurrent ENL will be screened for
      the eligibility. Patients who give consent and fulfil the eligibility criteria in the study
      period will be consecutively enrolled in the study.

      Drug protocol to be used:

      Oral tablet of Apremilast 30 mg twice in a day daily for 6 months after an initial titration
      schedule.

      Titration schedule shall be as follows:

      The study patients will be treated with oral apremilast, administered initially a dose of 10
      mg once daily, gradually increasing to reach the maximal therapeutic dosage of 30 mg twice
      daily before end of 1st week of starting the therapy.

      The treatment will be continued till 6 months and we will taper the steroids by 10mg/ 2 weeks
      till 20mg and then 5 mg/ 2 weeks till discontinuation of steroids.

      If a patient worsens after treatment or develops any serious adverse event after initiation
      of treatment, he will be withdrawn from the study.

      If there is no response to the treatment and we are unable to taper steroids after 12 weeks
      of therapy then the patient will be withdrawn from the study.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The statistical analysis will be carried out using Statistical Package
      for Social Sciences (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, version 20.0 for Windows). All quantitative
      variables (age, duration of the symptoms, age at onset) will be estimated using measures of
      central location (mean, median) and measures of dispersion (standard deviation and standard
      error). Normality of data will be checked by measures of Kolmogorov Smirnov tests of
      normality. For normally distributed data means will be compared using student's t-test. For
      skewed data or for scores, Mann-Whitney test will be applied & IQR will also be calculated.
      For time related variables, Wilcoxon Signed rank test will be applied. Qualitative or
      categorical variables will be described as frequencies and proportions. Proportions will be
      compared using Chi square or Fisher's exact test whichever is applicable. All statistical
      tests will be two-sided and will be performed at a significance level of α=.05.

      ETHICAL JUSTIFICATION Apremilast is one of the newer and safe oral therapies currently used
      for treating patients with severe psoriasis and psoriatic arthropathy due to its
      anti-inflammatory effects. ENL is an immune-mediated inflammatory response occurring in
      patients of multibacillary leprosy. Although apremilast targets those inflammatory mediators,
      which are also implicated in ENL, the exact role and possible efficacy of apremilast in
      patients with chronic and recurrent ENL is not yet clear and has not been evaluated before.
      This study aims to study the efficacy and safety of oral apremilast in ENL patients. All
      patients will be recruited voluntarily after obtaining informed consent. Hence, the study is
      ethically justified.

      Clinical assessment and follow-up visits will be performed during scheduled visits. There
      will be no financial burden on the patient for the study purpose as apremilast will be
      provided by the investigators and the patients will not be compensated financially for
      participating in the study. Treatment of the patient will not be altered by the refusal or
      agreement of the patient to participate in this study.
    
  