
    
      Studies have shown an association between increased folic acid (a synthetic form of folate, a
      B-vitamin) intake and reduction of a birth defect referred to as neural tube defects (NTDs).
      If women using contraception were to receive a combination of an oral contraceptive and folic
      acid, they may have the benefit of increased blood folate levels, which could reduce the risk
      of NTDs. This is a multi-center, double-blind study designed to study red blood cell folate
      levels in women who are taking oral contraceptives with or without folic acid. Patients will
      receive oral contraceptives with or without folic acid for 8 cycles of 28 days each. The
      study will consist of 2 parts of 4 cycles each. All patients will receive oral contraceptives
      throughout both parts of the study, patients may or may not receive folic acid in combination
      with the oral contraceptive during 1 or both parts of the study. The concentration of red
      blood cell folate will be determined by laboratory tests after Cycles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8.
      Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, electrocardiograms, physical examinations,
      laboratory tests) will be performed throughout the study. Patients may also participate in an
      optional portion of the study in which their genetic material is analyzed to see if contains
      something that would affect the way folic acid is used by their bodies. The study hypothesis
      is that women taking an oral contraceptive with folic acid will have increased levels of red
      blood cell folate compared to women taking an oral contraceptive without folic acid. Some
      women who receive the oral contraceptive with folic acid during the first four cycles will be
      transitioned to an oral contraceptive without folic acid for Cycles 5-8. In this group of
      women, the rate of decrease in red blood cell folate levels will be measured. Norgestimate
      250 micrograms (mcg)-ethinyl estradiol 35 mcg tablets, with or without folic acid 400 mcg, 2
      tablets taken by mouth daily between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. for 8 cycles of 28 days
      duration each for a total of 224 days
    
  