
    
      VoLumen, a low Hounsfield unit 0.1% barium sulfate suspension that also contains sorbitol and
      a gum, is the most common oral contrast material used in children and adults undergoing CT
      and MR enterography (advanced imaging tests used to evaluate the bowel lumen and bowel wall
      in children and adults, usually with suspected or known Crohn disease). This contrast
      material is typically administered orally to non-sedated patients during the 45-60 minute
      period prior to imaging. The goal of oral contrast material administration is to completely
      fill the small bowel with fluid at the time of imaging. Benefits of oral contrast material at
      cross-sectional enterography include: improved delineation of bowel from non-bowel structures
      in the abdomen and pelvis, improved accuracy when assessing bowel wall thickness, and
      improved visualization of mucosal hyper-enhancement in the setting of active intestinal
      inflammation.

      In some children (and adults), the standard-of-care contrast agent (VoLumen) is poorly
      tolerated. This is likely due to a variety of factors, including taste, texture, and the
      volume that is required to be consumed. Recently, a new oral contrast material called "Breeza
      for neutral abdominopelvic imaging" (or simply Breeza) has become available for use at CT and
      MR enterography. This agent contains sorbitol, mannitol, and xantham gum (a thickening
      agent), and it is marketed as a "flavored beverage" as it contains no active ingredient
      (e.g., barium sulfate). A single study performed in adult volunteers has shown that this new
      agent performs similar to VoLumen, has a superior taste, and is associated with greater
      willingness for repeat drinking.

      The objective of our study is to compare our standard-of-care oral contrast material to the
      newly available contrast material in a prospective, randomized, blinded manner. Primary
      outcomes will include degree of small bowel opacification, distention of the terminal ileum,
      and patient acceptance/tolerability.
    
  