
    
      Aim: To test the feasibility of an empowerment and food insecurity intervention for newly
      married women and others in their households to improve maternal and child health outcomes.
      The investigators will pilot an intervention consisting of groups of newly married women,
      their husbands and mothers-in-law. Each household will be enrolled for 4 months in weekly
      sessions. Topics discussed will include behavioral messaging crafted specifically for newly
      married households (including husbands and in-laws) to address the perceptions of different
      family members about food consumption, gender inequality, and the relationship between
      women's nutrition, food consumption, maternal health, and birth outcomes. Behavioral
      messaging at the household level: Based on findings from preliminary studies, key barriers to
      newly married women receiving needed nutrition/food and potential mechanisms to address those
      barriers were identified, as well as informational messages that could be used to address
      specific barriers. Particular attention was paid to how household dynamics and
      decision-making relate to gender inequality and food insecurity. Thirty randomly selected
      newly married households will be recruited to participate in testing the feasibility and
      acceptability of the intervention. Acceptability will be assessed from women, husbands, and
      mothers-in-law through surveys at the end of 4 months with questions on relevance to their
      needs, information gained, and interest in participating further. Enrollment and retention at
      4 months will also be used to measure acceptability. Preliminary changes in knowledge,
      attitudes and behaviors will be assessed through a comparison of pre and post survey data.
      The investigators will also conduct semi structured interviews with 15 participants and 5
      stakeholders. If necessary, the intervention will then be refined.
    
  