
    
      Coronary artery disease and myocardial ischemia are among the leading causes of death and
      disability in the Westerns countries. Timely and accurate diagnosis of myocardial ischemia at
      the moment of symptom onset is crucial and often delayed. Portable smart medical devices
      nowadays offers the possibility of ubiquitous self multi-parametric monitoring. Application
      of such technologies to timely and autonomous detection of myocardial ischemia could be an
      effective strategy to an earlier and better treatment of symptomatic coronary artery disease.

      The primary objective is to assess the changes in recorded by the SmartCardia patch
      (respiratory rate, pulse transit time, heart rate and single ECG trace) during induced
      ischemia during elective coronary angioplasty procedures.

      The secondary objective is to asses whether myocardial ischemia can be predicted and
      quantified by changes in the parameters recorded by SmartCardia patch (respiratory rate,
      pulse transit time, heart rate and single ECG trace).

      SmartWearable devices will be applied 30 minutes before coronary angiography (2/3 devices
      per-patients would be applied). Percutaneous coronary intervention will be conducted
      following a given protocol (not influencing patient's treatement):

        1. Myocardial ischemia will be measured with the Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) wire during
           stent expansion (total artery occlusion caused by balloon inflation). This will have no
           impact on patients' management as the wire will already have been inserted for the
           diagnostic procedure and will not have an impact on procedure duration.

        2. Recording of a 6 leads electrocardiogram during the ischemia phase, which is anyway
           always available as part of our routine monitoring system.

        3. Patients will systematically be asked for any chest pain or discomfort during ischemia
           (step which is anyway frequently done in standard procedures), to differentiate between
           clinical and subclinical ischemia.

      At the end of the procedure, the device will be kept during 30 supplementary minutes while
      the patient is on standard post percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) surveillance, thus
      offering measurements during recovery from ischemia.
    
  