
    
      Total hip arthroplasty (THA) using a metal-on-polyethylene articulation has become one of the
      most effective procedures for the surgical treatment for end-stage hip disease.

      However, polyethylene wear debris-induced osteolysis has been postulated to cause/contribute
      to the aseptic loosening of a THA, and hence, is regarded to be an important factor in its in
      vivo longevity.

      In the third generation of ceramic manufacturing, many improvements, such as hot isostatic
      pressing, laser marking, and non destructive proof-testing for all ceramic components, have
      been introduced. This third generation ceramic component has high purity, high density, and
      small grain size, and, therefore, has a very high potential for resisting crack propagation,
      which may culminate in its fracture. In spite of this, a number of substantial concerns, such
      as ceramic fracture, impingement-associated fatigue failure, wear, and osteolysis after
      long-term follow-up, persist with the use of ceramics in THA.

      In addition, the third generation ceramic articulation is associated with an increased
      incidence of dislocation because ceramic liners with elevated rim and extended-long-neck
      ceramic heads are not available.

      However, new alumina-zirconia composites bearing implants (4th generation ceramic bearing)
      affords various options such as large head and thin liner, which may decrease the ceramic
      fracture rate and dislocation rate and improve the longevity of THA. In addition, large head
      can improve the range of motion and possible traditional cross-legged sitting position of
      Koreans without impingement between the neck and liner rim.

      So far, the patients who are underwent THA using 28 mm femoral head diameter complains
      limitation of range of motion and feeling impingement sensation at sitting on the floor with
      their legs crossed. There have been increasing complaints especially from Korean patients
      regarding the difficulties associated with carrying out their daily activities, whose life
      style involves sitting on the floor with their legs crossed. Therefore, large head of new
      alumina-zirconia composites bearing implants(4th generation ceramic bearing) expects
      increasing satisfaction of Korean patients.

      This is the first study, to our knowledge, of an evaluation of clinical outcome of THA with
      use of the new alumina-zirconia(4th generation ceramic bearing) composite ceramic bearing and
      the functional outcome.
    
  