
    
      The feasibility study will be a comparative effectiveness study. A randomised controlled
      trial (RCT) using a mixed methods approach will be employed to evaluate the effect of
      acupuncture on phantom limb syndrome. The RCT will be an open pragmatic effectiveness trial,
      of parallel and fixed size design with usual care control. It will be unstratified, with
      balanced randomization (1:1). It will be conducted at the Amputee Rehabilitation Unit (ARU)
      at Lambeth Community Care Centre, London, UK. Quantitative data will be collected using
      standardised, validated outcome measures. Qualitative data will be collected post completion
      of the study through one to one semi-structured interviews.

      Twenty participants will be approached and recruited whilst they are inpatients at the ARU.
      Those felt to meet the inclusion criteria will be identified by the key contact in the
      rehabilitation team. Potential participants will then be approached by the researcher,
      provided with verbal and written information about the study and be advised to take up to
      seven days to consider if they wish to participate in the study or not. No consent will be
      obtained at the time of providing information about the study.

      Participants who consent to being involved in the study will be screened for eligibility and
      if eligible will be randomly assigned into either, usual care plus acupuncture (group A) or
      usual care only (group B). Randomisation and allocation concealment will be used to ensure
      against selection bias. A computer generated random numbers table will be used in this study
      and randomisation will be unstratified and balanced (1:1). Allocation concealment will be
      implemented using sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes. Randomisation and
      allocation concealment will be generated by a researcher not directly involved in the study.

      As the study is pragmatic all groups will receive usual care. Usual care will include both
      medical intervention, physiotherapy / rehabilitation and any other intervention used at the
      ARU. Group A will receive usual care and a standard course of acupuncture (as already agreed
      with an expert panel of acupuncture practitioners). Group B will receive standard care only.
      The acupuncture intervention in this study will be pragmatic but strict guidelines will be
      adhered to within this pragmatic approach. These guidelines have been developed though
      current literature and a Delphi study with acupuncture practitioners and consists of some
      specific acupuncture points and points selected for that patient according to Chinese
      diagnosis. Acupuncture guidelines include:

        -  Using a combination of body and auricular acupuncture

        -  Treating the opposite limb to amputation and possibly also the residual limb

        -  Using auricular acupuncture points such as shen men, sympathetic, points corresponding
           to the lower limb

        -  Using body acupuncture points around the stump (depending on the health of the tissue
           and the patient), mirroring local and distal points by needling them on the opposite
           limb, and points on the lower back taking a segmental approach to dermatomal pain

        -  Including points such as; LI4 + LR3, LR3, GV20, SP10 and individual specific points
           according to specific symptoms

        -  Electro-acupuncture may be used

        -  Retaining needles for 20-30 minutes

        -  Treating twice weekly for four weeks

      At the commencement of the study group A and group B participant baseline demographic data
      will be collected by the researcher and in group A, a full Traditional Chinese Medicine
      Assessment will be completed by the acupuncture practitioner administering treatment. In both
      groups initial outcome measures will also be completed at this time and a cheek swab taken.
      For the duration of the study outcome measures will be collected once weekly from both groups
      by the researcher. Outcome measures will also be collected one and three months post
      completion of the study to assess long term effects of acupuncture intervention. At these two
      time points participants will be posted questionnaires to complete and return to the
      researcher.

      In order to identify protocol acceptability and acceptability of which outcomes are
      meaningful to participants and would potentially demonstrate the impact of acupuncture in
      future trials, five participants will be consulted post completion of the study. This phase
      of the study will take a qualitative approach comprising of one off semi-structured
      interviews. This approach was taken to allow participants time to develop accounts of issues
      important to them with the aim of generating detailed data. If participants are still
      inpatients at the ARU at time of interview the interviews will take place there. If
      participants have been discharged the interview will take place in the participant's home or
      at their follow up outpatient appointment.

      Data analysis will test for within-patient and between group differences in measurements
      taken at the beginning of the study, during the study, at the end and one month and three
      months post completion of the study. An intention to treat approach will be taken. In order
      to include missing data it will be imputed using last observation carried forward (LOCF).

      Analysis of primary outcome measure (numerical pain rating scale): As the numerical rating
      scale produces ordinal data, median and range values will be evaluated. Raw change and
      percentage change will be calculated. A 95% confidence interval will be used in this study.
      Statistical analysis will be performed to verify rejection of the null hypothesis with a P
      value of 0.05 selected as indicative of statistical significance. As the data is ordinal and
      of small sample size non-parametric tests will be used in analysis. (Non parametric tests
      should be used on small sample sizes as under these conditions it is hard to see if data is
      normally distributed). The non-parametric Mann Whitney U test will be used for analysis
      between groups. Difference between baseline and last observation scores will be analysed
      using Wilcoxon signed-ranks test. All analysis will be undertaken using SPSS Version 21
      software.

      Analysis of secondary outcome measures: As all secondary outcomes produce ordinal data they
      will be treated as the numerical rating scale reporting median and range values and using the
      nonparametric tests as listed above. A P value of 0.05 will be considered indicative of
      statistical significance.

      Baseline characteristics: Categorical data (such as gender and ethnicity) will be shown as n
      (%). As the study is small it is expected that data will not be normally distributed and
      therefore continuous data (such as age and duration of PLSd) will be shown as median and
      range values. Categorical baseline characteristics will be analysed using Fisher's exact test
      (as the data is categorical / nominal and unrelated). Continuous data will be analysed using
      the Mann-Whitney U test. As with the outcome measures a P value of 0.05 will be selected as
      indicative of statistical significance.

      Feasibility Study Specific: Compliance with the protocol will be examined through number
      counts on drop outs / nonattendance completion rates of outcome measures and deviation from
      protocol.

      Qualitative data analysis: Framework analysis will be used to analyse data from the
      semi-structured interviews. NVIVO 10 software will be used in data analysis. Data analysis
      will be transparent, comparative and reflexive. Analysis will focus on the latent content of
      the text. Transcripts will be read until the researcher is completely familiar with the data.
      Data will be coded, and an analytical framework will be developed. Data will then be indexed
      to the analytical framework, charted and mapped.

      Reporting: Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) guidelines will be adhered to
      when reporting. The STandards for Reporting Interventions in Clinical Trials of Acupuncture
      (STRICTA) comprises of a checklist that expands the generic content of the CONSORT statement
      to include information on acupuncture intervention and will also be used in this study.
      Information will be recorded on style of acupuncture, reason for treatment provided, extent
      to which treatment was varied, number of needle insertions per subject per session, names of
      points used, depth of insertion, response sought, needle stimulation, needle retention time,
      needle type (diameter, length, manufacturer or material), number of treatment sessions,
      frequency and duration of treatment sessions, details of any other intervention administered
      (e.g. lifestyle advise), settings and context of treatment, practitioners background, precise
      description and rationale for control.
    
  