
    
      This study will be a prospective randomized controlled trial comparing cold compression to no
      intervention immediately prior to and during intrauterine device insertion. Inclusion
      criteria include all non-pregnant women, 18 years of age or older, presenting to the VCU
      Women's Health clinics with desired IUD placement.

      Subjects will be identified at the time of presentation to the Women's Health Clinics at
      Virginia Commonwealth University Health Systems. A provider (physician, nurse practioner, or
      nurse midwife) will discuss the study with the subject. After time for consideration and
      having had all questions answered the subject will then be consented for the trial. Consent
      will be obtained at that time (see attached list of engaged providers). Randomization will be
      performed by pulling sequentially numbered opaque envelopes containing computer randomized
      individual allocations. This randomization will be carried out by research staff before the
      initiation of the study. Information regarding basic demographic data, comorbidities that may
      affect patient's perception of pain will be obtained from the subjects' chart. This
      information will include: age, race, socioeconomic status, status of practitioner, parity,
      BMI, history of prior cervical procedures, history of chronic pain.

      If the subject has elected to participate in study and is randomized to the cold compression
      group, she will have a cold compress placed on the abdomen five minutes prior to and
      throughout the intrauterine device placement. Visual acuity pain scales have been commonly
      used in similar studies to objectively assess procedural pain. In this study, a validated 10
      point visual acuity scale will be used. Pain will be assessed pre- and post-procedure. The
      post-procedure questions are directed at pain during the procedure.

      Comparable studies that assess procedural pain considered a 30% reduction in pain to be
      significant. Based on these studies we will similarly consider a 30% reduction in pain
      between the experimental and control groups to be significant. With a power of 80 and
      significance value of p < 0.05, this will require 69 patients in each group (cold compression
      versus no-intervention) to obtain an adequate sample size to detect a difference in the
      groups. The study was powered for the post-treatment means of the control groups to be 2.8
      and 4.0 (respectively), which is a 30% difference, assuming a SD=2.8 and using a two-sample
      t-test. Paper copies of written consent and any identifying information will be kept in a
      secured, locked file. All data collected will be stored in a password protected computer file
      that will be accessible only to the investigators.

      The primary outcome will be the difference in patient's perception of pain before and during
      intrauterine device insertion. This will be defined based on a pre and post-procedure survey
      using a 10-point visual analogue scale. Additionally, nulliparous and multiparous women will
      be stratified as previous studies have shown significantly different pain scores reported
      between these two subgroups.

      The investigators will collect the data, perform data entry and review charts to ensure
      accuracy of information provided by the inserting physician. Periodic review of the data
      entry will be performed to ensure completeness and accuracy.
    
  