
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate attitudes concerning the Measles, Mumps, &
      Rubella (MMR) vaccine among adult parents in the United States. Attitudes will be assessed
      via a web-based survey administered by Survey Sampling International (SSI). Project sample
      size is 1,000, all to be recruited by SSI. The survey will take no more than 20-30 minutes to
      complete. The survey questions and response options attached. With the exception of
      demographic questions (e.g., age, sex, race) at the end of the survey, questions will not be
      able to be "skipped" because 1) the survey questions primarily assess attitudes and beliefs,
      2) the questions are not of a sensitive nature, 3) responses are anonymous, 4) respondents
      have indicated their desire and willingness to respond to surveys like this by virtue of
      their enrollment as an SSI panel member, 5) there is no pressure for respondents to complete
      the survey, 6) respondents may cease responding to the survey at any time after they begin.

      Respondents will be asked to provide information about their children's ages and sex, as well
      as historical recall information about their past vaccine decisions for their child/children.
      All respondents will receive general information from the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) regarding MMR and the MMR vaccine (taken from the CDC's Vaccine Information
      Sheet), followed by summarized information about MMR and the MMR vaccine. A quarter of
      respondents will receive only this information. The other three-quarters of respondents will
      also receive additional "benefit" information that either underscores: a) the MMR vaccine's
      benefit to the child who receives it, b) the MMR vaccine's benefits to society as a whole, or
      c) the MMR vaccine's benefit to both the child who receives it as well as to society as a
      whole. The purpose of this additional "benefit" information (which will randomly vary among
      respondents) is to compare people's attitudes when they're given this information about the
      MMR vaccine's benefit to people's attitudes when they receive the general information. This
      information is noted in the attached survey, and mimics the information that parents are
      typically given in clinic settings regarding MMR and the MMR vaccine. The purpose of this
      study is to systematically assess people's responses to this information, which is already
      offered in clinical settings and is publicly available via the CDC.
    
  