
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and efficacy of locomotor training using
      adaptive robotics in adults with chronic SCI. Safety will be determined by monitoring of
      adverse responses such as skin irritation, pain, changes in spasticity and function.
      Preliminary efficacy for improving walking function will be determined by tests of walking
      speed and endurance prior to and following 60 daily sessions of locomotor training using
      adaptive robots.

      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Test the hypothesis that locomotor training using adaptive robotics such as
      the Cyberdyne Hybrid Assistive Limb (HAL) is safe for individuals with chronic incomplete
      spinal cord injury (SCI). Safety will be demonstrated by an adverse response rate that does
      not exceed the frequency and severity of adverse responses reported for other
      well-established locomotor rehabilitation approaches. Safety will be assessed by monitoring
      of specific conditions such as skin integrity, pain, and spasticity.

      Specific Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that locomotor training using adaptive robotics such as
      the Cyberdyne HAL (5x/week for 12 weeks, 60 sessions, 2 hours each) is efficacious for
      improving walking function in adults with chronic incomplete SCIs. Walking function may be
      assessed using standard clinical tests to measure walking speed and walking endurance. A
      battery of clinical tests (listed in Outcome Measures) will be selected for use based on each
      participant's functional capabilities.

      To address the aims of the study, the investigators will use a pre-post repeated measures
      study design. Following phone and in-person screenings and physician approval, individuals
      will provide informed consent to the study procedures. Non-invasive tests of physical
      function and health will be conducted prior to and following 60 sessions of locomotor
      training using the HAL, an adaptive robotic device that is custom fitted to each individual
      to provide assistance to the lower limbs during locomotor training.

      Subject recruitment: Individuals with chronic SCI (>1 year) who meet the given enrollment
      criteria (see inclusion and exclusion criteria) will be included for this study. Recruitment
      will occur from within the Brooks Health System which includes the Brooks Cybernic Treatment
      Center, as well as from their healthcare providers and advertisements in the community.
    
  