
    
      Advanced airway management and ventilatory control is generally regarded as vital in the
      management of seriously ill or injured patients, and can be critical interventions in
      patients with out-of-hospital emergencies. However, interventions like endotracheal
      intubation suffer from lack of clear evidence of a beneficial effect. Despite the publication
      of numerous airway management studies, inconsistent and imprecise reporting of data across
      heterogenous patient populations and EMS systems persists. The questions of how, and by whom,
      pre-hospital advanced airway management should be performed remains disputed.

      Several authors have proposed appropriate guidelines and algorithms for management of
      prehospital airway and difficult intubation. The guidelines emphasize the importance of
      promoting patient safety and avoiding errors, and also recognise the importance of rescuers
      level of airway skills competence. Drug-assisted rapid sequence intubation (RSI) is an
      important, but potentially harmful, component of prehospital advanced airway management in
      EMS services. Even physicians working in the prehospital scene may find it challenging to
      maintain an adequate level of advanced airway competence in order to stay proficient. Better
      training methods and systems are warranted.

      The recognition of endotracheal intubation as a "complex intervention" marks the need for an
      international standard for documenting and reporting data from prehospital intubations in
      severely injured or ill patients, alongside a standardization of research data collection to
      eliminate confounding factors. An international airway management expert group has recently
      developed an Utstein-style template for uniform reporting of data from prehospital advanced
      airway management. Implementing and validating the template will result in a high quality
      dataset and allow for research cooperation and comparison of airway management practice
      between EMS systems, and across different patient populations. Such a dataset will hopefully
      contribute to new knowledge in the field of prehospital advanced airway management.

      The specific aims for the first two studies in this project are defined as follows:

        1. Describe the characteristics and outcome of advanced prehospital airway management in
           Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS) that provide the full range of advanced
           emergency airway management.

        2. Identify which groups of critically injured or ill patients will benefit most from
           competent advanced prehospital airway management, and identify specific areas for future
           research.

      In this multicentre study, we have enlisted 21 key international HEMS services from 6
      countries (UK, Australia, Hungary, Finland, Switzerland and Norway), and will collect data
      according to the Utstein style template over a 12 month study period starting January 1,
      2012.
    
  