
    
      Counseling and care that supports individuals' ability to achieve their reproductive goals is
      an essential component of primary care. National organizations, including the Centers for
      Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), recommend that clinicians routinely engage in
      patient-centered conversations about reproductive goals and offer care to help optimize
      health and well-being prior to desired pregnancies and to prevent unwanted pregnancy and
      births. This counseling is particularly critical for women Veterans, who face elevated risks
      of adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes due to a high prevalence of chronic medical and
      mental health conditions as well as psychosocial stressors including sexual trauma histories,
      intimate partner violence, and homelessness. Moreover, stark racial/ethnic disparities in
      pregnancy outcomes are well-documented, and nearly half of reproductive-aged women Veterans
      are minority race/ethnicity. Despite these national recommendations, however, conversations
      about reproductive needs are often absent in primary care both outside and within the VA, and
      the conversations that do happen frequently fail to incorporate women's values and
      preferences. Interventions are needed to improve both the frequency and quality of counseling
      about reproductive needs in primary care settings.

      This study will investigate the effect of a novel, web-based, patient-facing decision support
      tool designed to be used prior to VA primary care visits to help women Veterans with
      reproductive capacity consider their reproductive goals; improve their knowledge about
      fertility, contraception, and prepregnancy health risks; align contraceptive decisions with
      their preferences and goals; and engage in shared decision making (SDM) with providers.

      The investigators will conduct a multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) clustered at
      the provider level among VA primary care providers and their reproductive-aged women Veteran
      patients. Study outcomes will be assessed among participants shortly after their scheduled
      appointment and at 3- and 6-months follow up. The study will test the primary hypothesis that
      participants who receive the tool weblink prior to visits will be more likely to report
      patient-centered conversations about their reproductive needs at their visit. The
      investigators also hypothesize that intervention participants will report higher perceived
      self-efficacy in communicating with providers, reproductive health knowledge, contraception
      decision quality, and contraception utilization. Exploratory outcomes include behaviors to
      modify preconception health risks among participants considering pregnancy in the future and
      intervention effects by race/ethnicity. The study will also collect quantitative and
      qualitative data to assess the feasibility of implementing the tool more widely in VA primary
      care settings.
    
  