
    
      Lymphedema occurs with varying frequency in patients with cancer but approximately 10-15% of
      all breast cancer patients will develop lymphedema following breast cancer treatment.
      Lymphedema in breast cancer patients following axillary lymph node dissection is caused by
      the interruption of the axillary lymphatic system by surgery or radiation therapy, which
      causes an accumulation of fluid in the subcutaneous tissue of the arm, with decreased
      distensibility of tissue around the joints and increased weight of the extremity. The primary
      current therapy employed involves complete decongestive therapy (CDT) which encompasses the
      use of manual lymphatic drainage (MLD) and compression bandaging (CB) to the affected limb.

      The specific contribution of the vascular system to the development of lymphedema is unclear.
      Vascular permeability is a complex process which is primarily controlled by the interaction
      of the ligand vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). As a result of the understanding of
      the biology of VEGF and the anecdotal appreciation of women with lymphedema who have noted
      improvement in their lymphedema while on VEGF inhibitor therapy, it is hypothesized that the
      reduction in vascular permeability resulting from the use of a VEGF inhibitor either alone or
      in conjunction with standard decongestive lymphedema therapy may significantly improve the
      outcome for patients with this post-operative complication.

      Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody directed against VEGF. Bevacizumab
      blocks the development of new blood vessels in cancer and it is approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of colon cancer in combination with chemotherapy. While bevacizumab has been
      administered to thousands of patients with cancer, there is only limited information about
      the use of bevacizumab in subjects without active cancer.

      This study will evaluate the safety profile of escalating doses of bevacizumab administered
      intravenously alone for 4 weeks followed by 4 weeks of therapy in combination with manual
      lymph drainage (MLD) and compression bandaging (CB) to patients with moderate to severe
      unilateral upper extremity lymphedema due to prior breast cancer therapy.
    
  