
    
      Emerging adults are defined as young adults ages 18-25. These young people have the highest
      levels of prescription, illicit and licit drug consumption of any age group in the nation
      (Johnston, O'Malley, Bachman, & Schulenberg, 2007). While previous SBIRT models have
      typically targeted single health risks, such as problem alcohol or cigarette use, the
      proposed novel multiple behavior SBIRT model uses social and future images and a positive
      fitness theme to link co-morbid health risk behaviors and problems, and is therefore likely
      to be viewed by both patients and medical practitioners as appealing and feasible within
      standard primary care routines.

      Objectives

        1. Expanding and modifying existing social and future image screening and brief
           intervention content from our prior studies to include messages targeting prescription
           drug abuse and HIV/AIDS risk behaviors, as well as a referral to drug abuse assessment
           and treatment component;

        2. Translating the modified and expanded multiple behavior SBIRT model content into two
           versions of the community-friendly computer-based program, i.e., one targeting one
           health promoting and four risk behaviors vs. another targeting four health promoting and
           four risk behaviors;

        3. Conducting formative research on the modified content and format to ensure
           acceptability, quality, feasibility, accessibility, and potential effectiveness among
           target young adults and health care providers using expert panels, and target audience
           surveys; and

        4. Conducting a three-group randomized trial pilot test with 3-month follow-up.

      A three-group randomized trial pilot test will be conducted, with participating young adult
      patients randomized to receive either: 1) computer-based MB-SBIRT targeting one health
      promoting and four risk behaviors, 2) computer based MB-SBIRT targeting four health promoting
      and four risk behaviors, or 3) primary care as usual. This trial will determine the
      acceptability, quality, feasibility, and short-term (3-month) effects of the proposed
      computer delivered MB-SBIRT model.
    
  