
    
      Background: Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is the most common compressive neuropathy in the
      upper limb, with a prevalence of around 1'14% and 14'4% of the population.

      The clinical symptoms are usually pain, paresthesias and numbness on the sensitive
      distribution territory of the median nerve in the hand.

      Conservative treatment is used for the mild cases, and surgery for the moderate and severe
      ones, or when the conservative treatment has failed.

      Open carpal tunnel release is the gold standard surgery, with a short longitudinal volar
      approach that allows to visualize the complete division of the ligament.

      Over the last few years, endoscopic techniques have been introduced, offering some advantages
      such as: lower postoperative pain, earlier return to work and less complications due to the
      wound. Despite this, it has not been popularised, probably, because it is a challenging and
      more expensive surgical procedure.

      Based on the minimally invasive endoscopic approach, and with the aim of obtaining the same
      benefits, and avoid the complications of the open surgery, several devices have been
      developed to perform a percutaneous release.

      Hypothesis: Percutaneous ambulatory carpal tunnel release offers similar outcomes to the open
      approach in the theatre.

      Study design: Two-groups randomized single-blind interventional non-inferiority clinical
      trial.

      Methods: Sixty patients reporting CTS symptoms, that are confirmed by clinical exam and nerve
      conduction studies, will be included. Participants will be randomized in two arms. Patients
      from one group will be operated with an open carpal tunnel release, in the theatre, with
      tourniquet, under local anesthesia and sedation, through a short longitudinal volar
      "classical" approach of the hand, that allows to visualize the complete division of the
      ligament. The other group will be operated with a percutaneous approach, ambulatory, with a
      short transverse volar approach, 1-2cm proximal to the wrist, under Wide Awake Local
      Anesthesia with No Tourniquet.

      The main outcome measures will be the Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire, Quick DASH
      questionnaire, Douleur Neuropathique 4 questions, Visual Numeric Scale and grip strength. The
      scales and questionnaires will be administrated to participants preoperative, 4 weeks and 24
      weeks postoperative.
    
  