
    
      Methods: The study group included 115 patients undergoing flexible fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy(FFB). Patients were randomly assigned by a computer before the procedure to
      receive sedation with midazolam+alfentanil or propofol. Local anesthesia was induced by
      application of 2% lidocaine to the oropharynx. Sedation was started with intravenous
      injection of a bolus of 2-4 mg midazolam and 0.5 mg alfentanil or 20-50 mg propofol. It was
      maintained with intermittent boluses of 1-3 mg intravenous midazolam or 0.5 mg intravenous
      alfentanil, according to clinical judgment, or with boluses of 10-20 mg intravenous propofol,
      administered at short intervals (~2 minutes) or according to clinical judgment.

      In all cases, monitoring included continuous electrocardiography, pulse oximetry, and
      automated noninvasive blood pressure recordings every 5 minutes. In addition, percutaneous
      carbon dioxide tension (PcCO2) was measured with a cutaneous digital sensor (Sentec AG,
      Therwil, Switzerland) that was placed on the earlobe prior to the procedure. It was removed
      when the patient left the bronchoscopy suite.

      During the procedure, all patients received supplemental nasal oxygen at 2-5 L min-1.
      Significant hypoxemia, defined as functional oxygen saturation (SpO2) of 90%, was treated
      initially with jaw support. If it lasted more than few seconds, a naso/oropharyngeal tube was
      inserted or supplemental oxygen was delivered via face mask at 10 L min-1. The duration of
      bronchoscopy was calculated from the administration of sedation until the flexible
      bronchoscope was removed from the tracheobronchial tree.

      Percutaneous carbon dioxide tension, blood oxygenation, heart rate, and blood pressure were
      compared between the groups.

      A questionnaire evaluating pain and discomfort by Visual Analog Scale was completed by the
      patient when awake after the procedure.(~30 minutes after the end of the procedure
    
  