
    
      The hypothesis for our work is that dynamical fluctuations of biological signals, such as,
      voice, video, pulse rate, oxygen saturation, skin temperature, skin conductivity, motor
      response, magnetoencephalography (MEG), and electroencephalography (EEG), are less complex
      during depressive than normal phases. There is a great need for objective biomarkers that may
      complement current clinical measures to help recognize depression, monitor its severity, and
      quantify the effect of interventions and recovery.

      Data will be collected from 20 adult participants seeking outpatient treatment for depression
      at the Depression and Clinical Research Program at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), each
      participating for a total of approximately 9 weeks. For correlation of findings, data will
      also be collected from 20 subjects who take part in the healthy/control group. The
      healthy/control group will participate in a more limited study visit schedule over the course
      of 9 weeks, and will not be given any treatment. During study visits, the investigators will
      conduct recordings of voice, video, pulse rate, oxygen saturation, body temperature, skin
      conductivity, and motor movement at the Department of Psychiatry at MGH. In addition, each
      subject may participate in MEG, EEG, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) brain imaging
      sessions at the Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Engineering.

      In order to collect relevant data and correlate findings with accepted clinical measures of
      depression severity and response to treatment, this study is conducted as a follow-up study
      in concert with a typical drug treatment protocol for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).
      Specifically, our measurements will be made in conjunction with a standard of care drug
      treatment protocol using the antidepressant medication escitalopram, an FDA-approved
      selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) commonly used to treat depression. The data
      will be collected over a period of approximately 9 weeks.
    
  