
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is incurable,
      progressive, manifested by muscle weakness and wasting, and caused by degeneration of motor
      neurones. The limited data available suggest the incidence of ALS in Canada to be
      approximately 2 per 100,000 persons. The disease is characterized by progressive weakness of
      respiratory muscles, leading to respiratory insufficiency which is often the cause of death
      in patients with ALS.

      Home non-invasive ventilation (NIV) is the standard-of-care as initial therapy for patients
      with ALS with worsening symptoms or deteriorating respiratory function, and has been
      recommended by the American Academy of Neurology (AAN) practice parameter for ALS. The
      symptomatic and survival benefits offered by NIV to patients with ALS make the optimization
      of ventilation a priority in terms of physiological variables but also symptoms to improve
      comfort, and consequently, compliance.

      The Intelligent Volume-Assured Pressure Support (iVAPS) is a ventilator mode on the Stellar
      150 ventilator (Resmed) that uses an algorithm to target alveolar ventilation. It has a
      learning mode to determine the initial optimal settings to commence ventilation, and is an
      adaptive mode, which constantly monitors the patient's spontaneous ventilation and adjusts
      the level of pressure support to maintain target alveolar ventilation.

      The aim of the study is to determine the feasibility of long-term non-invasive home
      ventilation in ALS patients using the Stellar 150 IVAPS mode, initiated during a single
      daytime trial, and to assess the number of respiratory therapist interventions subsequently
      required as well as several patient-centered outcomes. The study will be conducted among
      patients with ALS referred to the National Program of Home Ventilatory Assistance (NPHVA) at
      the Montreal Chest Institute. The province-wide program provides home ventilation services to
      patients with a variety of neuromuscular and other disorders. Referred patients will be
      randomized to receive traditional Bilevel ventilation in ST mode (BiST) or iVAPS and will be
      followed over a period of one year. Respiratory therapist interventions (beyond scheduled
      visits) and changes in ventilator settings will be based on patient complaints and aimed at
      optimizing patient comfort and ventilator use. In addition, symptoms questionnaires will be
      administered regularly, overnight oxymetry and transcutaneous capnography (at 6 and 12
      months) will be performed. Compliance data will be assessed regularly from ventilator memory
      downloads at each of the scheduled respiratory therapist home visits (1 week, 1, 6 and 12
      months).
    
  