
    
      Data suggest, that among the amino acids, the meta- and ortho- isomers of tyrosine are
      potential markers of oxydative stress. The changes in their serum levels (and urinary
      excretion) in sepsis were found to be parallel to the changes of the common inflammatory
      markers, i.e. C-reactive protein (CRP) and pro-calcitonin (PCT). However, para-Tyrosine,
      which is the isomer physiologically present, seemed to have different kinetics. Furthermore,
      according to the observations, pathological processes linked to the inflammation could be
      attenuated or partially or completely reversed by para-tyrosine.

      The hypothesis of the study is, that supplementation of para-Tyrosine (p-Tyr) in the early
      phase of sepsis may diminish some specific inflammatory procedures and thus may have a
      favourable impact on the disease progress, and consequently on the mortality.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate, whether oral P-Tyr supplementation reduces
      mortality compared to placebo group during the ICU stay in patients with sepsis.

      The primary endpoint is the comparison of mortality starting from randomization and start of
      treatment (which should be on the same day) during the period of ICU stay between the active
      treatment group and placebo group. The secondary objectives of the study are:

      to evaluate whether supplementation of p-Tyr has effect on clinical outcome of sepsis
      compared to placebo in patients receiving appropriate standard care; to evaluate the effect
      of p-Tyr supplementation on 28-day survival of patients with sepsis; to evaluate, whether the
      treatment can reduce the time of the ICU stay, to evaluate the effect on overall mortality of
      patients with sepsis during their hospitalization, to evaluate the effect of p-Tyr
      supplemetation on the overall hospitalization time, to evaluate the safety of the
      investigational product. The investigators wish to explore To explore whether serum level of
      p-Tyr can be maintained with the oral supplementation; dynamics and interrelation of the
      levels of oxidative stress markers (o- and m-Tyr) and the physiologic isomer of Tyr (p-Tyr)
      and Phenylalanine (Phe) and the correlation of o-Tyr and m-Tyr serum levels and other
      parameters of inflammation.
    
  