
    
      Intradialytic hypotension (IDH) is a common complication during hemodialysis, occurring in
      20-30% of HD treatments. IDH can cause unpleasant symptoms and lead to decline in residual
      kidney function, vascular access thrombosis, ischemic damage to white matter of the brain,
      volume overload, increased risk of cardiovascular events and increased mortality risk.

      Intradialytic exercise has been shown to improve physical function, health-related quality of
      life and cardiac function. Initial concerns regarding the potential for intradialytic
      exercise to increase the rate of IDH have been mitigated by multiple interventional studies
      in which intradialytic exercise has been shown to be safe with minimal adverse effects.
      However, concerns regarding the potential of intradialytic exercise to increase frequency of
      IDH if exercise is performed in second half of HD remain.

      No study has specifically compared the frequency IDH episodes when exercise is performed
      during second half of HD as compared to that when exercise is performed during the first half
      of a HD session to fully characterize the effect of timing of intradialytic exercise and its
      effect on IDH.

      The investigators aim to address this knowledge gap with a crossover study examining the rate
      of IDH when individuals in a clinical intradialytic cycling program exercise during the first
      half of their hemodialysis session as compared with the IDH rate when exercise is performed
      during the second half of hemodialysis.

      To facilitate study implementation and optimize use of exercise resources and equipment,
      participants at each site will be randomly split into 2 groups. Group 1 will perform 2 weeks
      of their usual intradialytic cycling (6 sessions) during the first half of their usual HD and
      then perform 2 weeks of intradialytic cycling (6 sessions) during the second half of their
      usual HD. Group 2 will perform the intervention in reverse order to Group 1. No washout
      period is required as there is no biological plausibility for carry over effect. However, as
      participation in the cycling program is voluntary, some participants choose not to exercise
      during some of their HD sessions. The investigators will monitor these non-cycling sessions
      for IDH as well and will compare IDH rate in these non-exercise sessions with IDH rate during
      sessions when intradialytic exercise was performed, if numbers allow.

      Participants will perform their usual duration and intensity of intradialytic cycling at each
      HD session as per standard clinical intradialytic cycling protocol procedures in each unit.
      Prescribed exercise time and intensity will remain unchanged over the course of the study.

      The investigators will attempt to keep dialysate composition, dialyzer, dialysate
      temperature, HD access, dialysis duration and medications unchanged over the course of the
      study, but will not intervene/interfere with usual clinical care. The research assistant will
      record any changes to dialysis prescription related to routine clinical care on a weekly
      basis.

      Baseline demographic and clinical data will be collected from the hemodialysis chart. This
      will include age, sex, race, time on hemodialysis, hemodialysis access, dialysis vintage,
      comorbidities (including hypertension, diabetes, congestive heart failure and ischemic heart
      disease), amount of fluid removed at each HD, hemoglobin, Kt/V (dialysis efficacy),
      medications and blood work results as measured on last monthly bloodwork.

      The investigators will use the initial BP measurement obtained once the patient has commenced
      HD (i.e. patient "hooked up" and blood present in both venous and arterial lines) for the
      baseline BP. Blood pressure (BP) will be measured as per routine procedures used in the
      participants' HD units (usual arm/leg, usual BP cuff). Pre and post HD BP will be collected
      as per usual HD Unit practice. During HD, BP will be collected more frequently than the usual
      routine (q30 min) at q15min intervals or more frequently when clinically indicated based on
      patient symptoms or status. This timing will be pre-programmed into HD machines to minimize
      work for bedside HD nurses. However, bedside HD nurses will need to record each measurement
      on the HD run sheet.
    
  