
    
      In this study the investigators expect to enroll a total of 10 participants with SCI. Five
      participants will be assigned to a Standard-of-Care (control) group and five participants
      will be assigned to an FES-rowing intervention group. Group assignment will be partly based
      on the preference of each potential participant and their willingness to make the necessary
      time commitment required for participation in a given group, with the added goal, to the
      extent possible, of matching the two groups for age, gender and time since injury. Only those
      individuals who have a strong desire to participate in a regular exercise program and who
      express a willingness to travel to VA Palo Alto the necessary number of times per week to
      perform FES-rowing will be potential candidates for inclusion in the rowing group.

      Bone density measurements for both the Standard-of-Care group and the FES-rowing group will
      be performed using Dual energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) and peripheral Quantitative
      Computed Tomography (pQCT). The Standard-of-Care group will undergo no other research
      procedures.

      The muscle conditioning program is accomplished through electrical stimulation of the
      quadriceps and hamstring muscles using a 4-channel electrical stimulator that applies
      stimulation using surface electrodes adhered using gel to the skin overlying the quadriceps
      and hamstrings muscles. The muscle strengthening initially takes place three times per week,
      sixty minutes per session, progressing up to five sessions per week, for approximately 8
      weeks. The muscle strengthening program ensures that subjects have sufficient muscle strength
      and endurance before they embark on the rowing program. Following the 8-week muscle
      strengthening program, subjects will begin FES-rowing, with three sessions per week, thirty
      minutes per session for the following 28 weeks. In the FES-rowing group, the investigators
      will measure isometric knee extension strength at the start of week 0, and at the end of
      weeks 12, 24 and 36.

      For the rowing group, the investigators will capture 3D kinetics and kinematics in the motion
      capture laboratory during FES-rowing at the end of weeks 12, 24 and 36. Kinematics during
      rowing will be collected from fifty passive retro-reflective markers that will be placed on
      each participant to capture the position and orientation of the 12 interconnected body
      segments used to represent each subject.
    
  