
    
      Smoking rates are quite high among overweight or obese population. In this regard, smokers
      with excess weight use to report fear to quit due to post-cessation weight gain concerns, the
      presence of disordered eating (binge eating and emotional eating) before or during the
      quitting process, weight increase, relapse risk, risk of metabolic syndrome, obesity or
      diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors. Despite previous efforts, research is still
      required to assess the course of eating-related problems in smoking cessation, the impact of
      smoking on the onset and development of psychological and medical issues and, particularly,
      it is necessary to perform studies to assess the efficacy of psychological interventions for
      smoking cessation among individuals with excess weight. Prior evidence showed that
      Contingency Management (CM) techniques are adequate to reduce tobacco use and perform better
      than other interventions and control conditions. Nevertheless, there is a lack of research
      exploring the effectiveness of CM for overweight or obese smokers.The primary aim of this
      clinical trial is to yield data on the effectiveness of a psychological intervention for
      smoking cessation among individuals with excess weight. Participants will be assigned to one
      of the two following conditions: 1) Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment (CBT) for gradual smoking
      cessation + a Weight Gain Prevention module (WGP) for weight stability; 2) the same treatment
      alongside Contingency Management (CM) for smoking abstinence. In view to assure adequate
      power for achieving statistical significance, investigators carried out a priori power
      analysis by using the G*Power 3.1. An estimated sample size of 120 participants would detect
      a medium effect size (Cohen's d = 0.3, with power (1-β) set at 0.97 and α = 05).The primary
      analyses derived from this clinical trial will be conducted using Statistical Package for the
      Social Science (SPSS) version 24 for Windows. A set of descriptive and frequency analyses
      will be carried out with regard to participants' characteristics. Comparisons between
      treatment groups in both baseline characteristics and treatment outcomes will be conducted
      using a set of chi-square tests for categorical variables and t-tests (two-tailed) for
      continuous variables.
    
  