
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dose-intensified mitoxantrone hydrochloride
      (mitoxantrone) as part of the filgrastim (G-CSF), cladribine, cytarabine, mitoxantrone
      hydrochloride (G-CLAM) regimen separately for adults with newly diagnosed acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) and those with relapsed/refractory AML receiving first or greater salvage
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, disease response and duration of
      remission separately for patients with newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory AML.

      II. To describe, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, the toxicity profile of the study
      regimen separately for patients with newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory AML.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of mitoxantrone hydrochloride followed by
      phase II study.

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY (G-CLAM): Patients receive G-CLAM chemotherapy comprising filgrastim
      subcutaneously (SC) daily on days 0-5, mitoxantrone hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 60
      minutes on days 1-3, cladribine IV over 2 hours daily on days 1-5, and cytarabine IV over 2
      hours daily on days 1-5. Patients achieving complete remission with incomplete peripheral
      blood count recovery (CRi), partial remission, or persistent disease may receive a second
      course of induction chemotherapy. Patients achieving complete remission (CR) or CR with
      incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp) may continue on to Consolidation Chemotherapy.

      CONSOLIDATION CHEMOTHERAPY (G-CLA): Beginning within 6 weeks of achieving CR/CRp/CRi,
      patients receive G-CLA comprising filgrastim SC on days 0-5, cladribine IV over 2 hours daily
      on days 1-5, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours daily on days 1-5. Treatment continues for up to
      4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  