
    
      Alcohol binge drinking, defined as 5 or more drinks for men and 4 or more drinks for women at
      one time, is the most frequent form of alcohol consumption worldwide, especially in younger
      people. This drinking pattern is popular and leads to increased mortality and morbidity.
      Therefore binge drinking is a major public health issue. The behavioural and neurological
      consequences of binge drinking are well characterized.

      Less is known about the systemic effects on the gut as the first organ in contact with
      alcohol. Chronic alcohol intake can lead to increased gut permeability, bacterial
      translocation and alterations in the gut microbiome in animal models. Recently bacterial
      translocation has been shown in healthy volunteers after a single alcohol binge. On immune
      cells, acute alcohol intake seems to have dichotomous effects. On the one hand
      immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory effects have been described, however, alcohol induced
      liver injury is driven by pro-inflammatory reactions. These immune effects seem to be driven
      by endotoxin or other bacterial products via Toll-like receptors that are translocated to the
      circulation via a defective gut barrier. Immune effects of alcohol have also been linked to
      hangover symptoms after an alcohol binge.

      Furthermore there is evidence that endotoxemia might also contributes to alcohol dependence
      by promoting prolonged and increased voluntary alcohol intake in mice. On the other hand
      mutant mice lacking important genes for immune responses exhibit decreased alcohol
      consumption. This indicates that immune signaling promotes alcohol consumption. Therefore it
      is tempting to speculate that increased gut permeability leading to increased bacterial
      translocation after an acute alcohol binge could promote the desire for further alcohol
      consumption.

      The investigators aim to test in this pilot trial whether one alcohol binge damages gut
      barrier function, increases bacterial translocation and causes innate immune dysfunction.
      Furthermore the effect of glucose and fructose will be studied too.
    
  