
    
      This pre-post quasi-experimental evaluation study will be conducted in ten countries involved
      in the Catalyzing Pediatric TB Innovation (CaP-TB) project: Cameroon, Cote D'Ivoire,
      Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe and India.
      The CaP-TB project is a project designed to use innovative methods and capacity building to
      strengthen the health systems of developing countries in terms of pediatric TB case
      detection, early accurate diagnosis and effective treatment. This project is funded by
      Unitaid headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland and is implemented by Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric
      AIDS Foundation (EGPAF) with headquarters in Washington, D.C. and Geneva and 10 country
      offices. This study will assess the effects of CaP-TB innovative interventions on selected
      service delivery outcomes as compared to routine TB program in a sub-set of project sites in
      ten countries.

      The CaP TB project is a 4-year (October 1, 2017-September 30, 2021) Unitaid-funded project to
      improve pediatric TB outcomes by introducing integrated and decentralized models of pediatric
      TB care and strengthening access to WHO-recommended drugs and diagnostics. Integration refers
      to supporting TB activities, such as screening and TB sample collection for children, into
      non-TB health care services, such as general pediatric outpatient clinics. Decentralization
      refers to moving pediatric TB services from higher levels of health clinics to lower levels.

      Objectives of the study

      To evaluate the CaP TB project on the below TB service indicators and clinical outcomes for
      children 0-14 in facilities implementing the CaP TB project:

        -  Number and proportion of children screened for TB among clinic attendees

        -  Number and proportion of presumptive TB cases referred for lab-based TB diagnosis

        -  Number and proportion of pediatric presumptive TB cases who are tested with Xpert

        -  Number and proportion (out of all children screened) of pediatric cases diagnosed with
           active TB disease

        -  Time between when a child is identified as a presumptive TB case and when the child is
           diagnosed with TB

        -  Number and proportion of pediatric TB cases started on DS-TB treatment

        -  Time between when a child is identified as a presumptive TB case and when the child is
           initiated on TB treatment

        -  Number and proportion of pediatric DS-TB cases or cases treated with first-line TB
           treatment who achieve treatment success

        -  Number and proportion of all TB index cases for whom successful contact tracing has been
           done

        -  Number and proportion of pediatric household contacts who are negative to TB screening

      Study data

      Pre-intervention retrospective data collection

      Under the standard of care condition (baseline), the investigators will:

        -  Capture data that will answer the TB service indicators and clinical outcomes listed in
           the primary objectives.

        -  Capture key data points that will be needed to estimate project targets In each site,
           trained data collectors will retrospectively extract data from appropriate registers,
           logs, and in some cases patient files, for a period of 12 months starting 6 months
           before the start date of data extraction.

      After the implementation of the CaP TB project, prospective data will be collected by
      project-specific data collection tools and/or from existing registers. Whenever possible, the
      CaP TB data collection will use existing site level data collection tools to gather the data
      for the project.
    
  