
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the effects of acupuncture and acupressure on pain, sedation, and use of opiate
           medication in patients with moderate or severe pain related to stage III or IV
           pancreatic cancer.

        -  Determine whether controlled trials of this therapy are warranted in this patient
           population.

        -  Provide data to aid design of further warranted studies of this therapy in this patient
           population.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive acupuncture treatment comprising 20 minutes of needle insertion
      into the arms and abdomen to the depth used in traditional Chinese medicine on approximately
      days 4, 7, 11, and 14. After each acupuncture treatment, the acupuncturist applies/reapplies
      acupressure devices by inserting 2-6 smaller needles (studs) into the abdomen (which are held
      in place with surgical tape) and taping tiny metal balls to 3 points in each ear. Patients or
      caregivers are instructed to administer acupressure by pressing on the ear points (metal
      balls) for 1-2 minutes per point and moving the semi-permanent abdominal needles in small
      circular movements with the fingers, at a rate of 2-3 cycles per second, for 1-2 minutes per
      point, upon waking in the morning and in the early afternoon. Patients or caregivers are also
      instructed to stimulate a "rescue point" (the Shenmen auricular point) if patients experience
      pain exacerbations at other times during the day. Patients who respond well to acupuncture
      are offered further treatment.

      Pain is assessed using the numerical rating scale on approximately days 1-4, 7, 11, and
      14-17. Sedation is assessed using the Profile of Mood States (POMS) on approximately days 3
      and 17. Analgesic medication use is assessed on approximately days 1-3 and 15-17.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10-29 patients will be accrued for this study within
      approximately 2 years.
    
  