
    
      During general anesthesia or for some life-threatening conditions (unconsciousness,
      respiratory insufficiency), tracheal intubation may be mandatory. Tracheal intubation
      consists of inserting a tube inside the trachea through the glottis, therefore allowing
      patients' ventilation and airway protection. However, in some cases, intubation can be
      difficult with standard method (e.g. direct laryngoscopy) and visualisation of the glottis
      may be impossible. In those cases, alternative devices may be successful (e.g.
      videolaryngoscopy, fiberscopy). In cases of failure of alternative devices, prioritization to
      patients' ventilation is mandatory and supra-glottic devices like laryngeal masks and tubes
      are designed to allow an adequate ventilation. These devices are present in all difficult
      intubations algorithms and represent a mandatory alternative. For some specific models,
      tracheal intubation is possible through some of the supra-glottic devices. It's the case for
      the ILMA, which remains, despite the fact being more than 20 years old, the Gold Standard.
      Until now, no other supra-glottic device equals the ILMA concerning blind intubation, which
      is often necessary in emergency situations or outside the operating room (e.g.
      out-of-hospital care).

      The design and 2016 market release of a new laryngeal tube which equally allows intubation
      through the device (iLTS-D) and has a gastric access potentially challenges the supremacy of
      the ILMA. The first two studies concerning the iLTS-D have shown encouraging results. A first
      study made on manikins showed a similar success rate and time for intubation for the ILMA and
      iLTS-D, while the insertion of the LTS-D being easier and quicker than the ILMA. A second one
      has demonstrated a success intubation through the iLTS-D in 29 patients of 30 without any
      difficult intubation criteria with 2 attempts under fiberoptic control. Concerning
      ventilation, the iLTS-D doesn't differ of the already well-known LTS-D.
    
  