
    
      Rationale: There is a marked lack of evidence on the optimal prevention of ischaemic stroke
      and other thrombo-embolic events in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF) and a
      recent intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) during treatment with oral anticoagulation. These
      patients are currently treated with oral anticoagulants, antiplatelet drugs, or no
      antithrombotic treatment, depending on personal and institutional preferences. Randomised
      trials in patients with AF but without ICH have convincingly shown that vitamin K antagonists
      (VKAs, such as warfarin) reduce the risk of ischaemic stroke and other thrombo-embolic
      events, but increase the risk of bleeding as compared to no anticoagulant therapy. In the
      ARISTOTLE trial, the direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) apixaban was superior to warfarin in
      preventing stroke or systemic embolism, caused less bleeding, and resulted in lower
      mortality. In other trials, the other DOACs, rivaroxaban, edoxaban, and dabigatran had a
      similar benefit as compared with warfarin. DOACs have not been tested in patients with AF and
      a recent ICH. Apixaban is the only DOAC tested against aspirin in a large randomised trial,
      in which patients with AF who were treated with apixaban had a lower risk of stroke or
      systemic embolism than those treated with aspirin, whereas ICH rates were similar in both
      treatment groups. We hypothesize that in patients with AF who survived an
      anticoagulation-associated ICH, apixaban is an attractive alternative to antiplatelet drugs
      or no antithrombotic treatment at all in terms of a low risk of recurrent ICH, while at the
      same time being more effective for the prevention of ischaemic stroke.

      Objective: 1) To obtain reliable estimates of the rates of vascular death or non-fatal stroke
      in patients with atrial fibrillation and a recent anticoagulation-associated intracerebral
      haemorrhage who are treated with apixaban versus those who are treated with an antiplatelet
      drug or no antithrombotic drugs. 2) To compare the rates of all-cause death, stroke,
      ischaemic stroke, ICH, other major haemorrhage, systemic embolism, and functional outcome
      between patients treated with apixaban and those who are treated with an antiplatelet drug or
      no antithrombotic drugs.

      Study design: A randomised, open, multi-center clinical trial with masked outcome assessment.

      Study population: 100 adults with a history of atrial fibrillation and a recent intracerebral
      haemorrhage during treatment with anticoagulation in whom clinical equipoise exists on the
      optimal stroke prevention therapy.

      Intervention: Apixaban 5 mg twice daily versus antiplatelet therapy or no antithrombotic
      drugs.

      Primary outcome: Vascular death or non-fatal stroke during follow-up. Time frame: We aim to
      include 100 patients in six years. All patients will be followed up for the duration of the
      study, but at least for six months.
    
  