
    
      It has now been established that the high risk of cardiovascular disease that is associated
      with obesity and type 2 diabetes is related to the systemic inflammation that underlies these
      conditions. Previous studies have shown that there are numerous types of immune cells in
      human adipose tissue, some of these are the macrophages. These cells can exist in two states:
      M2, which can inhibit classical inflammatory response, and M1 which secrete proinflammatory
      cytokines. The investigators have data to suggest that the role of inflammatory cells in
      adipose tissue is a strong contributor to systemic inflammation. A recent study showed that a
      GLP-1 analog (liraglutide, also known as Victoza) may help decrease inflammation via
      promoting M2 differentiation of macrophages. The purpose of this study is to quantify
      macrophage phenotype (M1 vs M2) in subcutaneous adipose tissue in moderately-obese diet
      controlled diabetics at baseline, after four weeks of weight-maintenance using liraglutide,
      and after 12 weeks of liraglutide treatment as compared to placebo.

      Aim 1: Quantify M1 and M2 (surface and intracellular markers) polarization via flow cytometry
      in subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells at baseline
      and after 4 weeks administration of liraglutide versus placebo to weight-stable, obese, type
      2 diabetic patients. Weight loss will be prevented in order to ascertain the effect of
      liraglutide alone.

      Aim 2: Quantify M1 and M2 (surface and intracellular markers) polarization via flow cytometry
      in subcutaneous adipose tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells after 12 weeks of
      liraglutide treatment, during which dietary restrictions are lifted and spontaneous weight
      loss, as would occur in the clinical setting, is allowed. To eliminate confounding by weight
      loss, a placebo-treated group will undergo matched dietary weight loss for comparison to the
      liraglutide group to ascertain whether changes in macrophage polarization at 12 weeks are
      greater in the liraglutide group.

      Aim 3: Quantify macrophage-mediated localized and systemic inflammation by measuring
      M1/M2-related inflammatory cytokines in adipose tissue and peripheral blood after 4 and 12
      weeks administration of liraglutide versus placebo to obese, type 2 diabetic patients.
    
  