
    
      Almost 90% of diarrhea cases and 15% of under-5 diarrhea deaths worldwide could be prevented
      through improved water, sanitation, and hygiene. Sanitation interventions are also important
      for the prevention of soil-transmitted helminths, which infect 21 million children under five
      each year. Infection with soil-transmitted helminths and repeated episodes of diarrhea early
      in life can compromise physical and cognitive growth and development, resulting in poorer
      school performance later in life. Thus, water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) interventions
      are important not only for reducing child mortality, but also for preventing cycles of
      poverty and poor health.

      It is possible that WASH interventions affect not only those who receive them but also those
      who are geographically proximate or connected socially to those receiving the intervention.
      Indeed, there is a large infectious disease modeling literature based on this premise.
      Investigators define intervention effects on non-recipients "spillovers", and they are often
      referred to as "herd effects" or "indirect effects". Most studies that have empirically
      measured spillovers of child health interventions with an experimental design have focused on
      vaccines and deworming, and no studies have measured spillovers from WASH interventions. The
      development and application of methodology for measuring spillovers of community
      interventions empirically would make a valuable contribution to fields including
      epidemiology, economics, political science, and social welfare, all of which are concerned
      with measuring the impact of programs and interventions which may spill over. The presence
      and magnitude of positive spillovers are important; if spillovers are present and are in the
      same direction as treatment effects but are not accounted for when estimating treatment
      effects, estimates will be biased towards the null. As a result, both the efficacy and cost
      effectiveness of the intervention will be underestimated.

      In this study, investigators will measure spillovers of water, sanitation, and hygiene
      interventions in an existing, large, rigorously designed trial: the WASH Benefits trial
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01590095). Funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates
      Foundation, this trial aims to measure the individual and combined effects of water,
      sanitation, and hygiene interventions on child health and development. It is a
      cluster-randomized, controlled trial with six treatment arms and a double-sized control arm
      carried out in rural Bangladesh. This add-on study is funded by the National Institute for
      Child Health and Human Development (1R21HD076216-01A1). Investigators hypothesize that
      children who live in close proximity to compounds that receive a combined sanitation,
      handwashing, and water treatment intervention--compared to children who live in close
      proximity to control compounds (no intervention)--will have: 1) lower prevalence of diarrhea,
      2) lower prevalence and intensity of infection of soil transmitted helminths, and 3) lower
      prevalence of respiratory illness.

      Investigators will collect additional data from the existing combined intervention
      (sanitation+handwashing+water) and control arms of the WASH Benefits trial. For each WASH
      Benefits household, investigators will locate the nearest household with children 0-59 months
      of age that are not enrolled in WASH Benefits and collect data in that household. Our primary
      outcomes are soil transmitted helminth infection among children 0-59 months,
      caregiver-reported 7-day diarrhea, and respiratory illness among children 0-59 months (the
      same age as the WASH Benefits cohort). Our findings will document either the presence or
      absence of spillovers of the combined sanitation+handwashing+water intervention.
    
  