
    
      Although liver resection is still the first line of treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC) presently, 5-year overall recurrence rates > 70%, the same with early-stage
      hepatocellular carcinoma, for some studies reported the rates > 40%. Recurrence is also the
      first cause of death in these patients, so recurrence is the most important factors affecting
      surgical results of HCC. For the precaution of cancer recurrence, there are no proven
      techniques for clinical reference at present.

      For now, there has been many controversies on the impact about the width of liver resection
      margin on curative effect. Poon has proven that there is no significant difference in
      recurrence rate between resection margin > 1cm and resection margin < 1cm. However, Shi et al
      published a randomized controlled trial: for patients with a solitary tumor, resection margin
      > 2cm can reduce the recurrence rate after hepatectomy. This is also the only randomized
      clinical trial study which proves increaseing resection margin will benefit the clinical
      results at present. A meta analysis consist of 18 studies proves that whether the resection
      margin has a relationship with a benefit clinical result still needs a further verification.

      On the other hand, because microvascular invasion (MVI) is the direct evidence of the micro
      metastasis in hepatocellular carcinoma, it will decrease recurrence rate for the patients
      with a high MVI risk, if the investigators increase the resection margin width during the
      surgery? Shanghai Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital which the investigators affiliated
      with had ever conducted a retrospective analysis on consecutive 3263 patients with HCC
      hepatectomy, the results indicated that a wide resection margin（≥1cm）can benefit those
      patients with microvascular invasion , nevertheless, the benefit will not present if patients
      are without microvascular invasion.

      Further and better proofs still needs to approval this consequence, of course. In the
      past，another study of the ours, published online in the Journal of the American Medical
      Association Surgery, established a nomogram to predict the presence of microvascular invasion
      in the early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma, it will efficiently predict the occurrence of
      microvascular invasion in the hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) fulfilled the Milan criteria. In
      consideration of the above basis, the investigators will implement a randomized controlled
      trial to certificate whether it could really reduce the recurrence rate after liver resection
      for participants with a high MVI risk during the surgery, if the method participants chose is
      a wide resection margin.
    
  