
    
      Perioperative neurocognitive disorders remain an important complication after surgery. After
      many years of speculating about the etiology of this complication, currently studies are
      pointing to an inflammatory cascade being set in motion. Following the combination of
      surgery/ anesthesia, high molecular group box protein 1 (HMGB1) is released. This
      damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) binds to pattern recognition receptors (PRR) on
      circulating bone marrow-derived monocytes (BM-DMs). Through an intracellular signaling
      pathway, the transcription factor NF-kappaB passes into the nucleus, is activated and
      increases expression and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. These in turn disrupt the
      blood brain barrier. Within the brain parenchyma the chemokine MCP-1 (also referred to as
      CCL2) is upregulated and attracts the BM-DMs through binding to its receptor, CCR2. In turn,
      this activates the resident quiescent microglia. Together, the BM-DMs and activated microglia
      release HMGB1 and pro-inflammatory cytokines that disrupt long-term potentiation (LTP)
      thereby blocking synaptic plasticity changes that are required for the cognitive functions of
      learning and memory.

      Unfortunately, treatment currently is lacking, however optimising lifestyle seems to be a
      promising pathway in a murine population.

      This prospective study is designed to examine preoperative lifestyle factors (such as
      sedentary behavior) associated with postoperative cognitive impairment in a group of patients
      undergoing non-cardiac surgery.

      Prior to surgery, patients will have a baseline MMSE (mini mental state examination)
      assessment. At the same time, a standardized history form will be completed to document
      pertinent patient information, with special emphasis on patterns of smoking and ethanol
      consumption. French IPAQ data will be collected as well as the Geriatric Depression Scale.

      Right before the surgery, a peripheral blood sample will be drawn (to analyse IL-6 levels).

      Induction and Maintenance of General Anesthesia: All patients will receive general anesthesia
      using an endotracheal tube to facilitate ventilatory support.

      Induction of anesthesia will be performed using the following:

      I.V. (intravenous) Sufentanil 0.1- 0.2 mcg/kg I.V. Lidocaine 1.5 mg/kg I.V. Propofol 2-3
      mg/kg I.V. Rocuronium 0.6 -1.2 mg/kg General anesthesia will be maintained using 0.5-2.5%
      sevoflurane in an O2:air mixture, the latter titrated to maintain an oxygen saturation (SpO2)
      value of 96% or greater via pulse oximetry.

      Additional analgesia will be provided with I.V. Acetaminophen 15 mg/kg and I.V. Diclofenac 1
      mg/kg and, if necessary, I.V. sufentanil 5 mcg.

      Non-invasive blood pressure will be measured on the upper arm, and a phenylephrine infusion
      of 0-100 mcg/min will be administered to maintain mean arterial blood pressure within 20% of
      the preoperative value.

      If muscle relaxation is required by the surgeon, I.V. rocuronium may be administered in 10-20
      mg boluses. I.V. Sugammadex 4 mg/kg will be administered if needed to reverse neuromuscular
      blockade.

      At the end of the surgery, just prior to emergence from general anesthesia, each patient will
      receive I.V. ondansetron 4 mg for anti-emetic purposes.

      Upon emergence from anesthesia, all patients will be transferred to the post-operative
      recovery unit.

      Depth of anesthesia monitoring will be done via BIS monitor. The BIS monitor value will be
      maintained in the range of 40-60 to ensure uniform sedation levels in all subjects.

      Monitoring of Other Physiological Parameters During General Anesthesia: Heart rate, oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), respiratory rate, non-invasive blood pressure, end-tidal CO2 levels,
      inspired/end-tidal O2 levels, inspired/end-tidal sevoflurane concentrations, temperature, and
      BIS values will be continuously monitored and recorded throughout the surgical procedure, to
      ensure that the measured physiological parameters are within the normal range. Similarly, the
      cumulative doses of all sedative and analgesic medications will also be recorded.

      Six hours post-operatively, a peripheral blood sample will be drawn again (to analyse IL-6
      levels) as well as 24 hours post-operatively.

      Once discharged from the hospital, patients will come for a follow-up visit at six weeks
      post-operatively as well as three months. During this follow-up visit, patients will repeat
      MMSE testing.
    
  