
    
      Methamphetamine (MA) use disorder is a serious legal and health problem worldwide. Reports
      from Ministry of Justice in Taiwan revealed that the MA-related crimes has tremendously
      increased over the past decade. The arrested users of scheduled II drugs, MA mainly, has
      surged from 34,886 in 2014 to 54,190 in 2016 in Taiwan. It is critical to tackle the emerging
      problems in Taiwan.

      Management of MA use disorder in clinical settings is challenging. Approaches with integrated
      bio-psycho-social interventions, along with the engagement of families and self-help groups
      are strongly recommended. The Matrix intensive outpatient program has been developed in UCLA
      to help the psychostimulant misusers in the Southern California in 1980's.With integration of
      the existing evidence of addiction researches and empirically supported cognitive-behavior
      treatment techniques, the Matrix model developed manuals to address knowledge and skills
      needed for drug users in their early recovery and relapse prevention. The treatment was
      delivered in a 16-week intensive structured group sessions. There was also a 12-week
      educational sessions for the in-treatment individuals and their families. A substantial body
      of evidence has demonstrated the successful experience of the Matrix treatment model in
      management a broad spectrum of addictive disorders in many countries.

      The objectives of the pilot project are to set up a multi-center collaborative clinical
      network with implementation of an integrated addiction treatment program modified from the
      UCLA Matrix model. Via the establishment of standardized subject recruitment criteria,
      treatment and outcome assessment procedures, the study aims to assess the adherence of
      participating clinical organizations to the study protocol, the acceptance of participating
      MA misusers for the integrated treatment program as well as the outcomes and their
      determinants for the treatment models.
    
  