
    
      Project Summary/Abstract

      Short bowel syndrome (SBS) is often due to the loss of large amounts of small intestine that
      compromises digestive absorption. The treatments include (1) a high-calorie diet that
      includes vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, proteins and fats; (2) injections of vitamins and
      minerals; (3) administration of drugs to slow the normal movement of the intestine or to
      increase the surface area of the intestinal lining; and (4) feeding through the vein (i.e.,
      parenteral nutrition or PN). Many patients cannot wean from PN due to reduced intestinal
      length or function. Patients on long-term PN frequently experience serious metabolic
      complications, sepsis, hepatic biliary disorders including cholestasis, and fibrosis and can
      progress to liver failure. Full intestinal feeding (enteral nutrition) without PN is the
      optimal way to prevent the above complications.

      Enterally administered long chain triglycerides in patients with SBS, especially those with
      hepatic dysfunction, are not well tolerated due to bile acid malabsorption, which leads to
      decreased micelle formation and fat digestion. The dietary fat is unable to be emulsified by
      the bile acids and acted on by lipases before exiting the patient as stool. Switching to
      other forms of fat such as medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) that do not require micelles for
      absorption may be better tolerated in patients with bile acid or pancreatic insufficiency but
      are not optimal as they increase the osmotic load in the intestine. This may increase the
      chance of stool dumping; moreover, MCTs do not contain essential fatty acids (FAs). The
      ability to provide the essential FAs such as those present in enteral formulas in a form that
      does not require the formation of micelles for absorption, would allow patients with SBS and
      those who are no longer PN dependent to receive adequate nutrition and continue to maintain
      the same growth trajectory as when they received the majority of their nutrition
      parenterally.

      RELiZORB is a digestive enzyme cartridge connected in-line with enteral feed tubing sets
      designed to mimic the function of pancreatic lipase. It is hypothesized that by using an
      external lipase device (RELiZORB) enteral nutrition will be better absorbed, and PN
      dependence reduced as enteral autonomy is increased. This product uniquely eliminates the
      need for intestinal emulsification and lipase activity and eliminates the risk of drugs,
      including lipases, allowing absorption at the time the diet enters the gut. The device has
      been shown to digest >90% of fat in most enteral formulas.

      This is a phase 4, open label single center clinical trial to determine the safety,
      tolerability, and bioavailability of the RELiZORB enzyme cartridge with enteral nutrition
      when used daily for 90 days in pediatric subjects with SBS, aged 5 years - 18 years, who are
      PN dependent. The change in PN calories from baseline, assessed at Day 7, 14, 28, 60, and 90,
      will be assessed by area under the curve and presented with a 95% confidence interval. The
      number (percent) of treatment-emergent adverse events, grade 2 or above, will be tabulated.
      Changes in growth, fecal fat/protein, plasma FAs, PN volume, and enteral/oral nutrition will
      be described.
    
  