
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a chronic condition of early childhood onset defined by
      social impairment and repetitive behavior, and affecting 6 to 14 children per 1000 worldwide.
      Language and communication impairments are among the most common parental concerns about
      their children with ASD. Untreated language impairments are also predictive of negative
      long-term outcomes for children with ASD. Direct Instruction-Language for Learning (DI-LL) is
      a commercially available intervention package that has demonstrated effectiveness in children
      with language delays due to disadvantaged backgrounds, learning disabilities, or a primary
      language disorder - but it has not been carefully studied in ASD. This study will test the
      efficacy of DI-LL in young school-age children with ASD and moderate language delay. DI-LL is
      a structured, relatively inexpensive intervention designed to promote a range of language
      skills. It offers a comprehensive, carefully sequenced, brisk-paced program designed to teach
      a range of language skills to children with language impairments. A key strength of DI-LL is
      that it can be implemented by educators, psychologists, speech pathologists, behavior
      therapists without requiring deep expertise in behavioral interventions for ASD.

      100 participants, ages 4 to 7 years, 11 months, will be randomly assigned to either DI-LL or
      Treatment as Usual (TAU). Children randomly assigned to DI-LL will be allowed to continue in
      ongoing treatments as well. Forty to 42 treatment sessions will occur across 24 weeks with
      post-treatment follow up visits at Weeks 36 and 48 for subjects in DI-LL. Negative responders
      to TAU at Week 24 will be offered treatment with DI-LL for 24 weeks. This study is designed
      to compare DI-LL and TAU on two standardized tests of language function; overall improvement
      rated by a blinded clinician; and the number of spoken words in a structured laboratory
      setting via direct observation - again blind to treatment assignment. The intent to treat
      approach will be used in efficacy analysis and adverse events will be monitored throughout
      the trial.
    
  