
    
      Atherothrombotic disorders account for 25% of all deaths among women and for substantial
      morbidity and resource use in health care. Nonetheless, gender-related differences in the
      epidemiology of cardiovascular disease (CVD) remain largely unexplained. Thus, the
      application of sex-gender medicine is strongly recommended by WHO and other international
      organization. In fact, it is emerging that although men and women are subject to the same
      cardiovascular diseases (CVD), however, they have different risk factors, disease progression
      and response to drug treatment.

      In the last decades emerging scientific knowledge about platelet role in the atherothrombotic
      diseases physiopathology provides clues and asks questions about the possibility that a
      different platelet function modulation could influence the women population cardiovascular
      disease clinical course, especially considering that, compared to men population, the women
      one recognizes a worst cardiovascular outcome.

      It is widely acknowledged that platelet reactivity plays a pivotal role in thrombus formation
      and atherosclerosis. Differences in platelet reactivity between women and men have been
      described using several methods and in response to varying stimuli. In particular, platelets
      from women without vascular diseases are more reactive than those of men in response to
      standard concentrations of agonists such as adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and thrombin receptor
      agonist protein. Mechanisms that could account for such differences are on investigation.
      Indeed, sex steroid hormones could be involved as they exert multiple direct and indirect
      effects on cardiovascular physiology. The pleiotropic effects of estradiol-17 (E2) and
      estrogen receptors (ERs), a part of thei pivotal role in sexual development and
      reproduction,are a consequence of both the widespread expression of ER in many cell
      populations within the body as well as possibly reflecting the ancestral status of ER in the
      steroid receptor family.

      Epidemiologic and experimental studies now support an atheroprotective effect of both
      endogenous and exogenous estrogens. The Women's Health Initiative study did not show a
      coronary protective effect of estrogen in postmenopausal women, but subsequent studies have
      shown that this was because of both inappropriate timing (ie, administering the hormone
      therapy too late) and the identity of the associated progestin.

      Physiologic differences between men and women affect also drug activity, including
      pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Women are underrepresented in cardiovascular studies,
      even as their preponderance in the aging population steadily increases. A better
      understanding of the factors contributing to the observed sex-related differences in platelet
      biology is warranted. In particular concerns have been raised about the role of specific
      hormones in mediating platelet activation and function and the differential benefit of
      antiplatelet medications for women.

      It has been reported that many of sex gender differences associated with CVD in women could
      depend by estrogen. The finding that estrogen receptors are expressed in platelets renders
      these cells an excellent model for studying the non-genomic effects of these hormones.

      In conclusion, the impact of estrogens endogenous (menstrual cycle) and/or exogenous (oral
      contraceptives therapy) on platelet activity and response to antiplatelets drugs in women has
      not been extensively evaluated.

      To fill this gap in evidence and to find a support to optimize cardiovascular therapy by
      gender-oriented approach, the investigators planned to study the effect of endogenous
      estrogens (menstrual cycle) on platelet function and on antiplatelet therapy response in
      pre-menopausal healthy women.

      Phase 1 Evaluation of platelet function in different menstrual cycle phases. Phase 2: "Proof
      of concept study" A short treatment period with aspirin (100 mg daily) was also planned.
      Patients involved in the first phase study will be asked to participate in the interventional
      study. The investigators plan to enroll in the study 10 women and to follow them for 1 month.

      Blood samples will be obtained at baselines and at four time points during treatment to
      verify the effect of aspirin on platelets' function related to menstrual cycle hormonal
      fluctuations.
    
  