
    
      Stage may be defined at several time points during the monitoring period of cancer patients.
      When using imaging obtained during the relevant time frame, one may use one of the other TNM
      categories to stage correctly the cancer:

      For example, imaging is of high value in assessing therapy response during and after systemic
      and/or radiation therapy is given . Using imaging data and the clinical posttherapy TNM
      classification (ycTNM) is helpful in determining the patient's response to treatment.

      In case a patient is given the systemic therapy as a neoadjuvant therapy before a planned
      curative surgery, imaging may categorize the patient as a responder vs non-responder. If
      categorized as an early non-responder, another therapy or an upfront surgery may be advised,
      while eliminating therapy toxicity. If imaging, however, supports major response to
      treatment, more conservative treatment and avoidance of surgical intervention may be
      considered and change patients quality of life dramatically.

      In patients given a systemic therapy as a curative or a palliative therapy, assessing the
      response via imaging is crucial as well - if imaging studies support a progressive disease,
      changing therapy protocol is advised. In a disease controlled by the therapy, imaging may aid
      in guiding follow-up schedule, lifestyle and medical management.

      In the context of therapy response assessment, imaging is also important in assessing side
      effects of the therapy. Imaging may identify radiation-induced injuries, and may recognize
      pathologies associated with chemotherapy, biologic and immunotherapy.

      Imaging is also critical when recurrence of malignant disease is suspected. In such cases,
      when signs or symptoms suggest local recurrence, or when raised level of a tumor marker is
      documented, different imaging techniques can dramatically guide restaging of the disease
      using the recurrence-TNM classification (rTNM). In such cases imaging may localize the
      recurrent disease and may guide surgical/radiation/systemic therapy .

      Different imaging modalities allow assessment of virtually every cancer site and in every
      time frame during the continuum of the disease. Imaging aids in assessing tumor's size,
      location, and relationship to normal anatomic structures, as well as the existence of nodal
      and/or distant metastatic disease. Among the most commonly used imaging modalities are
      computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, positron emission tomography (PET)
      and ultrasound. In addition to providing key information for assigning the T, N, and M
      categories, imaging is invaluable for guiding biopsies and surgical resections.

      PET imaging has revolutionized the imaging evaluation of cancer . By exploiting biochemical
      and physiologic differences between tumor cells and normal tissues , PET imaging has become
    
  