
    
      2.0 BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      Multiparametric MRI Multiparametric MRI combining T2-weighted, diffusion-weighted, and
      dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) images is commonly employed for detection and localization of
      prostate lesions. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is sensitive to the diffusion of water
      molecules interacting with surrounding macromolecules. DWI, which provides a quantitative
      biological parameter called apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) value, is a robust MRI
      parameter for differentiating benign and malignant prostate tissue. In fact, the latest
      version of the Prostate Imaging-Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) scoring system relies
      almost exclusively on DWI to identify tumors in the peripheral zone, which is where the vast
      majority of prostate cancers form. Findings on T2 images are not used to identify cancer, and
      DCE images are only used to differentiate between some PI-RADS 3 and 4 lesions. In a pilot
      study of prostate cancer AS, DW-MRI was useful for detecting progression of Gleason score
      based on changes in ADC value. Tumor size is another important clinical criterion for
      defining low risk prostate cancer, and tumor size based on DWI has been shown to crudely
      predict low risk prostate cancer. However, conventional DWI using single-shot echo-planar
      imaging is unable to detect small tumors, low grade tumors, or small changes in tumor size on
      serial imaging. Approximately 20% of small, low grade tumors found in men on AS are detected
      on modern prostate MRI.

      High Resolution MRI Investigators introduce a new three-dimensional (3D) high-resolution
      diffusion-weighted imaging sequence (HR-DWI), which improves image quality while conferring
      at least a 5-fold improvement in resolution when compared to standard two-dimensional (2D)
      DWI (S-DWI). This novel 3D DWI technique has been developed by our team and can be applied on
      existing 1.5T or 3T MRI systems. S-DWI suffers from two important limitations. a) It uses
      single-shot echo-planar imaging (EPI) for data acquisition, which produces magnetic
      susceptibility induced streaking artifacts and geometric distortions so that round objects
      may appear oval. b) The relatively low signal-to-noise ratio and 2D image acquisition with
      S-DWI limit spatial resolution, which is defined by the minimum distance between two objects
      required to resolve them uniquely. Our HR-DWI overcomes these limitations by using
      magnetization prepared, multi-shot, turbo-spin-echo acquisition, which improves
      signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), spatial resolution, and image quality, and eliminates geometric
      distortions and streaking artifacts associated with EPI.

      Preliminary studies

      In preliminary studies assessing the performance of our HR-DWI in a prospective pilot trial
      of prostate cancer AS patients, the technique could detect tumors not seen on S-DWI and
      measure ADC, which correlates with grade. This is important because the long-term natural
      history of small prostate cancers invisible to S-DWI has never been prospectively defined, in
      part due to lack of adequate imaging technology. In the era of molecular diagnostics and
      next-generation sequencing, an important step in understanding the biology of these lesions
      is to develop technologies to image and characterize these lesions. Importance of HR-DWI
      includes:

        -  Better imaging will allow these lesions to be monitored serially and targeted for
           biopsy, providing tissue for both histologic and molecular characterization.

        -  Higher resolution imaging will better delineate tumor boundaries, which can improve
           tumor staging and identify margins during partial-gland ablation by cryotherapy or high
           intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), which was approved in 2015 by the U.S. FDA.

        -  Improved imaging resolution will allow for more accurate measurement of tumor size and
           ADC, and detection of small changes in size or grade over time. Standard prostate DWI
           has poor resolution; therefore, tumor growth kinetics have never been accepted as
           clinical criteria for cancer progression while on AS. If tumor growth kinetics or
           changes in grade determined by ADC prove prognostic, AS can rely less on serial
           transrectal biopsies, which can lead to serious complications.
    
  