
    
      This is essentially a two phase blood drawing and immune assays study. Phase 1 will be a
      single convalescent timing immune retrospective study; phase 2 will include paired samples to
      increase immune response accuracy in a prospective study. In phase 1, hospitalized PUI and
      APS patients with negative nasopharyngeal PCR swabs selected by Epic query of Bassett
      records, will be contacted by telephone (or in person if hospitalized), offered enrollment in
      the study, and provided informed consent if they're interested. For consented/enrolled
      patients, routine baseline demographic and clinical data will be obtained by interview (in
      person or telephone) and/or EMR (Epic) review. These data will be needed to describe baseline
      characteristics and to assess for predictors of serologic conversion and other immune
      responses in the two study populations. Up to two to three visits will be required for brief
      interviews, record review, and blood draws. Phase 1 patients will have visits/blood draws on
      days 14 and 28 after hospitalization or at 28 days after hospitalization only (-3 days, +60
      days) if patients are beyond day 14 at the time of study initiation; phase 2 patients will
      have visits/blood draws aiming for days 0, 14 (+/- 3 days), and 28 (+/- 3 days) after
      hospital admission.

      Blood will be drawn for SARS-CoV-2 specific immune assays (below). For phase 1 patients,
      baseline immune assays will not be available as blood is not available for them; thus, for
      many phase 1 patients, only one of the day 14 and 28 immune assays will be practical. In
      Phase 2, these procedures will be the same except baseline blood draws will be possible at
      hospitalization as well. Thus, blood drawing will be at target days 0, 14, and 28 for phase 2
      patients. Short interviews at days 14 and 28 will be conducted to assess for new COVID-19
      compatible illnesses that may confound immune response results.

      Up to 27.5 ml of blood will be required at each timepoint (PAXgene tube 2.5 ml, heparinized
      tube 10 ml, EDTA tube 10 ml, SST tube 5 ml). Total blood drawing will be up to 55 ml in phase
      1 patients and up to 82.5 ml in phase 2 patients. Serologic and additional immune assays will
      be conducted on blood drawn at these time points to assess for SARS-CoV-2 specific immune
      responses (see below).
    
  