
    
      Cancer is a prevalent problem that causes much suffering among Veterans and their families.
      Most interventions to improve symptom control require Veterans to engage in activities such
      as managing medications, altering diets, or accessing outside resources that may be beyond
      their reach due to limitations in physical and mental functioning. Friends and family inside
      and outside of the Veteran's household can help, but often lack the skills and resources they
      need to do so.

      "Cancer CarePartners" was designed to address these needs by providing cancer-stricken
      Veterans and their informal caregivers with the information they need to make effective
      management decisions, decrease symptom burden, and improve outcomes. Cancer CarePartners is a
      Web-enabled program that alerts caregivers of patients' symptoms and provides them with a
      framework for identifying problems, receiving structured advice, formulating a 'task list,'
      and following up with their patients as they receive chemotherapy. Specifically, Cancer
      CarePartners includes weekly, automated telephonic symptom assessment (ATSA) with
      self-management (SM) support to the Veteran paired with Web-based alerts to the caregiver
      pointing them to a website where s/he can obtain customized advice. A randomized control
      trial was conducted to test the efficacy of this program in controlling symptoms as well as
      improving adherence to chemotherapy.

      Objectives

      1) To determine if Veterans undergoing chemotherapy who receive Cancer CarePartners report
      significant improvement in the summed severity of symptoms (the sum of 0-10 severity across 8
      core symptoms) compared to Veterans receiving symptom monitoring and self-management advice;
      secondarily, to determine if they experience better adherence to chemotherapy and
      utilization. (2) To determine if caregivers participating in the intervention provide
      significantly more social support to patients than do controls; secondarily, to determine if
      they experience more caregiver burden and distress than do controls. (3) To determine whether
      impacts on patients are mediated by mastery. (4) To determine whether impacts on caregivers
      are mediated by mastery.

      Methods Consenting Veterans with solid tumors undergoing chemotherapy at one of three VAMCs
      (Ann Arbor, Loma Linda and Fargo) who reported at least one core symptom at a moderate level
      or higher and had a caregiver willing to enroll in the study were randomly assigned to either
      10 weeks of Cancer CarePartners or 10 weeks of automated, telephonic symptom assessment
      (ATSA) with self management support. Arms were balanced for non-small cell lung cancer status
      and caregiver type. Patients and caregivers were surveyed at intake, 10, and 14 weeks. In
      addition, the investigators tracked patient participation with ATSA and (in the experimental
      arm) caregiver use of the Cancer CarePartners Website. The investigators reviewed all medical
      records for content of care received during the 14 weeks on study.
    
  