
    
      Background

      Sepsis is a highly heterogeneous disease state brought about by a dysregulated host response
      to systemic infection, with uncontrolled pro- and anti-inflammatory processes leading to
      collateral tissue injury and immune suppression.

      Sepsis poses a significant health burden worldwide, with deaths attributed in the UK
      estimated at approximately 44,000 per annum. Prompt treatment directed by internationally
      agreed management guidelines improves outcomes in sepsis. However early diagnosis of sepsis
      remains difficult, with current diagnostic criteria relying on the presence of organ
      dysfunction and derangement of macro haemodynamic variables. At the point of diagnosis,
      mortality is in excess of 10%. At present there are no specific criteria in the diagnosis of
      sepsis based on the underlying pathophysiological abnormalities, specifically on assessment
      of the microcirculation.

      The microcirculation in sepsis

      The microcirculation consists of a dense network of arterioles, capillaries and venules,
      whose diameter is less than 150 um. Its functions are to supply nutrients and oxygen for
      aerobic metabolism and to reduce cellular waste products.

      Sepsis affects all elements of the microcirculation, with microcirculatory dysfunction
      playing an important role in the pathophysiology of severe sepsis and septic shock. Sepsis is
      associated with decreased capillary density and increased perfusion heterogeneity leading to
      decreased oxygen delivery, tissue hypoxia and subsequently organ dysfunction. Changes in
      microcirculatory function may precede the traditional diagnostic features of sepsis,
      providing earlier information on patients who will go on to develop severe sepsis and
      multi-organ failure. Recognition of sepsis at this early stage would allow prompt treatment,
      aimed at restoring homeostasis of the microcirculation, therefore altering disease
      progression.

      A number of studies have demonstrated that improvements in microcirculatory function
      following early resuscitation are associated with decreasing organ dysfunction, and those
      patients whose microcirculations fails to improve following resuscitation have poorer
      outcomes. Despite recognition of the importance of the microcirculation in sepsis, current
      goal-directed end points rely on the monitoring and restoration of global measures of
      cardiovascular/organ function (e.g. heart rate, blood pressure, urine output, lactate),
      partly because the microcirculation is difficult to monitor in clinical practice. However,
      improvement in macro haemodynamic variables does not guarantee restoration of
      microcirculatory homeostasis. Clinical assessment of microcirculatory function is presently
      inferred from the measurement of by-products generated due to impaired oxygenation/metabolism
      such as lactate and carbon dioxide.

      Video microscopic techniques for assessment of the microcirculation

      Video microscopic techniques provide in-vivo visualisation of the microcirculation, allowing
      direct measurement of capillary density, perfusion and flow dynamics. Until recently, these
      techniques which have included Orthogonal Polarization Spectral (OPS) imaging and Sidestream
      Dark Field (SDF) imaging, have been clinically inaccessible owing to their bulky nature,
      operator dependant output and time-consuming offline analysis requirement.

      A third-generation handheld microscope has recently been developed (CytoCam-IDF, Braedius
      Medical, NL), utilising Incident Dark Field (IDF) illumination. The device incorporates
      real-time automated digital image analysis, combined with high resolution lenses and a
      computer controlled image sensor for improved resolution. The CytoCam also features a novel
      quantitative focusing mechanism with an integrated distance measuring system, whereby once
      the focus depth has been established for a specific patient, serial measurements can be made
      without having to manually readjust the focus, improving speed and ease of measurements. This
      new device performs well when compared to previous devices, providing improved contrast and
      image sharpness allowing an increased number of microvessels to be visualised.

      Crucially, the CytoCam is equipped with bespoke software allowing images to be stored and
      analysed automatically at the point of acquisition. Microcirculatory monitoring is a not a
      new technique, but the combination of user friendly ergonomics, accurate image acquisition
      and automated analysis opens up this potentially useful direct measurement of
      microcirculatory function to bedside clinical practice.

      Analysis of the sublingual microcirculation A round table discussion in 2006 by experts in
      the field, sought to clarify the features that should be included in microcirculatory
      analysis, concluding that assessment of the microcirculation should include measures of
      vascular density, assessment of capillary perfusion and a heterogeneity index (in vessels of
      <20 micrometres in diameter).

      These measured variables are:

      Microvascular Flow Index (MFI) - Perfusion quality Image divided in to quadrants. A number is
      assigned to each quadrant according to predominant flow type (0 = no flow, 1 = intermittent,
      2 = sluggish, 3 = continuous). The MFI results from the mean of the 4 values.

      Total Vessel Density (TVD) Vessel density - The total length of the vessels divided by the
      total surface area of the analysed area.

      Perfused Vessel Density (PVD) - Functional vessel density Total length of perfused vessels
      (MFI score 2/3) divided by the analysed area.

      Proportional of Perfused Vessels (PPV) - Perfusion quality 100 x number of perfused vessels
      divided by the total number of vessels Heterogeneity Index (HI) Measure of the heterogeneity
      of flow between vessels. Highest MFI - lowest MFI divided by mean MFI across all sites
      analysed

      Compared to healthy volunteers, patients with sepsis display lower values for PVD, PPV and
      MFI, along with increased heterogeneity index, irrespective of macro haemodynamic condition.
      Total capillary density appears to be unaffected by sepsis. These findings were corroborated
      by the International Study on Microcirculatory Shock Occurrence in Acutely Ill Patients
      (microSOAP) study.

      The microSOAP study is to date the largest trial investigating the significance of
      microcirculatory alterations in a heterogeneous ICU population (i.e. not just those with
      sepsis). Using the previous generation of similar technology, the investigators found that of
      the 501 patients included for analysis, 86 (17%) had an abnormal MFI (defined a priori as
      <2.6). Of those with an abnormal MFI, the HI was increased with decreased PPV and PVD. Total
      vessel density was not affected. Abnormal MFI in conjunction with tachycardia was associated
      with an increased mortality (OR 3.24).

      CytoCam Tools automated analysis

      CytoCam Tools is the proprietary software supplied with the aforementioned microcirculatory
      monitor. It utilises a new analysis technique termed Capillary Network Analysis (CNA) whereby
      the microcirculation is analysed automatically and in a user-independent nature by a
      two-stage process which includes automatic vessel detection (depending on the diameter of
      visualised vessels), followed by an assessment of speed of red blood cells in the vessels
      identified.

      The following microcirculatory variables are then automatically determined.

        -  Total Vessel Density (TVD) - Total length of all detected vessels divided by the
           processed area.

        -  Speed Index (SI) - Relative number derived from the intensity variation along the
           centreline of a vessel, which describes the speed detected in the vessel.

        -  Perfused Speed Index (PSI) - SI in a vessel where the SI is higher than the perfusion
           threshold (PT).

        -  Average Perfused Speed Indicator (APSI) - Sum of all PSI values divided by the total
           number of perfused vessels.

        -  Proportion of perfused vessels (PPV) - Total length of all vessels with an SI higher
           than the PT, divided by the total length of all detected vessels x 100,

        -  Perfused Vessel Density (PVD) - Total length of all vessels with an SI higher than the
           PT divided by the processed area.

        -  Average Perfused Speed Indicator Heterogeneity Index (APSI HI) - Image divided in to
           quadrants and APSI derived for each quadrant. APSI highest minus the lowest APSI divided
           by the mean APSI of all quadrants.

      The assessment of PPV and PVD relies on the automated analysis of red blood cell speed in
      identified vessels. In order to achieve this a predetermined Perfusion Threshold (PT) is set.
      The PT describes the state of flow within identified vessels and can range from 0 to
      infinite. Manufacture assessment has determined that a PT of over 1 is consistent with a
      "perfused condition" and this can be subdivided further as follows:

      Perfusion threshold

      State of flow 0 - 1 = No flow 1 - 5 = Sluggish 5 or greater = Good flow Normal ranges for
      these automatically measured variables in health are currently unknown. Understanding the
      normal ranges would allow us to utilise this technique in future studies concerning the early
      diagnosis of septic illness. Identification of patients at an early stage in the
      pathophysiological process of sepsis before the development of traditionally diagnostic
      macro-circulatory abnormalities may allow earlier implementation of treatment.

      Rationale

      The CytoCam system may represent a step towards a more user-friendly, reproducible,
      clinically applicable approach to measuring, and acting upon changes in microvascular
      function to improve clinical outcomes. However, the normal ranges for these measurements are
      not known, without which further studies cannot take place. This study will identify the
      normal ranges for the automatically determined measurements derived by the CytoCam system in
      healthy subjects, and open new opportunities for studies, which we anticipate will be aimed
      at the early identification of patients with microcirculatory dysfunction (as is found in
      sepsis); whose microcirculatory parameters fall outside of these newly defined ranges. This
      will be the first step in moving towards routine bedside microcirculatory monitoring in our
      intensive care unit.

      This work builds on projects currently in progress within the Diagnostic Development Unit
      (DDU) based at Leicester Royal Infirmary. The DDU is a University of Leicester
      inter-collegiate project between Medicine, Space Science and Atmospheric Chemistry, exploring
      the use of novel non-invasive monitors in Emergency Medicine and Critical Care.

      Population to be studied

      OBJECTIVE

      To identify the normal ranges for automatically measured microcirculatory variables as
      determined by the CytoCam system in different adult age groups.
    
  