
    
      In this study, the investigators will make use of a small, discrete and unobtrusive wearable,
      the Sensor-Dot (https://www.byteflies.com/) and newly developed electrode patches (Plug 'n
      Patch system). The aim is multimodal profiling of people with epilepsy to determine which
      signals are clinically useful for long-term home monitoring. Biosignals that will be
      registered include EEG, EMG, and ECG, respiration, oxygen saturation, skin temperature and
      motion.

      The first part of the study is hospital-based and will last 5 days. The investigators will
      compare the biosignals of the Sensor Dot and the Plug 'n Patch system with those measured
      with hospital equipment. Participants are 15 patients with refractory focal epilepsy who will
      be admitted to the hospital for long-term videoEEG registration of epileptic seizures as part
      of a presurgical evaluation.

      The second part of the study is home-based and will last for a maximum of 1 year. Sixty
      participants will be selected with refractory idiopathic generalized epilepsy (n=15),
      refractory focal epilepsy (n=30) and frequent nocturnal tonic-clonic seizures (n=15). The aim
      is to determine and improve usability of the Sensor Dot and Plug 'n Patch system upon
      long-term use in the home environment. The investigators will determine the number of
      patients with side effects and adverse events of the Sensor Dot and Plug 'n Patch system,
      e.g. contact allergic eczema. The investigators will determine the total time that
      participants wear the Sensor Dot and Plug 'n Patch system, and the reason why participants do
      not wear it.

      The investigators further aim to determine whether epileptic seizures occur in cycles, and
      will study interactions between epilepsy and sleep. The investigators will also study whether
      body temperature occurs in recurring cycles and is related with the occurrence of epileptic
      seizures. The investigators will study changes in EEG, respiration, heart rate, skin
      temperature and oxygen saturation during tonic-clonic seizures. The investigators will
      determine whether it is possible that the Sensor-Dot and Plug 'n Patch system can be used as
      a seizure forecaster.
    
  