
    
      Rationale: Previous research suggests that women who have their ovaries removed as part of
      their treatment for breast cancer may live longer if the ovarian surgery is performed during
      the luteal phase (last 14 days of the menstrual cycle) rather than the follicular phase (the
      first 14 days of the menstrual cycle). The current study will evaluate this important
      research question in premenopausal women with metastatic hormone receptor-positive breast
      cancer who will be treated with surgery and tamoxifen.

      Purpose: The purpose of this research is to find out if premenopausal women with breast
      cancer that has spread to other parts of the body live longer if their ovaries are removed
      during the second half of the menstrual cycle. This study will compare how long women live if
      they have their ovaries removed during the first half of their menstrual cycle (follicular
      phase) to how long women live if they have their ovaries removed during the second half of
      their menstrual cycle (luteal phase). Tamoxifen will also be given to study participants.

      Treatment: Study participants will have tests performed in advance of surgery to remove their
      ovaries. Surgery will be performed within four weeks of these tests. The exact day will be
      determined by the study participant's menstrual history and by a process called
      randomization, which is a random decision making process to determine if each study
      participant will have their surgery during the first or second half of their menstrual cycle.
      On the day of surgery, blood will be taken immediately prior to surgery and three hours after
      surgery for hormone tests. After the surgery, study participants will be given tamoxifen in
      oral pills for daily consumption. Study participants will be asked to return to the hospital
      every two months for tests and distribution of additional tamoxifen tablets. Treatments will
      be discontinued for disease progression or unacceptable adverse effects.
    
  