
    
      Within the last decade, Linac based stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has been shown
      to be an effective treatment option for pancreas1, 2 and liver3, 4 tumors. SBRT delivers high
      doses of radiation therapy to the tumor over only 1-5 treatments. Because of the spatial
      precision of SBRT, it is feasible to administer a high radiation dose in only a few
      treatments. By minimizing the amount of radiation to surrounding healthy tissue, it is
      possible to decrease the rate of toxicity/complication and increase the radiation dose to
      cancerous tissue, thereby allowing better local control.

      SBRT of the abdomen has been limited by the movement of intra-abdominal organs that naturally
      occurs with respiration and bowel movement. Organ motion occurs both intra- and
      inter-fractionally. While intra-fractional motion is a result of respiration, peristalsis and
      cardiac motion, the magnitude of inter-fractional target motion is dependent of daily
      variations in organ filling, weight change, tumor growth and radiation induced changes of
      tissue. Tumor movement may lead to tumor displacement and suboptimal dose delivery. Accurate
      localization of the target is very important to improve treatment delivery accuracy and
      reduce toxicity of the treatment. To evaluate tumor motion due to breathing motion, a 4-D CT
      simulation scan is performed. If the tumor moves more than 3 mm during a breathing cycle,
      breathing motion management is employed using Active Breathing Control (ABC) technique. ABC
      requires the patient to hold his/her breath within the proper tidal volume while treatment is
      delivered, while free breathing may be resumed between periods of treatment. This technique
      limits the delivery of RT to specific phases of the respiratory cycle so as to minimize the
      influence of breathing on the delineated tumor.

      Despite significant progress made in ABC technique, tumor and organ motion could only be
      minimized and not eliminated completely with this technique. Assessing patient specific
      tumor/organ motion (both intra- and interfractional) throughout the course of SBRT treatment
      offers the possibility of ensuring delivery of the prescribed target dose while
      simultaneously minimizing normal tissue damage. In order to monitor the abdominal soft tissue
      motion, the Department of Radiation Oncology has developed a 4D ultrasound technique based on
      an ultrasound probe holder and a continuous motion monitoring software. The 4D ultrasound
      image is acquired by using a motorized 3D ultrasound probe and image continuously. 4D
      ultrasound is a new non-ionizing and non-invasive imaging technique that continuously
      monitors the tumor motion during the radiation treatment in real time.
    
  