
    
      The aim of this study is to develop and identify the most effective strategy to implement
      PCRPs into daily care. We want to assess the added value of a multi-faceted strategy compared
      with a single-faceted patient-directed strategy.

      We will conduct a clustered controlled before and after study (CBA) in the Netherlands that
      compares two strategies to implement PCRPs. The patient-directed (PD) strategy (five
      hospitals) will focus on change at the patient level. The multi-faceted (MF) strategy (five
      hospitals) will focus on change at the patient, professional and organizational levels.
      Eligibility criteria are as follows: (A) patients: adults; preferably (history of) cancer in
      the gastro-intestinal, reproductive and/or urological system; successful primary treatment;
      and without recurrence/metastases. (B) Healthcare professionals: involved in cancer care.

      A stepwise approach will be followed:

      Step 1: Analysis of the current implementation of PCRPs and the examination of barriers and
      facilitators for implementation, via a qualitative study with patients (four focus groups n =
      10-12) and their healthcare workers (four focus groups n = 10-12 and individual interviews n
      = 30-40) and collecting data on adherence to quality indicators (n = 500 patients, 50 per
      hospital).

      Step 2: Selection and development of interventions to create a PD and MF strategy during
      expert's roundtable discussions, using the knowledge gained in step 1 and a literature search
      of the effect of strategies for implementing PCRPs.

      Step 3: Test and compare both strategies with a clustered CBA (effectiveness, process
      evaluation and costs), by data extraction from existing registration systems, questionnaires
      and interviews. For the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, n = 500 patients, 50 per
      hospital. For the process evaluation, n=50 patients, 5 per hospital, and n = 40 healthcare
      professionals, 4 per hospital.
    
  