
    
      Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary tumour arising from bones. There is currently no
      approved treatment other than surgery for metastatic or recurrent osteosarcoma refractory to
      chemotherapy. Patients deemed unresectable normally receive chemotherapy prior to attempted
      resection. The addition of chemotherapy to surgery for metastatic or recurrent osteosarcoma
      may improve response rates. MEPACT (Mifamurtide, MTP-PE) is licensed for use in the adjuvant
      osteosarcoma setting; indicated in children, adolescents and young adults for the treatment
      of high-grade resectable non-metastatic osteosarcoma after macroscopically complete surgical
      resection. It is used in combination with post-operative multi-agent chemotherapy. This is a
      Bayesian designed multi-arm, multi-centre open-label phase II study in patients with
      metastatic and/or recurrent osteosarcoma, which will investigate why some patients with
      osteosarcoma may respond better than others to mifamurtide given alone or in combination with
      ifosfamide. Patients with relapsed or metastatic osteosarcoma will be divided into three
      treatment groups (Arms). Depending on their current disease status, patients may be either
      Registered to Arm A (resectable group), to receive Mifamurtide alone; or Randomised to Arm
      B/C (non-resectable group), to receive mifamurtide in combination with ifosfamide. Arm A -
      Mifamurtide alone; Arm B - Ifosfamide alone for 6 weeks then Ifosfamide + mifamurtide for 6
      weeks, then mifamurtide alone for 30 weeks; Arm C - Ifosfamide + mifamurtide for 12 weeks
      then mifamurtide alone for 24 weeks. All participants will receive 36 weeks or more of
      mifamurtide. Biopsies (or resected tumour samples) will be obtained before and after 6 weeks
      of therapy interval in order to determine the pharmacodynamic endpoints. The target sample
      size is 40 patients. An interim analysis will be performed for the primary efficacy endpoint.
    
  