
    
      Background: Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSA) is a common sleep disorder that is
      associated with serious medical and psychological complications. Nasal continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) is the treatment of choice for this condition because it is highly
      effective in reducing the frequency of nocturnal respiratory events, improving sleep
      architecture, decreasing daytime sleepiness and improving blood pressure. Incomplete patient
      adherence, however, limits the effectiveness of CPAP therapy and results in sub-optimal
      patient outcomes. Previous efforts to enhance CPAP adherence have resulted in only modest
      improvements, have generally not been theory-driven, and have had minimal effects on key
      patient outcomes such as reduction in OSA symptoms or increase in health-related quality of
      life (HRQOL). The planned intervention in this proposal, the Sleep Apnea Self-Management
      Program (SASMP), is based on the rationale that sleep apnea is a chronic disease that
      requires significant self-care on the part of the patient. We draw on the extensive chronic
      disease self-management literature to provide a solid theoretical justification for this
      pragmatic intervention both to better manage key aspects of OSA and to increase CPAP
      adherence. Chronic disease management programs help reduce symptoms, improve HRQOL, improve
      treatment adherence, and decrease medical utilization. Objectives: The primary aim of this
      study is to compare the efficacy of the SASMP to Usual Care for improving OSA symptom status,
      HRQOL, and self-reported medical utilization. A second aim is to examine the extent to which
      changes in symptoms and HRQOL are mediated by changes in self-efficacy and CPAP adherence.
      Methods: We will evaluate the Sleep Apnea Self-Management Program (SASMP) by conducting a
      randomized, controlled trial of the program compared to Usual Care in patients diagnosed with
      OSA and prescribed CPAP therapy. Participants randomized to the SASMP group will attend 4
      weekly educational sessions of 2.5 hours each. Two trained leaders facilitate the program
      from a scripted manual. Key topics covered in this program include 1) management of OSA
      symptoms, CPAP side effects, and weight loss; 2) maintaining social contacts and family
      relationships; and 3) dealing with symptoms of depression and worries about the future.
      Findings: No results at this time. Status: We are currently engaging in start-up activities.
      Impact: The results of this project can improve service delivery and improve health outcomes
      for sleep apnea patients at the Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, throughout the
      VA, as well as to any community based sleep clinic.
    
  