
    
      Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) has demonstrated significant empirical support in treating
      victims of sexual assault suffering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) throughout its
      program of research at the University of Missouri - St. Louis. Similarly to the larger
      treatment outcome literature, these clinical trials have revealed a portion of participants
      whose sleep remains refractory to treatment even after conclusion of a full course of
      treatment.

      In fact, the specific causes of sleep disturbance in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      sufferers, the most prominent of which are insomnia and nightmares, have not been determined.
      However, sleep impairment is the most often reported of the 17 PTSD symptoms and is
      considered one of the most refractory to treatment. It is theorized that PTSD sleep
      impairment relates to the hypervigilance inherent in PTSD such that sleep is disrupted by the
      perception that vigilance (in response to perceived threat) must be maintained at night.
      Sleep impairment seen in PTSD sufferers may then result from increased physiological arousal
      associated with chronic hypervigilance. Hypnosis provides deep relaxation which is
      hypothesized to decrease overall hyperarousal. Nightmares and trauma cues can further disrupt
      sleep through learning and conditioning. PTSD sufferers may learn to associate nighttime cues
      with danger and conditioned emotional responses to these cues may disrupt sleep. Detecting
      relatively innocuous environmental stimuli (i.e. normal nighttime noises) while trying to
      fall asleep and interpreting them as dangerous increases arousal. Hyperarousal interferes
      with sleep and has been identified as causal in the development of non-PTSD insomnia. Beyond
      decreases in general hyperarousal, an additive benefit of the hypnotic trance and the use of
      post-hypnotic suggestion would be the facilitation of new learning such that bedroom stimuli
      could become associated with pleasant, restful images. The use of hypnosis as a complement to
      CPT, an empirically supported, cognitive-behavioral intervention developed to treat PTSD,
      could specifically remediate 1.) sleep onset and maintenance deficits, 2) the frequency and
      intensity of parasomnia episodes, and 3.) cumulative sleep deprivation. Acquisition of the
      skill of self-hypnosis will provide PTSD sufferers with a tool to regain normal and
      restorative sleep patterns. Restoring sleep will enhance the efficacy of CPT in remediating
      psychiatric symptoms (PTSD and major depression), reduce overall physiological reactivity,
      increase psychosocial functioning, and decrease somatization.

      This study proposes the use of sleep-directed hypnotherapy as a complementary element to the
      empirically supported CPT in treating PTSD in sexual and physical assault survivors.
      Specifically:

      Aim 1: Compare the results of sleep-directed hypnosis + CPT (hypCPT) versus CPT-only (CPT)
      within a sample of female sexual/physical assault survivors. It is hypothesized that the
      hypCPT group will show significantly greater improvement on overall PTSD severity, concurrent
      psychopathology, and overall sleep impairment.

      Aim 2: Assess the relationship between sleep and PTSD sxs. Specifically, identify temporal
      and directional relationships between elevations in PTSD symptoms and increases in sleep
      impairment while accounting for daily life stressors.

      Aim 3: Evaluate improvements with respect to the process of therapy. Specifically, examine
      relationships between sleep improvement, PTSD symptom improvement, and the therapeutic
      elements (hypnosis, exposure, cognitive therapy) to determine mechanisms of action in the
      intervention. It is specifically hypothesized that improvements in sleep will be positively
      and temporally related to improvements in PTSD symptomatology throughout treatment. Further,
      overall decreases in sleep impairment will indicate a temporal, positive relationship to
      overall improvements in psychosocial functioning and health-related concerns.

      Aim 4: Assess the relationship between sleep and psychophysiological reactivity to
      trauma-related cues and to an auditory startle probe. It is hypothesized that impairment in
      sleep onset and maintenance, frequency/intensity of parasomnia episodes, and overall sleep
      deprivation will be positively related to elevations in psychophysiological reactivity
      (heart-rate, skin conductance, and facial EMG) during a scripted-imagery paradigm and an
      auditory startle paradigm. It is further hypothesized that decreases in sleep impairment will
      be positively related to decreases in physiological reactivity across hypCPT treatment.
    
  