
    
      INTRODUCTION Periodontitis is a multifactorial infectious disease with microbial plaque as
      initiator that triggers inflammatory response in the periodontal tissue. As the disease
      progresses, symptoms may include bleeding gums, periodontal abscesses, increased tooth
      mobility due to the loss of bone support, tooth migration, exposure of the root surface, and
      tooth loss. Current periodontal therapy is directed towards establishing a healthy
      periodontium by attempting to resolve the tissue inflammation induced by bacterial plaque and
      its products and the restitution of the anatomic defects caused by the disease process. There
      are many outcomes possible from the periodontal therapy depending upon the goals, the type of
      therapy, and the methods utilized to evaluate it. These can range from halting the
      destructive process, maintaining an area to repair a defect and/or regeneration.

      Melcher described the concept of selective cell repopulation of defects to enhance
      healing.The guided tissue regeneration (GTR) technique excludes faster growing epithelial and
      connective tissue cells with barriers and bone grafts to allow slower moving pluripotential
      and osteogenic cells to repopulate the treated site. To attain horizontal and/or vertical
      bone augmentation beyond the envelope of skeletal bone, four principles need to be met:
      primary wound closure, angiogenesis to provide necessary blood supply and undifferentiated
      mesenchymal cells, space maintenance and stability of the blood clot .The ultimate goal of
      the regenerative periodontal therapy is to restore the lost periodontal tissues including
      cementum, periodontal ligament and alveolar bone.

      The current regenerative therapy includes the use of bone grafts, guided tissue regeneration
      (GTR), bioactive agents like Enamel matrix derivative (EMD) and laser assisted regeneration.
      The clinical periodontal regenerative treatments focus on the utilization of bone grafts that
      can be obtained from the same individual (autografts), from different individual of the same
      species (allografts) or from a different species (xenografts). Apart from these synthetic
      bone grafts are also available (alloplasts).

      Allografts are bone grafts taken for transplantation from one human to another. There are two
      types of allografts available including freeze-dried bone allograft and demineralized
      freeze-dried bone allograft (DFDBA). Demineralized freeze-dried bone allograft is a graft
      that possesses osteoconductive and osteoinductive properties. Demineralization process of the
      graft exposes the bone inductive properties located in the bone matrix such as bone
      morpogenetic protein-2(BMP2) and bone morpogenetic protein-7 (BMP 7) that aid in mesenchymal
      cell migration, attachment and osteogenesis when implanted in well vascularised bone. It has
      shown to regenerate bone as well as cementum and periodontal ligament in treatment of
      periodontal osseous defects at the same time eliminates the need for a second surgical site.
      When used for periodontal regeneration, DFDBA may not only lead to clinical improvements in
      terms of pocket probing depth (PPD) reduction and gain of clinical attachment level (CAL),
      but also lead to formation of new connective tissue attachment and new alveolar bone.

      Several authors have advocated the use intramarrow penetration (IMP), also known as
      decortication, as a part of guided bone regeneration procedure. Osteoblasts that form new
      bone are derived from periosteum, endosteum, and undifferentiated pluripotential mesenchymal
      cells in the bone marrow. After the elevation of mucoperiosteal flap when the barrier is
      placed, the contribution of periosteum to GBR procedure is lost. Along with this, a bone
      graft placed on the cortical bone also interferes with the entry of undifferentiated
      pluripotential mesenchymal cells from the endosteum and bone marrow towards the GBR-treated
      site.Therefore drilling holes through cortical bone into more vascular cancellous bone
      induces bleeding and organised clot releases cytokines and growth factors which attracts the
      blood vessels, osteoblasts, and pluripotential cells to the grafted sites. It also enhance
      the physical connection between the bone graft and recipient site to improve its stability
      and provide firm linking for newly generated bone.Studies have shown that open flap
      debridement (OFD) combined with decortication produces positive result outcomes in
      regenerative periodontal treatment.

      It is hypothesized that placement of demineralized freeze dried bone allograft along with
      decortication would provide predictable periodontal regeneration as compared to placement of
      demineralized freeze dried bone allograft alone in 2-,3- or combined 2,3 wall intrabony
      defects. Therefore to support or reject the hypothesis, this study will be conducted to
      evaluate the periodontal parameters in terms of periodontal healing by regenerative
      periodontal therapy with demineralized freeze dried bone allograft with and without
      decortication in the treatment of 2-, 3- or combined 2,3 wall periodontal defects .

      MATERIALS AND METHOD STUDY POPULATION AND DESIGN The study will be conducted in the
      department of Periodontics and Oral Implantology at Pandit B.D.Sharma university of health
      sciences, Rohtak according to the 1975 Helsinki Declaration, as revised in 2013.

      This interventional study will include systemically healthy minimum 36 patients with 2-, 3-or
      2,3 wall periodontal intrabony defects which will be equally divided into two groups.
      Individuals will be selected randomly, with no discrimination on the basis of caste, sex,
      religion or socio-economic status.

      Per patient one defect will be selected and deepest intrabony defect will be considered.

      Control Group Open flap debridement with DFDBA:Periodontal surgery will be performed in the
      form of open flap debridement along with placement of demineralized freeze dried bone
      allograft at the defect site.

      Test Group Open flap debridement with decortication and demineralised freeze dried bone
      allograft:Open flap debridement with decortications and placement of demineralized freeze
      dried bone allograft at the defect site.

      CLINICAL PARAMETERS Full mouth indices to be recorded at baseline Bleeding on probing Probing
      Pocket depth Clinical Attachment loss Site specific indices Plaque index (PI) Silness and Loe
      1964. Gingival index (GI) Loe H and Silness 1963. Probing Pocket depth (PPD)will be measured
      as mm distance from gingival margin to the base of pocket.

      Clinical attachment loss (CAL) will be measured as distance from cemento-enamel junction to
      the base of pocket.

      Bleeding on probing (BOP) Tooth mobility Gingival recession (REC) measurement will be made by
      periodontal probe from cemento-enamel junction to the gingival crest.

      Keratinized tissue width (KTW) distance from the gingival margin to the mucogingival
      junction.

      Using UNC 15 periodontal probe to measure PPD, CAL, BOP, gingival recession at 6 sites
      (mesial, distal, median points at buccal and lingual aspects) per tooth and at 4 sites per
      tooth to measure PI, GI.The cemento-enamel junction will be used as a fixed reference point.

      RADIOGRAPHIC PARAMETERS Customized bite blocks and parallel angle technique will be used to
      obtain Intraoral Periapical radiographs. Following parameters should be assessed and will be
      measured using imaging software.

      Radiographic defect depth (rDD) defined as the distance from the projection on the root
      surface of the most coronal point of the residual bone crest to the bottom of the defect.

      Radiographic defect width (rDW)defined as the distance from the most coronal point of the
      residual bone crest to the root surface, were measured using a caliper and recorded to the
      nearest mm.

      Radiographic defect angle (ANG)defined by a line tangential to the root surface and a line
      connecting the bottom of the defect to the most coronal part of the crest next to the
      adjacent tooth.

      Recall appointments will be scheduled weekly during the first postoperative month;3 month, 6
      month and 9 month interval. All clinical parameters and radiographic parameters will be
      recorded at baseline, 6 month and 9 month post surgery. The cemento-enamel junction(CEJ) will
      be used as a fixed reference point.

      METHODOlLOGY PRESURGICAL THERAPY includes Oral hygiene instructions Full mouth supragingival
      and subgingival scaling and root planning with ultrasonic scaler, hand scaler and curettes.

      Patient will be recalled after 6 weeks, during which his/her oral hygiene status will be
      checked. Patients with low levels of residual infection (Full-Mouth Bleeding Score FMBS <
      20%) and good oral hygiene status (Plaque Index- <1[Silness and loe]) will be considered for
      further surgery.

      PERIODONTAL SURGICAL PROCEDURE After administration of local anaesthesia, buccal and
      lingual/palatal intracrevicular incision will be made and mucoperiosteal flaps will be
      reflected including atleast one tooth ahead and another behind the treated tooth. Meticulous
      defect debridement and root planning will be carried out using area specific curettes and
      scalers. After instrumentation, the root surfaces will be irrigated with saline solution in
      attempt to remove any remaining detached fragments from the defect and surgical field.

      The following clinical parameters will be then recorded at the deepest point: CEJ to alveolar
      bone crest (CEJ-BC); CEJ to surgical bottom of the defect (CEJ-sBD); defect depth (BC-sBD);
      defect width (DW), distance from root surface to most coronal extension of alveolar crest and
      number of defect walls.

      In the control group, DFDBA is placed at the defect site and mucoperiosteal flaps will be
      repositioned and secured by 3-0 non absorbable black silk surgical suture whereas in the test
      group, the intrabony defect cortical walls will be penetrated using a round carbide bur (1mm
      diameter) to reach the marrow space and then demineralized freeze dried bone allograft is
      placed at the defect site. Flap will be closed in the same manner as in the control group.

      The surgical area will be protected and covered with periodontal dressing and post operative
      instructions will be given.
    
  