
    
      The surgical procedure appointment will take probably 45-75 minutes. The procedures will take
      the following steps:

        1. One Intra-oral periapical radiograph/X-ray should have been taken before the procedure
           and another one at month 12.

        2. Providing local anesthetics to numb the area to be worked on and it is just for selected
           sites and no need for general anesthesia at all.

        3. Using micro surgical blade to cut the gum very conservatively, as we will be using a
           very conservative minimally invasive surgical technique up-to-date.

        4. After establishing the visibility to the defective site with help of dental loups as a
           part of the procedure, we will clean the whole area using manual and ultrasonic cleaning
           instrument and making sure that there is no granulation (infected/inflamed) tissue
           inside the defect and the root surfaces of the affected tooth/teeth are very smooth.

        5. In case of using enamel matrix derivative gel (Emdogain) we will apply the material as
           the manufacturer recommends, while in the case of not using the enamel matrix derivative
           gel (Emdogain) we will do the standard open flap debridement (OFD) scaling and root
           planning for the affected sites and then closing and securing the flap/wound with
           exactly the same minimally invasive surgical technique.

        6. According to the technique to be used we will use the suitable type of suture material
           and technique to make sure that the flap/wound is closed in place and secured properly.

        7. At the end of the procedure the patient will receive post-operative instructions which
           are a kind of Do's & Don't as follow:

           A. Don't clean the wound for the next 2 weeks. B. Using chlorhexidine based mouth wash
           0.12% twice a day for 3 weeks. C. Don't eat or drink hot food and drinks for the first 2
           days, after that you may start using warm food and back to normal in a week time.

           C. Don't play or disturb the suture with your tongue, lips or fingers. D. Try not to do
           exercises during the 1st week. E. Do brush the rest of your teeth.

        8. The participant will be asked to attend a 15 minutes appointment 7-10 days right after
           the procedure for suture removal. Then every two weeks until month 3 just for evaluation
           of healing and performing any kind of treatment that might be needed for example;
           superficial cleaning. Then you will be asked to attend one appointment a month until
           month 6 to take the measurements again and providing any cleaning needed, then at month
           9, and finally, at month 12 to take the measurements for the last time to compare them
           with the baseline measurement.
    
  