
    
      BACKGROUND Sustained lung inflation (SLI) applied at birth in the delivery room has been
      demonstrated to lead to clearance of lung fluid and achievement of a precocious functional
      residual capacity (FRC) both in animal and human studies. SLI associated to an adequate
      positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) may help the efficacy of the respiratory effort in
      lung of preterm infants at risk for respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and reduce need of
      mechanical ventilation (MV).

      OBJECTIVES Our aim will be to demonstrate the hypothesis that the introduction of SLI in the
      delivery room protocol may reduce the need of MV in the first 72 hours of life in preterm
      infants at risk for RDS improving their respiratory outcome.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a multicenter prospective randomized controlled trial. The study will be
      carried out at the neonatal care units of the Careggi University Hospital of Florence, the
      "V. Buzzi" Children Hospital of Milan, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico of Milan,the
      Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Rome, the "S. Giovanni" Hospital of Rome, the
      Regional Hospital of Bozen, the Hospital of Varese, the the Sant'Anna University Hospital of
      Pisa, the "Maggiore" Hospital of Bologna, the "Di Venere" Hospital of Bari, the University
      Hospital of Foggia.

      Inborn infants with a gestational age between 25 and 28 weeks will be eligible and randomized
      at birth in two groups. Group A: (SLI group) in this group the preterm infants will receive
      SLI with mask for initial alveolar recruitment using a pressure control system (Neopuff,
      Fisher & Paykel, Inc) in addition to American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines for
      neonatal resuscitation. Peak inflation pressure (PIP) of 25 cm H2O will be delivered for 15
      seconds and then reduced to a PEEP of 5 cm H2O. A second SLI manoeuvre will be repeated in
      case of persistent hearth failure (HR <100 bpm.Group B (control group: in this group the
      preterm infants will be resuscitated at birth according to AAP guidelines without SLI
      manoeuvre.

      Infants in both the groups who will not be able to reach a good respiratory and/or cardiac
      effort, they will undergo tracheal intubation to start MV. Then, in neonatal intensive care
      unit (NICU), infants who will continue to breath spontaneously will be supported by nasal
      continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP), bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP) or
      nasal intermittent mandatory ventilation (N-IMV) (PEEP at 5-7 cmH2O). Surfactant (Curosurf ®,
      Chiesi, Parma, Italia) will be administered (200 mg/kg) to newborns with FiO2 >0.40 or
      mechanically ventilated. MV will be started if blood pH <7.20, PCO2 >65 mm Hg, pO2 <50 mm Hg
      with a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) >0.50 or in case of severe apnea; the objective of
      MV will be to maintain a PaCO2 45-65 mmHg and a PaO2 50-75 mmHg. Preterm infants will be
      extubated from MV when airway pressure will be <7 cmH2O, FiO2 <0.30, and in absence of severe
      apnea after caffeine therapy. After extubation it will be allowed to support infant with
      oxygen-therapy, NCPAP, BiPAP or N-IMV.

      ENDPOINTS. Primary endpoint will be the need of MV within the first 72 hrs of life
      [(excluding the transient tracheal intubation for surfactant replacement: e.g.
      Intubation-SURfactant-Extubation (INSURE)]. Success criteria will be the lack of MV in the
      first 72 hrs of life. Secondary endpoints will be the occurrence of MV >3 hrs of life, length
      of MV and other non invasive respiratory supports (NCPAP/BiPAP/N-IMV), need of surfactant and
      number of doses, mortality, occurrence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD:oxygen-therapy at
      36 post- conceptional age), intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), periventricular leukomalacia
      (PVL), retinopahty of prematurity (ROP) and necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), sepsis, and
      length of NICU and hospital stay.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS. Failure of treatment will be considered the need of MV during the first
      72 hrs of life in both groups.

      Population size: hypothesizing that SLI maneuver might decrease the need of MV during the
      first 72 hours of life from 35 to 20% we calculated that 138 newborns must be enrolled in
      each groups to detect this difference statistically significant with 80% power at 0.05 level.

      Clinical characteristics of the two groups will be described by mean values and standard
      deviation, or median values and range, or by rate and percentage. The t-test, Wilcoxon
      rank-sum test, and Fisher's exact test will be used to compare continuous normally
      distributed data, nonparametric continuous data, and categorical data, respectively.

      Multiple regression analysis will be performed to assess the possible influence of
      confounding variables (i.e.: gestational age, birth weight, etc.) on the primary endpoint
      predictive factors. Effect estimates will be expressed as relative risk (RR) with profile
      likelihood-based 95% confidence limits.
    
  