
    
      There is a growing body of evidence that the enteric bacterial flora contribute to the
      pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD; Crohn's disease and Ulcerative Colitis)
      (Targan S and Shanahan F Inflammatory Bowel Disease: From Bench to Bedside, Williams and
      Wilkins 1994).

      It has recently been found that patients suffering active Crohn's disease have significantly
      less recoverable bifidobacteria in their faeces compared to healthy individuals. This
      reduction in bifidobacteria numbers was observed to be directly correlated with decreased
      levels of B-D-galactosidase production and activity (Favier C et al. Dig Dis Sci
      1997;42:817-822). B-D-galactosidase is an enzyme produced by bifidobacteria. These results
      support suggestions proposed in other studies (Bartram HP et al. Am J Clin Nutr
      1994;59:428-432) that strains of bifidobacteria may play important roles in maintaining a
      balanced healthy intestinal microflora.

      In Crohn's disease, there is extensive clinical evidence indicating the importance of the
      continuity of the faecal stream in disease recurrence.

      Ingestion of bifidobacteria can improve gastrointestinal transit. In elderly individuals,
      mild constipation can be at least partially corrected through the consumption of milk
      fermented by bifidobacteria (Seki M et al. Nutr Food 1978;4:379-387). In addition, colonic
      transit times of women were significantly accelerated in the sigmoid colon following
      consumption of a milk fermented by bifidobacteria sp. and yoghurt cultures (Grimaud JC et al.
      Gastroenterol Clin Biol 1993;17:A127), but not by traditional yoghurt cultures alone (Grimaud
      JC et al. Les bact_ries lactiques, 1994;406).

      Several genetically engineered 'knock out' and transgenic animal models of IBD have been
      reported in which the role of the enteric flora has been directly demonstrated by comparing
      animals raised in germ free versus conventional facilities. For example, the gastrointestinal
      Crohn's-like inflammation that occurs in interleukin-10 (IL-10) deficient mice is attenuated
      when the animals are kept in a germ free environment and becomes more pronounced and
      widespread when they are switched to conventional facilities. (Kuhn R et al. Cell
      1993;75:263-274).

      The mucosal inflammation in IL-10 deficient mice has been reported to be reduced by feeding
      the animals a preparation of lactobacilli (Madsen K et al Gastroenterology 1997;112:A1030), a
      result subsequently confirmed by a UCC-based research group who also reported that
      consumption of Lactobacillus salivarius UCC118 reduced cancer incidence (O'Mahony et
      al.2001).

      Studies completed in rats have demonstrated that ingestion of bifidobacteria can suppress
      aberrant crypt foci (early preneoplastic lesions) formation in the colon (Kulkarni N and
      Reddy B. Proc Soc Experim Biol Med 1994;207:278-283) in addition to significant decreases in
      colon tumor incidence and in the numbers of tumors present (Singh J et al. Carcinogenesis
      1997;18:833-841).

      Background and Preliminary data:

      Several probiotic strains of lactic acid bacteria and Bifidobacterium probiotic strains have
      been developed in UCC.

      Lactobacillus salivarius UCC118 was chosen for its probiotic potential based on in vitro
      activity against several pathogens and several other properties including acid/bile
      tolerance. In addition, a preliminary trial, approved by the UCC Ethics Committee has already
      been conducted in 80 human volunteers and has shown that either milk or yoghurt may be used
      as a vehicle for delivery of Lactobacillus salivarius UCC118 to the gastrointestinal tract
      with equal efficacy in altering gut flora and apparent colonisation. An abstract, based on
      this study has been submitted to the American Gastroenterological Association and a full
      manuscript has been submitted for publication.

      Furthermore, administration of Lactobacillus UCC118 to 20 patients with relapsed Crohn's
      disease over a six week period resulted in reports that consumption of the probiotic improved
      patient quality of life and, in fact, in most cases patients avoided the requirement for
      steroid use (McCarthy et al., Submitted).

      Bifidobacterium infantis 35624 was chosen for its probiotic potential based on several
      physiological properties including acid/bile tolerance. In addition, preliminary trials
      completed by the UCC probiotic research group, in collaboration with UCLA School of Medicine
      (Division of Digestive Diseases), have shown that Bifidobacterium infantis 35624 or a
      combination of Lactobacillus salivarius UCC118 and Bifidobacterium infantis 35624 may prove
      more effective in beneficially altering gut flora in an inflammatory disease mouse model and
      of alleviating the symptoms of IBD in colonised mice. An abstract, based on this study has
      been submitted to the American Gastroenterological Association and a full manuscript is in
      preparation.

      The primary aim of the study is to determine whether ingestion of probiotic preparations
      (containing Lactobacillus salivarius subsp. salivarius UCC118 or Bifidobacterium infantis
      35624) can help in the maintenance of remission of patients with Crohn's disease and
      ulcerative colitis over a period of one year (i.e., delay the onset of relapse).

      Secondary aims include an evaluation of the immunological and biochemical parameters of the
      immuno-inflammatory response and an assessment of the faecal flora in patients consuming the
      probiotic and control products.
    
  