
    
      During the early stages of HIV infection, HIV replicates unchecked, massive numbers of
      cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) T cells are infected and destroyed, and other CD4 cells
      become infected but enter a latent phase. This latent pool of infected CD4 cells poses a
      difficult challenge in eliminating HIV infection during the early stages of infection because
      the cells persist for long periods, even with highly active effective antiretroviral therapy,
      and may later become active.

      CsA is popularly used as a lifelong immunosuppressant for organ transplant patients. CsA
      inhibits cellular activation, including CD4 cell activation and proliferation. By reducing
      CD4 cell activation during acute HIV infection, fewer CD4 cells may be infected and die; more
      importantly, there may be fewer latent cells with the potential to become active later in the
      disease. However, CsA has many potential toxic effects, including renal damage, and may
      affect neurologic, endocrine, and hepatic organ systems.

      In a previous small study of adults with acute HIV infection, a short 8-week course of CsA
      was well tolerated, and it is thought that a 4-week course of CsA may result in substantial
      reduction in both viral load and T cell activation, outweighing any potential toxic effects
      sustained during the one month treatment. This study will evaluate the safety of and immune
      response to a 4-week course of CsA with ABC/3TC/AZT and LPV/r compared to ABC/3TC/AZT and
      LPV/r alone in patients with acute HIV infection.

      This 48-week study will randomly assign patients to one of two arms. During the first 4 weeks
      of the study, Arm A will receive one tablet of ABC/3TC/AZT twice daily, 3 capsules or 2
      tablets of LPV/r twice daily, and liquid CsA (dose determined by weight) twice daily. At Week
      5, Arm A patients will stop CsA but continue both ABC/3TC/AZT and LPV/r. Arm B will receive
      one tablet of ABC/3TC/AZT twice daily and 3 capsules or 2 tablets of LPV/r twice daily for
      all 48 weeks. On a case-by-case basis, an investigator may wish to prescribe ABC/3TC rather
      than ABC/3TC/AZT at initial therapy. Participants with ABC hypersensitivity will be given
      3TC/AZT instead of ABC/3TC/AZT.

      A complete physical exam and medical history assessment will occur at study entry and at Week
      48. Study visits will occur every week until Week 4, then every 4 weeks until the end of the
      study. Blood and urine collection and clinical assessments will occur at each study visit.
      Additionally, patients in Arm A only will undergo CsA level monitoring at Day 3 and Weeks 1,
      2, and 3; CsA dosage may be adjusted as necessary.
    
  