
    
      Patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (LA-NSCLC) have an increased risk
      of developing central nervous system (CNS) metastases during the course of their disease. The
      brain is the most common site of failure after first-line therapies (independent of combined
      sequential or consolidation chemotherapy). Recent studies employing multimodal therapy have
      reported overall brain metastasis rates ranging from 22% to 55%, and the rates for brain as
      first site of relapse range from 16% to 43%.

      Prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) results in a 2-3 fold lower incidence of brain
      metastasis. However, randomized studies have failed to demonstrate improved overall survival
      (OS) after PCI.

      One of the major weaknesses of these trials is the unselected mixed pool of stage III
      patients (stage III A and B, lymph node status N0 to N2, squamous and non-squamous histology
      etc.). A broad variety of studies have shown that a certain subset of patients with NSCLC
      (e.g. cancers with adenocarcinoma histology, multilevel nodal involvement) are at highest
      risk for brain metastases. Furthermore, the risk for brain metastases appears to be
      specifically higher in younger patients (age <60 years), although this collective commonly
      undergoes more frequently chemotherapy and/or more aggressive regimens than elderly patients.

      Prevention of CNS metastases, even for LA-NSCLC patients with other sites of failure, will
      improve quality of life and, for patients controlled extracranially, will improve survival.
      Meta analyses performed on data from several Radiation Treatment Oncology Group (RTOG)
      studies have shown that longer survival for patients with LA-NSCLC treated with either
      radiation alone or radiochemotherapy is associated with an increased incidence of CNS
      metastases. Although the addition of chemotherapy to radiation therapy reduces extracranial
      distant metastases and improves survival it does not alter brain relapse rates. Even though
      the addition of modern targeted therapy using small-molecules or antibodies may further
      improve the outcome, the CNS remains the most common site of failure under targeted therapy,
      although no evidence for resistance in histological workups of metastases has been found.
      This emphasizes the urgent need for treatment directed at chemotherapeutically inaccessible
      (or dormant) micrometastases that are a priori dispersed within the brain. As the median time
      for relapse in the CNS is approximately 6 months after first-line therapy, the treatment of
      micrometastases should be meaningfully initiated even during or shortly after first-line
      therapy.

      Irradiation of the brain does not only bear the risk of inducing acute (partially
      mass-associated) side effects such as nausea, vomiting and fatigue, but also causes long-term
      neurocognitive deficits. Although neurocognitive disorders after PCI/Whole brain radiotherapy
      (WBRT) also have a multifactorial etiology based on a patient's individual medical history
      (preceding chemotherapy, pre-existing vascular damage e.g. from smoking, local
      reactions/edema), it is currently believed that they are mostly caused by a loss of neural
      stem cells in the hippocampal areas. Multipotent and self-renewing neural stem cells are
      found in the subgranular zone of the adult hippocampus and in the subventricular zone of the
      lateral ventricles. The hippocampus plays an important role in memory consolidation and
      emotional learning (contextual fear conditioning). The disruption of neurogenesis in the
      subgranular zone or damage to the hippocampus can lead to impaired short- and long-term
      memory, learning and contextual fear conditioning. In line with this, irradiating the brain
      decreases neurogenesis in the hippocampus which leads to impaired hippocampal-dependent
      learning and memory.

      To prevent radiation-induced loss of neuronal stem cells, hippocampus-sparing (HS) radiation
      techniques have been developed and efficacy has been demonstrated in the recently published
      phase II RTOG 0933 study. The trial included patients with brain metastases and a Karnofsky
      Performance Scale (KPS) of 70%. Following HS-WBRT the patients showed a relative
      neurocognitive function (NCF) decline of 7% four months after HS-WBRT, which is more than
      four times less than observed in studies with conventional WBRT (30%; p<0.001).

      Since the study was a one-arm study without a control, the reported hippocampal failure rate
      of 4.5% remains controversially discussed. Multiple studies described the hippocampus and
      limbic circuit to be a generally rare site of brain metastases in many cancers. NSCLC shows a
      specifically low rate of hippocampal brain metastasis (2.8% of all brain metastases) and risk
      modelling revealed a only slightly increased absolute risk (+0.2%) after HS-WBRT. Thus, since
      in the treatment of NSCLC, the efficient prevention of BM and potential CNS micrometastases
      is currently outweighed by the associated neurotoxicity and a lack of survival benefit,
      HS-WBRT may provide a possibility to tip the scale toward prophylactic WBRT, at least for a
      specific subgroup at high risk.

      Radiation regimens for PCI that have influenced patterns of CNS failures in NSCLC have
      included total doses of 20-36 Gy and fraction sizes of 2-3 Gy. A fraction size of 2 Gy and a
      total dose of 30 Gy was chosen for the RTOG 0214 study of PCI in LA-NSCLC. This regimen has
      been shown to decrease CNS metastases from 54% to 13% with no difference in NCF decline in
      PCI versus non-PCI patients at 4 years. In addition, although there is paucity of clinical
      data from WBRT with doses in the EQD2 (equivalent dose in 2 Gy fractions) range of 10-20 Gy,
      a dose-response curve providing a 'best fit' model suggests an only minimal benefit from
      doses above 30 Gy (EQD2).
    
  