
    
      Sarcoidosis is a multisystemic granulomatous disease of unknown cause . Sarcoidosis is
      chronic and progressive in 25 % of the patients. Although mediastinal lymph nodes and lung
      are the most frequently sites affected, extrathoracic localizations may occur. In particular,
      cardiac or neurological localizations are frequently associated with a chronic disease, with
      subsequent morbidity and mortality. Such patients require long term therapy to avoid organ
      dysfunction which may occur with fibrosis.

      If cyclophosphamide remains the "historical" treatment to treat resistant sarcoidosis, it can
      present serious adverse effects such as infections and gonadic toxicity which may be a
      problem in young people. As infliximab has demonstrated a real efficacy in resistant
      sarcoidosis, we challenged that it could be a valuable option for resistant extra-thoracic
      sarcoidosis.

      The population studied will be the patients with clinical and radiological presentation
      concordant with sarcoidosis

      This study is a phase 3, randomized, controlled, parallel group trial, designed to assess the
      efficacy of infliximab in a 2-period study :

      In the first part, patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either
      infliximab or placebo. Both patients and investigators will be blind regarding study
      treatment. Concomitantly, patients will be treated with usual care (i.e. steroids at the dose
      of 0.5 mg/kg/d with a program of tapering dose).

      In the second open-labelled part, all the patients will receive infliximab treatment,
      steroids tapering regimen and low-dose methotrexate left to the investigator choice or, in
      case of contra-indication, azathioprine.

      Finally, the 2 groups will receive 5 injections of infliximab

      Infliximab will be used at a dose of 5 mg/kg at D1,D15 then every 4 weeks because in our
      experience, extrathoracic severe localization require such dosage and may be resistant to the
      low dosage (3 mg/kg). This dosage is also the dose usually recommended for extra-thoracic
      localizations.

      Disease activity and ePOST score will be evaluated at the inclusion, W6 and after 5
      injections (2 weeks after W20 for placebo group or W14 for experimental group). Severity
      assessment score (ePOST score) will be assessed by the physician in charge of the patient.
      This score reflects the sarcoidosis activity in 17 organs and has been validated in previous
      studies.

      Remission at week 6 will be defined as: Percentage of patients who have a severity assessment
      score (ePOST score) inferior to 1 in all organs and absence of hypercalcemia at W6, whatever
      the corticosteroid dosage received.
    
  