
    
      Myofascial pain syndrome (MAS) is a syndrome characterized by muscle spasm, tenderness,
      limited range of motion, stiffness, fatigue and sometimes autonomic dysfunctions accompanying
      pain and pain caused by trigger points in the tense bands formed in the muscles The disease
      is diagnosed clinically and there are many pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches
      in treatment.

      One of these treatments is dry needle therapy. Dry needling has been used for a long time in
      the treatment of myofascial pain syndrome.

      Another treatment used in the treatment of myofascial pain syndrome is balneotherapy (spa
      treatment At Ahi Evran University Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Center, balneotherapy
      is frequently used in the treatment of patients with myofascial pain syndrome.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of dry needling and balneotherapy,
      which has been used in the treatment of myofascial pain syndrome for many years.

      120 volunteers are planned to be included in this study. Patients will be randomly divided
      into 3 groups. (randomization will be done as 1: 1: 1 with a closed envelope). The patients
      in the first group will be given "dry needle treatment" for the aching muscle. No medication
      is used in this treatment.In this treatment, depending on the thickness of the adipose tissue
      under the skin, 13 mm, 25 mm or 30 mm long; 0.20 mm thick acupuncture needle is used. Dry
      needling will be done with painful trigger point and it will be waited for about 20 minutes.
      This treatment will be repeated once a week for 3 weeks.

      Patients in the second group will be given "spa treatment". A total of 15 sessions, 20
      minutes a day, 5 days a week for 3 weeks, will be held in the spa, which operates within the
      body of Kırşehir Ahi Evran University Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Center. Both of
      these methods will be applied to patients in the third group.

      Evaluations will be repeated before treatment, 1st week after treatment and Week 12 (3rd
      Month). Patients' neck range of motion (by measuring with goniometer) will be evaluated and
      pressure pain threshold will be measured using algometer.

      Patients' pain levels will be evaluated with Visual Analogue Scale, their moods with Beck
      Depression Scale, anxiety levels with Beck Anxiety Scale, fear of movement with Tampa
      Kinesiophobia Scale, neck functions with Neck Disability Questionnaire Questionnaire, and
      quality of life level with SF-36 Quality of Life Scale.

      In addition, the Global Assessment Scale will be used to evaluate patients at the 1st and
      12th weeks after treatment. This scale is scored as "-1 = deterioration, 0 = no change, 1 =
      slight improvement, 2 = significant improvement and 3 = near-normal improvement". Survey
      applications will take approximately 10 minutes.
    
  