
    
      Oesophageal stricture is a commonly encountered clinical problem, especially in
      gastroenterology. It occurs due to narrowing of oesophagus, which results in swallowing
      difficulty. Oesophageal stricture has two major types: benign and malignant. Malignant type
      results from carcinoma but benign type has different causes.

      Amongst benign aetiologies, gastrointestinal reflux disease (GERD), peptic injury,
      oesophageal webs, radiation damage, caustic swallowing and anastomotic strictures are most
      common. Corrosive intake is an important public health issue in developed countries and its
      incidence is still increasing in developing countries. The problem is largely unreported and
      its exact prevalence cannot be figured out due to the insufficient reporting or personal
      experience.

      Corrosives materials can damage the bodies' tissues, as they come in contact with them. They
      are usually utilised to clean metals. It can cause severe health hazard, if swallowed
      accidentally or intentionally. Epidemiological studies have documented corrosive intake as
      the third most common cause of poisoning in adults.

      The most common symptom of oesophageal stricture is progressive dysphagia to solids followed
      by inability to tolerate liquids. These strictures are diagnosed most commonly by using
      barium swallow, endoscopy and biopsy. Endoscopic dilatation is the most applicable method to
      treat oesophageal strictures, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are also used to inhibit acid
      production.

      According to the Kochman criteria, refractory or recurrent strictures are defined as an
      anatomic restriction because of a cicatricial luminal compromise or fibrosis resulting in
      clinical symptoms of dysphagia in the absence of endoscopic evidence of inflammation. This
      may occur as the result of either an inability to successfully remediate the anatomic problem
      to a diameter of at least 14 mm over five sessions at two-week intervals (refractory); or as
      a result of an inability to maintain a satisfactory luminal diameter for four weeks once the
      target diameter of 14 mm has been achieved (recurrent). This definition is not meant to
      include patients with an inflammatory stricture (which will not resolve until the
      inflammation subsides), or those with a satisfactory diameter but having dysphagia on the
      basis of neuromuscular dysfunction (for example those with dysphagia due to postoperative
      and/or postradiation therapy).

      Esophageal rehabilitation has been carried out for many years with different techniques,
      depending on the experience of each physician, esophageal prostheses or splints, dilations
      with balloons or Savary-Gilliard plugs, Hurst dilators, etc., have been used, but in reality,
      there is no worldwide standardization for the management of these patients and even less so
      for the use of certain substances such as triamcinolone acetonide applied intralesionally, or
      more recently, topical mitomycin C.

      Triamcinolone acetonide is a synthetic corticosteroid with a preventive effect on collagen
      synthesis, fibrosis, and chronic cicatrization that has been used for many years, applied in
      intralesional injection after esophageal dilations for the purpose of delaying cicatrization
      and thus reducing the number of dilations.

      Presently, through many studies, it has been concluded that intralesional corticosteroid
      injections can be added to standard treatment for corrosive oesophageal stricture.
      International literature exhibited that intralesional steroid injections help in increasing
      the diameter because of its anti-inflammatory action.
    
  