
    
      - Pre-surgical treatment: Initial periodontal therapy will be performed 1 month prior to
      surgery. Patients will receive a pre-surgical prophylaxis, oral hygiene instructions and
      elimination of toothbrushing traumatic technique, if needed. They will be taught to use a
      toothbrush of medium hardness applying Roll brushing technique.

      - Surgical treatment: In brief description, CAF+CTG treatment will be performed by starting
      with two vertical releasing incisions lateral to the teeth to be treated and split-full-split
      thickness flap will be raised beyond the MGJ. The periosteum will be cut, and a blunt
      dissection into the vestibular lining mucosa will be carried out to eliminate muscle tension
      so that the mucosal flap can be passively positioned above the level of CEJ on the tooth. The
      papillae adjacent to the involved teeth will be de-epithelialized and the exposed root
      surfaces will be treated with pre-conditioning EDTA (Straumann PrefGel®) for 2 minutes. CTG
      of 1mm in thickness will be harvested from the posterior palate by means of disepithelization
      of a free gingival graft (22), cut to the exact size of the defect, and placed over the
      dehisced defect, sutured to the interdental papillae (7-0 Polyglactin 910, Vycril, Ethicon,
      Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA) and subsequently covered with CAF. Sling sutures
      will be placed to stabilize the flap in a coronal position about 1-2 mm above the CEJ (6-0
      Polypropylene, Prolene, Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA), followed by
      interrupted sutures to close the releasing incisions.

      Patients will be instructed to avoid any mechanical trauma or tooth brushing in the surgical
      sites for 2 weeks. Analgesic medication (ibuprofen) will be prescribed as required and
      patients will be instructed to rinse with Chlorhexidine three times per day for 2 weeks.
      Sutures will be removed after 14 days. Two weeks after surgery, patients will resume
      mechanical tooth cleaning with a soft toothbrush. Patients will be recalled at 1, 3 and 6
      months for professional oral hygiene procedures.

      - Post-surgical instructions and infection control: Patients will be instructed to avoid any
      mechanical trauma or tooth brushing in the surgical sites for 2 weeks. Analgesic medication
      (ibuprofen) will be prescribed as required and patients will be instructed to rinse with
      Chlorhexidine 0.12% two times per day for 2 weeks. Sutures will be removed after 14 days. Two
      weeks after surgery, patients will resume mechanical tooth cleaning with a soft toothbrush.
      Patients will be recalled at 1, 3 and 6 months for professional oral hygiene procedures.

      - Data collection: A guidebook will be prepared to systematize the procedures for sample and
      data collection. The data will be later transferred to a computerized database (Epidata®,
      Odense, Denmark, Europe).

      A) Sociodemographic data An interview will be conducted during the pre-surgical visit to
      obtain information regar- ding age, sex, medical history, use of medication, exposure to
      tobacco, pregnancy and previous periodontal surgeries.

      B) Clinical measurements Probing depth (PD) and keratinized tissue width (KTW) will be
      measured using a periodontal probe (PCP UNC 15, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA). KTW will be
      measured at the most apical point in the GM to the mucogingival junction at the mid-buccal
      site to the nearest millimeter. KTT will be measured 1.5mm and 3mm apical to the GM using an
      injection needle, perpendicular to the tissues surface and a silicon stop over the gingival
      surface and fixed with a cyanoacrylic adhesive (23). Clinical attachment level will be
      calculated as REC + PD.

      C) Digital measurements All patients will be scanned and their models will be digitalized
      with an optical 3D measurement system (3Shape, Erlangen, Germany) creating surface
      tessellation language (STL) files while a bilateral retractor is placed in the mouth and
      teeth are held lightly in occlusion. The acquired data will be transferred into a digital
      imaging software (3Shape Trios®, Erlangen, Germany) in which patient name will be substituted
      for a random ID number in order to anonymize the data. Baseline and corresponding follow-up
      scans of each clinical case will be then virtually superimposed and matched into one common
      coordinate system (Geomagic, 3D Systems, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA) using the tool
      Control X. By using the buccal surfaces of the concerned teeth as reference points for the
      superpositioning of the different time points (pre-operative and post-operative), this
      approach will allow for precise evaluation of dimensional soft tissue alterations over time
      by a blinded examiner. Vestibular depth will be measured from the GM to the point of greatest
      concavity of the mucobuccal fold.

      The digital linear and volumetric measurements and assessment will be performed by a single,
      calibrated examiner for the surgical. The examiner will be trained on 15 casts with gingival
      recessions who will not be included in this study. This examination will be repeated 24 h
      later; differences of ≤0.5 mm in at least 90% of the cases will be considered to be
      acceptable.

      The following measurements will be taken:

      All clinical measurements and volumetric evaluations of the soft will be performed at
      baseline, 3 months and at 6 months after surgery.
    
  