
    
      80 pregnant females with the diagnosis of Abnormally invasive placenta [AIP] will be involved
      in our study [ after proper sample size calculation]. The diagnosis Of AIP will be confirmed
      by 2D and 3D ultrasound as well as power Doppler evaluation [machine]. Sonographic evaluation
      will be done and confirmed by senior sonographer in our ACCRETA team.

      Patients will be randomized into two groups using closed envelopes after taking written
      consents; group 1 with intraoperative ureteric dissection and group 2 with preoperative
      ureteric stenting.

      In group 1 cesarean hysterectomy is performed with intra operative ureteric dissection;
      midline abdominal incision extending supraumbilical, incision of the SC tissue, dissection
      and splitting of the recti, classic midline incision of the uterus [above the site of
      placental insertion], delivery of the fetus in presence of a well trained neonatology team,
      avoid traction of the placenta, quick closure of the uterus [in presence of the placenta] in
      one layer, clamping and cutting the round ligament, clamping and cutting the ovarian ligament
      with ovarian preservation, careful dissection and clamping of the broad ligament
      varicosities, careful dissection of the post leaflet of the broad ligament until ureter is
      reached, careful dissection and exposure of both ureter and proper identification of the
      iliac vessels so as to facilitate the ligation of anterior division of internal iliac artery
      if needed and to avoid any major vascular injury, if unfortunately severe bleeding occurs and
      rapid surgical intervention is needed. Following ureteric dissection is performed lateral
      dissection of the uterus is completed from the pelvic side wall, followed by very CAREFUL
      BLADDER DISSECTION. Finally clamping of the uterine vessels is done below the level of the
      placenta with or without complete removal of the cervix. Closure of the uterine stump is
      performed followed by CAREFUL HEMOSTASIS then closure of the abdomen is performed after
      leaving two wide bore drains.

      In group2; preoperative insertion of ureteric catheters is performed by the urologist in our
      team just before the start of cesarean hysterectomy. Patient is positioned in lithotomy,
      cystoscopy [Karl storz] is done to identify the ureteric orifices. ureteric catheters [Roche]
      are inserted followed by the insertion of Foley's urethral catheter. Ureteral catheters are
      fixed to the Foley's catheter. the ureteric catheters are scheduled for removal immediately
      postoperative. The patient is then placed in the supine position and sterilization of the
      abdominal wall is performed and cesarean hysterectomy is performed similarly as in the first
      group but without ureteric dissection.

      The two groups will be carefully studied as regards to incidence of ureteric and bladder
      injuries, amount of blood loss [measured by weighing towels pre and postoperative; the
      difference represents the intraoperative blood loss] and the intraoperative timing.
      Statistical comparison between the rate of complications in each groups will be done.
      Patients' data will be analyzed statistically using SAS program (SAS, 1996).
    
  