
    
      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with its accompanying adverse sequelae is one of the most
      common causes of morbidity and mortality in the world .

      Although reperfusion techniques for ST- elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI ) are
      constantly improving, no-reflow can still lead to poor prognosis .

      At present, the exact mechanism of no-reflow remains unclear, but clinical and laboratory
      findings suggest that it is related to the embolism of the capillary bed, ischemic injury,
      vascular endothelial dysfunction, production of oxygen free radical , and other factors .

      The no-reflow phenomenon is one of complications of poor functional and clinical outcomes for
      patients with (AMI) .

      The no-reflow phenomenon is present in 25% to 30% of patients with (AMI) underwent successful
      coronary recanalization, as shown by angiography . The myocardial no-reflow phenomenon is
      associated with a reducution of antegrade myocardial blood flow inspite of an open
      infarct-related artery in patients with (STEMI ) undergoing (PCI). Importantly, no-reflow is
      known to be related to unfavorable clinical outcome and prognosis . The cause of this complex
      phenomenon is the variable combination of four pathogenetic components: distal
      atherothrombotic embolization, ischemic injury, reperfusion injury and susceptibility of
      coronary microcirculation to injury . As a consequence, appropriate strategies are expected
      to prevent or treat these components are expected to avoid the no-reflow. Coronary
      reperfusion therapy is widely performed in patients with (AMI) . However, in spite of patency
      of the infarct-related artery , there is no guarantee of salvage of myocardium at risk of
      ischemia .The no-reflow phenomenon is found in >30% of patients after thrombolysis or
      catheter-based (PCI) for (AMI) . It is important, therefore, to be able to predict which
      lesions are high risk for no reflow before beginning PCI .

      There are numerous recognized risk factors for the development of coronary artery disease
      (CAD), one of the best known is the association between blood lipids and CAD . Several
      prospective studies have established that the risk of cardiac morbidity and mortality is
      directly related to the concentration of plasma cholesterol. ' The most prevalent view is
      that the increased risk of myocardial infarction associated with elevated plasma cholesterol
      levels can be adequately explained on the basis of the increase in number and severity of
      coronary atherosclerotic vascular lesions . .
    
  