
    
      An optimal coverage of the required calorie requirement is a basic prerequisite for a speedy
      recovery. One study reports that almost every fourth patient is malnourished in German
      hospitals. Malnutrition is in turn associated with more complications, higher mortality and
      longer length of stay. The current DGEM (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Ernährungsmedizin)
      guideline "Clinical nutrition in intensive care" recommends a calorie intake of 24 kcal per
      kg body weight during the acute phase of the disease (days 1 to 7) and an increase of calorie
      intake to 36 kcal per kg body weight in the convalescence and rehabilitation phase.

      In a recent study evaluating the weight profile of neurological, enteric-coated early
      rehabilitants in rehabilitation, 60.6% of patients had weight loss during rehabilitation. Men
      were also more likely to lose weight than women. In addition, the caloric care of
      "underweight patients" had a decisive influence on the neurological outcome (as measured by
      the early rehab barthel-index(FRBI)). For example, underweight patients who were under-served
      showed significantly lower improvements in FRBI than underweight patients who were
      over-served.

      In another study, the weight of patients remained stable through the use of a nutritional
      assessment tool (EAT). Also the gender difference was not confirmed in the group with the
      EAT. The weight change in the rehabilitation course correlated significantly with the
      difference between the calculated and the average calories received per day. However, an
      effect of EAT on the frequency of complications or the neurological outcome could not be
      demonstrated in this study.

      However, as body weight may be affected by water balance (edema) and gastrointestinal
      complications such as constipation, vomiting and diarrhea, consideration of body weight to
      check diet / nutrition status alone is insufficient. Qualitative statements such as an
      increase / decrease in muscle mass can not be made on the basis of the weight data.
      Therefore, in the planned pilot study body composition will be documented by means of
      bioelectric impedance analysis (BIA) in neurological (early) rehabilitants during
      rehabilitation. At the same time, various outcome parameters are to be recorded.

      The aim of this pilot study is to identify the number and frequency of BIA measurements
      required to assess the status of care. On the basis of this data, a study is then to be
      designed to investigate the success of rehabilitation as a function of nutritional status and
      muscle mass.
    
  