
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy (response rate) of nivolumab in combination with ibrutinib in
      patients with relapsed/refractory or high-risk untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

      II. Determine the response rate (complete response [CR]/complete response with incomplete
      marrow recovery [CRi]) by 2008 International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL)
      criteria. (Cohort I) III. Determine the conversion rate from partial response (PR) to CR/CRi
      by 2008 IWCLL criteria. (Cohort II) IV. Determine the response rate (CR/CRi). (Cohort III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of nivolumab in combination with ibrutinib in patients with
      relapsed, refractory or high-risk untreated CLL/Richter transformation (RT).

      II. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with relapsed, refractory or
      high-risk untreated CLL/RT treated with nivolumab in combination with ibrutinib.

      III. To determine the overall survival of patients with relapsed, refractory or high-risk
      untreated CLL/RT treated with nivolumab in combination with ibrutinib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immunological and molecular changes in peripheral blood, lymph node, and bone
      marrow in response to nivolumab and ibrutinib therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment cohorts.

      COHORT I (NO CURRENT IBRUTINIB TREATMENT): Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over
      1 hour on days 1 and 15 and ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of courses
      2-24. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II (IBRUTINIB TREATMENT > 9 MONTHS): Patients receive nivolumab as in Cohort I and
      continue previous ibrutinib treatment.

      COHORT III (RICHTER TRANSFORMATION): Patients receive nivolumab and ibrutinib as in cohort I.
      Ibrutinib may be given earlier than course 2 in case of worsening disease after discussion
      with study principal investigator. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

      * Note: After 3 cycles of treatment, nivolumab administration may be decreased to once every
      4 weeks in all cohorts, in consultation with the study principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year.
    
  