
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic, relapsing, inflammatory skin disease that has potential
      for profound and far-reaching effects on all aspects of children and their families lives,
      significantly reducing the quality of life. Atopic dermatitis typically appears in infancy
      and nowadays is affecting up to 10-30% of children and 2-10% of adults.

      Diminished skin barrier is the essential factor that plays a role in the initiation,
      consolidating and exacerbating AD. The skin exposed to aeroallergens (pollen, pet dander,
      dust mites), or food allergens (eggs, milk, wheat protein, chocolate, strawberry), hard
      water, and soaps and detergents, loses the protective barrier composed of lipids (ie. Lipid)
      and becomes the victim of harmful, exogenous substances.

      The main symptoms of atopic dermatitis are redness and dry skin, itching, moreover patients
      are susceptible to recurrent superficial skin infections. Skin lesions in AD are mostly
      located on the elbows and knees, face and neck, however they can spans the entire body.
      Treatment options for AD typically address skin barrier protection or inflammatory components
      of disease. Proper care using mild and appropriately formulated emollient preparations may
      provide significant benefits.

      Previous observations indicated to be reasonable to selection carefully composition of
      emollient preparations. In investigators prior study, more than half of emollient
      preparations, available in online drugstores, contained potential contact sensitizers,
      included to 28, the most common, haptens listed in the European baseline series (EBS), used
      in diagnosing contact dermatitis. A significant number of investigated products contained at
      least two different haptens which may threaten unpredictable allergic reactions in the case
      of concomitance of various allergens.

      The primary aim of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of regularly applied emollient
      in an atomiser (in the form of oil-in-water emulsion) in maintenance therapy, in children
      presenting from mild to moderate atopic dermatitis.

      The composition of the tested emollient is typical and based on the frequently occurring
      substances found in public preparations of this kind.

      Emollient spray (composition INCI):

      Aqua, Glycerin, Aqua, Parfum, Glyceryl Caprylate, Allantoin, Xanthan Gum, Butyrospermum
      Parkii Butter, Adansonia digitata Seed Oil, Oenothera Biennis Oil, Perilla ocymoides Seed
      Oil, Tocopheryl Acetate, Palm Kernel Glycerides, Squalane, behenyl Alcohol, Glyceryl
      Stearate, Palmitic Acid, Stearic Acid, Lecythin, Cetyl Alcohol, Myristyl Alcohol, Ceramide
      NP, Glyceryl Stearate Citrate, Cetearyl Alcohol, Tocopheryl Acetate, Caprylic / Capric
      Trigliceride, Dicaprylyl Carbonate, Tocopherol, Etylhexyl Stearate.

      The product that will be used in the study (emollients in spray- composition of the product
      given above) was prepared at investigators request, in collaboration with the cosmetics
      company, which according to investigators knowledge at present, will not be benefited from
      the audit.

      The following described study project will be conducted within the framework of the statutory
      tasks of the Department of Pulmonology and Allergology of Children Medical University of
      Warsaw and is a non-commercial project.
    
  