
    
      The Flipped Learning Model is a blended learning model that aims to facilitate learning with
      activities such as the student's pre-lesson access to educational materials such as videos
      and presentations through technology, and activities such as discussion, practice and problem
      solving during the lesson. Flipped Learning Model can be defined as a pedagological approach
      centered on individual learning rather than group learning. Studies show that the Flipped
      Learning Model has an impact on student success and satisfaction. The Flipped Learning Model
      has the potential to engage nursing students to meet today's needs. The complexity of
      students and contemporary healthcare, especially in healthcare, calls for education reform
      programs such as nursing highlight the students' need for problem solving, reasoning, and
      applying theory to practice. It manifested itself in student-based learning and case-based
      learning The main purpose of this study is to examine the effect of the education about
      testicular cancer and Testicular Self Examination given with the Flipped Learning Model on
      the knowledge and health beliefs of nursing students. Another aim of the study is to examine
      the effect of using Flipped Learning Model on student satisfaction.

      The research will be carried out in Eastern Mediterranean University, Faculty of Health
      Sciences, Department of Nursing in the 2020-2021 academic year. Data collection will begin
      after the board and institution permissions are obtained for the research.

      The universe of the research; Eastern Mediterranean University, Faculty of Health Sciences,
      Nursing Department will constitute a total of 74 male students studying in 1st (N = 44) and
      2nd grade (N = 30) in the 2020-2021 academic year. The sample is; After the ethics committee
      and institution permission is obtained, students who meet the research criteria, who are
      informed about the purpose of the research, and who are willing to participate in the
      research will be formed. The randomization of the groups to the control and intervention
      groups in the study will be determined by lot from the list of participants in the study.

      Sample including criteria;

        -  Over the age of 18,

        -  Students who did not take the Surgical Nursing course at the Eastern Mediterranean
           University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing, 1st and 2nd year students
           The data in the study were presented in the "Introductory and Self-Examination Features
           Questionnaire" in order to describe the characteristics of the students and testicular
           cancer and testicular Self Examination; It will be collected with "Testicular Cancer and
           Testicular Self Examination Knowledge Test" and "Champion's Health Belief Model Scale".
    
  