
    
      Context : Mechanical ventilation is an essential element in the management of chronic as well
      as acute respiratory failure allowing an improvement of both mortality and morbidity.
      However, considering the wide choice of ventilators available on the market, it has become
      increasingly difficult to choose the most appropriate ventilator according to the pathology
      presented by a patient, patients being able to try only a limited number of devices.
      Patient-ventilator synchronization is a crucial part of ventilation efficacy and its success.
      It depends on both the physiopathological characteristics of patients and specific properties
      of the ventilation device.

      Objective : To evaluate the ability of a device reproducing patients' respiratory
      characteristics to select in-VITRO the most appropriate ventilator for a given pathology.

      Method : Multi-center transversal study. Selection, after an initial bench-evaluation, of
      three ventilators. Clinical evaluation of their efficacy and synchronization between patient
      and ventilator and establishment of a classification.

      Second bench evaluation of the studied ventilators while the bench is simulating the
      ventilation characteristic of previously studied patients in order to compare the results
      obtained in VITRO to the results obtained in vivo.

      Selection criteria : Patients requiring mechanical ventilation for management of either
      chronic or acute respiratory failure.

      Patients, centers : 4 groups of 14 patients presenting chronic respiratory disease followed
      in the ICU of RAYMOND POINCARE HOSPITAL in GARCHES and in the pulmonary departments of the
      Armand Trousseau hospital and the PITIE SALPETRIERE IN PARIS; 1 cohort of 12 patients
      admitted in the ICU of Henri Mondor in CRETEIL IN PARIS for acute respiratory failure.

      Study duration : 33 months (bench study : 3 + 6 months, clinical study : 24 months)
      Perspectives : Developing an evaluation tool allowing the rapid assessment of any new
      available ventilator according to the specific characteristics (and needs) of a patient and
      to a given pathology. Selecting the most appropriate ventilator for a given patient.
    
  