
    
      The high incidence of breast cancer, its relatively long development phase and the financial
      burden to the NHS in relation to treatment makes it a prime target for dietary preventative
      strategies. Epidemiological and experimental investigations suggest several key dietary
      components that may reduce breast cancer, in particular isoflavones and selenium. Few dietary
      intervention studies have been conducted to investigate putative protective effects, but with
      our growing understanding of cancer biology and the application of new -omics technologies it
      is now possible to use early biomarkers of risk to assess the potential efficacy of
      intervention studies.

      In this pilot project, we will employ a combination of disciplines to examine the effect of
      dietary intervention in a group of women defined by NICE guidelines as being at increased
      risk (moderate-high) of developing breast cancer, using metabolomics to assess the
      tractability of biomarkers in response to the dietary intervention. Such trials are urgently
      needed to examine the protective effects of diet in women classified at increased risk and
      who are still in the 'zone of reversibility'. The results of this study will be used to
      justify and optimise larger scale intervention trials and ultimately to develop appropriate
      dietary recommendations for the prevention of breast cancer.

      A dietary intervention study based on a randomised double-blind parallel design will be
      conducted in 30 pre-menopausal women (age 35-50) at moderate to high risk of developing
      breast cancer. The metabolomic profiles of urine and serum samples (collected at baseline and
      after dietary intervention) will be assessed. Participants will be randomised into two
      groups; the placebo group (consuming 6g of non-supplemented chocolate per day) and the
      supplemented group (consuming 6g of chocolate containing both soy and selenium per day). The
      intervention will last for the duration of one menstrual cycle.
    
  