
    
      Hepatitis B is a blood borne infection that is highly transmissible through occupational
      exposure in healthcare. The maximal risk for transmission occurs with needle-stick injuries.
      However, the majority of cases of transmission probably occur with lower risk exposures.
      Overall, the risk of transmission of hepatitis B from an infected patient to a susceptible
      health care worker is estimated at 23-62% after a single parenteral exposure (US PHS 2001).

      Acute hepatitis B is symptomatic in approximately 30% of cases, with 0.1-0.5% of these cases
      developing fulminant hepatitis with a risk of death. Another 5% of cases will go on to
      chronic hepatitis B infection with an associated risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma.

      This transmission can be prevented by vaccination of health care workers prior to exposure.
      Successful vaccination can provide years of protection (Alavian 2008) Consequently, the US
      CDC and the Canadian National Advisory Committee on immunization recommends vaccination for
      all heath care workers who will have contact with blood, bodily fluids, or sharps. A test for
      immunity should be performed after completion of vaccination, because ~15% of healthy adults
      do not respond to a primary vaccine series.

      For those health care workers who are not immune after a first series, a second immunization
      attempt should be made. The expected rate of response in this group is 30-50% (US PHS
      2001).Those who fail to develop a protective antibody response (anti-hepatitis B surface
      antigen antibody titre of >=10mIU/ml), are labelled non-responders and should be considered
      susceptible to infection. A third attempt at vaccination is currently not recommended because
      the estimated rate of response is only 10%.

      When susceptible, vaccine non-responding health care workers have an occupational exposure to
      hepatitis B, the CDC recommends treatment with two doses hepatitis B immune globulin, a blood
      product which has an undefined risk of transmitting yet unknown blood borne infections.

      A recent study by Cardell (2008) looked at the vaccine response to three doses of double-dose
      Twinrix® in patients who had failed at least 4 doses of hepatitis B vaccine. The response
      rate in 44 health care workers who had failed 4 doses was 95%. This was much higher than the
      documented 30-50% response rate quoted by the CDC.

      The important distinction between Cardell et al, and our study, is that our entry criteria
      are more stringent, and represent the point at which we do not know what to recommend to
      "non-responder" physicians and other healthcare workers. The current recommended standard is
      to provide two full series of vaccine before concluding that a person is a non-responder.
      Cardell and others (Wismans, 1988; Craven, 1986; Westmoreland, 1990), by including patients
      who had not responded to a single series of vaccination, but who had also not received a full
      second series, potentially over-estimate efficacy of their regimes, and thus they don't
      provide us with guidance as to what to do in the true non-responder subgroup. The importance
      of completing two full series of immunizations (6 total doses) was highlighted by Clemens
      (1997) who demonstrated that there was a significant increase in the proportion of responders
      with the last 2 doses of vaccine in the second series.

      The Cochrane meta-analysis of hepatitis B vaccination of health care workers suggests that
      there is currently insufficient evidence insofar as the treatment of non-responders (Chen,
      2005). Our study may provide that information if profoundly positive. More likely, it will
      serve as the support for a larger study that could provide meaningful guidance for the
      management of health care workers who have truly failed two full series of immunization
      attempts, and who currently would be labelled as susceptible. This population represents a
      significant minority of healthcare workers (~5%), who remain at risk for a life-threatening
      occupational disease despite vaccination.

      Other mechanisms of immunization have been attempted in the non-responder group including
      booster doses (Das, 2003), intradermal administration (Yasumura, 1991), adjuvant interferon
      (Goldwater, 1994), newer formulations/designs of vaccine such as a triple-valent vaccine
      (Zuckerman, 2001; Rendi-Wagner, 2006), vaccine with adjuvant (Jacques, 2002), or particle
      based DNA vaccines (Rottinghaus, 2003). These have shown demonstrable effect, but all studies
      include subjects who have not responded to a single series of immunization, and, other than
      Cardell et al, none have resulted in response in the majority of non-responders. Our study
      utilizes a currently licensed vaccine, at doses demonstrated to be safe, with Cardell's
      evidence supporting the hypothesis that it may be highly effective.

      The use of higher dose recombinant vaccine on its own did not show a demonstrable effect over
      further doses (Goldwater, Randomized, comparative trial of 20 micrograms vs 40 micrograms
      Engerix B vaccine in hepatitis B vaccine non-responders., 1997). However, there is some
      evidence that the combination A/B vaccine may produce more immunogenicity for both hepatitis
      A and B responses (Czeschinski, 2000).

      Thus, our study will test a new strategy for vaccination in a group of selected at-risk
      healthcare workers for whom there is no other currently recommended vaccination strategy. The
      potential impact of the study is considerable.

      Our study will expand on Cardell's by looking specifically at those who have failed two
      complete series of vaccinations (6 or more doses) who would be otherwise labelled as
      non-responders according to the CDC criteria. Our hypothesis is that the combined hepatitis A
      and B vaccine (Twinrix®) given at double-dose as in Cardell's study will induce protective
      immunity in these non-responders at a rate much higher than the traditionally quoted 10%
      response rate.
    
  