
    
      Aplastic Anaemia (AA) is characterized by pancytopenia with hypo-cellular bone marrow in the
      absence of dysplasia, infiltration or fibrosis. The recommended first-line treatment options
      include Allogenic Bone Marrow Transplantation with HLA matched sibling donor. However, due to
      non-availability HLA matched identical sibling donor or due to other co-morbids and age,
      second choice of treatment is Anti Thymocyte Globulin (ATG) and Cyclosporin (CsA).

      Rabbit ATG (Fresenius) has never been tested for the treatment of aplastic anaemia in
      Pakistani population before. We propose this investigator initiated trial which will will
      compare two different protocols of Rabbit ATG-Fresenius, 10mg/kg for 3 days and 10mg/kg for 5
      days along with CsA in Pakistani patients suffering from AA. The subjects will be Non-severe
      (NSAA) and severe AA (SAA) who are not the eligible candidate for Allogenic Bone Marrow
      Transplantation. Patients will be randomized into two equal arms with same biological
      characteristics. Both arms will be treated with ATG-Fresenius and CsA in same doses with two
      different duration of treatment. They will later continue with CsA for at least 12 months and
      if response achieved, will be tapered more slowly over next 6 months.

      The primary end point is to document the number of doses required by each of the two dose
      schedule to produce a response, achieve a nadir absolute lymphocyte count of 200 cmm.
      Secondary endpoints are short term safety of ATG-Fresenius, change in absolute neutrophil
      count from the baseline in both arms, change in platelet count from the baseline, change in
      absolute reticulocyte count, Number of blood units required till 8 weeks and 26 weeks, Number
      of platelet doses required till 8 weeks and 26 weeks, relapse, response rates at 6 and 12
      months, clonal evolution to PNH, myelodysplasia or acute leukaemia. Long-course CsA will be
      assessed separately for its efficacy in reducing late events of relapse and evolution by
      comparison to historical control data.
    
  