
    
      Sacrocolpopexy is a procedure to correct prolapse of the vaginal apex (top of the vagina) in
      women who have had a previous hysterectomy. The operation is designed to restore the vagina
      to its normal position and function. Pain management is an important aspect of perioperative
      anesthetic care. Acute postoperative pain control impacting surgical outcomes remains a
      controversial topic

      The transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block was first presented by Rafi in 2001 as a
      landmark-guided technique via the triangle of Petit to achieve a field block. It involves the
      injection of a local anesthetic between the internal oblique muscle and transversus abdominis
      muscle. The thoracolumbar nerves originating from the T6 to L1 spinal roots run into this
      plane and supply sensory nerves to the anterolateral abdominal wall, the local anesthetic in
      this plane can block the neural afferents and provide analgesia to the anterolateral
      abdominal wall. The Tap block is a widely used procedure to help in postoperative pain
      management, it is easily performed, cost-effective, with minimal procedure-related morbidity.
      The use of Tap block is in concordance with several of the goals of Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery Pathways (ERAS). In a systematic review comparing Tap bloc to no tap block for
      post-hysterectomy pain found that visual analog score (VAS) was lower in patients receiving
      tap block in both open and laparoscopic hysterectomy procedures. The study found no
      significant difference in the amount of morphine used by patients who underwent laparoscopic
      hysterectomy and received a tap block. Currently the standard of care at Promedica hospitals
      is to give patients oral medications to control postop pain after sacrocolpopexy. Patients
      are offered to receive a tap block or no, and it is up to the patient to receive the tap
      block or no.

      No Studies on Tap block after Sacrocolpopexy have been published yet. Our hypothesis is that
      Tap block will reduce the need for pain meds during the first 24 to 48 hours after
      sacrocolpopexy.
    
  