
    
      BACKGROUND & SIGNIFICANCE Latino men are just as likely to smoke as non-Hispanic White men;
      [CDC, 2004] however, few smoking cessation programs have shown long term effects among
      Latinos. Further, many Latinos cannot enter traditional smoking cessation programs because
      they do not speak English. To be effective, programs should capitalize on a "teachable
      moment". [McBride, 2003] Pregnancy has been shown to be a teachable moment for women to quit
      smoking; whether it is a teachable moment for partners has not been explored. Including
      Latinas and intervening with the couple might help sustain cessation effects long term. The
      aim of this randomized controlled trial is to compare a culturally tailored intervention to a
      minimal intervention (self-help smoking cessation guides or Guia) in promoting and sustaining
      smoking cessation among expectant Latino fathers during pregnancy and postpartum.

      DESIGN & PROCEDURES

      When describing this study to the pregnant women, we will explain that half of the couples
      will be randomly assigned to receive face-to-face counseling plus a self-help cessation guide
      (Guia) while the other half will receive the self-help smoking cessation guide only. When a
      woman agrees to have us meet with her and her husband/partner, we will send her home with two
      consent forms, one for her and one for her husband/partner, along with a small gift for the
      upcoming baby. We also will set up a time and place to meet the couple for their initial data
      assessment. We will not collect information about legal status of patients.

      Couples who are randomized to the face-to-face support intervention will be asked to attend
      two two-hour in-home sessions, one in pregnancy and one after the baby is born. Each man and
      each woman will receive four booster calls, two in pregnancy and two post-partum. These calls
      last approximately ten minutes. At the individual level, the intervention focuses on skills
      training for behavior change (smoking cessation for men and diet or exercise for women) and
      goal setting. At the couple level, the intervention focuses on skills training for
      communication (speaking and listening skills and problem solving).

      Sample size considerations A total of 366 couples will be randomized to the two arms within
      strata defined by whether this is their first pregnancy. The primary objectives are to test
      whether there are arm differences in the proportion of fathers who are abstinent from smoking
      at 28 weeks of pregnancy (time 1) and at 12 months post-randomization (time 2). We expect
      attrition rates among fathers of 20% and 30% at time 1 and time 2, respectively; dropouts
      will be imputed to be non-abstinent in an intention-to-treat analysis. The chi-square test
      for a difference in two proportions will be used to test the null hypotheses of no difference
      in abstinence rates between the two arms. The overall one-sided alpha level will be
      controlled at 0.025 by conducting each test at a one-sided alpha of 0.0125. Based on Nevid
      and colleagues' previous study that compared counseling to pamphlets,[Nevid, 1997] we
      anticipate abstinence rates of 10% and 5% in the Guia only arm at time 1 and time 2,
      respectively. The alternative hypotheses are that the arm difference at time 1 will be 15%
      (25% versus 10%) and at time 2 will be 10% (15% versus 5%). A sample of size 366 was selected
      to have at least 90% power for each alternative hypothesis. For the effect at time 2 to have
      90% power, the effect at time 1 is overpowered at 97%. It is assumed that the arm effects of
      25% versus 10% at time 1 and of 15% versus 5% at time 2 consider those participants who
      dropout and have their outcomes imputed to be non-abstinent. Thus, under the alternative
      hypotheses, the probabilities of response among just those 80% and 70% who do not drop out
      are (31% versus 13%) and (21% versus 7%), respectively.
    
  