
    
      Light load BFR training is an effective rehabilitation tool for improving strength in
      individuals suffering clinical muscle weakness (Hughes et al. 2017). This is a single
      blinded, randomised controlled clinical trial, comprised of a two (group) by five (time)
      between-subjects repeated measures design. This study will place within the NHS at University
      College London Hospital (UCLH). Eligible patients from the orthopaedic department theatre
      lists of four orthopaedic surgeons at UCLH will be contacted prior to surgery via phone call
      and sent the patient information sheet and schematic outlining the study. Patient clinical
      history and documentation will be screened initially by the principle researcher followed by
      screening over the phone upon contact. Patients who are willing to participate will then be
      invited to the hospital for a full health screening appointment following provision of
      written informed consent, in compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki, 7th version,
      October 2013.

      Baseline assessment of all outcome measures will take place at the pre-surgery screening
      appointment. Patient will then undergo their surgery. Following two weeks of recovery, repeat
      assessment of outcome measures will take place once patients achieve the following criteria
      for beginning strength rehabilitation, as developed by Cavanaugh and Powers (2017): 1) Able
      to unilaterally weight bear without pain; 2) Able to perform a single leg raise without
      quadriceps lag; 3) Have a range of motion (ROM) of 0-90 degrees; and 4) Have minimal
      swelling. Patients will then be allocated to one f the two training intervention groups and
      undergo eight weeks of twice weekly unilateral leg press training. Training sessions include
      five minutes of light cycling at a free cadence on a stationary ergometer for both groups,
      followed by the respective leg press protocols. Repeat assessment of outcome measures will
      take place mid-training (between weeks four and five) and post-training. Ratings of perceived
      pain and exertion, blood pressure and any adverse events will be recorded at all training and
      assessment sessions. All outcomes will also be assessed at 3 and 6 month follow up
      assessments. Pain will also be assessed 24 hours after every training session. During the
      study, all participants will see their assigned physiotherapist fortnightly (as per standard
      hospital protocol) and receive individualised programmes focussing on improving ROM, balance
      and minimising swelling.

      BFR will be achieved using the Delfi Easy-fit variable contour tourniquet cuff (11.5 cm x 86
      cm x 5 mm) connected to the automatic personalised tourniquet system (PTS) device (Delfi
      Medical, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada). The Delfi PTS for BFR is equipped with the
      capability of automatically measuring limb occlusive pressure (LOP) and calculating the
      personalised tourniquet pressure, comprised of a dual-purpose personalised tourniquet cuff
      and a personalised tourniquet instrument containing LOP calculation sensors and software. The
      PTS system connected to the tourniquet cuff increases the cuff pressure in stepwise
      increments, analyses the pneumatic pressure pulsations in the cuff bladder by the arterial
      pressure pulsations at each cuff pressure increment, and uses these characteristics to
      determine LOP.

      The primary outcome measure of muscle strength was used for calculating the required sample
      size. Based on previous data regarding muscle strength increases in light load BFR resistance
      training studies in clinical populations, to achieve a power of 80% at an alpha level 0.05, a
      total of 28 participants is required to detect a meaningful effect. Based on hospital record
      of rehabilitation programmes, a drop-out rate of 10% can be expected during the course of
      rehabilitation programmes. Therefore, a total of 30 participants will be recruited.

      All data will be stored on the NHS password protected server at UCLH as per hospital and NHS
      ethical requirements. Data from drop-outs will not be included in the final analysis.
      Descriptive statistics (mean ± standard deviation) will be used to summarise adherence rates,
      exercise session attendance, training volume any adverse events. All statistical analysis
      will be performed with IBM Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) Version 22.0
      (IBM Corp, Chicago Illinois, United States of America). All data will be presented as means ±
      standard deviation with 95% confidence intervals unless stated otherwise. Normal distribution
      of data will be assessed using Shapiro-Wilks test (p>0.05). Ten repetition maximum strength,
      muscle size measures, self-reported physical function measures and functional performance
      will each be analysed using 2 x 5 (rehabilitation intervention x TP) repeated measures
      analysis of variance (ANOVA)s. Isokinetic strength and knee ligament laxity will be assessed
      using 2 x 3 (rehabilitation intervention x TP) repeated measures ANOVAs. Perceptual responses
      for ratings of perceived exertion and pain will be assessed using 2 x 16 (rehabilitation
      intervention x exercise session) repeated measures ANOVAs. For any statistically significant
      two-way interaction, one-way repeated measures ANOVAs with Bonferroni correction will be used
      to examine simple main effects. Non-normally distributed data will be analysed using the
      non-parametric Friedman test. Alpha significance will be set a priori p<0.05.
    
  