
    
      Primary Objective Estimate the efficacy of combination treatment with encorafenib and
      binimetinib, as measured by response rate (RANO criteria), in patients with recurrent BRAF
      V600E/K-mutated malignant glioma (MG) and anaplastic pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXAs).

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Estimate efficacy as measured by progression-free survival in subjects with recurrent
           malignant glioma or anaplastic PXA containing a BRAF-V600E/K mutation who receive drug.

        2. Evaluate duration of response in subjects who have a partial or complete response.

        3. Quantify the time-to-response among subjects who have a radiologic response.

        4. Estimate efficacy as measured by overall survival in subjects with recurrent malignant
           glioma or anaplastic PXA containing a BRAF-V600E/K mutation who receive drug.

        5. Characterize the toxicity profile of the combination of encorafenib and binimetinib in
           this patient population.

      There are two arms: medical and surgical. Subjects on the surgical arm must have a high-grade
      glioma or a known BRAF-mutated low-grade glioma with high clinical suspicion for progression
      to high-grade.

      Medical: Following enrollment, patients will receive encorafenib and binimetinib at the
      FDA-approved dose of 450 mg of encorafenib once daily and the FDA-approved dose of 45 mg of
      binimetinib twice daily separated by 12 hours, continuously in 28-day cycles until
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients will be followed by routine blood work, and
      general and neurological examination. A brain MRI will be performed prior to every
      odd-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks). Response will be assessed by RANO criteria. Patients may
      remain on study and receive treatment until progression or other reason.

      Surgical: These subjects will take encorafenib and binimetinib in combination at their
      FDA-approved doses for 10-14 days prior to surgery. The last dose of both drugs will be
      administered two hours prior to surgery. Specimens will be collected during surgery. After
      surgery, the subjects will not take further encorafenib or binimetinib until a study visit to
      assess their neurological exam, physical exam, and performance status, at 2-6 weeks
      post-operatively. At time of restarting combination treatment, subjects will follow the
      schedule for the medical cohort, and will continue treatment until progression.
    
  