
    
      This study will evaluate the immunological response and the safety profiles of seasonal,
      inactivated vaccine which contains in its composition the A/California/7/2009 H1N1 "pandemic"
      influenza virus, delivered via ID in reduced dose (0,1 mL) and (0,2 mL), and via IM in full
      dose (0,5 mL) delivered with needle-free, disposable-syringe jet injector, and control group
      with via IM in full dose (0,5 mL) delivered syringes and needles in subjects from 42 to 60
      years old.

      Reduced doses into the skin will be delivered by an investigational intradermal model of a
      licensed, needle-free, disposable-syringe jet injector (DSJI) system, LECTRAJET® M3 RA
      manufactured by D'Antonio Consultants International, Inc. ( East Syracuse, NY, USA) . DSJIs
      avoid the drawbacks and dangers of conventional needle-syringe injection. Delivery by DSJI
      into the skin is also rapid and simple and overcomes the difficulty and patient discomfort of
      the traditional Mantoux needle method for skin injection, as used for BCG vaccination and
      tuberculosis skin testing.

      Participants will be assessed for local and systemic adverse events by clinical observation
      immediately after injection and then upon return on day 21 after each injection. In addition,
      investigators will call participants by telephone on days 2 and 7 days to collect information
      local and systemic side effects. Adverse events will be classified and analyzed according to
      case definitions established by the Brighton Collaboration Group.

      Serum will be collected on day 21 after each injection, and assayed for hemagglutination
      inhibition (HAI) using conventional methods performed by the Virology Lab of the Instituto de
      Medicina Tropical de São Paulo, blinded to the study arm allocations of each participant.
      Information about the adverse events would be collected on days 1, 3 and 7 after dose
      delivery. The investigators assessing adverse reactions will be blinded to the study arm to
      which each subject was allocated.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to evaluate the vaccine's immunogenicity by HAI, each
      dose in accordance with international parameters which include: seroconversion or significant
      title increase (SCR), the frequencies by study arm of seroprotection defined as a
      post-vaccination titer of >40 (1/dil) (SPR), as well as the Geometric Mean Titers (GMTRs) of
      post-vaccination sera.

      Participants will be excluded if they have a prior history of influenza disease caused by
      A/California/7/2009 H1N1 or prior vaccination for same, among other exclusion and inclusion
      criteria to apply. Participants will be excluded retroactively from analysis if their
      pre-vaccination HAI assay discovers pre-existing seroprotective titers of >40 against
      pandemic virus, representing preexisting H1N1 exposure or vaccination
    
  