
    
      Globally, the leading cause of death is cardiovascular disease, which is often linked to
      chronic inflammation.

      Recently, it has been shown that atopic dermatitis (AD), the most common chronic inflammatory
      skin disease, shows increases in inflammatory and cardiovascular risk markers in patient
      blood (proteins, microparticles, circulating inflammatory cells). Consistently, it has been
      demonstrated that atopic dermatitis is associated with increased cardiovascular disease.
      Whether these increases in inflammatory and/or cardiovascular risk markers in the peripheral
      blood are due to skin inflammation, or due to other body sources (e.g. lung, lymphatic
      system) is unknown.

      To investigate whether some (or all) risk proteins present in patient blood are produced in
      inflamed skin, the investigators want to treat patients suffering from moderate-to-severe AD
      with ultra-violet light B (UVB) therapy, as this therapy is thought to be an exclusive skin
      treatment, without direct systemic effects. This notion is corroborated by the fact that only
      skin regions directly treated with UVB light, and not covered skin regions, respond to
      phototherapy.

      Ultra-violet light B (UVB) therapy has been used by dermatologists to treat AD for decades,
      and in the 1990ies, narrow band-UVB (NB-UVB) wavelengths (311-312nm) were found to have the
      best treatment effects. This is a safe and effective therapy for the majority of patients,
      with the main drawback being that it is inconvenient, as patients need to attend the clinic
      three times a week for at least 8 weeks. The mechanism of action appears to include killing
      of skin immune cells, and it also appears to down regulate inflammatory molecules such as
      IFNg, IL-12 and IL-23. However, a systematic study of the impact of NBUVB on blood biomarkers
      has never been performed. In this study, participants will be treated with an appropriate
      dose of NB-UVB three times a week for up to 12 weeks or a total of 36 treatments, and blood
      will be drawn to assess inflammatory and cardiovascular risk markers (proteins,
      microparticles, circulating blood cells). Results will be compared to levels in blood from
      healthy control participants. This study could lead to a new understanding on the role of the
      skin as a source of systemic inflammation, which would help to guide future treatment
      approaches for this debilitating, chronic skin disease.
    
  