
    
      The women who agree to participate in the study prior to the laparoscopic evaluation, will be
      allocated to different study groups according to the diagnostic evaluation performed as
      standard of care at the department. During inclusion in the first study cohort, the olaparib
      cohort (n=32), an additional 16 women are randomized as controls and will not receive neither
      any study drug nor placebo. The study is unblinded. There will not be randomized controls
      into the other study cohorts, as the control group collected will be utilized as controls for
      all study agents.

      The women in Arm I will be included in the WOO trial, and will be treated with the study
      agent for 10-14 days prior to tumor reductive surgery, starting the day of laparoscopic
      surgery (+1 day). The treatment will be discontinued at the time of tumor reductive surgery.

      Currently fourmore agents are evaluated as of particular interest, as well as feasible to
      introduce, in the WOO study set up: metformin, acetylsalicylic acid, olaparib, and letrozol.
      The first agent listed in the protocol, metformin, will be given to 32 consequtive women, and
      drug related analyses will thereafter be performed. The next 32 women included in the study
      will receive the next agent on the list, acetylsalicylic acid, while analyses for the
      metformin group is ongoing, and after the acetylsalicylic acid study group has been included
      the next agent on the list is introduced. Should any of the included women be non-eligable to
      receive one study drug, they will either receive the next agent on the list of the four study
      drugs, if eligable, or be included as control.

      The women in Arm II who agree to participate in the study will not receive the study
      medication, but standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy until having decreased tumor load
      radiologically estimated and scheduled for optimal debulking procedure according to standard
      treatment of this group of patients. Samples from these women will be used as control in the
      translational part of the where we aim to identify potential molecular pathway(s) and cell
      type(s) that may be responsible for suboptimal debulking.

      During the cancer-directed surgical procedure in participants in both Arms additional tissue
      samples from matching sites, preferably from tissues removed as part of the operation, as
      well as blood and urine samples, are obtained for comparative analysis. By use of the
      collected samples we can evaluate the clinical and molecular impact of the study agents among
      those triaged to primary cytoreductive surgery. Promising therapeutic targets identified
      might later be explored separately in one of the consequtive treatment study groups.

      After the debulking surgery all women will follow the recommended standard of care, including
      chemotherapy and consolidating bevacisumab where indicated.
    
  