
    
      The aim of this study is to compare two ultrasound guided foam sclerotherapy (UGFS)
      techniques to great saphenous vein (GSV) by injecting the sclerosant foam through a short
      catheter without perivenous tumescence and through a long catheter with saline anesthetic
      tumescence. Method: selection of 50 patients with primary varicose veins, edema (C3EpAsPr of
      the CEAP classification) and with GSV measuring 6 - 10 mm, 3 cm below the saphenofemoral
      junction, identified by ultrasound. The study is taking place at the vascular surgery
      ambulatory of the University of São Paulo. It is a prospective controlled trial with random
      allocation in two groups according to the foam sclerosant technique injection. The group 1
      will receive the sclerosant foam by a short catheter 18 G and in the group 2 an angiographic
      catheter 4 Fr. will be used. All patients will be treated with 3% polidocanol foam prepared
      with a three-way tap and two plastic disposable syringes, according to Tessari's method. The
      access will be by puncture and its place will depend on the insufficient venous extension. It
      will be at the level of the knee to treat proximal GSV or at the medial ankle to treat the
      full length of the vein. In group 2, after inserting the long catheter into the GSV, a saline
      anesthetic solution will be infiltrated around the insufficient venous segment under
      ultrasound guidance to reduce its diameter. The long catheter will be continuously flushed
      with 0.9% saline solution until the foam sclerosant injection. In the cases of treating only
      the proximal GSV, patients will receive a continuous compression with tourniquet below the
      knee just before the injection and maintained for 5 minutes thereafter. Then, the tributaries
      in all 50 patients will be treated by phlebectomy under tumescent local anesthesia.
      Color-duplex ultrasound follow-up is programmed to 7, 28 and 168 days after the treatment.
      The first one is to check the possibility of deep venous thrombosis, the second is to verify
      the occlusion rate and the need of another foam injection. The last ultrasound is to check
      the final occlusion rate.

      Hypothesis: UGFS with long catheter preceded of tumescence has a large occlusion rate of the
      GSV with monotherapy.
    
  