
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial with a control group, based on the guidelines of the
      CONSORT 2010. It will be held in the cardiology unit of a public hospital in the city of São
      Paulo in patients admitted with Acute Coronary Syndrome undergoing coronary arteriography or
      coronary angioplasty by femoral arterial. Patients with hemodynamic instability will be
      excluded before and after the ATC, patients using oral anticoagulants presenting INR greater
      than 2; patients using inhibitors IIB / IIIa; patients with history of blood dyscrasias;
      patients undergoing invasive procedure again less than 24 hours; patients with previous
      diagnosis of arterial insufficiency and patients at the time of withdrawal of the introducer
      presenting systolic blood pressure greater than 180 mmHg and diastolic than 100 mmHg. After
      removing the introducer the interventional group will be in a bed rest for two hours and the
      control group will follow the standard nursing care for four hours. Will be assessed the
      following indicators: bruising, bleeding, pedis pulse and popliteal, presence of blast at the
      puncture site after removal of the introducer, peripheral perfusion, presence of pulsatile
      mass, back pain, low back pain, paresthesias, urinary retention, muscle aches, use of
      painkillers and erythrocyte level.

      These indicators will be assessed prior to the procedure, immediately after removing the
      introducer, 6 hours after the removal of the introducer, 12 hours after removal of the
      introducer and 24 hours after removal of the introducer. Vascular outcomes will be considered
      the appearance of bruising, bleeding, pseudoaneurysm, arteriovenous fistula, retroperitoneal
      hematoma and acute arterial occlusion. Related to patient outcomes will be considered the
      complaints back pain, back pain, muscle pain, paresthesia and urinary retention. The
      assessment team will be composed of three nurses specialists in cardiology with a minimum of
      one year experience in patient care after the ATC. For this study will be presented by the
      principal investigator to the patient the study objectives, possible risks and complications
      and the study protocol, and if the patient agrees to participate in it will be delivered the
      Statement of Consent. The collected data regarding the patients included in the survey will
      be entered initially in a Microsoft Excel® 2010 software and later transferred to an
      electronic database software SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences) version 20.0 and,
      then submitted to descriptive statistical analysis and comparison analysis between groups.
    
  