
    
      1. Immediately after angioplasty, the volunteers will be subject to an assessment
           (Assessment 0), which will consist of:

             -  History: personal data, lifestyle and food, family history, current and previous
                history of disease.

             -  Physical examination: cardiac and lung auscultation,measurement of heart rate (HR),
                blood pressure (BP), body weight and height.

             -  Analysis of body composition by bioelectrical impedance analysis.

             -  Registration of HR and NN intervals (NN) during rest, in the supine and sitting
                positions.

             -  biochemical blood tests: complete blood count, blood glucose, total cholesterol,
                LDL and HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and C-reactive protein ultrasensitive.

             -  Recording of HR and NN during rest in the supine position, sitting, standing and
                during respiratory sinus arrhythmia maneuver.

        2. Three months after the "Assessment 0", the volunteers will be subject to an assessment
           (initial Assessment) prior to physical training program. Will be repeated all
           assessments performed in the "Assessment 0" plus the record of HR and R-Ri before,
           during and after the Valsalva maneuver, spirometry and cardiopulmonary exercise test
           (CPET). This is a submaximal CPET performed on a treadmill, in order to verify and
           identify possible changes in hemodynamic, electrocardiographic induced to physical
           exertion, their aerobic functional capacity as well as to prescribe physical training
           protocol.

        3. After this assessment, the volunteers will be randomly assigned to one of two groups,
           aerobic water (WPT) or land (LPT) based physical training.

        4. Components of "Initial Assessment" will be repeated at the end of each month of physical
           training (Revaluation 1, 2 and 3) and the end (Final Assessment).
    
  