
    
      Leptospirosis is a globally distributed neglected tropical disease affecting subtropical and
      tropical areas, such as the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean, with favorable climatic
      conditions for disease transmission. It shows a strong seasonality, with epidemic potential
      especially after heavy rainfall. A recent systematic review by Costa et al. (2015) places
      leptospirosis among the leading zoonotic causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with
      1.03 million cases and 58,900 deaths each year.

      Leptospirosis is an important public health problem, particularly within economically
      vulnerable populations. It is also emerging as a health threat in new settings due to
      globalization and climate change. Disasters and extreme weather events are recognized to
      precipitate epidemics.

      Clinical manifestations are highly polymorphic, ranging from an anicteric, influenza-like
      form to severe forms with hepato-renal or pulmonary failures which are associated with high
      mortality.

      Antibiotic therapy should be prescribed early, as soon as leptospirosis is suspected and
      preferably within the first 5 days, before leptospira spread to the tissues. In the treatment
      of mild forms, usual antibiotics are oral amoxicillin or doxycycline for a standard treatment
      duration of 7 days. In hospitalized cases of leptospirosis, parenteral antibiotic therapy
      with ceftriaxone is often favored as first-line therapy.

      The most widely used antibiotics in the French Caribbean and Indian Ocean regions are
      amoxicillin, doxycyclin and third generation cephalosporins such as ceftriaxone.

      Research hypothesis:

      The effects of shorter antibiotic therapy periods for other infectious diseases have been
      explored by several authors. The efficacy of short ceftriaxone treatment has been highlighted
      for typhoid fever or meningococcal meningitis. In a retrospective series of 21 cases, the
      interest of short treatment periods (3-6 days) for mild and severe leptospirosis has also
      been described. A minimal 3-day therapy period would seem necessary in order to biologically
      confirm leptospirosis diagnosis and to rule out other community-acquired infections.

      Our study proposal is the conduct of a non-inferiority trial comparing a shortened antibiotic
      therapy period of 3 days with the standard treatment period of 7 days in patients with mild
      leptospirosis and seen at the hospital in 5 French overseas departments (Martinique,
      Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Reunion, Mayotte).

      Originality and innovative aspects:

      To our knowledge, the efficacy of a 3-day antibiotic therapy for mild leptospirosis, as
      compared to the standard 7 day period, has not yet been explored.

      In addition, the LEPTO3 study will be among the first clinical trials to focus on the endemic
      public health problem, which is leptospirosis, at a large geographical level (Caribbean and
      Indian Ocean regions) and to involve a high level of collaboration between medical and
      scientific teams of these territories.

      Main objective :

      Compare the efficacy of a 3-day antibiotic therapy period with the standard period of 7 days
      in mild leptospirosis patients seen at the hospital in 5 French overseas departments
      (Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Reunion, Mayotte)

      Secondary objectives :

        -  Compare the evolution of clinical and biological characteristics in the 2 groups of
           patients (antibiotic therapy duration 3 days versus 7 days)

        -  Compare lengths of hospital stay in the 2 groups of patients (antibiotic therapy
           duration 3 days versus 7 days)

        -  Examine factors linked to a potential treatment failure in patients

        -  Assess patient tolerance to treatment
    
  