
    
      This study analyzes the implementation of an ERAS program in a thoracic service of a third
      level hospital (Hospital Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid, Spain). To this end, the
      investigators designed an ambispective cohort study, with a prospective arm of patients
      undergoing thoracic surgery within an ERAS program versus a retrospective arm of patients
      before the implementation of the protocol. Our centre's ethics committee approved our study
      before the start of patient recruitment, January 2018 Ref: EO071-18_FJD. This study followed
      the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) reporting
      guideline for cohort studies.

      After informed consent, the investigators included patients consecutively since the
      implementation, except those who refused the inclusion in the study or were under 18 years
      old. The investigators also asked for informed consent from the patients who were part of the
      retrospective cohort. For the calculation of the required sample size, the investigators
      assumed that the ERAS program would result in a 25% reduction in the absolute risk of
      suffering a surgical complication. Since the surgical complication rate for our patients in
      2016 was 40%, a type-I error of 5% and a power of 80% would require 47 patients per arm.

      Procedures The investigators recruited 50 patients throughout 2018 and 2019 and compared them
      with data from the last 50 patients in 2016, the year in which the investigators knew the
      surgical complication rate. The investigators followed up each patient for 30 days after
      surgery through hospital and primary care medical records. Demographic and comorbidity data
      were collected from all patients, from which the investigators calculated Charlson's
      comorbidity index14 for all patients.

      The investigators designed our centre's ERAS program through different measures during the
      preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative period. During the preoperative period, the
      patients and their families received comprehensive multidisciplinary information about the
      protocol, as well as their daily goals and expected discharge date. Also, a team specialized
      in therapy against lung diseases taught patients pulmonary expansion exercises to be carried
      out until surgery was performed. Smoking cessation and nutritional screening of the patient
      were also part of this stage.

      The patients underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), whenever possible,
      leaving a chest tube at the end of the surgery. All subjects received antibiotic and
      antithrombotic prophylaxis. Intraoperative management of patients was performed under general
      anaesthesia combined with regional techniques for pain control, avoiding the use of
      benzodiazepines and opioids. Those patients in whom thoracic epidural catheter was
      implemented during surgery continued its use through a patient-controlled analgesia system.
      Besides, a hot air system warmed the patients during surgery to maintain normothermia.
      Extubation was performed as soon as possible after the end of the surgery, and encouraged
      early removal of the urinary catheter.

      From the time of extubation, the patients began oral tolerance and respiratory physiotherapy
      exercises. Also, the patients were allowed to walk around early. The patients were discharged
      when they were free of complications, without severe pain, urinary catheter or chest tube.

      Outcomes The primary outcome was the number of patients with 30-day surgical complications.
      The investigators defined air leakage, bleeding, infection, and reintervention as surgical
      complications. Secondary outcome included ERAS adherence, no-surgical complications,
      mortality, readmission, reintervention rates, pain (defined as any level of pain that
      prevents early ambulation) and hospital lenght of stay. To evaluate ERAS adherence, the
      investigators defined seven items: VATS approach, regional analgesia, oral tolerance within 6
      hours, urinary catheter removal within 24 hours, ambulation within 24 hours, respiratory
      physiotherapy within 24 hours and chest tube removal within 48 hours.

      Statistical analysis The investigators analyzed outcomes depending on whether the patient
      belonged to the ERAS program or the retrospective standard cohort. The discrete and
      continuous variables were described as number and percentage and median (interquartile range
      [IQR]) and their differences analyzed using the Pearson test or the Wilcoxon rank-sum tests.
      Subsequently, according to the adherence rate to ERAS items (regardless of whether the
      patients belonged to the ERAS or the retrospective standard cohort).

      The investigators performed a multivariate logistic analysis to study the association of
      complication rates, readmission or pain with ERAS adherence, clinical and demographic data,
      presenting the results in forest plots as odds ratio with 95% confidence interval. Similarly,
      the investigators used Cox regression for multivariate analysis of length of stay, presenting
      the results in forest plot as hazard ratio with 95% confidence interval. To avoid errors by
      multiple comparisons, the investigators calculated the respective q-value for each p-value to
      maintain a false discovery rate below 5%.

      The investigators considered comparisons in which p-value and q-value were below .05 as being
      statistically significant.
    
  