
    
      Scientific Background and Significance Introduction

      Congestive heart failure (CHF) represents a major health care concern in the United States.
      It has been estimated that approximately 5 million patients in the U.S. have CHF, and nearly
      550,000 people are diagnosed with this disease annually. It is known that sudden cardiac
      death occurs more frequently in the setting of structural heart disease. Moreover, the risk
      for sudden cardiac death is 6 to 9 times greater in the heart failure population, and cardiac
      arrhythmias are perhaps the leading cause of death in CHF patients. Currently, both the
      American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association endorse the placement of
      implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy,
      reasonable life expectancy, and reduced ejection fraction below 40% (class I, level of
      evidence A). Additionally, placement of ICDs is recommended in non-ischemic cardiomyopathy
      patients who meet similar requirements with an ejection fraction of less than 35% (class I,
      level of evidence B). Despite these recommendations for primary prevention of sudden death by
      way of ICD implantation, more than half of the patients receiving a device are likely to not
      experience an arrhythmic event that necessitates ICD therapy delivery. ICD devices, on
      average, cost $20,000-50,000 exclusive of operative and follow up costs. Currently, risk
      stratification of sudden cardiac death and the need for ICD placement are essentially
      dependent upon assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction. Other methods employed for
      risk stratification are signal averaged electrocardiogram (ECG) and another
      electrocardiographic technique known as T-wave alternans. Although these methods are FDA
      approved for risk prediction of cardiac death, such techniques are not widely employed in the
      U.S. given equipment and personnel costs to implement them. Thus, alternative testing for
      risk assessment for the development of sudden cardiac death in the heart failure population
      is desirable.

      Role of Sodium Channels and the SCN5A Gene

      The cardiac voltage-gated sodium (Na+) channel, SCN5A, is the main channel generating current
      for electrical propagation in heart muscle and is the target of many antiarrhythmic drugs.
      Defective expression of the cardiac Na+ channel results in increased arrhythmic risk as
      evidenced by sudden death in the Brugada Syndrome. SCN5A mutations have also been implicated
      in the inherited long-QT syndrome, which can result in the development of the fatal
      dysrhythmias like ventricular fibrillation and torsades de pointes. Additionally, mutations
      in the SCN5A gene have also been proposed to exist and enhance risk for drug-induced
      dysrhythmias.

      Many studies have been done to shed light on the role of this tetrodotoxin-insensitive sodium
      channel in disease states. It has been demonstrated that mutated sodium channels in dilated
      cardiomyopathy may function differently depending upon the specific mutation type of the
      principal Na+ channel. Specifically, Nguyen et al have demonstrated that these mutations may
      lead to changes in physiological function such as slower action potential rise time, enhanced
      late sodium current during steady state, or impaired inactivation. Additional mutations in
      the SCN5A gene have been linked to shifts in voltage dependence of Na+ channel inactivation
      in patients with idiopathic ventricular fibrillation. Prior research has suggested that
      decreased inactivation of late sodium currents may contribute to action potential
      prolongation. A different SCN5A gene abnormality has been shown to lead to decreased sodium
      current density and an positive shift in the cell membrane half-maximal activation potential.
      Therefore, mutations of the Na+ channel can cause altered channel behavior and arrhythmias.

      Previous study showed that disruptions in sodium handling may result in change in calcium
      homeostasis via action of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger. Overall, such changes in sodium current
      (INa) are likely to significantly contribute to arrhythmia in the setting of failing
      myocardium.

      At the genome level, research has focused on the role of SCN5A gene mutations in
      arrhythmogenesis. Nevertheless, the investigators have recently described acquired defects in
      Na+ channel messenger RNA (mRNA) that result in reduced Na+ current and occur only in failing
      hearts. Three 3'-terminal SCN5A mRNA splicing variants were identified and characterized in
      failing human heart ventricles. Additional measurements suggested that the truncation mutants
      could cause electrical abnormalities severe enough to contribute to arrhythmic risk. Also,
      the investigators showed that lymphocytes process sodium channels similarly to
      cardiomyocytes. Thus, lymphocyte SCN5A mRNA processing may serve as a surrogate marker to
      assess SCN5A function at the cardiac level and may correlated with arrhythmic risk in high
      risk populations. This study will determine if SCN5A variant levels are predictive of
      appropriate ICD therapies in patients with a newly implanted ICD.
    
  