
    
      Objective

      The objective of this prospective randomized controlled study is to determine the overall
      survival benefit of tumor resection in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

      Study Population

      This study will recruit 42 adults with a diagnosis of recurrent grade 4 astrocytoma into each
      of two arms, for a total of 84 patients. All participants will be good candidates for
      elective surgical resection of their tumors according to the previously established NIH
      Recurrent Glioma Scale (NRGS), which uses performance status, tumor volume, and tumor
      involvement of critical/eloquent brain areas as prognostic criteria. Patients who require
      biopsy only or have previously been treated with bevacizumab will be excluded.

      Design

      Participants will be stratified by NRGS score (NRGS 0 or NRGS 1-2) and randomized to surgery
      followed by bevacizumab or to bevacizumab alone. Patients assigned to the surgical arm will
      undergo their procedure within 28 days of randomization. Treatment with bevacizumab at a dose
      of 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks will begin at least 28 days later to allow adequate craniotomy
      wound healing. Patients assigned to the non-surgical arm will start bevacizumab at a dose of
      10 mg/kg every 2 weeks immediately. MRI evaluations will take place within 72 hours of
      surgery to assess extent of resection, 28 days postoperatively, 96 hours after starting
      bevacizumab, and then every 28 days until tumor progression is documented. Follow-up
      assessments will take place every 28 days while on bevacizumab until tumor progression. Once
      progression is established, patients will be free to pursue further surgical and/or medical
      salvage therapy as they wish. Patients will be followed until their time of death.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure is median overall survival from the date bevacizumab is started.
      Secondary outcome measures include the rate of progression-free survival 6 months after
      starting bevacizumab, median progression-free survival, overall survival rates at 6 and 12
      months after starting bevacizumab, objective response rate, health-related quality of life,
      change in KPS of 20 points or more, time to need for additional tumor therapy, and use of
      corticosteroids.
    
  