
    
      Addison's disease occurs when more than 90% of the adrenal cortex is destroyed. Cortisol
      levels in serum vary throughout the day. In addition to the daily need, cortisol increases in
      response to all forms of stress including intercurrent illness. The Addison patient must in
      such situations increase replacement doses 2 to 3-fold. While it is broad agreement on this
      procedure based on clinical experience and empirical data, it is controversial as to whether
      there is a need to increase the dose by less stressful events and tasks, such as average to
      vigorous physical activity and mental stress. In any event, many patients report that they
      benefit from stress doses not only in order to increase performance, but also to reduce
      post-exertion fatigue.

      Using a combination of oxygen uptake measurements under controlled exercise and assay of
      hormones and metabolites, we aim to test whether extra doses of hydrocortisone can increase
      physical capacity and reduce post-exertion fatigue. Each patient perform two tests, one with
      and one without hydrocortisone in randomised order. The controls perform one test. The
      patients will be assigned a participation number and randomised to any of two treatment
      sequences (A-B or B-A) by pharmacy. All exercise tests will be performed 3-5 hours after
      intake of morning medication, after an overnight fast (water permitted). Patients will be
      instructed to avoid caffeinated food and drink, alcohol, strenuous exercise and starvation
      for at least 24h before each exercise session. Patients will be instructed to avoid smoking,
      brush teeth one hour before exercise testing.

      One hour before each test, subjects drink one teaspoon of water per kilogram body weight to
      provide adequate hydration. Stress-dose or placebo will be taken 60 min before start. Also at
      this time, an indwelling line will be placed in the forearm of each subject that blood and
      saliva can be drawn before, directly after exercise, then 15 or 30 min after termination of
      exercise. Patients fill out the questionnaire about quality of life after each exercise.

      Patient's daily glycemic profile will be followed up by continuous glucose monitoring systems
      for 24 hours before, during and for 24 hours after exercise. Patients will be educated in
      using the sensor and calibration with blood glucose self-measurements three to four times per
      day. Calibration of the sensor will be performed according to the protocol established. At
      the completion of the measuring period, the system will be returned, and the data will be
      downloaded to determine glucose patterns. This device will be applied to the abdomen of each
      subject, 24 h before each exercise session, calibrated as recommended (before operation and
      2-3 additional times/day, 6 h apart over the 24 h of the study) and removed 24 h after the
      exercise session.

      The patient's movements will be followed for 24 hour by Actigraph after each test. The test
      is repeated after 1 week with the opposite treatment option.

      Ten adult patients (18-70 years) with verified Addison's disease will be invited to
      participate in the study. From a list of patients (consecutive out-patients or a patient
      registry) unselected patients should be invited to participate. Five age and sex matched
      healthy controls will be included to assess normal metabolic and endocrine responses to
      physical activity.

      The investigator will keep a log of all patients that have been invited to participate in the
      study. If a screened patient does not fulfil the inclusion criteria, the reason will be
      documented on a screening log. Eligible patients who fulfil all of the inclusion criteria and
      none of the exclusion criteria will be randomised. Randomization will be performed by the
      hospital pharmacies at each study site. When a subject is randomized, he or she must always
      be assigned to the lowest available randomization number. The patients will be randomised in
      blocks of two to secure even patient number in each treatment sequence.

      The patient will have to give written informed consent. The patients should not take
      grapefruit juice, liquorice and do not be on a special diet the last two weeks before or
      during the study period. Patients will be instructed to avoid caffeinated food and drink,
      alcohol, strenuous exercise and starvation for at least 24 h before each exercise session.
      Patients will be instructed to avoid smoking at least one hour before each exercise session.

      Withdrawal criteria/Adverse Events. The patient is free to withdraw at any time. If a patient
      is having major difficulties managing the exercise the investigator will consider withdrawal.
      In the best interest of the patient, the investigator and the sponsor can decide to withdraw
      the patient from the study. If a patient develops conditions meeting the exclusion criteria,
      the patient will be withdrawn from the study. In case of serious adverse events the patient
      may be withdrawn from the study.

      Any adverse event will be registered and reported to the Norwegian Medicines Agency. Any
      serious adverse events will be reported within 15 days, and in case of lethal or life
      threatening events immediately. The patients will report any problems or discomfort during or
      after examination in the patient log or diary, any need for extra doses during the study day
      after exercise with glucocorticoids will also be documented there. In addition, we ask them
      to contact the study group directly in case of problems between visits. The study
      documentation and research date will be stored 15 years after the termination of the study.

      Statistical considerations This is a pilot study to evaluate the effect stress-dosing of
      cortisol on physical capacity. The results will be used for statistical calculations of
      effect size for a larger trial. The variation of the various efficacy parameters in this
      group of patients is not well known.
    
  