
    
      Urinary catheterization has been implicated in up to 80% of hospital-acquired UTIs, and has
      been associated with evidence for immunological and histological damage frequently in the
      absence of bacteria31. In a recent human study in elderly patients with ASB and UTI analysis
      of neutrophil activity showed evidence of enzymatic involvement during bladder infection32,
      and some appeared to relate to pain and inflammation, however no analysis was conducted
      regarding neutrophil phenotypes and the impact of mtDNA on sterile local injury mediated
      exclusively by a Foley catheter.

      The bladder irritation that results from Foley catheterization appears to be mediated by
      muscarinic receptors that mediate involuntary bladder smooth-muscle contractility. Thus the
      main therapy relies on agents with anti-muscarinic activity such as oxybutynin, tolterodine
      and butylscopolamine, whereas some benefit has been shown with tramadol, ketamine,
      paracetamol, pregabalin and gabapentin. However no single commonly accepted therapy for FCRBD
      is available, and there is uncertainty about the safety and efficacy of the current
      treatments available. Some research has suggested a role for inflammatory mediators in the
      occurrence of FCRBD as evident by induction of prostaglandin synthesis and cyclooxygenase-2
      (COX-2) inhibitors alleviating symptoms related to FCRBD. In summary various therapies to
      control FCRBD are available but none have directly addressed the acute inflammatory reaction
      likely mediating these symptoms1,2,3,4. Hence our interest in analyzing the activity of acute
      inflammatory cells in particular neutrophil activation as a mediator of bladder inflammation
      and trigger of FCRBD.

      Although the exact pathophysiology of FCRBD has not been elucidated, we recently showed
      expression of inflammatory mediators, neutrophil infiltration and mucosal surface injury in
      the absence of bacterial infection using a human model of tracheal injury. As it has been
      clearly shown that neutrophil infiltration and activation can be driven in response to
      sterile cell death8, our preliminary data suggest that the link between Foley catheter and
      possible bladder neutrophil accumulation is through mucosal cell injury.
    
  