
    
      The study team's understanding of diagnosis, treatment and outcomes of coronavirus disease
      2019 (COVID-19) is rapidly evolving. First reports from China clearly indicate that older
      patients with underlying cardiovascular disease and/or cardiac risk factors demonstrate
      higher mortality rates. Most recent reports provided novel insights into the incidence of
      myocardial injury in COVID-19 patients and its association with adverse outcomes. In both
      studies, patients with myocardial injury manifested by elevated high-sensitivity troponin I
      (TnI) levels had significantly higher in-hospital mortality rates compared with those without
      myocardial injury, (59.6 and 8.9% (3) and 51 vs 4.5 %). Among patients with myocardial
      injury, higher levels of TnI were associated with higher mortality rates. While the highest
      mortality rates were observed in patients with elevated TnI and underlying cardiovascular
      disease (CVD), mortality rates were also considerable in patients with elevated TnI and
      without prior CVD. In contrast, patients with known cardiovascular disease without TnI
      elevation had more favorable outcomes. Cardiac injury was independently associated with an
      increased risk of mortality in patients with COVID-19. The arming reports clearly indicate
      that the data from larger populations from multiple centers are needed to further
      characterize and better understand the association between myocardial injury and adverse
      outcomes in COVID-19 patients.

      II. STUDY AIM The aim of the proposed study is to analyze the incidence, clinical outcomes
      and predictors of myocardial injury in a large patient population with COVID-19 treated in
      Mount Sinai Hospital (MSH) system. In addition, the study team will explore the association
      between TnI levels and clinical characteristics, biomarkers, cardiac tests data and treatment
      approaches to uncover the potential mechanisms responsible for COVID-19 induced myocardial
      injury.

      III. STUDY POPULATION By October 2020, there have been 4,695 COVID-19 positive patients
      treated in the Mount Sinai Hospital (MSH) and more than 1,1000 patients with COVID-19 had
      been healed and discharged. All consecutive patients admitted to the MSH system from February
      2020 to October 2020 with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 will be included in the retrospective
      study.
    
  