
    
      This is a prospective cohort study of trauma patients on admission to the emergency
      department and for the subsequent 28 days. All adult patients meeting criteria for full
      trauma team activation and admitted to Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma
      center, a level-1 trauma center, are eligible for enrollment. A 20-ml sample of blood will be
      drawn within 10 minutes of arrival in the emergency department (ED), processed in the central
      laboratory, and plasma stored at -80°C. Blood samples will be collected immediately on
      presentation via initial placement of a 16-gauge or larger peripheral intravenous line.
      Plasma biomarkers of endothelial injury will be measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent
      assays (von Willebrand factor, syndecan-1, and angiopoietin-2). Cellular biomarkers of
      platelet activation will be measured by flow cytometry (platelet-monocyte aggregates,
      integrin αIIbβ3, P-selectin, and platelet microparticles). Platelet aggregation will be
      measured by whole blood multiple electrode impedance aggregometry. The effect of post-injury
      platelets on endothelial integrity will be quantified by in vitro assays of platelet-induced
      endothelial permeability. Comprehensive demographic data and medical history will be
      collected from chart review, interviews of patients and family members. Detailed clinical and
      outcome data is collected including transfusion timing and doses, the incidence of organ
      failure (Denver Postinjury Multiple Organ Failure Score), acute respiratory distress syndrome
      (Berlin Definition), infection, symptomatic thromboembolic complications, ventilator-free
      days, length of intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stay, and mortality (6 hours, 24
      hours, 30 days). In hospital mortality after 30 days will be assessed for all patients.
      Standard coagulation measures (international normalized ratio, prothrombin time, platelet
      count) and other laboratory measures will be collected to account and control for other
      distinct but highly integrated pathways implicated in trauma-induced coagulopathy. The Trauma
      Registry, a large database managed under guidelines from the American Trauma society, uses
      chart review to retrospectively assign Injury Severity Scores (ISS) and Abbreviated Injury
      Scores (AIS).
    
  