
    
      The investigators will evaluate the 9zest app using a non-randomized, single-group design
      wherein participants who have downloaded the 9zest app will be informed via a message in the
      app about the trial and invited to participate. If the participant answers yes to the
      invitation the participant will be consented through a questionnaire in the app. In the
      consent form for participation, prospective participants will learn the eligibility criteria.
      If the participant completes the informed consent process, the participant will then be
      required to answer specific inclusion and exclusion criteria questions to ensure
      qualification for the study. A phone number that goes directly to a member of the research
      team will be provided if the prospective participant has any questions during the informed
      consent process.

      Outcome measurements. After completing the consent process and prior to participation in the
      12-week trial, participants will answer several questions about specific symptoms to complete
      their registration and profile. The participant will then be asked to perform a couple of
      pretest outcome measures via the app. Participants will also be tested at the 4 week, 8 week,
      and 12 week marks.

      Exercise intervention. The 12-week app guided exercise intervention is a personalized
      exercise regimen. Participants will use the smartphone/tablet app for the study period of 12
      weeks. While the app has been developed to deliver physical therapy in a variety of movement
      disorders including multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, and dementia
      with Lewy bodies, users will choose the PD track for the purposes of the study, which is the
      population of interest. The participants will create a PD profile with a series of questions
      to assess the current level of functioning. A proprietary algorithm (9zest Smart™) developed
      by physical therapists and information technologists chooses the appropriate workout regimen
      for the person's level of function. The customized regimen is intended to be safe and
      effective for the participant. The 9zest App Family has over 1,000 original therapy videos in
      its library, which encompasses Physical Therapy, Fitness, Yoga, Meditation, and Speech
      Therapy. 9zest Smart™, the app's intelligent engine determines the right set and levels of
      exercises for a user based on the Smart Assessment responses. At preset intervals (generally
      after 2 weeks), the app will again assess the user's functional capacity and needs. Again,
      the 9zest Smart algorithm will adjust the type, duration, and intensity of the regimen to
      maximize performance. All of the exercises and dosing features are consistent with
      contemporary and evidence-based physical therapy practice. Additionally, the exercises have
      all been deemed to be safe by physical therapists for each particular level of function. The
      exercise program is imbedded in the app. A demonstration of the exercise is shown in
      audiovisual format and then the participant follows along with the exercise in real time.

      Participants in the trial will be asked to participate in the 12-week exercise program with
      the goal of participating 3 times per week with each session lasting 60 minutes. After the
      trail is over, the investigators will sort and analyze the data based on compliance (eg, high
      engagers, moderate engagers, low engagers).
    
  