
    
      Background: Alternatives to surgery are needed for the treatment of cervical intraepithelial
      neoplasia (CIN). CIN is associated with persistent human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and
      is known to be a potential precursor of cervical cancer. The incidence of CIN has been
      increasing during the last decades, especially among young women. Patients diagnosed with
      (persistent) high-grade CIN (CIN2/3) are treated with conization. Conization can be regarded
      as a safe procedure but peri- and postoperative complications (infections, bleeding, preterm
      birth) occur. This raises the need for a conservative treatment alternative for patients with
      high-grade CIN. Preliminary data: Imiquimod (IMQ), a toll-like receptor 7 agonist, is an
      immune modulating substance approved for the therapy of superficial skin lesions (e.g.
      basalioma, actinic keratosis) and HPV associated disease (e.g. anogenital condylomata
      acuminata and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia). In a randomized, placebo-controlled phase II
      trial, we previously showed that topical IMQ therapy is an efficacious and feasible treatment
      for selected patients with CIN 2/3. Methods: In the present open, randomized, non-inferiority
      trial 500 women with CIN 2/3 will be included. This non-profit, patient-oriented clinical
      research project will be conducted as an Austrian Gynecologic Oncology Group (AGO-Austria)
      trial. Participants will be randomized to either 16 weeks treatment with topical IMQ (new
      treatment) or to standard therapy i.e. conization (active control). This study investigates
      the non-inferiority of the new treatment, compared to surgical standard treatment. The
      primary endpoint is the rate of successful treatment, defined as negative HPV test result six
      months after treatment start. Six months after start of therapy the primary study endpoint is
      assessed using HPV genotyping. In addition clinical examinations including colposcopy, HPV
      genotyping, cytology, and if indicated colposcopy-guided biopsies of the uterine cervix will
      be performed. In addition, rates of CIN persistence/recurrence 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after
      start of the treatment and rates of negative HPV test results 12 and 24 months after start of
      the treatment will be evaluated in both treatment groups.

      Rationale: The need for a conservative treatment modality for patients diagnosed with CIN is
      obvious, as many young women need surgical treatment. In this randomized controlled, trial we
      will investigate the non-inferiority of a topical IMQ treatment compared to surgical standard
      treatment in selected patients diagnosed with CIN 2/3.
    
  