
    
      This multi-site, prospective study is designed to compare the sensitivity and specificity of
      the IvyGene Dx Liver Cancer Test alone, ultrasound alone and the combination of the IvyGene
      Dx Liver Cancer Test and ultrasound for the detection of HCC within a population at high risk
      of HCC due to liver cirrhosis. Subjects will be enrolled until the pre-determined number of
      subjects are enrolled.

      Subjects at high risk for developing HCC due to liver cirrhosis and who are eligible for
      liver cancer surveillance as determined by the patient's physician and who meet all inclusion
      and exclusion eligibility criteria as described in this protocol, will be invited to
      participate in this study. Subjects will then read, understand and sign the Informed Consent
      Form and the HIPAA Authorization Agreement for Medical Records Form.

      For each subject upon enrollment, the following blood analytes will also be determined:
      creatinine, prothrombin time, bilirubin, blood platelet count, ALT, AST and ALP. The results
      of all clinical laboratory tests will be recorded by use of the subject's Case Report Form.
      Whole blood samples drawn for the IvyGeneTM Dx Liver Cancer Test will be collected (according
      to the instructions provided with each sample collection kit) by using the IvyGene Sample
      Collection, Stabilization and Shipping Kit, and shipped to a central LAM laboratory for
      testing. Samples will be assayed by laboratory technicians blinded to the results of any
      other testing. Within the same clinical visit as the blood draws (when possible), subjects
      will undergo conventional ultrasound to examine the liver. Every subject will then go on to
      diagnostic imaging by multiphasic MRI. The results of diagnostic imaging will primarily be
      scored by LI-RADS score and the number and size of any malignant lesions identified will be
      recorded. The images of all MRI, CT, or ultrasound will be saved and uploaded for evaluation
      by a blinded, centralized team of radiologists to confirm diagnosis. Any biopsy results or
      surgical pathology results that are generated for study subjects as part of current clinical
      practice will also be recorded.

      Study procedures will consist of conventional ultrasound to examine the liver, providing
      blood samples for testing with the IvyGene® Dx Liver Cancer Test and other conventional blood
      analytes, and diagnostic imaging by multiphasic MRI.

      Upon enrolling in the study, subjects will commence the Initial Surveillance Visit (t=0
      months). During the Initial Surveillance Visit, all enrolled subjects will undergo ultrasound
      to examine the liver and provide blood samples for the IvyGene® Dx Liver Cancer Test and for
      determining conventional blood analytes. Every subject will then go on to diagnostic imaging
      by multiphasic MRI. The results of diagnostic imaging will primarily be scored by a Liver
      Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) score. The data of all diagnostic imaging by MRI will be
      saved and uploaded for evaluation by a blinded, centralized team of radiologists, which will
      be used as the basis of the clinical truth for all subjects.

      After the Initial Surveillance Visit (t=0 months), subjects with an indeterminant HCC finding
      by MRI (LI-RADS 3) will be recommended to up to three Follow-Up Visits (t=6 months, t=12
      months, and t=18 months) to attempt to resolve the clinical truth for these subjects. Each
      Follow-Up Visit will consist of an ultrasound to examine the liver, providing blood samples
      for the IvyGene® Dx Liver Cancer Test, as well as diagnostic imaging by multiphasic MRI.

      Although not required by this clinical protocol, any biopsy or surgical pathology results, or
      any additional imaging (such as multiphasic CT) that are generated for study subjects as part
      of current clinical practice will also be recorded for each subject and the results shall be
      made available to the Sponsor if performed within 6 months of a scheduled Visit. Biopsy and
      surgical pathology results that indicate a malignancy will be used in place of diagnostic
      imaging as the clinical truth for each subject if performed within 6 months of a scheduled
      visit and prior to database lock.

      All study-related procedures will occur during the Study Duration Period, which consists of
      the Initial Surveillance Visit for all subjects and up to three Follow-Up Visits for subjects
      with an initial indeterminant HCC finding (LI-RADS 3) by diagnostic imaging. After this Study
      Duration Period, no study related blood draws, imaging or procedures will occur for these
      subjects.
    
  