
    
      Sixty recreational male athletes will be evaluated twice (pre-test 1 and pre-test 2) before a
      core stability (CS) training program. Testing sessions will consist in several tests to
      assess sitting and global dynamic postural control, trunk isometric endurance, neuromuscular
      function of the lower extremities, trunk response to sudden and unexpected load perturbations
      and pelvic oscillation during CS exercises evaluated with a smartphone accelerometer. Later,
      they will be randomly assigned to one of the three groups included in the study: two
      experimental groups (low and high intensity) and a control group. The intervention will have
      a training frequency of 2 days per week for 6 weeks. Each CS training session will consist in
      4 sets of one variation of four of the most popular stabilization exercises used to challenge
      core muscles: frontal bridge, back bridge, lateral bridge and bird-dog. Exercise variations
      will be performed isometrically in increasing order of difficulty through the modifications
      of the following mechanical constraints: lever-arm, number of supports and/or the use of
      unstable surfaces. The CS training programs will differ in exercises intensity, mainly. Each
      participant of the low intensity group will perform those exercise variations in which they
      have obtained an oscillation ranged between 0.2 and 0.3 m/s2 in pre-test, while participants
      of the high intensity group will perform the exercise variations in which they have obtained
      an oscillation ranged between 0.4 and 0.5 m/s2. The exercise duration will be set at 30 s and
      15 s for the low intensity and high intensity group, respectively. All participants of the
      training groups will be revaluated every two weeks during the training period. After the
      intervention period, all participants will perform a post-test to evaluate the effectiveness
      of both CS programs. Statistical analysis will consist in repeated-measures ANOVAs for
      detecting possible significant differences within and between-groups.
    
  