
    
      To date, there is little data on the consumption of young adults in detention when they are
      the first consumers in the general population in France and they represent a particularly
      vulnerable population within the prison population.

      objectives The main objective of this project is to document the prevalence of problematic
      cannabis use before incarceration among juveniles detained in the various detention centers
      in the P.A.C.A.

      Secondary objectives are to document:

        -  the prevalence of cannabis use over the course of life, last year and last month;

        -  the prevalence of harm and risky behavior associated with the use of a psychoactive
           substance

        -  associated addictions and first and foremost tobacco

        -  the determinants (socio-demographic, socio-economic, environmental, etc.) of problem use
           and cannabis use.

      Method This is a multicenter cross-sectional study aimed at establishing an exhaustive
      picture of the defined population (juvenile detainees in the P.A.C.A.) region over a 12-month
      period.

      The holder of the parental authority exercise and the individual agreeing to participate in
      the study must:

        -  sign an informed consent a no objection card

        -  complete a car book and hetero-questionnaires. The time of handover is evaluated at 30
           minutes.

      The CAST questionnaire will be used to answer the main purpose of the study and to identify
      consumers with problematic cannabis use.

      CAST scores will be calculated. Abnormal CAST proportions will be presented along with their
      95% confidence intervals. The links between the score and the various variables identified as
      determinants (socio-demographic, socio-economic, environmental, other addictions, etc.) will
      be tested using uni and multivariate analyzes.

      Expected results The assessment of the health status and needs of this extremely vulnerable
      population is a prerequisite for defining specific regional objectives and for establishing a
      coherent and coordinated effective health intervention within the community. prisoner in
      France.
    
  