
    
      The new communication practice (T-PAT) is a team approach for discussing prognosis and
      treatment goals. T-PAT is specifically designed to a) increase understanding of the prognosis
      and treatment goal, b) decrease illness uncertainty, and c) help the patient preserve hope
      for the future.This dedicated clinical visit features a structured discussion of prognosis,
      treatment goals and options, and end of life concerns. The planned team discussion will
      include information contributions for the treating medical oncologist, an oncology nurse and
      social worker who currently work together to provide breast cancer care.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. Assess the feasibility of implementing the T-PAT prognosis discussion intervention.

        2. Compare the effects of T-PAT vs. usual care on pertinent patient reported outcomes
           including: a) understanding of the prognosis and treatment goal, b) illness uncertainty,
           and c) hope.

             -  First, a survey will be administered to patients in the waiting room before the
                next office visit. This should take 15-20 minutes.

             -  The second part involves participating in a scheduled appointment that will be
                audio-recorded and focus on sharing information about the patient's illness.
                Patients will be randomized to either participate in an appointment featuring new
                communication practices (T-PAT)or a regular care appointment.

             -  The third part involves a 20 minute survey, after the appointment, with a member of
                the study staff. This will take place over the telephone one or two days after the
                appointment.

             -  The fourth part is completion of a written reflection on the patients participation
                in the study, which will be returned in a pre-addressed, stamped envelope.
                Generally, this should take about 15 minutes.
    
  