
    
      Amblyopia remains an important cause of low visual acuity,affecting 2% to 6% of the general
      population. Unilateral amblyopia is defined as reduced best-corrected visual acuity secondary
      to an abnormal visual experience during the critical period of visual development. Classic
      causes include strabismus, anisometropia, form deprivation or a combination of these factors
      .

      The normal postnatal reduction (apoptosis) of retinal ganglion cells is arrested in amblyopia
      which would cause increase in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness as hypothesized by Yen et
      al .This also would affect the normal maturation of the macula, including movement of Henle's
      fibers away from the foveola. This would result in increased foveal thickness. Furthermore,
      because of the reduced apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells, the thickness of the ganglion
      cell layer in the macula would also be increased.

      Optical coherence tomography : is a non-contact and non-invasive technique that help in
      assessment of retina abnormalities. The high resolving power (10um - Time Domain, 5um -
      Spectral Domain) provides excellent detail for evaluating the vitreo-retinal interface,
      neurosensory retinal morphology, and the retinal pigmented epithelial-choroid complex. It
      generates cross sectional images by analyzing the time delay and magnitude change of low
      coherence light as it is backscattered by ocular tissues. An infrared scanning beam is split
      into a sample arm (directed toward the subject) and a reference arm (directed toward a
      mirror). As the sample beam returns to the instrument it is correlated with the reference arm
      in order to determine distance and signal change via photodetector measurement. The resulting
      change in signal amplitude allows tissue differentiation by analysis of the reflective
      properties, which are matched to a false color scale. As the scanning beam moves across
      tissue, the sequential longitudinal signals, or A-scans, can be reassembled into a transverse
      scan yielding cross-sectional images, or B-scans, of the subject. The scans can then be
      analyzed in a variety of ways providing both empirical measurements (e.g. retinal
      thickness/volume) and qualitative morphological information.
    
  