
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss
      of cognitive brain functions and functional decline. One of the pathological features of this
      condition is the progressive deposition in the brain of amyloid beta-peptide (A-beta) (1).
      Once deposited in the brain, the peptide exerts a toxic effect by triggering a chronic
      inflammation that interferes initially with normal brain function and results eventually in
      neuronal death (2). It is currently postulated that at a certain threshold of A-beta
      accumulation compensatory mechanisms in the brain are no longer sufficient to cope with
      A-beta toxicity, and the clinical syndrome of AD develops. It is possible that A-beta may
      accumulate in the brain over a period of up to 10-15 years before clinical symptoms become
      significant. The question has been raised whether the accumulation of A-beta is possibly a
      normal process of aging, suggesting that all people may be susceptible to the disease if they
      live long enough - of note is that the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease rises to over 40%
      above the age of 85 years.

      Among the many possible ageing-related factors involved in the development of AD, senescence
      of the immune system may significantly enhance changes in the brain and intensify the
      neurological decline in patients with this disease. A direct consequence of immunosenescence
      is the increased frequency of systemic infections and, in fact, many who die with AD have
      previously suffered from a severe infection. Since patients with AD have an ongoing chronic
      inflammatory response in the brain, associated with the activation of glial cells and a
      partially disrupted blood brain barrier, systemic inflammation may intensify this process in
      the brain and increase the overall neuronal damage.

      In contrast to the damage caused by immune activation, A-beta vaccination studies have shown
      very promising effects in mouse models of the disease, particularly with regard to the
      clearance of amyloid plaques by A-beta antibodies (3). When tested in patients with AD, 6% of
      the vaccinated patients developed severe inflammatory reactions in the brain (4).
      Nonetheless, a cohort of patients showed improved cognitive tests where specific antibodies
      were induced (5). In a recent study we demonstrated that such brain inflammation may be due
      to increased levels of IFN-γ in the brain (6), possibly as a result of sub-clinical systemic
      infection and the specific immune responses observed in humans.

      While the chronic inflammation progresses throughout the disease, the specific arm of the
      immune system, i.e., brain-specific lymphocytes, may also be stimulated to play a role. In
      contrast to previous assumptions, our findings in human subjects with AD demonstrate that a
      specific immune response to A-beta is indeed significantly induced in both elderly
      individuals and patients with AD as compared to middle-aged individuals (7). The nature and
      role of this immune response to A-beta in man is yet to be investigated, and may lead to the
      characterization of pathways associated with neuronal cell death, and result in new
      diagnostic modalities and immunotherapeutic approaches.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether peripheral markers possibly related to
      A-beta induced inflammation of the brain are increased in patients with clinical AD.

      Method This is an observational pilot study comparing the level of inflammatory markers in
      the peripheral blood of patients with AD to that of age-matched and cognitively normal
      elderly individuals, as well as to healthy young controls.

      Subjects will include males and females older than 60 years diagnosed as having clinical AD
      according to DSM-IV criteria. The control group will comprise cognitively normal community
      dwelling males and females older than 60 years. In addition, a group of healthy young male
      and female controls aged 20-30 years will serve as the reference group. The diagnosis of both
      older patients and controls will be determined independently by a multidisciplinary team of
      experts at the Memory Clinic of the Beersheva Mental Health Center.

      All subjects and controls will be required to provide written informed consent for
      participation in the study. In the case of the patients with AD an independent psychiatrist
      will be required to confirm that the patient is capable of agreeing to participation in the
      study. In the case of patients with AD who have impaired judgment and are unable to consent
      to their participation, a legal guardian will be required to provide written informed
      consent.

      Following the acquisition of demographic data, a single amount of 25 ml of blood will be
      drawn from all subjects. Blood will be drawn into two heparinized tubes of 10 ml each and one
      serological tube (with procoagulant) of five ml will be drawn for serum isolation. The
      heparinized tubes will be maintained at room temperature until lymphocytes are purified on
      the same day. Sera samples will be stored at 4°C. Blood will be drawn before midday to
      facilitate purification on the same day. Following peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)
      and sera isolation the following analysis will be performed:

        1. Generation of AD-specific monoclonal antibodies. Since antibodies which bind the
           N-terminus portion of A-beta enhance its clearance from the brain and are now tested in
           a clinical trial, it is important to identify the naturally occurring specific
           monoclonal antibodies induced in patients with AD and determine whether they affect the
           course of the disease. Such specific antibodies also may have diagnostic and therapeutic
           properties. These specific human monoclonal antibodies will be isolated and produced in
           vitro by the hybridoma technique using a proprietary fusion partner cell line known as
           MFP-2. Briefly, PBMCs will be fused with MFP-2 and the resulting hybridomas will be
           screened for nonspecific Ig production and then for those immunoglobulins that are
           specific to A-beta using standard techniques of ELISA. Hybridomas that secrete specific
           human monoclonal antibodies will be serially subcloned for stabilization, expanded and
           grown in defined media for production of large quantities of monoclonal antibodies.

        2. Analysis of T-cell subsets and serum-derived cytokines. Aging is associated with
           senecense of the immune system expressed by a decline in naïve T cells and an increase
           in memory and regulatory T cells. As a result cytokine homeostasis both in the periphery
           and in the brain is altered and may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. Thus, analysis
           of T-cell subsets (naïve and memory CD4, CD8, and regulatory CD4CD25) using
           Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and serum-derived cytokines by ELISA will be
           performed and correlated with the clinical score of the patients.

      Statistical evaluation of differences in mean values between groups will be performed using
      the Student's-t test.
    
  