
    
      Background: Despite ongoing advances in critical care mortality and morbidity of patients
      with subarachnoid hemorrhage remains high. Secondary brain injuries related to cerebral
      vasospasm and consecutive ischemic brain injury and intracerebral edema are the main
      contributors to mortality and morbidity in these patients. Evidence points towards low serum
      sodium levels being one of the significant risk factors for of secondary brain injury in this
      population. Previous studies show that fluid resuscitation with normal saline results in
      higher serum sodium levels and higher serum osmolality when compared to balanced infusates in
      patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage.

      Aim: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate whether the use of a sodium-rich
      infusion (normal saline) results in better clinical outcome when compared to a
      sodium-depleted infusion (lactated Ringer's) in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. The
      primary endpoint will be the occurrence of clinically relevant vasospasm requiring immediate
      treatment. In addition, the investigators will assess other relevant complications such as
      long and short-term mortality, significant brain edema requiring conservative therapy or/and
      operative hemicraniectomy, as well as further patient-relevant outcomes such as days on organ
      support, postoperative infections, length of stay and long-term disability/mortality.

      Study intervention: All patients admitted to a participating hospital with the diagnosis of
      intracerebral bleeding will be screened and if eligible, randomized to one of the study arms.
      Individual patient's consent will be sought. Thereafter, patients will receive only the
      allocated study fluid for fluid maintenance and resuscitation from study inclusion until
      ICU/intermediate care (IMC) discharge. Neurological evaluation will be performed hourly for
      the initial phase and thereafter two hourly. Serum sodium, osmolality, fluid, water and
      electrolyte balance as well as acid-base homeostasis will be evaluated daily. Further,
      specific assessment of renal, cardiac and immune function takes place at 5 pre-specified
      time-points (day 1,3,7,10 and at ICU/IMC discharge).

      After ICU/IMC discharge patients will be followed for evaluation of secondary endpoints.
      Long-term disability will be assessed by telephone interview based on the modified the
      Rankin-Scale and the Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended.

      Sample Size: Sample size calculation was based upon the investigators' ICU's registry data.
      In 2017, 44.38% patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage reached the predefined endpoint of
      clinically relevant vasospasm requiring immediate intervention. A clinically relevant effect
      size was determined to be an improvement in outcome of 15%. Based on these results a patient
      number of n = 160 for each group was determined under estimation of a 15% drop out rate.
    
  