
    
      In drug research studies, older people - and especially patients with a geriatric profile or
      frailty risk - are very frequently excluded. Moreover, drug dosing is often extrapolated from
      studies in younger adults with failure to consider potential differences in pharmacokinetics
      (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD).

      Studies on dosing of beta-lactam antibiotics in geriatric or frail patients aged 75 years or
      older have, to the best of our knowledge, never been performed.

      In this pilot study, we will investigate whether - with the current dosing regimens, used in
      the Ghent University Hospital - pharmacodynamic targets regarding beta-lactam antibiotics
      (more specific Amoxicilline-Clavulanate, Piperacillin-Tazobactam and Temocillin) are attained
      in frail patients admitted to the geriatric department.

      This monocentric, prospective, observational trial is currently ongoing at the emergency
      department and geriatric department of the Ghent University Hospital.

      Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 1000/200mg of piperacillin-tazobactam 4000mg or temocillin 2000mg
      was infused intravenously over 30 minutes using a syringe pump. The standard dosing regimes
      were used.

      An infusion catheter of minimum 18-gauge was placed in the contralateral arm to the arm in
      which the antibiotic dose was administered. Blood samples were collected from this catheter
      at first dose and assumed steady state conditions. Steady state was assumed to be reached
      after minimal 24h (> 4 doses at four - six hourly interval) of therapy. The goal was to
      obtain 5 first dose and 5 steady dose samples in every patient.

      Material for bacteriological analysis, such as blood cultures, urine samples, sputum, were
      collected in every patient according to standard care. In case of bacterial growth, MIC's
      were measured on the reported strains when possible.

      Amoxicillin, clavulanic acid, piperacillin, tazobactam and temocillin were measured using a
      validated ultra-performance liquid chromatographic method with tandem mass spectrometric
      detection.

      Serum creatinine, cystatin C, procalcitonin, infection parameters (CRP, WBC count) and
      albumin were obtained from standard blood samples performed in these patients at day one and
      also later on during their therapy.

      Three frailty score systems (KATZ, Geriatric 8 - G8, Cumulative Illness Rating Scale - CIRS)
      were calculated.
    
  