
    
      Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), or placement of a gastrostomy tube with the aid of
      an endoscope, was first reported by a pediatrist in 1980. It was created to replace surgical
      gastrostomy and used widely in patients who are needed long-term tube feeding. There are
      three kinds of PEG techniques, including pull method, push method and introducer method.
      Among them, pull method is the most widely accepted technique due to its simplicity of
      insertion.

      PEG has less severe complication rate or mortality rate compared with traditional surgical
      gastrostomy. However, there are still some mild complications which cannot be completely
      prevented and peristomal infection is the most common one. The major cause of peristomal
      infection is that oropharyngeal bacteria colonized gastrostomy feeding tube while undergoing
      PEG placement with pull method or push method, then bacteria was brought to the stoma via
      gastrostomy feeding tube and induced peristomal infection.

      Povidone-iodine (PVP-I) is a stable chemical complex of polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone, PVP)
      and iodine. It exhibits broad range of microbicidal activity via increasing the solubility of
      iodine. A retrospective study in Japan demonstrated that using Povidone-iodine gargling
      solution before PEG technique reduced peristomal infection rate. Besides, many studies
      demonstrated that gingival degerming by Povidone-iodine irrigation prior to extraction or
      gingivectomy reduced the oral bacterial colonies and postoperative infection rate.

      The investigators will use Betadine (10% Povidone iodine) as experimental drug. The
      gastrostomy feeding tube will be coated with a layer of Betadine by aseptic gauze before PEG
      technique. Investigators expect that gastrostomy feeding tube coated with Betadine will
      reduce the oropharyngeal, esophageal and gastric bacteria colonization rate, followed by
      reducing peristomal infection rate.
    
  