
    
      Older adult patients with complex, displaced and/or unstable proximal humerus fractures
      treated with the PHILOS plate (DePuy Synthes Inc.) will be recruited. Detailed patient
      background information will be assessed. Surgical details will be acquired. Pre-, intra- and
      post-OP imaging data will be collected in frame of the standard treatment protocol. A post-OP
      CT scan, which is performed only occasionally as standard of care, will be acquired for all
      patients participating in this study. The de-identified medical images will be transferred
      via secure file transfer protocol (FTP) to the sponsor. Patient activity will be recorded in
      the first 6 post-OP weeks by means of two wearable activity trackers attached on the skin of
      the treated upper arm and the chest. The tracker containing the encoded data will be shipped
      back to the sponsor.

      According to the standard post-OP protocols, follow-up (FU) examinations will be performed at
      6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months after treatment. Additionally, another FU visit will be
      required at 3 weeks after surgery, where the activity trackers will be exchanged. FU
      radiographs during the standard of care visits will be compared with post-OP radiographs to
      determine if any mechanical failure has occurred.

      Mechanical failure or no failure status of the fixation will be determined at 6 months
      following fracture treatment.

      The patient-specific fixation failure risk will be prospectively predicted by means of
      computer simulations created from the pre-OP and post-OP CT images and surgical details. The
      prediction accuracy of the simulations will be evaluated by comparing the predicted failure
      risk with the clinically observed failure / no failure outcome. As a second approach,
      patient-specific shoulder activity (estimated based on patient pre-injury activity or
      measured directly post-operatively) will be incorporated into the simulations sequentially
      and its effect on the prediction accuracy will be evaluated.

      The interventions in this study, i.e. the examinations that are beyond the current standard
      of care, will be i) the extra acquisition of the post-OP CT image in the cases that the
      treating surgeon is not requesting them, ii) the questionnaires on comorbidities and
      pre-injury activity, and grip strength measurements to estimate activity of the patient and
      iii) the post-OP activity measurement by means of wearable sensors.
    
  