
    
      Background:

      Extreme obesity (body mass index ≥ 35 kg/m2) affects 9% of Canadians; has tripled in
      prevalence in 3 decades; shortens life expectancy by 5-13 years; and is debilitating and
      costly. Current guidelines recommend that extremely obese patients receive treatment
      [consisting of intensive lifestyle modification ± bariatric (obesity) surgery] within a
      multidisciplinary bariatric setting. However, in Canada and other publicly funded health care
      settings, demand for multidisciplinary bariatric care far outstrips the capacity to provide
      it and so patients often face protracted, multiyear wait times. A recent study examining 150
      patients on the Edmonton wait list (done at a time when the wait was several years in
      Edmonton) demonstrated that these patients self-report severely impaired health status
      (similar to those with diabetes or COPD) and strongly feel that prolonged wait times are a
      major contributor to their health impairments. To support these patients as they wait for
      more definitive management, our multidisciplinary team of clinicians, allied health
      professionals and decision makers have designed and implemented a Weight Wise Community
      Module (WWCM) program, consisting of a 3-month, 10-session group-based weight self-management
      intervention. In addition, a web-based version of the WWCM is now available. The WWCM program
      teaches self-management skills to improve diet, increase physical activity, reduce stress and
      increase self-efficacy - but it has not yet been evaluated. We are interested both in the
      outcomes after three months and after the patient has gone through the weight management
      clinic.The comparative clinical and cost-effectiveness of the in-person WWCM, web-based WWCM
      and usual care are not known.

      Objectives:

      To determine if an evidence-based weight-management program currently being delivered to
      adult (age 18 years or greater) extremely obese patients wait-listed for multidisciplinary
      bariatric (obesity) care in a population-based program improves clinical and humanistic
      outcomes, and is cost-effective.

      Study Design:

      This 9-month study will use a pragmatic, prospective, randomized, controlled design in which
      consenting extremely obese patients, newly wait listed for the Weight Wise Adult Clinic, will
      be randomly assigned one of three groups:

        1. Weight Wise Community Modules delivered in person (9 modules delivered over 10
           sessions).

        2. Weight Wise Community Modules delivered on the web (13 modules, content is similar to
           the in-person modules)

        3. Mailed Educational Pamphlets (including Canada's Guide to Health Living and tips on
           self-management strategies and improving readiness-to-change).

      Each study arm will be comprised of 220 patients (660 total).Randomization will be performed
      independently of the research team by an independent organization, the EPICORE Centre.

      Procedures:

      Patients will be enrolled at the point of referral to each zonal program. They will have 3
      months to complete the modules or review the mailed educational materials. After this, they
      will enter the weight management clinic in their zone. They will be followed by the study
      team for an additional six months while they are in the weight management clinic. Study
      outcomes assessments will occur at 3,6, and 9-months post randomization. If patients undergo
      bariatric surgery during the follow-up period, data will still be collected but they may need
      to be censored in the analysis.
    
  