
    
      Sixty polytrauma patients presenting to Jacobi Medical Center will be screened for
      eligibility according to strict inclusion and exclusion criteria by study personnel on
      admission. Medical history, physical examination, and laboratory findings will be collected
      and assessed to ensure that patients meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible
      subjects will be enrolled after obtaining informed consent from either the subject or health
      care proxy if the subject is not able to participate in the decision-making process secondary
      to his injuries or mental status. As this dose of vitamin D has not been previously studied
      in pregnant subjects, female subjects will be counseled on potential pregnancy risks and will
      undergo urine pregnancy testing prior to administration of the investigational agent/placebo.
      Female patients testing positive for pregnancy will be removed from the study. Upon
      enrollment, study personnel will assign subjects a study ID and record this information in a
      password-protected data collection document.

      All enrolled subjects will have blood draws by phlebotomy or nursing staff for the
      above-mentioned bone turnover markers once consent is obtained. This will include specimen
      collection and processing for the following serum levels in both study arms: 25(OH)-D, PTH,
      collagen type I C-telopeptide, calcium, phosphorus, osteocalcin, and alkaline phosphatase.
      This initial specimen collection will occur in the interval between 0 and 72 hours of
      hospital admission.

      Collected specimen will be assigned unique identifiers corresponding to patients' study IDs
      and delivered to core labs at Jacobi Medical Center. From there, the specimen will be sent to
      an outside testing facility (Northwell Laboratories, Lake Success, NY), where specimen
      processing will occur. Normal laboratory values will be established by the outside testing
      facility according to CLIA standards.

      The study personnel will liaise with the JMC Main or Satellite Pharmacy to alert them
      regarding newly enrolled study subjects. The pharmacist will then assign patients according
      to randomization algorithm in a 1:1 ratio to intervention and control arms, with 30 patients
      in each group by the end of the study accrual. The pharmacist will then prepare and transport
      the investigational agent or placebo to the subject's location for administration by nursing
      staff.

      The intervention cohort will receive 400,000IU liquid ergocalciferol (50cc of 8000IU/cc
      Calcidol solution) via oral, NG tube, or gastrostomy route.

      The control cohort will receive 50cc of propylene glycol as placebo via oral, NG tube, or
      gastrostomy route.

      A repeat specimen collection of above-mentioned bone turnover markers will commence either at
      7 days if patient is still inpatient, or at discharge, whichever occurs first. The specimens
      obtained at that time will be treated in the same manner as the initial specimens.

      For each enrolled subject, the investigators will collect data from hospital presentation to
      discharge on standard demographics, routine laboratory results, clinical and injury
      characteristics and hospital course data (length of stay, in-hospital mortality, mobilization
      status, associated inpatient procedures and complications).
    
  