
    
      Postoperative pain is an important clinical concern and quality-of-care metric, yet it is
      undertreated in neurosurgical patients. Approximately 40% of inpatients complain of severe
      pain postoperatively, and only 56% of these patients indicate that their pain is well
      controlled. In addition, pain is a common cause of delayed discharge and unplanned hospital
      readmission.

      Pituitary adenoma is the second most common benign primary central nervous system tumor, and
      transnasal transsphenoidal (TTS) has long taken over craniotomy to be the first-line surgical
      approach for pituitary tumor resection. TTS significantly reduces patient's surgical trauma,
      shortens the operation time, reduces surgery-related complications, and increases total tumor
      resection rate compared with the previously used craniotomy. However, given that the nasal
      mucosa is extremely sensitive, the feeling of pain is more obvious after surgery via TTS
      approach than via craniotomy.

      Opioids such as morphine and pethidine are the most effective post-surgical analgesics, but
      they have a series of side effects, such as drug addiction, decreased gastrointestinal
      motility, nausea and vomiting. Opioids are not an analgesic that must be used after TTS
      surgery. NSAIDS, such as parecoxib and lexone, and tramadol are also commonly used analgesics
      after surgery, and they are also effective. NSAIDS is a first-tier painkiller, and tramadol
      is a second-tier drug. There is no evidence-based evidence recommending the preferred choice
      of these two drugs. Which of NSAIDS and tramadol has the better analgesic effect and which
      drug brings lower side effects to patients is still unclear. The clinical application of the
      two drugs is entirely based on the personal habits of the surgeon.

      Therefore, we plan to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial to explore: whether
      the analgesic effect of NSAIDS is non-inferior than tramadol; and whether the side effects of
      NSAIDS are not higher than tramadol. This result will guide us in clinical pain management
      for patients with pituitary adenomas after surgery via TTS approach.
    
  