
    
      Increase in the extracellular water of lungs is the major pathophisilogy of ARDS. According
      to various studies Covid 19 pneumonia has a very similar clinical course to Acute Respiratory
      Distress Syndrome (ARDS) which has clarified by Berlin definition. Depending on the
      similarity of Covid 19 and ARDS; evaluation of ECW ,can be a determinant of clinical
      apperence of covid19 pneumonia. The aim of this study to find the corelation between ECW and
      severty of the pneumonia.

      In this prospective -controlled research, the patients who were diagnosed with Covid-19
      pneumonia will be evaluated. The ones in the intensive care will be considered as severe, and
      the ones in the ward will be considered as mild clinical course pneumonia. İn both groups, in
      addition to other heamodynamic parametres, ECW will be recorded using non-invasive body
      biooimpedence method by NİCaS machine. The total amount of patients will be 52, 26 each two
      groups.

      The ward and intensive care patients will be connected to the NİCaS machine to determine ECW
      and statistically significantchanges will be recorded. The device consists of a laptop, a
      software which calculates cardiac parameters and two electrodes. The measurement is done by
      the following process: one of these electrodes, which looks like ECG electrodes, is stuck to
      the wrist and the other one to the opposite ankle or each one to two wrists.

      the severety of illness will try to be detected.Gpower 3 for Mac Os (Faul, F., Erdfelder, E.,
      Buchner, A., & Lang, A.-G. (2009). Statistical power analyses using G*Power 3.1: Tests for
      correlation and regression analyses. Behavior Research Methods, 41, 11491160.) was used for
      istatistical power analysis.The power analysis was done priorly and based on the T-test.In
      order to provide enoughsample magnitude power, which is 0.8, it was calculated that each
      group should have 26 patients which makes at total of 52 Statistical method: The normal
      distribution of data will be evaluated using Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Parametric ones will be
      used in normal distrubitions, non-parametric ones will be used in abnormal distrubitions.
      İntergroup ECW values will be compared via independent sample T test. In catagoric data, the
      comparisons will be made with Pearson Ki square test, and the p values less then 0.05 will be
      considered as significant.
    
  