
    
      Postoperative pulmonary and musculoskeletal complications are the most frequent and
      significant contributor to morbidity, mortality with hospitalization. Pilates-based exercise
      has be applied to improve core control, movement efficiency and postural stability. High
      incidence of musculoskeletal problems have been concerned in relation to the patient's
      functional recovery after cardiac surgery. However, no literature is addressed how to manage
      this issue effectively till now. The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effect
      of pilates-based cardiopulmonary physical therapy for in-patients after cardiac surgery. This
      is a single-blinded, randomized control trial. Investigators will enroll pre-cardiac surgery
      and allocate subjects to modified Pilates-based training group or control group using block
      randomization.The training protocol will be based on pilates concepts. The control group is
      treated with a conventional protocol of physical therapy. The study will be carried on whole
      in-patient phase. During this period, patients received respiratory motion analysis, chest
      wall muscles mobility, lung function and endurance evaluation. Patients' changes in
      respiratory movement, cardiopulmonary endurance, and lung function will be evaluated by an
      assessor blinded to the intervention at admission and discharge from hospital. After 6 months
      after hospital discharge, patient's respiratory motion, lung function and disease specific
      health related quality of life will be evaluated. All outcomes will be described by mean (SD)
      or number (%). Independent t test or chi square test will be used to compare the basic data
      difference between training group and conventional group. Then, two-way analysis of variance
      or two-way analysis of covariance will be used to compare the outcomes difference between
      groups. Alpha level is set at 0.05.
    
  