
    
      Hallux Rigidus is a common disorder that affects an estimated 1 in 40 people over the age of
      50.4 While debate remains about the primary cause of this disorder, it is likely
      multifactorial with contributing factors including previous trauma, malalignment and
      underlying genetic influences.5 Regardless of the cause, the disorder can become progressive
      and significantly impact a patient's quality of life. Common symptoms include pain, swelling
      and limited range of motion. Patients often present with pain dorsally over the first
      metatarsophalangeal (MTP) joint secondary to osteophyte formation and swelling. This can
      restrict range of motion at this joint, as well as make daily activities, such as wearing
      closed-toed shoes, quite difficult.6 Furthermore, continued pain can lead to gait
      abnormalities with more weight bearing through the lateral aspect of the foot and potential
      transfer metatarsalgia.7

      Along with physical exam to identify first MTP range of motion, joint swelling, erythema and
      palpable osteophyte formation, radiographic evaluation is part of the standard of care in
      hallux rigidus evaluation. Coughlin and Shurnas proposed a grading system that has become
      widely used, based on the radiographic findings and range of motion at the MTP joint.8 The
      grading system allowed clinicians to characterize patients from grade 0-4, helping guide
      treatment decisions.

      Initial treatment is centered on pain relief with non-operative modalities. Modified shoe
      wear, custom orthotics with a Morton extension and activity modifications have all been shown
      to improve symptoms in some patients.7 For patients that fail non-operative therapies, a wide
      array of surgical options exist. For patients with Grade 1 and 2 hallux rigidus, joint
      sparing procedures have been primarily used, with the most common procedure being
      Cheilectomy. The Cheilectomy procedure involves removal of the dorsal osteophytes and 20-30%
      of the dorsal metatarsal head.3 The benefits of this procedure include the ability to improve
      joint mobility, while still leaving the potential for future fusion. Success rates have been
      reported between 72% and 100% in patients with grade 1 and 2 hallux rigidus.7 Controversy
      remains regarding cheilectomy in patients with grade 3 hallux rigidus however. Nicolosi et al
      found an average satisfaction rate of 85% in patients with grade 3 disease undergoing
      cheilectomy3. Additional studies, however have suggested high failure and revision rates in
      patients with grade 3 hallux rigidus.3

      Joint fusion has become common place in the treatment of advanced stage hallux rigidus,
      including grade 3 and 4. High fusion rates and patient satisfaction has been proven with
      fusion procedures in the first MTP joint.7 However, the loss of motion at the first MTP joint
      associated with the fusion procedure can interfere with activities such as running and
      jumping, and can make shoe wear choices difficult2. These limitations led to the push for
      development of a joint replacement procedure, allowing for pain control and continued motion.

      The use of silicone-based joint replacement has been met with mixed results, however concerns
      over the durability leading to implant fracture, osteolysis and difficulty of revision
      procedures has ultimately limited its use.9 Ceramic implants were found to have good
      short-term results, however concerns remain regarding the large amount of subsidence seen in
      follow up, as well as potential osteolysis10. Furthermore, the amount of bone stock remaining
      following this procedure could make revision procedures quite challenging. Given these mixed
      results, there remained a significant drive to identify a joint replacement-type procedure
      with a device that could maintain adequate bone stock, preserve motion and withstand the
      daily stresses the first MTP joint faces.

      This led to the use of the Cartiva implant, a polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel implant. Following
      extensive safety and wear testing, it was determined that this implant would be well suited
      for use in patients with hallux rigidus. Indicated for grade 2, 3 and 4 hallux rigidus, the
      initial study of Cartiva effectiveness compared outcomes of the implant versus arthrodesis.
      The prospective, randomized control trial evaluated 202 patients, with over 2/3 undergoing
      the Cartiva procedure.2 Both short and midterm outcomes were very promising. 5-year revision
      rates were found to be 5% with no evidence of implant loosening or surrounding bone
      complication.11 Additionally, the Cartiva implant was found to be equivalent to the gold
      standard, arthrodesis, when it came to post-operative patient outcome scores, range of motion
      and complications.2

      With promising results from initial clinical trials, further evaluation into the efficacy and
      indications for Cartiva is necessary. To date, there is no published literature comparing
      Cheilectomy to Cartiva. Both procedures have shown to have beneficial results in patients
      with grade 2 hallux rigidus, yet it is unclear if one procedure would be preferred in this
      population or certain subsets of patients. With an estimated revision rate around 9%
      following Cheilectomy, it is possible that Cartiva could decrease the need for additional
      procedures.
    
  