
    
      The primary objective of this Phase 2, open-label, multicenter, single-arm, extension study
      is to investigate the safety and efficacy of episodic treatment with palovarotene in FOP
      subjects with flare-ups.

      Secondary objectives are:

      The effect of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on range of motion (ROM) as
      assessed by the subject global assessment of movement.

        -  The effect of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on ROM as assessed by
           the Cumulative Analogue Joint Involvement Scale for FOP (CAJIS) for subjects with
           video-conferencing capability.

        -  The effect of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on the total burden of
           heterotopic ossification (HO) as assessed by low-dose whole body computerized tomography
           (WBCT), excluding the head; and whole body dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA).

        -  The effect of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on physical function
           using age-appropriate forms of the FOP-Physical Function Questionnaire (FOP-PFQ).

        -  The effect of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on physical and mental
           health using age appropriate forms of the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement
           Information System (PROMIS) Global Health Scale.

        -  The effects of episodic treatment of flare-ups with palovarotene on pain and swelling
           associated with the flare-up using numeric rating scales (NRS) or the Faces Pain
           Scale-Revised (FPS-R) in subjects under 8 years of age.

        -  The use of assistive devices and adaptations for daily living by FOP subjects.

      The follow-up portion of the study will consist of a Screening visit that will correspond to
      the last day (Study Day 84) of Study PVO-1A-202 and bi-annual assessments at Months 6, 12,
      18, 24, 30, and 36.

      Subjects experiencing a new, distinct flare-up during the 36-month follow-up will be
      evaluated and if eligible, receive palovarotene at the weight-adjusted equivalent of 10 mg
      for 14 days followed by 5 mg for at least 28 days. Any subject who received a lower dosing
      regimen due to tolerability issues during Study PVO-1A-202 will receive that tolerated dose.

      For each flare-up there will be two periods:

        1. A Screening period to occur within 7 days of the start of a new, distinct flare-up. The
           first dose of palovarotene will be taken within 10 days of the flare-up onset to allow
           for shipment of study medication to the subject's home.

        2. A treatment period of at least 6 weeks duration. Subjects experiencing a new, distinct
           flare-up will be evaluated
    
  