
    
      Pediatric obesity is a highly prevalent problem, requiring both treatment and prevention
      efforts to reduce cardiovascular disease risk and metabolic consequences among affected
      children and the child population. The efficacy of family-based behavioral pediatric obesity
      treatment is likely compromised by non-optimal parent and child behavioral skills use (BSU).
      In pediatric obesity treatment trials, BSU assessment is infrequent, incomplete, and has
      unknown reliability. Poor and incomplete BSU measurement precludes improving behavioral
      interventions for pediatric obesity. Furthermore, different approaches to help families
      initiate and sustain BSU during and following treatment have not been tested. This study aims
      to investigate 1) prospective relations between BSU measured during and following treatment
      and change in child weight status, physical activity, and diet, and 2) differences in BSU
      trajectory between two different implementation approaches during and following treatment.
      Eighty-two parent-child (7-11 y.o.) pairs will participate in a 20-week treatment with
      follow-up at 3 and 6 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either a
      prescriptive or self-directed implementation approach to family-based behavioral pediatric
      obesity treatment. BSU (monitoring, contingency management, environmental control) will be
      reported or assessed at pre-treatment, at the 5th, 10th, and 15th treatment sessions, at
      post-treatment and at the 3-month and 6-month follow-ups by the parent, interventionist, and
      supplemental evaluator. Prospective associations between BSU, measured multiple times and by
      multiple informant/formats, and change in child weight status (z-BMI) and weight-related
      behaviors (diet, physical activity) over the course of treatment and throughout follow up
      will be examined. This proposal will provide important information about the type of BSU and
      its measurement that is most related to short- and long-term treatment efficacy, and provide
      pilot data on the relative efficacy of different implementation approaches to initiate and
      sustain BSU in pediatric obesity intervention.
    
  