
    
      The proposed study aims to understand the factors that influence screening behaviors of
      adults with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT). HHT is a chronic condition, but with
      early diagnosis followed by adherence to recommended screening guidelines, the major
      complications of this disorder can be avoided and disability or even death can be prevented.
      Yet, it has come to the attention of healthcare professionals that the recommended screening
      is not commonly followed by individuals with HHT, even when the risk of serious complications
      is known. Nonadherence to screening recommendations is not unique to HHT. It is rather common
      across chronic conditions, and genetic diseases, such as HHT, are no exception. However, HHT
      may have an added barrier to screening and treatment adherence in that it is a rare and
      underdiagnosed condition. Inadequate knowledge of healthcare providers may be a serious
      barrier to prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. The Health Belief Model (HBM) can be used to
      frame this study of HHT screening. The HBM posits that preventive health behaviors will be
      acted upon if individuals regard themselves as susceptible to the threat, they believe the
      consequences to be severe, and the perceived benefits outweigh the perceived barriers. In
      addition to the HBM constructs, this study will also consider the role of illness
      representations which provide a more personal view of the lived experience of individuals
      with HHT. A cosss-sectional design will be used to investigate the relationships among the
      domains of illness representations, HBM constructs (perceived susceptibility, perceived
      benefits, barriers, self-efficacy, response efficacy, cues to action), and HHT-specific
      screening guidelines. Participants will be recruited from the HHT Foundation International,
      Inc., an outline HHT Awareness social group, and HHT Clinics. Participants will be asked to
      complete either a web-based or a paper survey. The main outcome measure is screening
      behaviors and intentions to screen for complications associated with HHT.
    
  