
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of O6-benzylguanine when administered with standard
      high-dose ifosfamide in patients with unresectable, metastatic solid tumors.

      II. Determine whether O6-benzylguanine enhances ifosfamide-mediated myelosuppression in
      patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Determine the relationship between O6-benzylguanine dose and intra-individual
      variability in the degree of myelosuppression in patients treated with this regimen.

      IV. Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of O6-benzylguanine on pharmacodynamic endpoints, including apoptosis
      and DNA damage, in patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of O6-benzylguanine and its major metabolite, 8-oxoBG, in
      patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      O6-benzylguanine.

      Course 1: All patients receive high-dose ifosfamide IV continuously over 72 hours on days
      1-3.

      Course 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive high-dose ifosfamide as in course 1.

      Arm II: Patients receive a bolus dose of O6-benzylguanine (BG) IV over 1 hour on day 1
      followed by BG IV continuously and high-dose ifosfamide IV continuously over 72 hours on days
      1-3. Cohorts of 6-12 patients receive escalating doses of BG (administered as a bolus and as
      a continuous infusion during course 2) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.
      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 3 of 6 or 4 of 12 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

      Course 3 and all subsequent courses: All patients receive BG (at the MTD determined in course
      2, arm II) and high-dose ifosfamide as in course 2, arm II. In all courses, all patients also
      receive filgrastim (G-CSF) beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover. In
      all courses and in both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  