
    
      First visit (visit 0) will be performed in the first three days after patient is admitted to
      the neurological ward due to ischemic stroke. The purposes of the initial assessment include
      demographic data collection (age, gender, stroke location), initial interview to exclude past
      history of depression, substance abuse or psychosis. In addition, Ham-D, CGI, NIHSS, Barthel
      index, MMSE (please refer to the "instruments" listed below) are performed in the first
      visit. Patients whose MMSE<15 or Ham-D>10 will be excluded.

      After being enrolled, patients stratified with stroke locations are randomized assigned to
      two groups: group A (treatment group with active antidepressant) or group B (placebo group).
      Variables such as age, gender, severity of the NIHSS, MMSE and Ham-D will be controlled
      during assignment and the cytokine level will be checked also as baseline. The cytokine that
      will be checked includes IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α,IFN-γ that were considered pro-inflammatory
      cytokine. The anti-inflammatory cytokine of IL-4 ,IL-10 and TGF-β will be checked also
      .Patients in group A will take Milnacipran (50mg) 1# QD from the first day of being enrolled
      into the study and will titrate to 1# BID one week later. Patients in both groups will be
      followed at 1st, 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th month after stroke. The Ham-D, TDQ, NIHSS, Barthel
      index, CGI, MMSE and cytokines will be assessed in each of the check point. Patients in
      either group A or group B will be withdrawn from the study and referred to psychiatric
      clinics for further alternative management if they developed depression (Ham-D>17). Cytokine
      levels in depressed patients will be compared with the randomly selected controlled group.
      All the interviewers are blinded to the patient's medication. If patients drop out, the
      reason will be clarified and recorded. Patients who suffered from recurrent stroke during
      study period still keep the same protocol that are followed continuously for one year unless
      patients request for withdrawal
    
  