
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To define a pre-treatment tumor proteomic profile that predicts response, stable
           disease, or progressive disease in patients with stage IIIB, stage IV, or recurrent
           non-small cell lung cancer treated with erlotinib hydrochloride.

      Secondary

        -  To test and refine a pre-treatment serum proteomic expression pattern that predicts
           response to erlotinib hydrochloride and/or carboplatin and paclitaxel after failing
           treatment with erlotinib hydrochloride.

        -  To test and refine tumor proteomic profiles that predict response to carboplatin and
           paclitaxel after failing treatment with erlotinib hydrochloride.

        -  To analyze individual and pattern(s) of erlotinib hydrochloride-induced genomic and
           proteomic biomarker changes in relation to response or non-response to treatment.

        -  To correlate the efficacy and toxicity of erlotinib hydrochloride with expression of
           EGFR, EGFR pathway, ErbB family, and other related biomarkers.

        -  To determine a set of biomarkers to be evaluated in tumor tissue or surrogate tissues
           prior to treatment with erlotinib hydrochloride to enable patient selection for therapy.

        -  To estimate response rate and progression-free and overall survival of patients treated
           with erlotinib hydrochloride as initial therapy.

        -  To characterize the safety profile of erlotinib hydrochloride in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily until disease progression.

      At the time of disease progression, patients receive standard chemotherapy comprising
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1. Patients with
      non-squamous cell non-small cell lung cancer also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses.

      Tumor tissue, plasma, serum, and urine samples are collected at baseline for proteomics
      analysis.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 8 weeks.
    
  