
    
      Materials and methods

      This prospective, randomised controlled study was conducted from April 2008 to April 2013.
      The labour ward staff had very good knowledge of how to use the partograph, and partographs
      were routinely supplied in the labour ward. The department had a management protocol for the
      use of the partograph for labour supervision of all parturients in labour. In addition, an
      audited review of how labour was managed in all parturients occurred every morning on all
      workdays to assess compliance with the management protocol, which ensured the continuous
      instruction of all staff in partograph use for labour supervision.

      At the time of admission, the study participants were nulliparous, between 37 and 42 weeks
      gestation, in the spontaneous active phase of labour with intact fetal membranes and had
      singleton, cephalic-presenting fetuses. The exclusion criteria were prior antepartum
      haemorrhage, medical disorders in pregnancy and poor fetal growth in pregnancy. All the women
      who fulfilled the inclusion criteria during the antenatal period at approximately 34-36 weeks
      were selected, participated in an informative discussion about the study and signed a written
      consent. The study was approved by the UBTH research and ethics committee after a review of
      the study protocol and informed consent details. However, final inclusion in the study was
      limited to previously selected women who arrived at the labour ward at term in spontaneous
      active-phase labour with intact fetal membranes and still had no exclusion criteria. Upon
      presenting at the labour ward and being confirmed to be in active labour, the consenting
      women were randomised to either of two study arms: labour supervision with composite
      partograph action line location at 2 hours or 4 hours from the alert line by the physician
      but blinded to the participants. Allocation to the study arms was performed using
      consecutively numbered, sealed, opaque envelopes with a randomised sequence using a computer
      random number generator by a statistician not involved with care. A sample size determination
      for a 2-hour versus a 4-hour oxytocin augmentation of labour with a type 1 error (alpha) of
      10% and a type II error (beta) of 20% together with a power of 80% and a level of
      significance of 0.05 was performed on the basis of a previous study on the effects of
      different partograph action lines on birth outcomes. Recruitment into each arm of the study
      was calculated to require 320 participants. The enrolment of women in the study was continued
      until a sample size of 320 was achieved in each study group, the 2-hour or 4-hour action
      line. There were therefore no exclusions.

      Data and statistical analysis

      Collected data were checked for completeness and analysed using SPSS version 17 (SPSS Inc.,
      233 South Wackor Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606-6412, USA). Bivariate analyses were performed
      using a chi-square test for differences in proportion between the 2-hour and 4-hour lines for
      categorical variables, and odds ratios (ORs) and the respective confidence intervals were
      calculated. Continuous variables were compared using unpaired t-tests. A p-value of <0.05 was
      considered indicative of statistical significance.

      According to the departmental protocol for spontaneous labour management, active-phase labour
      was defined as at least one progressive contraction at every 10-minute interval in a
      parturient at term with cervical os confirmed as 4cm or above. The fetal membranes were
      instantly ruptured at the same vaginal examination (VE), which confirmed active-phase labour
      in all parturients to facilitate cervical os dilatation at 1 cm per hour because intact fetal
      membranes cause slow labour progress during active-phase labour. Findings from admission or
      first VE during active labour and other feto-maternal vital signs were recorded on the
      partograph. The feto-maternal vital signs were subsequently recorded hourly on the
      partograph.

      The timing of the repeat VE depended on the location of the action line on the partograph, to
      which the parturient was randomly allocated. For the women allocated to the 2-hour action
      line partograph, repeat VEs occurred every 2 hours. Women in the 4-hour group received repeat
      VEs every 4 hours unless the cervical os dilatation at the first VE was 7cm or above, in
      which case the repeat VE was performed earlier than 4 hours. The cervical os dilatations from
      the first and all subsequent VE findings were plotted on the partograph to show the graph of
      cervical os dilatation. When the cervical os dilatation progress did not cross the alert
      line, the progress was regarded as normal, and the subsequent care and delivery was performed
      by the midwife or junior obstetrics staff resident doctor. When the cervical os dilatation
      progress plotted on the partograph crossed the alert line, the midwife transferred the case
      to the obstetric team for subsequent care until delivery.

      Although all the parturients were admitted to the labour ward and had their first VE
      conducted by a midwife and recorded on the partograph, no midwife or obstetric resident staff
      of a status below a senior obstetric resident was allowed to perform a VE more than twice
      within 2 to 4 hours on any parturient in active-phase labour. The need for a third VE by the
      midwife or junior obstetric staff (other than a senior resident) was considered an indication
      to transfer the parturient to the care of more senior obstetric staff with the skill to
      manage long-duration active-phase labour. This strategy ensured the involvement of the senior
      obstetric staff in the treatment of women who remained in active-phase labour. Oxytocin
      augmentation as a treatment for slow labour progress was instituted only when the 2-hour or
      4-hour action line was crossed, not by the quality or frequency of uterine contractions as
      assessed by any method. The oxytocin base mixture and titration regimen in this study was as
      by the departmental protocol.

      A parturient on oxytocin labour augmentation was assigned a midwife to act as companion and
      to monitor the infusion regimen. The maximum duration of oxytocin augmentation was 8hours in
      the absence of fetal distress. When augmentation had occurred for over 4 hours, the senior
      obstetric resident managing the case was required to inform the consultant on call duty, who
      was also required to be involved in all caesarean delivery-related decisions for any
      parturient in labour, especially if there had been augmentation of labour. According to this
      protocol, the partograph in our setting was used as a tool for the deployment of the labour
      ward staff for the management of active-phase labour in cooperation between the midwives and
      obstetric staff. By this arrangement, parturients whose labour progress did not cross the
      alert line were managed and delivered by the midwives, while the parturients whose labour
      progress crossed the action line were passed to the care of the more senior and experienced
      obstetric staff for effective and efficient labour care. Prolonged labour, as defined by the
      departmental protocol and in this study, was defined as an active-phase labour duration of
      over 12 hours.

      The third stage of labour was actively managed to minimise blood loss. On the first day
      post-delivery, women who had vaginal delivery were interviewed using the likert scale score
      model regarding their satisfaction with the intervention based on the partograph action line
      placement and analysis was by one of the authors who was blinded to the action line
      placement. Those who delivered by c/s had their interview conducted on the third day
      post-delivery.
    
  