
    
      The effect of various dietary regimens and nutrient supplementation on rheumatoid arthritis
      (RA) has been previously explored, with the majority of the evidence supporting the
      beneficial effect of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), consumed mainly as fish oil
      supplements. However, many capsules should be taken on a daily basis (10 - 15) in order to
      improve health status, increasing, thus, the high drug burden these patients may encounter;
      inability to comply with supplementation, as depicted in drop-out rates and adverse
      reactions, is also of concern. On the other hand, the so far investigation of specific
      dietary patterns, namely elemental or vegetarian diets, revealed similar limitations
      regarding inability to comply, without producing clear benefit.

      The last decade, a traditional dietary pattern, the Mediterranean diet, has also been
      investigated in patients with RA. This pattern is characterized by abundance of plant foods
      (fruits, mainly as typical daily desserts, vegetables, bread, other forms of cereals, beans,
      nuts, and seeds), olive oil as the principal source of fat, moderate amounts of dairy
      products (mainly cheese and yogurt), low to moderate amounts of fish and poultry, red meat in
      low amounts and wine consumed in moderation, normally with meals. Adherence to the
      Mediterranean diet has been associated with a significant reduction in total mortality and
      improvement in longevity, as well as with lower incidence of atherosclerosis, coronary heart
      disease, metabolic syndrome and biochemical markers related to insulin resistance and
      inflammation. In RA, in specific, it has been shown to improve objective and subjective
      measures. It is also worth mentioning that this type of intervention produced negligible or
      no adverse effects or drop-out in RA patients. However, it has been implemented in
      North-European populations with a background diet far away from the Mediterranean dietary
      habits. It would be interesting to study the effect of a Mediterranean diet-based
      intervention in a Mediterranean population of RA patients, evaluate their adherence and
      changes in subjective disease measures as well as in biochemical markers. One of the markers
      of interest is adiponectin, a large 30-kDa protein produced mainly by adipocytes, sharing
      strong homologies with TNF and the complement factor C1q. Plasma levels of adiponectin have
      been negatively associated with indices of obesity, insulin resistance and cardiovascular
      disease. However, its role in RA is still controversial with some evidence indicating a
      proinflammatory effect and some other suggesting antiinflammatory properties of this
      adipocytokine.

      Aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of different lifestyle intervention
      administrations, in increasing adherence to the Mediterranean diet in a group of patients
      with RA living in the Mediterranean basin, and, thus, in improving parameters related to
      subjective and objective disease markers, including plasma adiponectin concentrations.
    
  