
    
      Scoliosis is a complex 3-dimensional deformity of the spine characterized by rotation of the
      vertebra at least 10 degrees lateral deviation and a decrease in the normal kyphotic
      curvature of the spine. Although the etiology of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is
      unknown, it is the most common type of scoliosis that occurs in the period from the age of 10
      until the skeletal development is completed.

      It is reported in the literature that AIS is associated with balance dysfunction, vestibular
      system defect, proprioceptive disorder, and brain stem dysfunction. In visual, vestibular and
      somatosensorial systems responsible for postural control, central integration and motor
      response may be impaired in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. It was also reported that the
      foot position and center of pressure was changed.

      Postural stability can also be defined as maintaining an upright posture during standing.
      Different spinal deformities, such as scoliosis, can affect postural stability during upright
      and equilibrium activities. It has been reported that balance control problems seen in
      patients with AIS result from the relationship between body shape and body segments.
      Furthermore, lateral stability of these patients was found to be more inadequate when
      compared to their healthy counterparts.

      Schroth method is a highly effective exercise method in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. This
      method mainly focuses on the 3-dimensional scoliotic curvature formed by the combination of
      lateral, frontal and rotational deviation and tries to normalize the curvature of the spine
      by combining this curvature with stretching, strengthening and breathing exercises. It is
      seen that the 3D Schroth exercise method has a high effect on strength and chest expansion
      and also has an effect on Cobb angle, asymmetry, daily living activity, balance, vital
      capacity, pulmonary function and foot pressure.There are also studies showing that body
      weight transfer in AIS changes according to the level and shape of scoliotic curvature.
      However, the study investigating the effect of Schroth 3D exercises on changing body statics
      is quite limited and only one study found that Schroth exercises were more effective in
      weight distribution than Pilates exercises.
    
  