
    
      Over the years, the incidence of lung cancer has risen in some low and middle income
      countries due to the rise in tobacco use. Patients commonly present with lung cancer in an
      advanced stage (stage III and IV) are not suitable for surgical resection, but may be
      considered for radiotherapy. For patients in those countries who are not suitable for
      surgical resection, radiotherapy offers the best chance of cure, best improvement in local
      cancer control, best palliation and fewest side-effects. For accurate patient selection for
      curative treatment and accurate staging of lung cancer, the use of fused
      18F-fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography/ Computed Tomography (FDG PET/CT) imaging
      has been shown to be superior to CT alone. It has also been shown to have a significant
      impact when used in the radiation treatment planning process and in particular for when used
      for target volume delineation, where a significant reduction in interobserver variation has
      been noted.

      In recent years, many health care institutions in low and middle income countries have
      established Nuclear Medicine (NM) imaging in routine clinical practice in conjunction with
      modern Radiation Oncology (RO) facilities. The installation of hybrid PET/CT systems in these
      countries permits more the increased use of PET/CT for both staging and radiotherapy
      planning. However the successful implementation of PET/CT for radiotherapy planning (RTP)
      requires a degree of expertise to safely and accurately implement this imaging technique. A
      recently published review by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), about current
      trends in NM in developing countries showed there is still lack of expertise, equipment and
      human resources to gain benefit from this imaging technique. In RO, difficulties in the
      implementation of this technique are mainly related to inadequate training of staff and lack
      of local expertise.

      Quality assurance of the PET/CT scanners might be compromised when not performed according to
      accepted nuclear medicine quality assurance standards. Therefore, there is a concern that, if
      used without appropriate training or expertise, suboptimal image quality may result and
      inappropriate interpretation of the PET/CT for RTP may occur. In this study to help provide
      PET Quality Control will be executed to aim for a standardized PET image quality that meets
      the minimum requirements of European Association of Nuclear Medicine standards. Participating
      centers will be assisted to earn the European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM) Research
      Ltd (EARL) accreditation. The quality of the imaging can be influenced by physiological and
      technical factors. The Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) allows for semi quantitative
      evaluation in PET imaging, and is influenced by these factors. Spatial resolution affects SUV
      values significantly and this parameter can differ a lot between multiple centers. The EANM
      NEMA NU 2001/2007 2 Image Quality Phantom allows for standardization of PET imaging between
      centers with different scanners, using the activity coefficient recovery curve (ACRC) as a
      parameter for quantification of this spatial resolution.

      It is already known that FDG PET/CT based RTP enables appropriate selection of patients who
      will benefit from curative radiation therapy. One possible cause of failure in radiotherapy
      is the inability to accurately define the tumor edges. In these patients there are no other
      possible curative salvage treatment options and the disease is incurable. It is hoped that
      FDG PET/CT based RTP will improve tumor volume delineation (TVD) and hence improve outcomes
      following curative radiotherapy. There is also clear evidence that PET/CT standardizes TVD in
      patients with NSCLC. However, what is not known is the impact of PET/CT based TVD on patient
      outcomes such as survival as distinct from the benefit of PET/CT for patient selection for
      curative treatment. Furthermore, the impact of a training intervention on the use of PET/CT
      RTP in 2-year overall survival has not been studied to the best of our knowledge.

      This study will evaluate the possible impact of the use of PET/CT for TVD on 2-year overall
      survival in patients with stage III NSCLC referred for curative intent radiotherapy with
      chemotherapy in low and middle income countries, this study involves a retrospective cohort
      study, a training intervention, and a prospective cohort study. The training intervention
      will focus on standard FDG PET/CT acquisition, FDG PET/CT image quality, staging procedure
      for FDG PET/CT acquisition and FDG PET/CT for RTP acquisition and Tumor Volume Delineation.
    
  