
    
      The optimal CA strategy for persistent AF remains unknown. Current data highlight the need
      for a better understanding of the substrate and mechanisms of arrhythmia maintenance in this
      population. Atrial scar-based catheter ablation has recently emerged as a promising strategy
      for ablation of AF. However, the available data has limitations that preclude definitive
      conclusions regarding the utility of this strategy (no data from multicenter, randomized
      studies available). Further research is needed to assess the role of scar-based ablation for
      persistent AF.

      The Investigators hypothesize that catheter ablation of persistent AF (PeAF) tailored to
      abolish abnormal atrial substrate identified by intracardiac atrial scar mapping in addition
      to pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) will result in higher procedural success rates when
      compared to PVI alone.

      The study will recruit 502 patients with PeAF (251 per treatment arm) who are candidates for
      CA ablation of AF according to the treating physician (and in agreement with current practice
      guidelines). Subjects will be recruited over a 42 month period. The total duration of the
      study is 60 months.

      Prior to undergoing catheter ablation subjects will be seen by the investigator/ research
      assistant and the following data will be collected:

      i. Age and sex ii. Structural heart disease if present iii. CHADS2VASc score iv. DR-FLASH
      score v. NYHA class vi. Current medications vii. Duration of uninterrupted AF viii. Height
      and weight ix. Echocardiogram and other cardiac imaging results (within previous 12 months,
      including assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction, left atrial volume and valve
      function) x. ECG, Holter or loop monitor recording (within past 36 months) documenting AF.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to undergo wide area circumferential
      ablation for pulmonary vein isolation (PVI- control arm) or wide area circumferential
      ablation PVI and scar ablation (experimental arm). Randomization will be stratified by centre
      and by sex. Subjects will be randomized prior to the procedure.

      Enrolled subjects will have a clinical follow-up visit at 3, 6, 12 and 18 months after the
      ablation procedure. A 14-day continuous ambulatory ECG monitor will be completed at each
      visit. The results of monitoring will be interpreted at a centralized core lab, and the
      results will be adjudicated by an arrhythmia specialist blinded to treatment group. A total
      of three questionnaires will be administered throughout the study, each at a specific time
      point. The Quality of Life (EQ-5D), CCS-Severity of AF scale, and Atrial Fibrillation Effect
      on Quality of life (AFEQT) will be completed at baseline, and at the 12-month and 18 month
      visit.

      Concomitant medical therapy will be selected according to the treating physician. All
      subjects will be maintained on systemic oral anticoagulation for at least 2 months following
      catheter ablation.
    
  