
    
      Methods and Procedures:

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel-group, 3 site, 8-week trial
      of risperidone monotherapy in outpatient subjects with a lifetime bipolar I, II, or not
      otherwise specified (NOS) disorder, a lifetime panic or generalized anxiety disorder, and
      current, at least moderately, severe anxiety symptoms. Approximately 90 subjects will be
      enrolled to obtain 60 subjects who complete the 8-week trial. Subjects will be randomized to
      risperidone or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. No concomitant psychotropic medication will be allowed
      except for as needed (prn) lorazepam during the first two weeks for the management of
      affective and anxiety symptoms, and prn zolpidem and zaleplon throughout the study for the
      management of insomnia. Throughout the study, psychiatric scales will be used to assess
      psychiatric symptoms and the presence of treatment-emergent adverse events will be monitored
      and recorded.

      Medication Dosing:

      Risperidone will be administered at an initial dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/day and will be titrated
      upward to a dose considered optimal by the investigator based on the subject's clinical
      response and adverse events, but not to exceed 2.0 mg/day by the end of the second week.
      Subsequently, risperidone may be increased based on clinical response and tolerability to a
      maximum of 4.0 mg/day. As needed study-prescribed (prn) use of lorazepam will be allowed for
      the management of affective and anxiety symptoms for the first two weeks of the study; a
      maximum of 2 mg per day will be allowed during the first week, and a maximum of 1 mg per day
      will be allowed during the second week. During the second week, the subject must be tapered
      off the lorazepam. For the final six weeks of the study, no lorazepam will be permitted.
      Zolpidem (10-20 mg/day) or zaleplon (10-20 mg/day) will be allowed for management of
      insomnia, and benztropine (0.5 - 3.0 mg/day) will be allowed for management of extrapyramidal
      symptoms. The latter three agents will be permitted throughout the study.

      From week 2 on, any medications with psychotropic effects are prohibited.

      Screening Visit(s):

      The Screening Period will last a minimum of 2 to a maximum of 30 days. At the first screening
      visit (Visit 0), informed consent will be obtained. The Mini International Neuropsychiatric
      Interview (MINI), with the Manic Module from the MINI plus, will be performed to establish
      whether the patient meets DSM-IV criteria for bipolar disorder I, II, or NOS, and for panic
      disorder or generalized anxiety disorder. For generalized anxiety disorder, the portion of
      Criterion F - that stipulates "the disturbance does not occur exclusively during a mood
      disorder" will be suspended. The CGI-BP and the CGI-S will be performed to establish the
      severity of bipolar affective symptoms and anxiety symptoms, respectively. Subjects will keep
      a mood chart in between visits to help them follow their affective and anxiety symptoms. The
      subject's bipolar symptoms must be evaluated as no more than moderately severe (defined as a
      CGI-BP < 4), and his/her anxiety symptoms must be evaluated as at least moderately severe (a
      CGI-S of > 4) for him/her to be able to continue in the screening process and enter the
      randomized phase. Medical history will be reviewed, a physical exam performed,
      electrocardiogram (EKG) and laboratory studies (complete metabolic profile, CBC with
      differential and platelets, urinalysis, pregnancy test, and urine drug screen) will be
      obtained. Based on these evaluations, it will be determined whether subjects meet entry
      criteria; subjects meeting these criteria will continue in the screening process.

      Baseline Visit (last Screening Visit):

      At baseline (Visit 1), subjects whose screening evaluations continue to meet all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria may enter the study and be randomized. These evaluations will
      include repeating the Clinical Global Impression modified for bipolar illness (CGI-BP) and
      the Clinical Global Improvement Scale for anxiety symptoms (CGI-S) to ensure the subject
      continues to have no more than moderately severe bipolar affective symptoms and at least
      moderately severe anxiety symptoms. Baseline ratings will include: the Sheehan Panic Anxiety
      Scale-Clinician Rated (SPAS-C); the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) to assess anxiety
      symptoms; the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) to assess manic symptoms; and the Inventory for
      Depressive Symptoms (IDS) (long form) to assess depressive symptoms. Subjects will also be
      evaluated with the CGI-BP, and the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS). The Panic-Agoraphobic
      Spectrum-Self-Report (PAS-SR) will be used to assess the lifetime presence of core and
      related features of panic disorder. (Subjects who score > 35 on the PAS-SR will be classified
      a-priori as having panic spectrum symptoms [PSS]). The Family Impact Scale (FIS) will be
      administered. The Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), Simpson Angus Scale (SAS), and
      Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale (BARS) will be administered to assess for extrapyramidal
      symptoms. Blood pressure, pulse, height, and weight, will be measured. Study medication will
      be dispensed by the Physician Investigator in the form of 0.5 mg capsules. The dose range of
      risperidone will be 0.5 to 4 mg/day.

      Treatment Period:

      Study visits will occur every week through the eight weeks of treatment. It is expected that
      risperidone will be gradually increased to an optimal dose during the first month of
      treatment. The following procedures will be completed at each visit.

        1. Collect unused risperidone, perform study drug accountability, and record dosage of
           study drug used. A subject's unused study medication can be re-dispensed back to the
           subject.

        2. Review mood chart and administer Clinician Global Improvement on anxiety symptoms -21
           point scale (CGI-I-21), Patient Global Improvement on anxiety symptoms -21 point scale
           (PGI-21), SPAS-C, HAM-A, YMRS, IDS, CGI-BP, and SDS ratings.

        3. Assess and record adverse events.

        4. Perform AIMS, SAS, and BARS.

        5. Obtain blood pressure, pulse, and weight.

        6. Record concomitant medication use (from mood chart)

        7. Adjust risperidone dose (if necessary) and dispense study drug.

      Final Evaluation (week 8) or Early Termination:

      The following evaluations will be conducted at the completion of, or early withdrawal from,
      the 8-week treatment phase. All psychiatric evaluations and all other final study procedures
      (including a repeat physical exam, EKG, and laboratory studies) will be completed prior to
      the discontinuation of risperidone. The evaluations to be performed are:

        -  Collect unused risperidone, perform study drug accountability, and record dosage of
           study drug used.

        -  Review mood chart and perform CGI-21, SPAS-C, HAM-A, YMRS, IDS, CGI-BP, PGI-21, and SDS
           ratings.

        -  Repeat PAS-SR

        -  Repeat FIS

        -  Assess and record adverse events.

        -  Obtain blood pressure, pulse, weight, and determine BMI.

        -  Perform physical examination, AIMS, SAS, BARS.

        -  Obtain laboratories (complete metabolic profile, CBC with/differential and platelets,
           urinalysis, pregnancy test, and urine drug screen).

        -  Repeat EKG.

        -  Record concomitant medication use (from mood chart)

        -  Adjust risperidone dose (if necessary) and prescribe drug (if subject has responded and
           chooses to continue on risperidone), or dispense risperidone taper for discontinuation
           (if subject has not responded or if subject chooses to discontinue risperidone for any
           reason).
    
  