
    
      This is a prospective cohort study, performed on 80 women attending Obstetrics and Gynecology
      Department of Benha University Hospital for invitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm
      injection treatment and private IVF centers. None undergoes more than one prior unsuccessful
      embryo transfer.

      Method of randomization:

      Simple random sample, which is a subset of individuals (a sample) chosen from a larger set (a
      population). Each individual is chosen randomly and entirely by chance, so each individual
      has the sample probability of being chosen at any stage during the sampling process, and each
      subset of k individuals has the same probability of being chosen for the sample as any other
      subset of k individuals (Yates et al., 2008).

      Methods:

      The patients will be subjected to the following:

        -  History.

        -  General examination.

        -  Endometrial secretion aspiration.

        -  Determination of the cytokine profile.

        -  Detection of implantation rate.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age younger than 37 years.

        2. Having a regular and proven ovulatory menstrual cycles with a length of 26-35 days.

        3. Body mass index less than 35 kg/m2.

        4. Serum follicle stimulating hormone and estradiol were within normal ranges.

      Indications of IVF:

      Tubal pathology, unexplained infertility, and male factor.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Gross uterine pathology.

      Steps of performance:

      All women having the inclusion criteria were subjected to super ovulation protocols followed
      by hcg adminstration when the follicles reached 18-20 mm . Ovum retrieval were done at 35
      hours following hcg injection.

      Five millilitre of salin are injected intrauterine then aspirated after ovum
      retrieval.Endometrial secretions, aspirated immediately after ovum retrieval from 80 women
      undergoing IVF, will be analyzed using a multiplex immunoassay for soluble regulators of
      implantation, namely Interleukin (IL)-1b, Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-a,. In order to detect
      implantation predictors.
    
  