
    
      Depression and anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent psychological difficulties and
      contribute to negative economic, social, and health outcomes. As they are frequently comorbid
      and share underlying mechanisms of dysfunction, many scholars have conceptualized these as a
      unified category of emotional disorders. Addressing processes contributing to dysfunction
      among individuals who are at risk for developing emotional disorders has the potential to
      prevent significant negative impact.

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) has received empirical support in the treatment of
      depression and anxiety in a number of examinations. ACT aims to shape acceptance of
      challenging thoughts and feelings and engagement with areas of life one finds meaningful and
      important. The converse of acceptance, experiential avoidance, or the unwillingness to
      experience unpleasant thoughts and emotions even when doing so is maladaptive, has been
      predictive of symptoms of depression and anxiety. Reducing experiential avoidance and shaping
      alternative responses, such as acceptance and behavior consistent with one's values, termed
      committed action, is a promising strategy for targeting risk for emotional disorders.

      Traditional means of delivering interventions fail to reach a substantial proportion of those
      who struggle with psychological difficulties. Barriers such as distance, time, and cost
      contribute to these challenges. Digital mental health interventions offer a means to overcome
      treatment barriers and increase access. These approaches can be delivered in individual's
      homes at the time of their choosing. Additionally, digital interventions can be delivered to
      many people at the same time, reducing cost. Support for the impact of ACT-informed digital
      interventions on symptoms of depression and anxiety has been obtained, suggesting that this
      framework is promising for reducing risk.

      The goal of the current study is to compare the impact of a digital ACT-informed intervention
      on psychological symptoms and processes of change among individuals at risk for depression
      and anxiety. The following hypotheses will be evaluated:

        1. Individuals in the treatment condition will experience a decrease in symptoms of
           depression and anxiety compared to those in the control group

        2. Individuals in the treatment condition will experience a decrease in experiential
           avoidance and increase in values consistent behavior compared to those in the control
           group

        3. The digital intervention will generally be rated positively

        4. The relationship between cognitive fusion and treatment response will be explored
    
  