
    
      For this project, adult patients (>40 years) undergoing lumbar spinal fusion will be
      randomized to undergo teriparatide treatment for 1 month prior to surgery. Patients will have
      their baseline BMD assessed by DEXA scan must be considered as osteoporotic (>2.5 SD from
      sex-matched young adult, or previous vertebral and/or femoral fractures) and indicated for
      spinal fusion surgery to undergo study. Exclusion criteria included Paget disease of bone,
      high laboratory tests for serum alkaline phosphatase or calcium, previous radiation treatment
      or fusion surgery to lumbar spine, bone tumors, metabolic bone disease, and hypersensitivity
      to teriparatide. Surgery involving single- or multi-level lumbar spinal fusion for any of the
      conditions: lumbar spinal stenosis, degenerative/isthmic/congenital spondylolisthesis,
      degenerative scoliosis. Only the surgeon and assessors will be blinded as patients will know
      their treatment arm.

      Patients undergo a quantitative CT prior to initiation of teriparatide treatment. After one
      month of Teriparatide treatment, the drug is discontinued with another DEXA scan to see the
      changes in BMD. A quantitative CT will be performed after surgery and at 6 months
      postoperatively. Follow-up schedules include preoperative, immediate postoperative,
      postoperative 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and at 24 months. At all follow-up
      timepoints, any complications, fusion demonstrated by cross-trabeculation on x-rays (with
      final confirmation at the 6 month CT), and objective questionnaires for quality of life
      including the EuroQoL 5 dimensions 5-level questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), back pain numeric rating
      scale (NRS), osteoporosis assessment questionnaire-physical function (OPAQ-PF) and ambulatory
      status assessment (ASA) questionnaires will be recorded. Other quality-of-life scores include
      ODI and SF-36, along with adherence evaluation of osteoporosis treatment (ADEOS),
      osteoporosis attitude questionnaire and osteoporosis knowledge questionnaire. Once a patient
      is identified to be suitable for this protocol, they will need to be assessed by a medical
      social worker to be unable to afford this entire treatment regimen before institutional
      support for the drug treatment is provided.
    
  