
    
      The Bronx has the heaviest burden of diabetes within New York City (NYC) and statewide. The
      highest diabetes hospitalization and death rates in NYC occur in the Bronx, which has
      hospitalization rates approximately 25 percent above the statewide average. The Bronx is one
      of the poorest urban counties in the nation, and diabetes disproportionately impacts
      high-poverty communities. The borough has an ethnically and racially diverse population
      (53.5% of residents are Hispanic and 36.5% are black), and diabetes is highly prevalent among
      blacks and Hispanics. Obesity, a major risk factor for diabetes, is also prevalent with
      nearly 33% (much higher than the 24% prevalence of obesity in NYC) of Bronx adults being
      obese. Among the many social determinants of health, medical provider practice behaviors,
      suboptimal access to health care, lack of patient knowledge regarding proper medication
      administration and potential side effects, and difficulty adhering to medical regimens by
      patients and families all contribute to poor diabetes outcomes.

      With appropriate medical care including education (especially regarding potentially
      modifiable lifestyle factors that contribute to diabetes), well-informed patients can achieve
      diabetes control. However, there are significant challenges in providing effective patient
      education in the ambulatory setting, such as time constraints and prioritizing other issues
      (e.g. comorbid conditions) above comprehensive diabetes education. While patient education
      and teaching self-management skills are critical to improve diabetes outcomes, such
      strategies will succeed only as part of more comprehensive interventions. Diabetes
      self-management education (DSME) has been linked to decreases in hemoglobin A1c, reductions
      in the onset and/or progression of diabetes complications, reductions in diabetes-related
      hospitalizations and readmissions, and improvements in quality of life, lifestyle behaviors
      (e.g. physical activity, healthier eating), self-efficacy, and coping skills. The American
      Association of Diabetes Educators (AADE) has described the AADE7 Self-Care Behaviors (healthy
      eating, being active, monitoring, taking medications, problem solving, healthy coping,
      reducing risks) as a framework to organize and structure patient-centered education. Despite
      the proven benefits of DSME, less than 10% of type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients receive
      structured education for a variety of reasons: providers' misunderstanding of DSME
      effectiveness and confusion about how to make referrals; many clinic sites' lack of access to
      DSME services; and some payers' lack of coverage for DSME services. With the increasing use
      of smartphones and the internet, health information technology (IT)-based approaches (e.g.
      mobile applications, text messaging platforms, internet-based educational modules, and
      telemedicine/telehealth interventions) - through standalone interventions or by supplementing
      education (i.e. by reinforcing content delivered in-person) - can increase patients' access
      to DSME, and have been linked to improvements in hemoglobin A1c and other outcomes. Mobile
      applications ('apps') can provide day-to-day support for patients with diabetes, but commonly
      lack evidence-based content and/or comprehensiveness. A recent study reported that only a
      small percentage of the diabetes apps available on the iOS and Android stores supported the
      AADE7 behaviors regarding problem solving, healthy coping, and reducing risks. Another recent
      article suggested that few apps provided personalized education or tailored therapeutic
      support. As with other chronic conditions, diabetes mobile applications are often
      characterized by low retention rates and decreased user engagement with the app following the
      initial download.

      Given the need for personalizable and adaptive mobile applications for patients with type 2
      diabetes, this proposal will develop, evaluate, and refine a patient-centered mobile
      application (T2DXcel), which will deliver tailored and algorithm-based diabetes education to
      improve process and diabetes-related outcomes.
    
  