
    
      Background/Purpose. Although the VHA has the most extensive system of home and
      community-based services, most Veterans who need care in their home receive it exclusively
      through family and friends. For Veterans living with cognitive and/or functional limitations,
      even though family or friend caregivers help avoid or delay nursing home entry, caregivers
      are faced with a greater risk of depression and burnout. These caregivers often lack training
      and support needed to perform high-quality caregiving duties, and critical gaps remain in
      VA-system wide approaches to addressing caregiver skills training and support.

      iHI-FIVES is an evidence-based skills training program for family or friend caregivers of
      Veterans referred to home care services. iHI-FIVES is adapted from a randomized control trial
      (HI-FIVES) funded by the VHA Office of Research and Development and conducted at the Durham
      VAMC with evaluation results shown to increase satisfaction with VHA care and reduce
      caregiver feelings of isolation. The iHI-FIVES curriculum that will be delivered by clinical
      staff consists of four in-person group classes that address caregiver clinical,
      psychological, and support-seeking skills.

      iHI-FIVES is part of the investigators' Optimizing Function and Independence QUERI (the other
      sub-project is STRIDE QUX-16-015). For the iHI-FIVES sub-project, the investigators plan to
      implement the iHI-FIVES caregiver skills training program (hereafter called "clinical
      program") at 8 VAMC sites in a stepped-wedge design with sites randomized to implementation
      strategy and start date.

      Objectives. The investigators plan to conduct an evaluation to examine the impact of
      iHI-FIVES on patient independence and caregiver functioning.

      Key questions: Do patients have higher number of days in the community following iHI-FIVES
      implementation? Do caregivers have higher satisfaction with VA care, lower depressive
      symptoms and lower subjective burden following IHI-FIVES implementation? What is the value of
      iHI-FIVES from the caregiver's perspective? The investigators also plan to conduct a mixed
      method evaluation that examines implementation outcomes and provider team experience that
      will not be reported here.

      Methodology. For patients referred to home care services, the investigators will compare the
      number of days in the community before and after the iHI-FIVES program is implemented
      (approx. n=400). In addition, the investigators will compare a subset of caregivers of
      Veterans referred to home care services before and after the iHI-FIVES program is implemented
      to assess satisfaction with VA care, depressive symptoms, and subjective burden.
    
  