
    
      The purpose of this study is to perform a double-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) in
      young patients with First Episode Psychosis (FEP) to target improvement in cognitive
      functioning within real-world treatment settings. This study will be performed in the
      University of Minnesota Department of Psychiatry; patients will be recruited from local
      community based mental health care settings that implement a NAVIGATE model for FEP.

      All participants will undergo baseline assessment in measures of clinical, neurocognitive,
      and functional status prior to randomization. Participants will be equally randomized to one
      of three groups: Targeted Cognitive Training (TCT); General Cognitive Exercises (GCE); or
      Treatment as Usual (TAU). Participants assigned to a cognitive training group will be loaned
      an iPad to complete study training at home. They will complete 60 minutes of training 5 times
      a week over the course of 6 weeks for a total of 30 hours of training. Participants will be
      allowed up to 12 weeks to complete the full 30 hours. Participants will return after 30 hours
      of training or 12 weeks, whichever comes first, for Post-Intervention Assessments. Then
      participants will enter a no-contact follow up period, until it is time for their 6 Month
      Follow Up assessment.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Perform a double-blind RCT of web-based, portable computerized cognitive training in
           young individuals with recent onset psychosis receiving treatment within the University
           of Minnesota, Department of Psychiatry's First Episode Psychosis Program or other state
           clinics utilizing the NAVIGATE treatment model.

        2. Compare the clinical and cognitive effects of neural system-informed TCT that focuses
           explicitly and specifically on distributed neural system efficiency in auditory/verbal
           and social cognitive domains, vs. more non-specific GCE designed to enhance executive
           functioning and problem-solving, vs. TAU. Determine the durability of these effects and
           their relationship to functional outcome over a 6 month period.

        3. As a secondary aim, investigate the feasibility, tolerability, and acceptability of the
           intervention by service providers, clients, and caregivers in these real-world treatment
           centers.

      Hypotheses to be tested:

        1. TCT subjects will show significantly greater gains in general cognition, verbal
           learning/memory, and social cognition compared to GCE and TAU subjects. These gains in
           the TCT group will be sustained at 6-month follow-up.

        2. GCE subjects will show improvement in problem-solving and global cognition compared to
           TAU subjects. At 6 month follow-up, GCE subjects will show lower gains in global
           cognition and verbal learning/memory than TCT subjects.

        3. Gains in general cognition and processing speed, and in social cognition in TCT subjects
           will correlate with improvements on 6-month measures of occupational and social
           functioning, respectively, as well as internalized stigma. These associations will be
           significantly greater in TCT subjects vs. GCE or TAU subjects.

        4. Symptom ratings will show improvement in all subject groups at 6 months, with no
           significant between-group differences.

        5. At least 70% of randomized clients will complete >20 hours of training in the TCT and
           GCE arms.

        6. Participants and clinicians will rate the TCT and GCE interventions as equally feasible,
           tolerable, and acceptable.

      Participants from this study will also be recruited to participate in an adjunct protocol
      conducted by Dr. Sophia Vinogradov, titled "Is cognitive training neuroprotective in early
      psychosis?" NCT03049800.

      Data from this project will be analysed with a sister protocol conducted by Dr. Rachel Loewy
      at the University of California San Francisco, titled "Community-Based Cognitive Training in
      Early Schizophrenia (COTES)," NCT01973270.
    
  