
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) usually evolves over decades and can present several phenotypes.
      Approximately 85% of newly diagnosed Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients present the
      Relapsing-Remitting MS (RRMS) phenotype. After a mean time of approximatively 20 years, a
      large majority of these patients evolve to the so-called "Secondary Progressive MS" (SPMS)
      phase. SPMS is characterized by an irreversible disability progression not related to
      relapses, although relapses could be superimposed. Nevertheless, the shift in-between RRMS
      and SPMS is not clear. Different subtypes of SPMS have been recently defined by F Lublin et
      al. This classification takes into account persistent focal inflammatory activity (active vs
      inactive SPMS) along with disease progression (progressing vs non-progressing SPMS). In
      clinical routine, it is important to identify these stages of MS as they differently respond
      to the disease modifying therapies (DMTs).

      Introducing DMTs during the RRMS phase had consistently demonstrated a significant impact on
      the annual relapse rate (ARR) and on the short-term disability progression. Conversely,
      during the SPMS phase, the impact of DMTs remained uncertain on disability progression,
      especially in older patients, with "inactive" disease. As a matter of fact, the DMTs are
      considered to be anti-inflammatory by nature, but the focal inflammation reduces with age and
      disease duration.

      In addition, the DMTs have side effects and cost approximately 10,000 euros per year and per
      patient. In this context, the usefulness of continuing DMTs in "inactive" SPMS patients older
      than 50 years is questionable.

      In a preliminary retrospective study conducted at our Institute which enrolled 100 SPMS
      patients, the ARR remained stable 3 years after treatment withdrawal (0.07, 95% CI [0.05,
      0.11]), relative to the 3 years prior to treatment withdrawal (0.12, [0.09, 0.16]). EDSS
      scores were available for 94 patients The percentage of patients experiencing a significant
      increase of their EDSS score during the 3 years after treatment withdrawal also remained
      stable compared to the 3 years prior treatment withdrawal. These preliminary data support the
      safety of DMTs withdrawal in selected SPMS patients. However, further prospective studies are
      needed to provide evidence-based guidelines for daily practice.

      This randomized controlled clinical trial thus aims to compare SPMS patients older than 50
      years without evidence of focal inflammatory activity for 3 years, stopping DMTs versus
      patients with the same criteria still receiving treatment. We hypothesize that stopping DMTs
      will not induce an increased risk of disability progression or relapse in SPMS patients but
      will improve their quality of life and have an impact on treatment-related costs.

      So far, the impact of DMTs withdrawal in a selected SPMS population has not been explored.
      Having evidence-based recommendations on the treatment management of these patients is
      essential, considering the consequences in terms of disability, relapses, side effects,
      quality of life and costs. DMTs in MS are now available since 20 years, with an increasing
      number of approved molecules. As a matter of fact, this question concerns a large number of
      patients: a retrospective analysis of patients included in the Rennes EDMUS database allowed
      to identify 71 SPMS patients older than 50 years and without evidence of focal inflammatory
      activity for 3 years actually undergoing a DMT.

      For evident conflict of interests, the pharmaceutical firms will not promote or fund clinical
      trials on treatment withdrawal. A randomized controlled study initiated by academia and
      financed by public funding should be performed to explore these questions. We will evaluate
      the impact of these changes from the patient and the health system's points of view. The
      results of this clinical trial will lead to a concrete change in clinical practice.
    
  