
    
      STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective randomized, single centre trial. The proposed starting
      date is 01-july- 2011 and the duration of the study will be 15 months.

      All ICU patients who are expected to have an ICU stay of more than 24 hours are potential
      eligible. On ICU admission, patients will be screened for eligibility. The patients'
      demographics, patients' health status, medication use, APACHE II score, SOFA score and
      admission diagnosis will be reported at baseline. Before recruitment and enrollment in the
      study, each patient and/or relative will be given full explanation of the study and will be
      informed that they are free to discontinue their participation in the study at any time.

      When considered eligible, patients will be given a unique patient number in consecutive order
      and will be assigned to the treatment corresponding with this number. Patients will be
      randomized in a one-on-one fashion according to a computer generated randomization list
      between Standard Care and Standard Care + DLA. The randomization list will be kept at the
      data co-ordination centre.

      All of the 20 patient rooms on the 2 ICU wards are equipped with a special lighting system.
      This lighting system can offer the standard basic lighting in the patient room, with a set
      intensity and light colour, or the DL setting which offers changing light conditions
      depending on the time of the day, following a rhythmic pattern. In addition, all rooms have a
      basic low-intensity orientation light, which is turned on during night-time in all rooms.

      The switch between the two modes is regulated centrally on a control panel that is located in
      the nursing station and cannot be altered in the patient-room

      1.1 Standard Care On admission, a full physical examination is performed and, when possible,
      a history taken. An ECG and chest x-ray, when not performed shortly before, will be done. In
      addition, blood will be drawn from the indwelling arterial catheter for haemoglobin,
      leucocyte and thrombocyte count, renal and liver function, electrolytes, arterial blood gas
      analysis, lactate and markers of inflammation (C-reactive protein, procalcitonin). Blood
      pressure, heart rate, fluid balance, oxygen saturation are measured continuously and
      automatically registered in our Patient Data Management System (PDMS). When considered
      necessary, ventilatory support is commenced or continued (post-operative patients) and
      additional hemodynamic measurements performed.

      All patients will receive thromboprophylaxis, when no clear contraindications exist, and
      ulcer prophylaxis. When patients are intubated, they receive analgesic and often sedative
      medications for patient comfort. If patients are expected to receive mechanical ventilation
      for at least 48 hours, Selective Digestive Decontamination (SDD) prophylaxis is commenced,
      consisting of application of oral and gastrointestinal antibiotic suspension, administration
      of four days of i.v. antibiotics (cefotaxime) and surveillance cultures.

      Twice daily at 0800hrs and 2000hrs, routine blood analysis consisting of arterial blood gas
      analysis, haemoglobin, leucocyte and thrombocyte electrolytes, renal function and markers of
      inflammation, is performed. When no clear contraindications exist, sedative infusions are
      interrupted every morning since this has proven to decrease length of mechanical ventilation
      (39). In addition, when considered feasible, an attempt is made to "wean" the patient off the
      mechanical ventilator. Protocol-guided early mobilisation is commenced as soon as possible,
      directed by dedicated physical therapists.

      Level of sedation is monitored as part of daily care by nurses in all patients every two
      hours using the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS). This scale divides levels of
      consciousness indicated by a number ranging from -5 (unarousable) to +4 (combative, see
      Appendix). Ideally, patients have a RASS of 0 (alert and calm) and sedation is titrated to
      achieve a RASS of -2 to 0. In addition, screening on the presence of delirium is done using
      the CAM-ICU every eight hours by well trained ICU nurses . As has been mentioned before, this
      method has been validated for use in ICU patients and is easy to use by non-psychiatric
      personnel. When the CAM-ICU is positive, delirium treatment is started according to our
      protocol (see Appendix).

      Standard measures to prevent delirium among our patients include maintaining a proper
      day-and- night rhythm by promoting night-time sleep (reduction of light and noise disturbance
      and reduction of daytime sleep using daily activity programs and mobilisation. When patients
      have visual or auditive impairments, glasses and hearing aids are being used as much as
      possible. A clock is present in each ICU room and relatives are asked to bring photographs of
      them so that patients can have some sense of familiarity. Dosages of deliriogenic medications
      (anticholinergics, opiates, benzodiazepines) are reduced as much as possible however cannot
      be ruled out completely since benzodiazepines and opiates are often used for sedation and
      analgesia.

      When a patient is randomized to receive the basic light setting, standard lighting is used,
      including the possibility of using a high intensity intervention light when performing
      interventions. The light switch in the room then offers three options: 1) main light on 2)
      main light off 3) intervention light on/off.

      1.2 Standard Care + DLA In addition to standard care, inpatients who are randomized at
      receiving DLA, the light switch in that room is set to DLA, as soon as possible after the
      patient is installed and initial investigation and handlings (e.g. placing urinary catheter,
      a central venous line and/or arterial cannula) have been performed. When interventions are
      necessary, a high intensity intervention light can be turned on manually by physicians or
      nurses. The lighting operation panel in this room then offers only one option, i.e.
      intervention light on/off. A computer will log the use of the dynamic lighting system,

      1.3 Assessment During the first 24 hours, the risk of developing delirium will be assessed
      using the validated PRE-DELIRIC score. When patients with have a risk of developing delirium
      ≥>40%, they will be defined as a high risk patient.

      In all patients, the presence of delirium is assessed three times a day until death or
      discharge off the ICU or death on fixed times using the CAM-ICU. When patients are
      unconscious, either because of their illness or due to sedative medications, the CAM-ICU
      cannot be performed and delirium cannot be assessed. This will be recorded in the case-record
      form.

      Since delirium is associated with the use of sedatives and opioids, 24-hour dosages of these
      medications will be recorded daily at 8 am. For a list of these medications, see appendix.

      In addition, renal function, (plasma creatinine and urea), electrolytes (sodium, potassium,
      ionized calcium) haemoglobin, white blood cell count, procalcitonin) will be monitored daily
      until discharge of the ICU. Total hospital length of stay will be registered for all
      patients. Patients will be analyzed in an intention-to-treat principle.

      To assess differences in light exposure between the two groups, light levels are measured in
      every patient room, close to the patient's head. Since daylight may also influence total
      light exposure and differences exist in daylight exposure of the different patient rooms (See
      appendix 3) differences between light exposures in different rooms will be analysed and
      associated to the primary endpoint.

      In patients with a high risk of developing delirium 5 ml of blood will be drawn on day
      1,3,5,7, 14,21 and 28 and will be stored at -80 degrees Celsius until analysis. In addition
      in these high risk patients, circadian rhythm derived biomarkers will be determined by means
      of urinary excretion collected in 3-hour urinary samples during 24 hours on day 7, 14,21, 28
      and then once per 2 weeks. To determine pre-existent quality of life a validated Health
      Related Quality of Life questionnaire will be used.

      1.4 randomisation, blinding and allocation of treatment Patients will be randomized in one-on
      one fashion according to a computer generated randomization list. The randomization list will
      be kept at the data co-ordination centre. Since blinding is impossible with dynamic light,
      patients and relatives, nurses and doctors are aware of the treatment arm.

      1.5 Study procedures DLA will be applied in the DLA group. In all patients 5 ml of blood will
      be drawn within 24 hours after admission and stored. In high risk patients, an extra 5 ml of
      blood will be collected during the morning laboratory rounds on day 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, 21 and
      28. Since all patients have an indwelling arterial line and blood is already collected this
      is not considered to be an additional burden for the patient. In total a maximum of ca. 35
      millilitres of blood during a period of 28 days will be collected. In addition in high risk
      patients, 3 -hour urinary samples will be collected during 24 hours on day 7, 14, 21, 28 and
      than every week until discharge off the ICU. On our ICU, all patients have an indwelling
      urinary catheter. On admission, a validated QoL questionnaire will be handed over to the
      patient or his/her next of kin to determine the pre-existent QoL; after 3, 6 and 12 months a
      QoL questionnaire will be sent to the patient to determine the post ICU QoL.

      Analysis will be performed on the whole group but also in a post-hoc analysis where the
      effect of DLA will be analysed per season of admission.
    
  