
    
      Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) is a new HIV prevention method that works when taken as
      recommended. To take full advantage of public health benefit of PrEP for HIV prevention,
      there is need to prioritize access, minimize costs of delivery, and reach out to at-risk
      populations. In Africa, PrEP is being added to a public health infrastructure which is
      sometimes burdened by overcrowding and drug stock outs; the ability of health systems to
      maximize PrEP access necessitates finding novel delivery strategies. Additionally, there
      exist major barriers to PrEP delivery, which includes stigma, long waiting times, costs of
      staffing and healthcare providers' unfamiliarity with delivering prevention interventions. In
      Kenya, and many other resource-limited countries, retail pharmacies (i.e., chemists) fill an
      important gap in the health care system providing first stop access to treatment, monitoring
      and preventive care of urgent and prolonged conditions. Potential PrEP users may desire
      pharmacy-delivered PrEP over facility-delivered PrEP for reasons including increased
      convenience, increased privacy and greater engagement compared to health facilities that
      focus on treating ill patients. Retail pharmacies can offer free, subsidized or affordable
      healthcare services. The core components of PrEP - including HIV testing, adherence and risk
      reduction counselling, assessment of side effects and provision of refills - are within the
      scope of practice for pharmaceutical technologists and pharmacists in Kenya. Prior formative
      qualitative research and a stakeholder meeting led to development of a care pathway for
      pharmacy-based PrEP delivery (including initiation and refills), endorsed for piloting in a
      consultation meeting that included a wide spectrum of regulatory, professional, government,
      and community stakeholders in Kenya. This study will pilot this care pathway in six retail
      pharmacies in two different geographies in Kenya: Kisumu and Thika. Activities will include
      data collection aimed at potential weak points of pharmacy-based PrEP delivery, in domains
      relating to acceptability, fidelity, and costs.
    
  