
    
      Background: Survival after childhood cancer has increased substantially over the last
      decades. In Switzerland, 10-year survival now exceeds 85%. This results in increasing numbers
      of childhood cancer survivors - estimated 6,600 survivors currently in Switzerland. Due to
      the cancer treatment or the cancer itself, a large part of the childhood cancer survivors
      suffer from late effects. As survivors of childhood cancer have decades of life ahead, it is
      of special interest to minimize potentially avoidable chronic diseases, impaired quality of
      life, deaths, and health care costs. There is a need to assess clinical data prospectively in
      a standardized way across clinics to study late effects on a national level. Such data are
      currently not available in Switzerland and the SCCSS-FollowUp aims to fill this gap.

      Objectives: The SCCSS-FollowUp assesses the prevalence of late effects through risk-adapted
      medical examinations (in accordance with international guidelines and evidence), identifies
      CCS with asymptomatic late effects through functional testing, e.g. echocardiography or lung
      function testing, standardizes clinical follow-up examinations in CCS in Switzerland, and
      collects follow-up data in a longitudinal way. The SCCSS-FollowUp also investigates
      sociodemographic, treatment, lifestyle, and clinical risk factors for late effect
      development.

      Methods: The SCCSS-FollowUp recruits eligible childhood cancer survivors in a stepwise
      approach by identifying CCS at risk because of specific treatment modalities (e.g. exposure
      to anthracyclines or thoracic irradiation). The investigators ask eligible survivors for
      participation. Those who consent receive before or during the next follow-up visits focused
      questionnaires. The questionnaires are short and focus on one organ system, but participants
      can receive different questionnaires at subsequent visits. The data generated during the
      follow-up visits, such as clinical examination, functional and laboratory test results, and
      the completed questionnaires are entered in the SCCSS-FollowUp database. The examinations and
      tests are performed in a standardized way in all participating clinics and according to
      follow-up guidelines or other evidence-based literature.

      Rationale and significance:

      The data collected within the SCCSS-FollowUp allow research on late effects on a national
      level and based on objective clinical data obtained during routine care. The SCCSS-FollowUp
      helps to learn more about late effects, especially subclinical damage, which are not
      detectable by questionnaire only. Early detection of these late effects and timely treatment
      can prevent and mitigate further deterioration. Furthermore, the SCCSS-FollowUp helps to
      assess risk factors for late effects development which can be used to amend cancer treatment
      in future patients. The SCCSS-FollowUp thus helps to improve the health of current and future
      childhood cancer survivors.
    
  