
    
      The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), is a single-stranded RNA coronavirus. The virus was first
      isolated from patients presented with pneumonia in Wuhan in December 2019.Sequences of the
      Wuhan betacoronavirus show similarities to betacoronaviruses found in bats, sharing a common
      ancestor with the 2003 SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and the bat coronavirus HKU9-1, a virus
      found in fruit bats. Similar to SARS-CoV, it is a member of Beta-CoV lineage B. Five genomes
      of the novel coronavirus have been initially isolated and reported including
      BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-01/2019, BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-04/2020, BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-05/2019,
      BetaCoV/Wuhan/WIV04/2019, and BetaCoV/Wuhan/IPBCAMS-WH-01/2019 from the China CDC.

      The SARS-CoV-2 has since spread from China to the rest of the world. As of 1 July 2020, more
      than 10 million people been confirmed to have infected by SARS-CoV-2, resulting in more than
      500,000 deaths. No specific antiviral treatment for the SARS-CoV-2 is currently available,
      but existing medication could be repurposed.

      Genetic sequencing demonstrated similarity of the SARS-CoV-2 to the SARS-CoV and MERS CoV.2
      We expect patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 will also present similarly with initial
      upper respiratory tract symptoms including fever, cough, sputum, myalgia and shortness or
      breath. More severe cases might complicate with pneumonia and required ventilatory or ECMO
      support. According to our previous studies in 2003 on patients hospitalized for severe
      SARS-CoV, the viral load peaked between day 7 from symptoms onset and coincided with clinical
      deterioration of pneumonia and respiratory failure, with majority of the patients required
      intensive care support. Higher viral load isolated from different human system also
      correlated with worsened SARS manifestation and complications.

      Previously, the investigators have demonstrated that interferon β-1b, commonly used in the
      treatment of multiple sclerosis and lopinavir/ ritonavir, also demonstrated to improve the
      outcome of MERS-CoV infection in a non-human primate model of common marmoset.7

      More recently, the investigators have demonstrated that the triple combination of interferon
      β-1b, lopinavir/ ritonavir and ribavirin was significantly more effective in alleviating
      symptoms and respiratory SARS-CoV-2 viral load than lopinavir/ ritonavir with ribavirin or
      lopinavir/ ritonavir alone, suggesting that interferon β-1b might be the most potent
      antiviral among the three.

      Another in-vitro study on an oral antimicrobial clofazimine for treatment of non-tuberculous
      mycobacterium infection has been proven to reduce SARS-CoV-2 viral load.

      Therefore, the investigators propose to perform a prospective open-label randomised
      controlled trial among adult patients hospitalised after July 2020 for virologically
      confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Patients will be randomly assigned to one of the three
      groups: group A: a 3-day course of 3 doses of subcutaneous injection of interferon β-1b 1mL
      (0.5mg; 16 million IU) consecutively on day 1 to day 3 and oral clofazimine 100mg twice daily
      on day 1, then 100mg daily for 2 days plus standard care, or group B: oral clofazimine 100mg
      twice daily on day 1, then 100mg daily for 2 days plus standard care, or group C: standard
      care alone (1:1:1).
    
  