
    
      Obtaining high-quality analgesia in prehospital patients with severe pain is an important
      treatment objective for medical team. Opioids are recognized as the treatment of choice for
      relief of severe acute pain. Recommended initial analgesia of patients with severe acute
      pain, defined as a visual analog scale or a numerical rating scale (NRS) score of 60/100 or
      higher, in a prehospital setting in France consists of the administration of opioids by the
      medical staff of mobile intensive care units. The intravenous administration of morphine is
      usually considered as the gold standard for postoperative acute pain relief because of its
      rapid transport from the blood to target tissues after intravenous injection, its
      long-lasting analgesic effect without any plateau, and its well-known pharmacokinetics.
      Nevertheless, the short-acting opioid sufentanil might be preferable to the traditional
      long-acting morphine for prehospital analgesia because of its even faster onset of action and
      shorter duration than morphine. There is no study, to our knowledge, comparing the clinical
      efficacy of sufentanil vs morphine in a prehospital setting. This randomized, controlled,
      double-blind, parallel group clinical trial is then designed to determine the best
      intravenous opioid titration protocol by comparing sufentanil and morphine for medical
      prehospital treatment of adult patients with severe acute pain. Eligible patients with a
      numerical rating scale (NRS) score of 60/100 or higher will be randomly allocated to receive
      either 0.15 µg/kg sufentanil then 0.075 µg/kg every 3 minutes (group A) or 0.15 mg/kg
      morphine then 0.075 mg/kg every 3 minutes (group B) intravenously. The decision to provide
      opioid analgesia including titration of subsequent doses of narcotic is the responsibility of
      physicians and intravenous analgesia will be given and titrated according to the pain score
      every 3 minutes. The drugs will be administered by the physician from syringes of similar
      appearance prepared by the nurse who is not otherwise involved in the study. The
      protocol-defined primary outcome measure is the percentage of patients with pain relief (with
      a NRS score of 30/100 or lower) 15 minutes after the first injection. Secondary outcomes
      include pain score comparisons every 3 minutes within the first 30 minutes and comparison of
      adverse events. The physician blinded to the analgesic treatment groups will do all
      assessments of patients. The safety evaluation will include non invasive monitoring of blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry (Spo2), and a
      sedation scale (0, patient is awake; 1, patient is with intermittent sleeping; 2, patient is
      sleeping, awakened by verbal stimulation; 3, patient is sleeping, awakened by tactile
      stimulation; 4, patient is not aroused by stimulation) at these periods. Fifteen minutes
      after the first injection, overall patient and investigator satisfaction with analgesia (pain
      relief classified as excellent, good, mild, or weak) was recorded. We will analyze the
      primary and secondary end points using the intention-to-treat method.
    
  