
    
      Justification for undertaking the trial:

      American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (2012), defined early childhood caries (ECC) as the
      presence of one or more decayed, missing teeth (resulting from caries), or filled surfaces in
      the primary tooth of child 6 years old or younger.

      Early childhood caries is a chronic childhood disease, that decreasing quality of life, this
      include pain, disturbed sleep, poor aesthetics, difficulty in eating and speaking and
      behavioral changes that affect the child's self-esteem. (Guay, 2004).

      Due to the rising incidence of dental carries in early childhood, contributory factors need
      to be investigated in order to facilitate treatment of such a large population of children in
      desperate need of dental care (Guay, 2004).These multiple risk factors include the lack of a
      dental home, poor oral hygiene, diet, and nutrition ( Najeeb et al., 2016).

      Enamel is the most mineralized substance in the human body; it is mainly made of calcium and
      phosphate. Vitamin D plays an important role in increasing the absorption of calcium and
      phosphate from food. Which calcium and phosphate improve the strength of the teeth as make
      them able to fight the demineralization from bacteria (Youssef et al., 2011). Therefore, it
      is responsible of promoting the calcification of teeth, having a topical fluoride like
      effect, and in the forming of enamel, dentin, and bone. (Mellanby & Pattison, 1928).

      Vitamin D receptors are present on the cells of immune system and on the teeth. It binds to
      these receptors and increases the amount of good antimicrobial proteins as cathelicidin and
      other special defense in saliva (Youssef et al., 2011). These antimicrobial peptides have
      antibacterial neutralizing activity against periodonto pathogens as gram negative and gram
      positive bacteria and candida albicans, its effective in vitro against oral microorganisms
      such as streptococcus mutants, prophyromonas gingivalis and actinobacillus, so it prevents
      dental caries.( Potturu et al., 2014).

      East, (1939) study concluded that children who consumed a high vitamin D diet, vitamin D
      played an indispensable role in 1) preventing the initiation of new caries, 2) inhibiting the
      spread of existing caries, and 3) arresting the caries. Likewise, an examination of children
      found a decreased caries prevalence in areas of increased vitamin D exposure.
    
  