
    
      Social Phobia is a prevalent and debilitating condition, with a lifetime prevalence rate to
      be 13.3 percent. Socially phobic patients have been found to be functionally impaired in the
      areas of education, employment and social relationships, to have poorer quality of life, and
      increased suicidal ideation and psychiatric comorbidity. Double-blind studies have found
      benzodiazepines, selective and non-selective MAOI inhibitors, several SSRIs, and the
      anticonvulsants pregabalin and gabapentin to be effective. However, side effects with these
      compounds suggests the need for better tolerated compounds, e.g., in the paroxetine
      multi-center trial (the only drug with an FDA approved indication), 27 percent reported
      somnolence, 26 percent nausea, and 37 percent of males reported delayed ejaculation; 34
      percent of patients discontinued the trial early. There has been considerable worldwide
      interest in St. John's Wort (SJW) (Hypericum perforatum) as a treatment of mild to moderate
      depression. There have been 23 randomized trials suggesting SJW is more effective than
      placebo for the treatment of outpatients with mild to moderate depression. SJW is very well
      tolerated with mild side effects observed in only 2.5 percent of cases in a large (3250
      patients) drug monitoring study. Pharmacokinetic studies have found Hypericum to have
      affinity for serotonin, dopamine and GABA alpha and GABA beta receptors, each of which have
      been implicated in social phobia, thus there is a suggestion that SJW may be effective for
      this disorder.

      This will be a 12-week, double blind, placebo-controlled trial, designed to generate effect
      size data that will be used to determine sample size needed to power a definitive study.
      Forty patients will be randomized to either SJW (LI 160) or matching placebo. This will be a
      flexible-dose design, starting at 300 mg tid to a maximum of 1800 mg total per day. An
      intent-to-treat analysis will be employed. Subjects will be evaluated weekly for two weeks,
      then bi-weekly thereafter. The primary outcome measure will be the change from baseline to
      endpoint on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale.
    
  