
    
      This study is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). The aim of the study is to evaluate the
      necessity to test the increased Vertical Dimension of Occlusion (VDO) prior to restorative
      treatment of generalized tooth wear.

      Tooth wear is a physiological phenomenon, that when becoming pathological, can result in
      functional problems such as pain, reduced quality of life and esthetic impairment.
      Restorative treatment should be discussed in with patients with severe or pathological tooth
      wear.

      The restorative treatment includes restoration of all teeth, separately, in increased VDO.
      The increment of VDO is based upon clinical parameters as the amount of loss of natural tooth
      tissue, the possibility to lengthen the maxillary anterior teeth in regard to an acceptable
      esthetic outcome, and the Free Way Space (FWS). The FWS is the intermaxillary space when the
      masticatory-muscles-complex is relaxed.

      Traditionally, it is believed that adapting to a new VDO results in clinical difficulties
      such as different speech, pain of the Temporo Mandibular Joint (TMJ), masticatory muscle
      pain, and increased masticatory muscles activity. The latter could result in an increased
      bite force and an increased failure rate of restorations. Some operators, then, prefer to
      test the increment of VDO prior to restorative treatment to check if patients can adjust to
      the new VDO. This raises the question if the needed increment of VDO to restore worn
      dentitions should be checked prior to restorative treatment. The hypothesis in this study is
      that testing the needed increment of VDO prior to restorative treatment does not improve the
      adaptation to the restorative treatment.

      The research was registered in the ClinicalTrial.gov register after the study had been
      completed. This RCT is part of RCT with a 2x2 design. The first branch was used to randomize
      patients to certain restorative protocol, which was enlisted in ClinicalTrials.gov
      (NCT04326816). The second branch was designed to test the VDO prior to restorative treatment
      of generalized severe tooth wear. Approval of the local Medical-Ethics-committee (METC) for
      the 2x2 RCT was sought and granted in 2010. Approval was granted to a protocol in which no
      Data Safety Monitoring Board was appointed as research standards were different in 2010. The
      study was conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and in
      accordance with the Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act (WMO).

      Sample size calculation base done by a biostatistician. Calculations were completed based
      upon the first branch of the 2x2 RCT. A group size of 75 patients was established. Anonymized
      paper case report forms were completed at each moment and stored. A separate digital database
      was made and used for data analysis. Data analysis consisted of descriptive analysis of
      failed restorations and paired t-Test with a significance level of 5%. Serious Adverse Events
      (SAE) report files and Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction (SUSAR) report files
      were present and could be, when necessary, filled in and applied to the local METC.

      Patients were recruited as General Dental Practitioners (GDP) referred patients with
      generalized tooth wear to the academic clinic. Patients were seen by 1 operator and were
      assessed for eligibility. Patients received a written informed consent and were included if
      the informed consent was signed. Patients received an identification number C1 to C49. A
      randomization was performed on the use of a removable appliance to test the VDO prior to
      restorative treatment. Randomization with a block size of eight was performed. The random
      sequence was put into envelopes. The investigator opened the envelope in their numbered order
      and assigned the patient to the corresponding group immediately after the consent was
      acquired.

      A laboratory-made acrylic Removable Appliance (RA) was evaluated to test the adaptation of
      the patient to the increment of VDO. In the control group, no RA was prescribed prior to
      restorative treatment. In the test group, a RA was prescribed prior to restorative treatment.
      Patients were asked to wear the RA for 24h per day, with the exception for when eating,
      during a period of 3 weeks. Thereafter, the acceptance was checked using a questionnaire.

      Data collection was done at predetermined moments i.e., baseline, immediately after
      treatment, 1 month after treatment, 1 year after treatment. During the recall moments, Oral
      Health-related Quality of Life (OHRQoL) was assessed using questionnaires, as was the FWS. In
      addition, restorations were checked based on clinical acceptability and all failures were
      recorded.

      No specific Quality assurance plan to address data validation and registry procedures,
      including site monitoring and auditing was made prior to the onset of the study.

      Data checks were completed by 1 researcher. Source data verification to assess the accuracy,
      completeness, and representativeness was completed by 1 researcher. Medical records
      (Electronic patient files), digital photos made at recall appointments, and paper case report
      forms were inspected. No specific source data verification plan was made prior to the onset
      of the study.
    
  