
    
      The overall goal of this proposal is to determine how vaccine type, sex, and gene expression
      influence both innate and T helper cell immune responses using systems biology and
      bioinformatics as tools to comprehensively assess the human transcriptome. We will evaluate
      sex-dependent immune responses to two unique influenza vaccines in a population of older
      adults; the recently FDA-licensed MF59-adjuvanted influenza subunit vaccine and the high-dose
      split virion influenza virus vaccine. The influence of sex on immune response to vaccination
      has been observed across multiple vaccines (including standard dose influenza vaccines, but
      the mechanisms are unknown, it affects all age groups regardless of hormonal status, and
      existing studies focus almost exclusively on humoral immune responses. Relatively little is
      known about the effect of sex on innate and T helper responses following vaccination and we
      are unaware of any studies evaluating the effect of sex on immune responses to adjuvanted
      influenza vaccine. The presence of adjuvant (MF59Flu) or higher antigen (Ag) dose leads to
      greater immunogenicity through mechanisms that have not been fully deciphered and are likely
      to be different. Further, a direct com-arison of innate and T helper immune responses between
      adjuvanted and high dose influenza vaccines has not been reported.

      The study design will include 200 generally healthy individuals (ages ≥65) who meet all
      inclusion criteria. 100 subjects will receive each vaccine with equal sex representation in
      each subgroup (a factorial design for sex by vaccine type). Subjects will undergo
      venipuncture for blood samples (~100 mL each, sufficient for the proposed assays) before
      vaccination and at three timepoints after vaccination (Day 1, Day 8, Day 28).

      The clinical characterization of our study subjects will include demographic information,
      height, weight, BMI, waist circumference, medications, and medical conditions that do not
      meet exclusion criteria (see Protection of Human Subjects). We will also quantify blood
      leukocyte populations (CBC, WBC differential).

      Immunosenescence and cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection can affect influenza vaccine-induced
      immune responses. We will evaluate whether CMV seropositivity or other measures of
      immunosenescence are associated with immune response and whether they interact with vaccine
      type/sex.

      We will monitor/characterize transcriptional changes (mRNA and miRNA) as well as measures of
      immune function (cytokine secretion, leukocyte surface phenotype, hemagglutination inhibiting
      antibody titer, and memory B cell ELISPOT) at each time point.
    
  