
    
      Background It has become ubiquitous to describe the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic and the global measures to decrease mortality rates of
      Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) as 'unprecedented'. The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC)
      models released on April 8th predict that even with strict epidemiologic controls
      934,000-1,879,000 people will be infected in Canada and 11,000- 22,000 will die.
      Disturbingly, the European and United States experience demonstrates that health care systems
      in industrialized countries are at risk of becoming overwhelmed. It has long been recognized
      that physicians are at risk for burnout, which can negatively affect their ability to care
      for patients, their colleagues and themselves. Infectious disease pandemics present many of
      the same challenges for physicians as natural disasters and mass casualty events, with the
      addition of a prolonged time frame, potential need for isolation away from family, and
      concern of becoming infected or infecting loved ones. During the 2003 severe acute
      respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak, 18-57% of health care workers (HCWs) experienced
      measurable psychological distress. Even 1-2 years following the SARS pandemic HCWs in Ontario
      experienced high levels of burnout (19-30%), psychological distress (30-45%), and PTSD
      symptoms (8-13%). Despite the overall high rates, there are several mitigating factors that
      may decrease the rate or severity of psychological distress and burnout.

      Given that these studies generally measure burnout and psychological distress at one or two
      cross-sectional time points, it is difficult to tell how burnout develops over time.
      Additionally, the bulk of the studies assessed HCWs following natural disasters, which tend
      to present as a single time point with one large wave of patients. The current crisis is
      distinct in its sustained level of demand on HCWs with potential for multiple waves of
      patients or a sustained high number of patients outstripping the health care system resources
      for months at a time. This study seeks to investigate the rates of burnout assessed at
      multiple time points during the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, this study seeks to determine the
      relationship between patient numbers, mitigating factors, and exacerbating factors and the
      rates of burnout at various time points.

      Objectives

        1. What are the rates of psychological distress and burnout among physicians and residents
           throughout the COVID-19 pandemic?

        2. What baseline factors are associated with reductions and increases in psychological
           distress and burnout over time (trajectories)?

      Methods This study will be a national longitudinal survey of physicians in Canada. The
      sampling frame will be all physicians currently practicing in Canada, whether they hold a
      full, provisional, or post-graduate in-training license. The survey will be distributed by:
      1. Advertisements on Twitter, 2. Provincial physician associations, and 3. National specialty
      groups for higher risk specialties (anesthesia, critical care, emergency medicine).
      Recipients will be directed to the survey site hosted by Redcap. Cross-sectional results of
      the initial survey to give immediate feedback to provincial and national organizations about
      the threat of physician burnout and psychological distress. Longitudinal results will analyze
      how burnout and distress change over time and will analyze the relationship to mitigating and
      exacerbating factors.

      Consenting participants will complete an initial survey gathering demographic information
      (age, gender, trainee, years in practice, specialty, chronic health conditions, practice type
      (academic, community, rural), preparatory information (prior to first COVID-19 suspected
      case: COVID-19 pathways/procedures, simulation, designated areas, scheduling changes), and
      baseline measures (Maslach Burnout Inventory - General Survey (MBI-GS) short form, Pandemic
      Experience & Perceptions Scale (PEPS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS),
      stressors, resources, coping strategies). Participants will then receive follow up
      questionnaires every month until there is a sustained period of no new cases in their
      province (1 month without a new case) up to a maximum of one-year involvement. These follow
      up questionnaires will measure burnout (MBI-GS), psychological distress (HADS), pandemic
      specific stressors (PEPS), workplace stressors, and resources/coping strategies. A final
      follow-up survey will be sought one year after the end of the short- interval surveys to
      assess the long-term effects of responding to the COVID pandemic.

      Statistical Analysis Objective 1. Variables will be described using mean and standard
      deviation when normally distributed or median and interquartile range when skewed as measured
      by the Shapiro-Wilk test.

      Objective 2. The cross-sectional results of the initial survey will be analyzed using linear
      regression to quantify the strength of relationship between factors and burnout. In the
      longitudinal analysis, trajectory analysis using latent growth mixed modelling (LGMM) will be
      used to identify trajectories of burnout and psychological distress amongst physicians over
      time. LGMM is ideally suited to longitudinal data as it is robust to the effects of missing
      data. Furthermore, LGMM may prove very useful in an unprecedented situation such as this in
      which there is scant data on which to base hypotheses as LGMM allows trajectories to be
      identified more empirically based on the data rather than through a priori conceptual models.

      Anticipated Outcomes The investigators will discover whether the characteristics of burnout
      during this pandemic are comparable to the current body of knowledge about physician burnout
      at baseline or during more limited periods of crisis. This will inform whether current
      interventions for physician burnout are appropriate during widespread pandemic events, both
      as physicians continue to deal with COVID-19 and in the future. Improved understanding of
      stressors and protective factors will be essential not only for planning therapeutic studies
      at an individual level but will also allow institutions to mobilize high yield supports for
      physicians at risk.
    
  