
    
      Description of Study Visits.

      Screening and Baseline Assessment (Visit 1). Individuals attending the orientation visit of
      the Tobacco Treatment Research Clinic (TTRC) will be provided with detailed information about
      the study and given the opportunity to have their questions answered within a private room to
      ensure confidentiality. Study staff will review the consent form with interested
      participants, and they will be screened for eligibility on-site in a private room in the
      clinic. Participants will be questioned about their 1) age, 2) current level of smoking, 3)
      willingness to quit smoking, and 4) willingness/ability to attend 4 sessions (including the
      first visit). Participants will be randomized to treatment as usual (TAU), QuitGuide, or
      Smart-T groups and advised of their group assignment. Participants will complete the
      assessment portion of visit 1. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      laptop/tablet computer; and weight, and height will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will be loaned an Android smartphone and instructed regarding
      the use of the phone as well as the ecological momentary assessment (EMA) procedures.

      Quit Day (Visit 2). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a laptop/tablet
      computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will compensated completion of the in-person assessments. All
      questions about study phones will be appropriately addressed and answered. Participants who
      do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported smoking status.

      4 Weeks Post-Quit (Visit 3). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      laptop/tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to
      ensure confidentiality. Participants will be compensated for the completion of the in-person
      assessments, which will take approximately 45-60 minutes to complete. When participants
      return the phone they will be compensated according to the compensation schedule described
      above. Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their
      self-reported smoking status and to request that the study phone be returned by mail or
      in-person at the next visit.

      12 Weeks Post-Quit (Visit 4; Follow-Up). Participants will complete self-report
      questionnaires on a laptop/tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a
      private room to ensure confidentiality. Participants will be compensated for the completion
      of the in-person assessments, which will take approximately 60 minutes to complete.
      Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported
      smoking status.
    
  