
    
      Androgen-independent prostate cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in men.
      These patients have limited treatment options. Docetaxel(Taxotere) is the single most active
      agent for the treatment of hormone refractory prostate cancer. Phase II clinical trials
      including docetaxel combinations with other microtubule inhibitors have shown 60-70% prostate
      specific antigen (PSA) declines greater than 50% and 30-40% measurable disease responses.
      However, the duration of response is limited to roughly 22 weeks. Combinations with new
      agents are needed to increase the rate and duration of response over existing docetaxel
      containing combinations.

      The platelet derived growth factor receptor(PDGFR)and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) A
      are frequently expressed (80%) in primary and bone marrow metastasis of human prostate cancer
      (PC). Recent experimental evidence suggests that activation of PDGFR/PDGF can be oncogenic in
      the development and/or progression of PC. There is also evidence that PC cells that express
      PDGF promote PDGFR expression in endothelial cells and neo- angiogenesis. Together, these
      experimental evidence supports that inhibition of PDGFR may be of therapeutic benefit to
      advanced prostate cancer patients.

      Gleevec (Imatinib mesylate ) is a potent inhibitor of PDGFR. Consistent with these
      observations, treatment with Gleevec in an experimental prostate cancer mouse model was
      better than paclitaxel alone in reducing bone metastasis but the antitumor effect was
      strongest with the combination of both. In a phase I study of heavily pretreated hormone
      refractory PC patients, Gleevec 600 mg/daily lead-in for 30 days followed by Gleevec 600
      mg/daily with Paclitaxel 30mg/m2 weekly x4 weeks every 6 weeks induced a >50% PSA decline in
      7% and 38% of patients respectively with acceptable toxicity. These observations suggested
      that this combination merits further investigation.

      With high-dose docetaxel (70mg/m^2) being the single most active agent in hormone refractory
      prostate cancer and no data existing in the use of high-docetaxel with Gleevec, a phase I/II
      study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination and optimum dose for a
      phase II trial is warranted.

      Gleevec is expected to affect the activation status of sensitive receptor tyrosine kinase
      targets and associated signaling effectors in the tumor cells and the neovasculature.
      However, it is not fully established to what extent alterations of the target and /or other
      molecules in the signaling pathway are essential for Gleevec's antitumor activity in prostate
      cancer patients. It is also unknown whether preexisting molecular changes in the prostate
      tumors of individual patients could affect Gleevec's activity even in the presence of the
      targets. Therefore, an assessment of the expression levels and/or presence of mutations of
      selected molecules in specimens of patients in clinical trials may contribute in various
      ways: 1. to understand the requirements to elicit or inhibit a response to the combination,
      2. whether adding other targeted agents may improve response and/or 3. whether selection of
      patients that might benefit should be based on the tumor profile. Thus, whenever possible
      specimens form the primary and/or metastatic sites should be retrieved and/or obtained to
      perform these analyses.
    
  