
    
      The evaluation of the Liver Foundation training program for rural health care providers
      consists of four phases. In the first phase, the Liver Foundation will comb blocks in Birbhum
      district and invite 300-400 rural health care providers to participate in the program. In the
      second phase, all recruited providers will convene at a center in Birbhum where we, the
      evaluation team JPAL, will conduct a baseline study. We will then randomly allocate
      participating providers into two groups: the Treatment group, which will receive the Liver
      Foundation training within the next twelve months, and the Control group, which will not. In
      the third phase, the program inductees will be trained according to the curriculum put forth
      by the Liver Foundation. Finally, in the fourth phase, we will run an extensive endline
      survey to evaluate how training has affected the (1) clinical practice, (2) clinical
      competence, and (3) prices charged and caseload of the providers who have received the
      training relative to their non-trained counterparts. We detail each phase in turn.

      Phase I: Provider Census in Birbhum District The Liver Foundation will identify between 300
      to 400 representative private rural health care providers within the Birbhum district who are
      interested in the training program provided by the Liver Foundation and willing to
      participate in the necessary randomized selection process. All providers will be told that if
      they attend the baseline study, they will receive the medical training; however, how soon
      they will receive it will be determined through a lottery.

      Phase II: Baseline Study and Randomization of Providers into Training Intervention

      Bringing the providers in batches to a center established for this purpose in Birbhum, the
      evaluation team will run a baseline study on all 300 participants over the course of three
      weeks. The baseline study will consist of two parts:

        1. Baseline provider survey: this survey asks basic questions about training, socioeconomic
           background, work practices, etc.

        2. Vignette testing: Teams of trained vignette testers will test each doctor's competence
           through a series of five medical vignettes.

      After having completed the above two steps of the baseline survey, the evaluation team will
      randomly allocate these providers into two groups: the "Treatment" group, which will receive
      the training, and the "Control" group, which will not. Note that those individuals selected
      for the control group will be informed that they will receive training at a later time due to
      limited resources; thus we will phase them in one year later, after the evaluation of the
      first treatment group is complete.

      Phase III: Training Intervention The primary objective of the Liver Foundation's training
      program will be capacity building through theoretical information in health sciences,
      training in proper referral techniques during emergencies, and maternal and child health care
      priorities in rural areas. The training will be in the form of two three-hour classes per
      week and will continue for nine months, with three mid-term exams administered every three
      months as per the Liver Foundation curriculum. During this time, the evaluation team will
      only collect the rosters of the attendees of the training classes and conduct sporadic random
      visits to the sessions to gain a better sense of the training methods and attendance rates.

      Phase IV: Endline survey After the intervention has run its course for at least nine months,
      we will wrap up the evaluation with an extensive endline survey. Unlike the baseline survey,
      which can be completed in the one central location at which the providers meet, the endline
      survey must be done at each providers' own place of work. We expect that the process of
      locating and evaluating each of the 300 providers at his or her place of work will require
      approximately three months.
    
  