
    
      In an arthritis patient population living some distance from hospitals, collection of a
      series of blood samples to monitor disease activity in a timely fashion is difficult. The
      ability to monitor markers of inflammation, such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and gauge a
      patient's response to treatments via disease activity score (i.e. DAS28-ESR) is not just
      important in early stage disease but also in patients with established disease. Patients with
      chronic disease tend to lose self-confidence in managing their condition and a substantial
      proportion can suffer recurrent disease flare- ups. These flare-ups are costly in terms of
      appointments with GP and specialist clinics and result in significant work disability.

      Being able to reliably define and report a disease 'flare' in arthritis is currently
      problematic as there are no objective measures available to the patient while at home. The
      clear definition of a flare, as determined through blood testing would help justify an
      increase in immunosuppressant dose or a course of steroids. Currently, patients make a visit
      to their GP or hospital clinic, at 6 week intervals at best. In reality, this means that
      opportunities to monitor CRP during an active 'flare' are often missed and an informed
      intervention (medication adjustments) is not possible. Home monitoring is constrained by the
      costs of making phlebotomists available to make frequent home visits to patients. Also for
      markers which are unstable at ambient temperatures, blood samples need to be refrigerated and
      rapidly transported to the laboratory for analysis.

      Thus the ability for the patient to collect their own blood samples in their own home and
      send these at ambient temperature to a laboratory would enable 'remote' and timely monitoring
      of chronic disease. The investigators have recently completed an Arthritis Research UK funded
      clinical study that demonstrated that a number of clinically relevant proteins related to
      flares (i.e.?) were reliably collected, stored for less than three months and extracted from
      dried blood spots (n=20 arthritis patients). The paper cards used to collect blood droplets
      were pre-treated to stabilise proteins and minimise haemolysis contamination (caused by
      bursting and breakdown of red blood cells). Our results across 20 arthritis patients revealed
      that 90% recovery rates can be achieved from dried blood spot sample (DBSS) stored at room
      temperature for 3 month (relative to a matched -20'C frozen plasma sample). The inflammation
      marker proteins included C-reactive protein (CRP), tumour necrosis factor alpha and
      Immunoglobulin G. Without pre-treatment of the DBSS paper, only 53% of these proteins are
      recovered.

      For the patient, use of DBSS means that GP and hospital visits to take blood and carry out
      tests could be reduced. With minimal training, samples would be obtained simply at home by
      the patient, over a six week period and then transported at room temperature using
      conventional post. Proteins could then be analysed at a central lab. In the future, the
      technology could accompany patient assessments of disease activity and complement ongoing
      studies focused on wearable sensors to measure joint movement and stiffness (UU Data-glove
      project).

      For the hospital trust, use of this novel technology could obviate the need for patients to
      attend the clinic for blood sampling. Soon after prescribing a new treatment, clinicians
      could use DBSS to monitor treatment efficacy in reducing inflammation. This technology
      therefore offers an earlier opportunity than currently available to titre dosage and switch
      from ineffective drugs or treatments associated with adverse events. Furthermore, feedback of
      the monitoring information provided by DBSS could be given to the patient, via for example
      smartphone application, and has the potential to improve adherence to treatment plans.
    
  