
    
      Background:

      Falls are the leading cause of nonfatal injuries in the United States and the second leading
      cause of all unintentional injury deaths. Each year fractures of the hip account for about
      200,000 hospitalizations among the elderly and falls are contributing factors in 40 percent
      of admissions to nursing homes. About 30 percent of community-dwelling elderly fall each
      year, with about 10 percent seeking emergency medical help for a fall injury. Data from
      CDC-funded study to assess falls among the elderly (SAFE) suggest that as many as 41 percent
      of elderly patients fall at home in the year following discharge from hospitalization due in
      part to deconditioning associated with inactivity.

      Objectives:

      The controlled trial of a physical restoration (PR) intervention (Geriatric Rehabilitation
      Intensive Program, SAFE-GRIP) is designed to improve physical functional capacity and to
      reduce the likelihood of falls in the elderly during the period following discharge from
      hospitalization or inactivity/bed rest.

      Methods:

      This is a four year randomized trial of SAFE-GRIP, designed to improve the physical
      functional capacity, to reduce the likelihood of falls and to decrease the chance of injury
      from falls. Patients at home or recently discharged to home will be randomly assigned to one
      of two groups, PR or control, upon receiving medical clearance (time=0). This project will
      provide mechanisms to establish well-designed innovative physical restoration (PR) protocols
      for the Miami VAMC and test the effects of these interventions on the rate of
      falling/sustaining injuries and their sequelae at home. Our anticipated sample was 105 males
      and 105 females aged 60+ years inactive at home or recently discharged to home from the Miami
      VAMC and a neighboring community hospital. Study participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of two groups, PR or control, upon receiving medical clearance. Baseline measures of
      physical function, health care utilization, ADL/IADL performance and health-related quality
      of life will be taken following assignment to treatment conditions. These same measures will
      be taken again at eight weeks following medical clearance, and again at six months. The
      incidence of falls will be tracked throughout the funding period for each subject.
      Self-report of the number of falls in the year prior to hospitalization, an assessment of
      in-home hazards, and an assessment of participants' post-hospitalization medication regimen
      will be obtained at the baseline assessment and used as covariates in the analysis of
      outcomes.

      Status:

      All subjects have completed the study intervention phase. The projected submission date of
      the final report is September 30, 2001. Analysis of the prospectively collected study data is
      underway. We have acquired the HCFA Denominator Files, and Inpatient Files, and Part B
      Provider Service Files for the years 1997, 1998, and 1999. The extraction of 1997, 1998, and
      1999 Part B Provider Service Files is almost complete and the analysis of the Inpatient Files
      is underway.
    
  