
    
      OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this protocol is to create a mechanism whereby the intramural
      program of the NIAAA can evaluate and treat a broad range of people with drinking problems at
      the NIH Clinical Center (CC) in Bethesda, MD. Through this program, participants will receive
      comprehensive, state-of-the-art treatment for their alcohol, psychosocial and medical
      problems. The protocol will allow us to evaluate and recruit participants who will then be
      eligible for more focused clinical research efforts to advance the NIAAA research goals.
      Additionally, this protocol will allow investigators and staff to gain broad training
      experience in alcohol and addiction medicine through the clinical care of such patients.

      STUDY POPULATION: The protocol is open to any adult who is seeking help for a drinking
      problem and who is likely to qualify to participate in another NIAAA protocol. Participants
      will be recruited through local media and professional avenues in the Washington, DC Metro
      area.

      DESIGN: Participants will be evaluated by a nurse and physician, among others, who will
      determine the need for hospitalization, detoxification and to address other issues. For those
      needing medically supervised detoxification, a standard program of monitoring and treatment
      with benzodiazepines and other medications will be instituted. A standard battery of
      screening blood, urine and other clinically indicated tests, an electrocardiogram, chest
      x-ray and MRI of the brain will be done as part of the comprehensive medical and

      neurological assessment. Following admission, participants will undergo a series of verbal
      and observational-type assessments designed to evaluate psychiatric co-morbidity,
      psychopathology, psychosocial problems, neurocognitive function, personality and other
      factors relevant to alcoholism treatment. Following discharge from the inpatient program,
      participants will be offered up to 16 weeks standard-of-care behavioral outpatient treatment.
      At five points during the outpatient phase, participants will come to the clinic for selected
      blood and urine tests, interviews and verbal/observational assessments to evaluate abstinence
      from alcohol and identify changes in various psychological dimensions. During their
      participation in this protocol, participants will be approached to consider enrolling in
      other clinical research protocols such as imaging studies and drug-treatment trials. For
      participants willing to participate in these other protocols, other appropriate consent(s)
      will be obtained.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: Because of the evidence-based nature of all assessments used in this
      protocol, data obtained through them can serve at least three clinical purposes: first, to
      provide a basis for individualizing patient treatment, enhancing motivation to change, and
      following-up such treatment for the sole purpose of providing optimal clinical care; second,
      to provide patient characteristics and outcome data for specific research protocols to which
      the patient may additionally and separately consent; and third, to provide data for
      monitoring the performance and functioning of the program as a whole.
    
  