
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of Poly (ADP-Ribose) polymerase
      (PARP) inhibitor BGB-290 (BGB-290) and temozolomide (TMZ) in adolescent and young adult (AYA)
      subjects with IDH1/2-mutant glioma, including the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
      characterization of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) in both, newly diagnosed and recurrent
      treatment arms.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the preliminary efficacy of BGB-290 and temozolomide in terms of progression free
      survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in Arm A and B stratified by tumor diagnosis,
      calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method with a goal of improving the historical high grade
      glioma progression free survival of 10% and overall survival of 20% at 2 years.

      II. Assess the mutational landscape studies via whole-exome sequencing (WES). III. Assessment
      of gene expression patterns using ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq).

      IV. Assess the methylation profiling with Infinium methylation assays. V. Assess the
      oncometabolite profiling via liquid chromatography (LC)/mass spectrometry (MS)-MS.

      VI. Assess the intratumoral drug level assessments via LC/MS-MS.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts. After the
      MTD is established, additional patients will be enrolled into the efficacy component of the
      trial.

      Arm A: Newly diagnosed IDH1/2-mutant high-grade glioma patients receive PARP inhibitor
      BGB-290 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO daily on days 1-21.
      Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm B: Recurrent IDH1/2-mutant low-grade or high-grade glioma patients receive PARP inhibitor
      BGB-290 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO daily on days 1-21.
      Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B0: Recurrent IDH1/2-mutant low-grade or high-grade glioma patients receive PARP
      inhibitor BGB-290 PO for 7 days pre-surgery at the MTD determined in the Phase I portion.
      After recovery from surgery (14-28 days), the patient will proceed to the efficacy component
      of the trial.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  