
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the predictive role of cardiac biomarkers and
      significant pulmonary complications for late infection complications COVID-19 coronavirus on
      the heart and lung in patients treated with hydroxychloroquine / combination therapy
      azithromycin.

      COVID-19 positive test patients will be divided into two groups according to therapeutic
      conduct. So, with a case-control distribution respecting age and sex, the two patient groups
      will be defined as "arm" with therapy (study population) and "Arm" without therapy
      (population control). This study is prospective and consists of three times:

      1) T0- Moment of inclusion of the patient in the study, which coincides with the collection
      of clinical data and laboratory tests.

      (2) T3- In the 3rd month after inclusion in the study, the patient will make a medical visit
      where data new laboratory tests will be acquired.

      (3) T12- In the 12th month after inclusion in the study, the patient will make another
      medical visit where data clinical data will be obtained. Laboratory tests, which were altered
      during visit T3 will be repeated.

      COVID-19 coronavirus patients undergoing therapy combined hydroxychloroquine / azithromycin
      will be compared to patients not undergoing this therapy. The comparison will be performed by
      analyzing the relationships between (1) troponin levels ultrasensitive cardiac data collected
      at the beginning of the infection and data of cardiac magnetic resonances in the 3rd and 12th
      month of collection troponins and (2) acute tomographic findings and the results the
      ergospirometers tests performed in those same periods.

      In our understanding of COVID-19, its diagnosis, prevention and treatment are evolving
      quickly. As the disease spreads and new evidence emerges, it would be prudent to identify
      risk factors for the development of late cardiorespiratory complications in patients
      survivors of serious COVID-19 infections.

      This prospective study of patients with COVID-19, involving a systematic record of
      clinical-laboratory variables and chronic cardiorespiratory complications, will be beneficial
      for the development of a risk model for these complications and to identify and / or predict
      the response to various treatment modalities.
    
  