
    
      This is a dose finding / dose escalation study of dendritic cell (DC) vaccination
      administered through imiquimod (Aldara®) treated skin for refractory sarcoma patients, which
      includes a subsequent cohort of subjects who will receive DC and gemcitabine (Gemzar®)
      therapy. There are three intended dose levels for cell number of DC per treatment - 3, 6 and
      12 million cells per treatment. There will be 5 subjects accrued per dose level. If one
      subject in the first 5 patients per dose level experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT),
      then the dose level will be expanded to 8 subjects. If 2 or more of the subjects at a given
      dose level experience a DLT, then the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be considered to have
      been exceeded. The MTD will be the cell dose level at which less than 1 in 5 or less than 2
      in 8 subjects experience a DLT. Provision will be made to de-escalate to dose level 0, or 1.5
      million cells per treatment, should dose level 1 be too toxic. This is a 5+3 design modified
      from the conventional 3+3 dose escalation schema used for testing cytotoxic agents in Phase I
      trials. A lower rate of DLTs is therefore potentially to be accepted on this study than on
      such a conventional dose escalation trial of a cytotoxic agent. If no MTD is reached, we will
      consider the third dose level to be the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) going forward and
      expand this dose level to 8 subjects in total.

      After the MTD/RP2D is reached, we will commence with the addition of gemcitabine
      pre-treatment to the study therapy with the cell dose held at the dose determined for the DC
      alone. This will include weekly gemcitabine infusion for three weeks out of four before the
      initiation of vaccination. Gemcitabine treatment will commence as soon as the subject has
      safely recovered from pheresis, but within 2 weeks of completion of pheresis. DC vaccination
      will begin two weeks after the third administration of gemcitabine. Gemcitabine dosing will
      be constant, but should the combination of gemcitabine with the MTD/RP2D of DC alone prove
      too toxic, we will de-escalate the dose of DC on the gemcitabine containing levels. This
      de-escalation will mirror the dose escalation for DC alone, and the MTD for the DC plus
      gemcitabine will be defined as the dose level at which less than 1 in 5 or less than 2 in 8
      subjects experience a DLT.

      Subjects will undergo resection of tumor followed by pheresis to acquire monocytes which will
      be separated and used to grow out DC. Subjects not undergoing gemcitabine therapy will begin
      vaccination approximately two weeks after pheresis, depending on the manufacture time of
      their DC. All subjects will undergo lysate boost administration.
    
  