
    
      Multimodal surgical rehabilitation, also known as Enhanced Recovery After Surgery, entails
      the application of a series of perioperative procedure measures and strategies aimed at
      patients who are going to undergo a surgical procedure with the objective of reducing
      secondary stress caused by the surgical intervention and thus achieve enhanced recovery of
      the patient and decrease complications and mortality.

      ERAS protocols are care programs based on scientific evidence, encompassing all aspects of
      patient care and requiring multidisciplinary management, with the participation of diverse
      specialists1. Starting at the diagnosis, their aim is to recognize patients' individual needs
      to optimize their treatment before, during and after surgery. The close collaboration of all
      specialists participating in the process, as well as of the actual patients and their
      relatives has proved to be essential.

      The Multimodal Rehabilitation Programmes (MRP) or Enhanced Recovery Programmes (ERAS) review
      traditional perioperative procedure practices, evaluating the specific key points of each
      type of surgery and analysing their scientific evidence. MRPs have shown, in cents that have
      routinely adopted them, a significant improvement in the patient's quality of life.
      Furthermore, MRPs significantly reducing the hospital stay and potential complications
      associated with hospitalisation2, being the anastomotic leak (AL) the most serious of them.

      Total mesorectal excision (TME) and bowel restoration is currently the standard treatment for
      middle to low rectal cancer. However, TME has been shown to be associated with high
      anastomotic leakage with a reported incidence of up to 24%, reaching 50% when clinically
      silent radiographic leaks are considered3.

      Despite a large number of studies in the literature that have investigated risk factors, the
      fundamental causes of AL remain unclear. In this sense, according to enhanced recovery after
      surgery (ERAS) protocols4, pelvic drain should not be used routinely as it may cause patient
      discomfort and prolong hospitalization. Moreover, drain itself is also a potential site of
      infection especially if open or passive drainage system is used.

      Even based in the best available evidence, ERAS protocols have important implementation
      problems because they have to put up with traditional attitudes. In this sense, many surgeons
      still advocate the use of a prophylactic pelvic drain because they believe that fluid
      collection in the pelvis could be a potential source of contamination and thereby weakening
      anastomotic integrity and healing.

      In a recent study from the Spanish group GERM2, avoidance of drains was achieved only in
      34.7% of patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery. ERAS centres had a greater
      avoidance of drains vs non-ERAS centres (38.6% vs 28.3%), although most patients still
      received drains. More relevant, avoidance of drainage was associated with a significant
      reduction in moderate to severe complications.

      We believe that it is more than justified to try new options that help surgeons reduce the
      use of drains. One of these, is the use of hemostatic agents. Some topical hemostats may
      theoretically be of benefit due to its claimed lymphostatic properties.

      Published data for this is sparse, but some studies, have shown statistically significant
      reduction of fluid collection after using Arista速AH5.

      Arista is a plant-based, flowable powder engineered to rapidly dehydrate blood, enhancing
      clotting on contact. Arista facilitates the formation of a highly resilient, natural clot
      within just a few minutes regardless of the patient's coagulation status. Arista速 is fully
      absorbable within 24 to 48 hours of application, and because Arista degrades rapidly, it does
      not promote infection.

      This study has been designed to support the working hypothesis that Arista速 placed
      intraoperatively into the dissected pelvic area could reduce sepsis and postoperative
      anastomotic leakage. We choose to study Arista速 for a theoretical reason: it contains
      microporous polysaccharide hemospheres (MPHs). MPHs not only activate the coagulation cascade
      but they cause tissue desiccation which presumably seals capillaries and could theoretically
      also seal small lymph vessels left open by electrosurgical devices.

      Study assumptions: Arista spread on the pelvic floor at the end of surgery may allow to

        1. close small holes and prevent fluid from penetrating into the pelvic floor, thereby
           avoiding AL

        2. facilitate the avoidance of drains
    
  