
    
      Abstract:

      This double blinded, placebo controlled, study seeks to determine the efficacy of
      preoperative anti-inflammatory therapy on the reduction of postoperative pain in knee
      arthroplasty surgery. Pre-emptive use of NSAIDS has demonstrated only modest reduction in
      post-operative pain in previous studies. However, the short duration of dosing in those
      studies did not capitalized on the anti-inflammatory properties of NSAIDS. Short-term use of
      NSAIDS only provides pain relief and does not address inflammation. Traditional NSAIDS cannot
      be used preoperatively due to platelet effects. Celecoxib, however, is both an analgesic and
      anti-inflammatory, but does not interfere with bleeding. It can therefore be safely used
      before surgery. This study hypothesizes that the use of celecoxib for seven days
      preoperatively reduces postoperative inflammation and consequently pain. A detailed Medline
      search has not identified any studies into the preoperative use of an NSAID at a dosing level
      that achieves anti-inflammatory effects.If effective in reducing postoperative pain, this
      research could lead to a new understanding of the role inflammation plays in orthopedic
      procedures and other elective procedures and thus improve patient outcomes in the future.

      Purpose and Significance:

      It is commonly accepted that inflammation significantly increases pain. To date, no study has
      examined the potential benefits of preemptively treating inflammation before surgery. While
      the analgesic effects of NSAIDs have a rapid onset, the maximal anti-inflammatory effect can
      take one to three weeks to be realized. Due to bleeding concerns, traditional NSAIDS such as
      naprosyn or ibuprofen cannot, and have not, been used preoperatively. Following surgery, the
      inflammatory cascade of cells and chemical mediators inundates the surgical wound and creates
      acute inflammation. Once this has happened NSAIDs have missed the opportunity to treat this
      acute inflammation. Post-operative and single dose preoperative use of NSAIDs act exclusively
      as analgesics. Since celecoxib has no impact on postoperative bleeding, it can be safely
      administered preoperatively. With adequate time before an elective operation, one has the
      opportunity to reach steady state pharmacokinetics and a sufficient serum level to prevent
      inflammation -- and therefore pain

      Aims of Study:

      1. Compare the efficacy of a seven-day preoperative course of celecoxib 200mg taken orally
      once daily against the efficacy of a single preoperative 200mg dose administered on the day
      of the operation in reducing postoperative pain.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Comparison of the total pain rating in group receiving seven days of
      preoperative of celecoxib against total pain rating in the group receiving the single dose of
      celecoxib. Total Pain will be calculated by summing ten point verbal rating scale (VRS) at
      time intervals of: "When you woke up following surgery," 24 hours postoperatively and 48
      hours postoperatively.

      Additional endpoints:

        1. Comparison of pain rating VRS "When you woke up following surgery," and at 24 hours and
           48 hours postoperatively in the two study groups

        2. Comparison of patient reported maximum pain on VRS in the study groups.

      Methods:

      Study Size

      50 Patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty will receive celecoxib 200mg once daily for
      seven days preoperatively 50 Patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty will receive placebo
      once daily for six days preoperatively and on the day of the operation will receive a single
      dose of celecoxib 200mg.

      In order to be able to detect a difference of 2 points on the 0-10 scale between either
      intervention group and placebo group, with 80% power (at 5% 2 sided significance level and
      assuming a SD of 3.5) 50 subjects per group would be sufficient. That detectible difference
      combined with the assumed SD is equivalent to a moderate to large effect size (i.e. one that
      is clinically relevant).

      Selection and Recruitment of Participants

      Consecutive patients scheduled for knee arthroplasty surgery who meet the study inclusion
      criteria would be enrolled and randomized to either the seven day course group or the single
      dose/placebo group. Randomization will be done via sealed, coded study packages that include
      either medication or placebo. These packages will be dispensed to the patients

      Physicians recruiting patients will will dispense study information brochures. If patients
      are interested in participating, the study nurse will then contact them and she will provide
      full study details and obtain informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria - Subjects will be excluded from the study for the following reasons:

        -  Allergy to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications

        -  Subjects must not be taking another NSAID while the study is conducted

        -  Bleeding disorder

        -  Impaired renal function (serum creatinine >1.2 x upper limit of normal)

        -  Liver Disease (SGPT(ALT) or SGOT(AST) > 1.5x upper limit of normal)

        -  Heart Disease

        -  Ulcers

        -  Taking an ACE inhibitor

        -  Taking a diuretic

        -  Must not be taking an NSAID on a daily basis during the study period

        -  Pregnant or planning to start a pregnancy soon

      Medication Dose

      Celecoxib begins to act as an analgesic within minutes of oral administration.
      Anti-inflammatory efficacy of NSAIDS has been shown to have a latency of one to two weeks.
      Ibuprofen, for example requires a dosing of 1200mg/day (the maximum over the counter dose)
      and reaches peak anti-inflammatory efficacy in 7-14 days. For other NSAIDS, anti-inflammatory
      dosing is at a higher level than at analgesic dosing. Celecoxib reaches steady state in five
      days. To ensure that this study achieves steady state levels of celecoxib in the serum, and
      that it is acting as an anti-inflammatory rather than just as an analgesic a one to two-week
      time frame is needed. To improve patient compliance, once daily dosing of 200mg was selected
      over twice daily.

      Pain Assessment

      Pain assessments will be made on prepared pain forms that contain a visual pain scale. Data
      will be collected by patients on their pain diary and will be reported to the researchers via
      a toll-free phone number. The study nurse will also contact patients directly at each study
      interval to ensure collection of data.

      Data Collection

      Data collection will be done by telephone conversation with patients once they have returned
      home from the surgery as they recover. Patients will be asked to report their pain on a
      ten-point scale. The scale will be described to the patient as "zero being no pain and ten
      being the worst pain imaginable."

      Patients will have diaries dispensed and will be asked to telephone a toll free number at the
      appropriate times. Additionally, the study nurse will call patients at the study data
      collection intervals (i.e "When you woke up following surgery," 24 hours and 48 hours) to
      ensure data collection. Patients will also be asked to state the number indicating the worst
      pain that they experienced during their postoperative period - this will be asked/recorded at
      the 48 hour postoperative interval.

      Statistical Analysis

      Study data will be analyzed by an independent statistician.
    
  