
    
      Aim 1: Adapt Ottawa Decision Support Framework for the HIV PrEP decisional needs of ACB
      Canadian patients. Investigators propose a cross-sectional qualitative descriptive study
      using data collected from key informant interviews with PrEP eligible patients and surveys
      with health professionals involved in HIV PrEP management. Under this aim two research
      questions will be investigated.

      Q1) What factors do ACB Canadian patients consider when deciding whether to adopt HIV PrEP?
      Q2. How do SDT constructs of autonomy, competence and relatedness influence ACB Canadian's
      decision-making experiences regarding PrEP adoption?

      AIM 2. Pilot Test The Adapted Decision-Support Intervention Using a Two-Arm Randomized
      Controlled Design.Hypothesis testing will be de-emphasized in favor of generating effect size
      estimates. Under this aim three research questions will be investigated. Preliminary
      hypotheses include:

      H1: PrEP decision support increases decision quality in both LDQ and HDQ groups, H2: HDQ +
      decision-support group more likely to initiate PrEP than HDQ control, H3: HDQ PrEP initiators
      are more likely than LDQ initiators to have serum levels consistent with adherence at
      60-days.

      Data on decision quality survey and PrEP initiation data will generated by the subject from
      self-administered assessments via the decision-support app on the study-issued smartphone.
      Investigators will also collect biological specimens to measure adherence to HIV PrEP at
      60-days post enrollment.

      The study will take place in the Toronto metropolitan area (pop. 2.5 million). Over half
      (59%) of Canada's ACB population is settled in the province of Ontario. Moreover, the
      majority (70%) of ACB people in Ontario live in metro Toronto, making it the ideal location
      for this study. The trial procedures will be conducted at sites within the St. Michael's
      Hospital (SMH) system, including the SMH Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute.
    
  