
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate lung ultrasound as a tool in pregnant patients.
      This tool has not been well studied in pregnancy but has the potential to detect pulmonary
      edema in patients with preeclampsia before they become critically ill. In addition, the
      presence of pulmonary edema is a criterion for the diagnosis for severe preeclampsia, and if
      detected early, may change management and decrease morbidity in these patients. The
      investigators hypothesize that healthy pregnant women and women with preeclampsia in the
      third trimester have normal lung ultrasound patterns in the absence of clinical signs or
      symptoms of poor lung aeration.

      The investigators propose a prospective cross-sectional study to compare pregnant patients
      with and without a diagnosis of preeclampsia treated at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center
      (LIJ) and North Shore University Hospital (NSUH) from August 2016 - May 2018. A cohort of
      healthy gestational age-matched pregnant patients from 32 - 41 weeks without a diagnosis of
      preeclampsia will serve as controls. Inclusion criteria include singleton pregnancies over 31
      6/7 weeks gestational age treated at LIJ or NSUH. Exclusion criteria include age less than 18
      years and refusal to participate in the study. Informed consent will be obtained for all
      study participants.

      A diagnosis of preeclampsia will be made based on standard criteria as outlined by the
      American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG). Interstitial edema will be defined as
      an ultrasound finding of three or more B-lines in an interstitial space in two or more lung
      regions. B-line dominant lung fields are suggestive of alveolar interstitial syndrome. The
      clinical diagnosis of pulmonary edema is based on findings including dyspnea, tachypnea,
      tachycardia, hypoxemia (measured by non-invasive pulse oximeter), and diffuse crackles on
      lung exam. The patient characteristics and ultrasound findings will be compared between the
      cohort of preeclamptic patients and healthy controls. A secondary analysis will be performed
      on the images that were obtained before and after magnesium sulfate therapy in patients
      diagnosed with preeclampsia with severe features to determine the effect on sonographic
      findings. If a preeclamptic patient received a chest x-ray as part of her management plan
      because of a clinical suspicion of pulmonary edema, the reported results will be collected
      and compared to lung sonogram results.

      Lung sonography will be performed on a SonoSite portable ultrasound machine with a C60e 5 - 2
      MHx 30cm probe using a modified standard technique examining four lung regions; anterior
      mid-clavicular high and low on left and right sides, and one on each side posteriorly) in the
      semi-recumbent position. Still images and video clips will be reviewed by an expert in lung
      ultrasound who is blinded to the patients' clinical information (Dr. Seth Koenig). Lung
      sonography will be performed on two occasions for each preeclamptic patient who is treated
      with magnesium sulfate; 1) at the time of diagnosis of preeclampsia, and 2) after completion
      of magnesium sulfate bolus. Lung sonography will be performed on only one occasion for
      gestational age-matched controls and for preeclamptic patients who are not treated with
      magnesium sulfate. Patients will not be given a diagnosis of pulmonary edema nor will their
      management plans be altered based on the results of the lung sonography performed for this
      study.

      Data will be collected and stored in RedCap. The investigators will collect data on patient
      demographics, past medical and surgical history, blood pressure measurements at time of
      diagnosis, results of routine lab values that are drawn for evaluation of preeclamptic
      patients, and the review of four ultrasound examination regions to determine if they are
      B-line dominant or A-line dominant. Descriptive statistics and appropriate comparison tests
      will be used to analyze the data.
    
  