
    
      This is a single center, phase II trial where after a process of stem cell mobilization and
      conditioning, adult subjects receive a CD34-selected autologous peripheral blood stem cell
      rescue. By virtue of positive selection for the stem/progenitor cell marker of CD34, the
      graft will be at least 3-log depleted for T, B and NK lymphocytes and other immune cells such
      as monocytes that may be pathogenic. This is an open label study and there will be no
      randomization or blinding as a part of this study.

      The proposed regimen of high-dose immunoablative therapy will demonstrate safety that is
      consistent or improved with other published regimens in SSc patients, while maintaining a
      treatment effect. We also hypothesize that our mechanistic studies will yield biomarkers that
      may herald disease recurrence or progression following alterations in the recovery of immune
      cells in the skin and/or bronchial lavage or blood.

      The primary objectives of this study are to determine the safety and treatment effect of
      high-dose immunoablative therapy followed by transplantation of CD34+ positively selected
      peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) for systemic scleroderma (SSc) patients using a regimen
      designed to maximize patient safety while also aiming to eradicate autoreactive clones
      responsible for the disease. Safety will be determined by monitoring for death of any cause,
      regimen-related toxicities, and severe or life-threatening infections. Treatment effect will
      be determined by assessing event-free survival in comparison to a SSc observational cohort
      control group treated with standard of care medication (mycophenolate mofetil) at 12 and 36
      months post hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Enrolled subjects will be followed for
      survival, secondary malignancies, and SSC activity at least yearly up to 36 months post-HSCT.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        -  To assess cutaneous disease response to high dose immunosuppressive therapy (HDIT) by
           comparing pre- and post-transplant measurements of the modified Rodnan skin score
           (mRSS).

        -  To assess pulmonary disease response by longitudinally tracking FVC (pulmonary function
           test) and DLCO (diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide) yearly up to 36
           months post-HSCT.

        -  To evaluate the treatment effect on disease activity/progression, as indicated by
           severity measures of cardiac, pulmonary and renal organ involvement, and need for
           concomitant disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) use.

        -  To evaluate quality of life by comparing pre- and post-transplant quality of life
           measurements. These measurements will include the Scleroderma Health Assessment
           Questionnaire (SHAQ), the Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health
           Survey (SF-36) and the Scleroderma Skin Patient Reported Outcome (SSPRO) pre- and
           post-mobilization.

      The research (mechanistic) objectives are as follows:

        -  Understand the effect of the combination of rituximab and alemtuzumab on lymphocyte
           subsets and myeloid cells in the skin of patients undergoing treatment.

        -  Understand the effect of total body irradiation (TBI) and Thiotepa on subsets of
           lymphocytes and myeloid cells in the skin of patients undergoing treatment.

        -  Understand the relationship between the response of patient skin disease to depletion
           and repopulation of skin leukocyte subpopulations and gene expression.

        -  Characterize the evolution of humoral and cellular immune markers of autoreactivity in
           blood and BAL (bronchoalveolar lavage)when feasible
    
  