
    
      Background:

      LMB-100, and a closely related immunotoxin, SS1P, also targeting mesothelin, given
      intravenously, have been studied in Phase 1 clinical studies for mesothelioma and pancreatic
      cancer.

      LMB-100 given intravenously, results in systemic inflammation in patients, but as a single
      agent has limited anti-tumor efficacy.

      Almost all patients develop neutralizing anti-LMB-100 antibodies after 2 cycles of therapy.

      Intra-tumoral delivery of LMB-100 has been shown to induce immune cell infiltration in
      immune-competent mice, bearing murine malignant mesothelioma tumors. Combination with CTLA-4
      blockage eradicates murine tumors by promoting anti-cancer immunity.

      Ipilimumab is a fully human anti CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody, that is approved for treatment
      of melanoma and in combination with nivolumab for many solid tumors.

      It is hypothesized that intra-tumoral delivery of anti-mesothelin immunotoxin LMB-100 in
      combination with ipilimumab will result in greater anti-tumor efficacy in patients with
      mesothelioma.

      Objective:

      To determine the safety and feasibility of intra-tumoral LMB-100 injection plus ipilimumab
      infusion in patients with mesothelioma

      To identify the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of intratumorally administered LMB-100 +
      ipilimumab in patients with malignant mesothelioma

      Eligibility:

      Histologically confirmed pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma not amenable to potentially
      curative surgical resection.

      Have locally accessible disease suitable for intra-tumor injection of LMB-100. This includes
      superficial or visceral lesions.

      Subjects must have received prior immune checkpoint therapy with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors
      alone or in combination with anti-CTLA4 blocking antibodies, as well as platinum-based
      chemotherapy.

      Age >= 18 years.

      ECOG performance status of 0 or 1.

      Adequate organ and bone marrow function

      Subjects with clinically significant pericardial effusion are excluded

      Chemotherapy within 3 weeks or radiotherapy within 2 weeks prior to start of study therapy is
      prohibited.

      Subjects with active CNS metastasis are excluded

      Subjects with active autoimmune disease for which they have received systemic
      immunosuppressive medications during the previous 2 years (excluding daily
      glucocorticoid-replacement therapy for conditions such as adrenal or pituitary insufficiency)
      are excluded

      Subjects with active interstitial lung disease, or a history of pneumonitis or interstitial
      lung disease for which they had received glucocorticoids are excluded

      Design:

      This is an open-label, single center phase I dose escalation study of intratumorally
      administered LMB-concurrently with ipilimumab in subjects with malignant mesothelioma.

      Subjects will receive intratumorally administered LMB-100, beginning at dose level 1, in
      21-day cycles. LMB-100 will be given on days 1 and 4 and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg given on day 2.
      Patients will receive 2 cycles of LMB-100 plus ipilimumab, followed by 2 cycles of ipilimumab
      alone

      Tumor biopsies will be performed prior to each administration of LMB-100, to evaluate changes
      in the tumor immune microenvironment

      Up to 12 evaluable subjects will be enrolled.
    
  