
    
      COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and causes
      significant morbidity and mortality. There is currently no approved treatment for the
      treatment of patients with COVID-19. Global efforts to evaluate new antivirals and
      therapeutic strategies to treat COVID-19 have intensified. To quickly propose a first line of
      defense and fight against the virus in hospitalized patients, the World Health Organization
      (WHO) relies on already existing drugs, "repositioned", which are immediately available in
      large quantities and present a good security profile. Remdesivir (GS-5734) is a broad
      spectrum nucleotide analogue that inhibits RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity among a
      diverse group of RNA viruses. Non-clinical and clinical data suggest that remdesivir may be
      useful for the treatment of COVID-19. WHO has identified remdesivir as a candidate drug of
      interest to be studied in clinical trials. Compassionate provision of the drug allowed its
      use before clinical trials began. This retrospective cohort study is designed to analyze the
      data collected during the routine care of patients who have benefited from this compassionate
      provision.

      The data collected in real life during care will allow a multivariate analysis quickly
      providing elements of response on a typology of patients and level of progression of the
      disease for which remdesivir would bring a more or less significant clinical benefit.
      Multivariate analysis of these data will allow the identification of variables at the
      initiation of treatment with remdesivir that are potentially predictive of its clinical
      efficacy.

      The period for collecting data collected during treatment for an individual subject is 30
      days. The retrospective collection begins on the day before initiation of treatment with
      remdesivir up to 29 days after. A note of information and of no objection to the collection
      of data will be sent to the patient. The data collected comes from the patient's medical
      records. The observations will be entered by investigative doctors and or clinical study
      technicians.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using SAS 9.3 and / or R software. All the analyzes
      carried out will follow the recommendations of STROBE for observational studies. A detailed
      statistical analysis plan will be carried out before basic freezing and data analysis.
      Quantitative data will be described as the mean and standard deviation or medians and
      quartiles depending on the distribution of the data. Qualitative data will be described in
      terms of numbers and percentages. Comparisons of quantitative data will be analyzed using the
      student or wilcoxon test depending on the test application conditions, and comparisons of
      categorical variables will be made using the Chi2 or Fisher test, if appropriate.
      Multivariate models will be produced to explore the factors associated with patient
      prognosis. The clinical development of patients described on a 7-point ordinal scale will be
      divided into two in order to create logistic models. The entire process of selecting
      variables in the models will be described in the analysis plan which will be validated before
      the database freezes.
    
  