
    
      This protocol studies carrier testing decisions of female adolescents who have a male
      relative with X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID). XSCID is a rare
      immunodeficiency that affects only males, although females carrying XSCID mutations can pass
      the disease to their male offspring. In previous generations infant boys with XSCID uniformly
      died, but medical interventions such as bone marrow transplantation and now gene therapy,
      have proven life-saving for many patients. XSCID was mapped in 1987, and the disease gene was
      identified in 1993; these advances made possible patient and carrier diagnosis, which have
      been available on a research basis for 10 years through IRB-approved protocols of Dr. Puck. A
      large sample of XSCID families enrolling in molecular diagnosis protocols participated in her
      psychological study of the impact on adult siblings of having a brother affected with XSCID
      (Protocol OH98-HG-N015, Perception of Carrier Status in Families with X-Linked Severe
      Combined Immunodeficiency, now complete and terminated). That study indicated strong interest
      on the part of at-risk females for carrier diagnosis before reaching the age of adulthood.
      The current protocol is a follow-up protocol that functions in concert with Protocol
      95-HG-0066 (Genetic Analysis of Immune Disorders) to study the decision-making process and
      the impact of carrier testing in female adolescents from families with known XSCID mutations.
      With parental consent, carrier testing for girls from age 13 through age 17 will be discussed
      in a genetic counseling session. The 50% risk of being a carrier and the 50% chance of XSCID
      in male offspring of carriers will be explained. Possible psychological and other benefits
      and harms of testing will be aired. If elected by the girl, XSCID mutation testing will be
      performed by having her enroll in our genetic testing protocol 95-HG-0066. Follow-up
      interviews with all girls enrolled, both tested and not tested, will be conducted at 3 months
      and a year post encounter.
    
  