
    
      This is an open label, multi-drug, biomarker-directed, multi-centre, multi-arm, Phase 1b
      study in patients with muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) (urothelial) who have progressed
      on prior treatment. This study is modular in design, allowing evaluation of the safety,
      tolerability, pharmacokinetics and anti-tumour activity of multiple agents as monotherapy and
      as combinations of different novel anti-cancer agents.

      The study will consist of a number of study modules (sub-studies), each evaluating the safety
      and tolerability of a specific agent or combination in patients whose tumours express
      specific genomic alterations relevant to the molecules under investigation and whose disease
      has progressed following prior therapy. The allocation of patients to specific modules will
      depend on the specific eligible genomic alterations identified in their tumours.

      Each module will determine the appropriate combination dose for further clinical evaluation
      based on safety, tolerability and efficacy profile. A maximum tolerated dose will be defined
      and each arm expanded appropriately to explore further the safety, tolerability,
      pharmacokinetics and biological activity at the selected combination doses.

      Module A includes an AZD4547 monotherapy arm and a MEDI4736 (durvalumab) + AZD4547
      combination therapy arm and will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given
      intravenously, in combination with AZD4547 given orally to selected patients with MIBC with
      tumours that have fibroblast growth factor receptor mutations or fibroblast growth factor
      receptor fusions.

      Module B will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously in
      combination with olaparib (AZD2281, Lynparza) given orally to selected patients with MIBC
      whose tumors have mutations in a homologous recombination repair gene panel and whose disease
      had progressed following prior therapy.

      Module C will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously, in
      combination with AZD1775 given orally to selected patients with MIBC whose tumours have
      mutations in genes involved in cell cycle regulation (e.g., loss of either retinoblastoma 1
      or cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A or amplification of cyclin E1 or MYC family genes).

      Module D will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously as
      monotherapy to patients with MIBC who do not qualify for Modules A, B or C.

      Module E will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously, in
      combination with vistusertib (AZD2014) given orally to patients with MIBC whose tumours do
      not show genomic alterations that would be eligible for other study modules. Patients whose
      MIBC tumours harbour the following genomic alterations that have potential to respond to a
      mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor will also be included in Module E: RICTOR
      amplification, or TSC1/1 mutations.

      Module F will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously in
      combination with AZD9150 given intravenously to patients with MIBC whose tumours do not show
      genomic alterations that would be eligible for other modules.

      Module G will investigate the safety and tolerability of MEDI4736 given intravenously in
      combination with selumetinib (AZD6244) given orally to patients with MIBC. Patients in this
      module will not be selected for any specific tumour genomic alteration.
    
  