
    
      Neonatal diabetes mellitus, characterized by hyperglycaemia requiring exogenous insulin
      therapy appearing during the first months of life, is a rare condition with an estimated
      incidence of 1 in 400000 newborns and is permanent in only one-half of the patients[1].
      Several studies have identified heterozygous activating mutations of the coding sequence of
      KCNJ11 or ABCC8 in patients having a permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus [5,6,7,8]. These
      genes encode for the 2 type of subunits Kir6.2 or SUR1 of the pancreatic β-cell ATP-sensitive
      K+ channel (KATP channel) which plays a central role in glucose-stimulating insulin
      secretion. These channels are also found on muscle and nervous cells, and this may explain
      the neurological features sometimes associated with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus.
      Some sulfonylureas, as the glibenclamide, stimulate insulin secretion by binding to SUR1
      subunit and closing KATP channels by an ATP-independent mechanism. The glibenclamide is used
      efficiently in type 2 diabetes but also recently in replacement of subcutaneous injected
      insulin in children with a Kir6.2 or SUR1 activating mutation [7,8,11-13].

      The aim of our trial is to try to switch patients with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus
      due to a Kir6.2 or SUR1 activating mutation from subcutaneous insulin to oral glibenclamide
      therapy. This study will stand at Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital in the Endocrinology and
      Diabetology Unit of the Professors Robert and POLAK. It will include 20 patients, most of
      them already identified. This study has two purposes: therapeutic by switching the patients
      from subcutaneous insulin to oral glibenclamide therapy, and cognitive by a complementary
      evaluation and understanding of the mechanisms of insulin secretion and of glibenclamide
      efficiency. To do so, we will assess continuously the capillary glycaemia for three
      consecutive days and evaluate the insulin secretion under insulin and sulfonylureas.
      Furthermore, we will rate the neurological and developmental status of the patients to seek
      for a potential improvement under glibenclamide therapy.

      If oral glibenclamide therapy for these patients is proved to be successful, the systematic
      search for a Kir6.2 or SUR1 activating heterozygous mutation in newborns with permanent
      neonatal diabetes mellitus could be recommended in order to start early oral glibenclamide
      therapy and thus extend the indications for the sulfonylureas.
    
  