
    
      Sixty percent of Canadian adults are accessible through the workplace. Thus, workplace
      wellness programs that include physical activity components provide a viable option to
      encourage employees to reduce sedentary time. Moving forward with the ENCOURAGE health
      promotion model, we will use mobile health technology to support employees to reduce sitting
      and become more physically active, while offering employers a solution that can be easily
      implemented in a variety of contexts.

      The public release of the ENCOURAGE App will involve two phases:

        1. The recruitment of up to 300 individuals through the App. Any user will be able to
           download the ENCOURAGE App through the iTunes Store or Google Play. Note that when
           participants download the App, they are not automatically enrolled in the study.
           Participants will be prompted, after downloading the App, with a brief description of
           the study, as well as a pre-screening tool that will be used to determine eligibility.
           Users will be asked via a pop-up to determine if they wish to participate in a research
           project. Users will be asked to participate in a time series quasi-experimental study to
           determine if the ENCOURAGE App can support participants to increase the number of breaks
           in sedentary time taken throughout the day, over a 6-month time period. The App can be
           customized by the users to set prompts at intervals that fit into their schedule. For
           example, these activities can range from a stretching activity (e.g., a neck stretch), a
           standing activity (e.g., stand and read), or a physical activity (e.g., fill up the
           printer with paper, do a squat). Additionally, the App will use Behaviour Change
           Techniques as a strategy to support participants as they reduce their sedentary
           behaviour and increase their physical activity levels.

        2. The recruitment of a sub-sample of 60 participants who live in Winnipeg, MB which will
           be drawn from the larger sample. In addition to completing all the components of the
           larger research study, the sub-sample will be also asked to wear a physical activity
           monitor, called an accelerometer.

      The objectives of this study are to determine if the final product ENCOURAGE App:

        1. Reduces the number of breaks from sitting;

        2. Reduces total sedentary time;

        3. Increases physical activity levels; and,

        4. Improves self-efficacy for reducing sedentary behaviour.
    
  