
    
      Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder that is characterized by repetitive, involuntary
      movements and vocalizations called tics. Many children with Tourette syndrome also have
      attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which is one of the most common childhood
      mental disorders. Symptoms of ADHD usually include impulsiveness, inattention, and
      hyperactivity. ADHD is commonly treated with a stimulant medication, such as methylphenidate.
      It is under debate, however, whether using stimulants in children with Tourette syndrome
      exacerbates tics associated with the disorder. This study will evaluate the safety and
      effectiveness of methylphenidate in treating ADHD in children who have both ADHD and Tourette
      syndrome.

      Participants in this 6-week, double blind study will receive three doses of methylphenidate
      over the course of the study. Each dose will be taken twice daily, approximately 3.5 hours
      apart, for 2 weeks. Medication will be dispensed at study visits, which will occur once every
      2 weeks. At each study visit, participants will take a dose of the medication. About an hour
      after ingesting the medication, they will be observed in a classroom setting by study
      physicians. Participants will then complete a Continuous Performance Test, which will measure
      their voluntary attention levels. The following will be assessed at study visits: ADHD
      symptoms; oppositional and aggressive behavior; frequency and severity of tics and obsessive
      compulsive disorder symptoms; rebound tic exacerbation; effects of methylphenidate on
      tic-related problems with self-esteem, family life, academic and social performance, and
      overall tic severity; anxiety and mood symptoms; and adverse drug reactions. Parents and
      teachers will also complete assessments of participants' behavior on 2 days of each week for
      the duration of the study.
    
  