
    
      The world is currently experiencing a coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic. The disease caused
      by infection with this virus is known as COVID-19. Risk factors for a poor outcome of
      COVID-19 have so far been found to include, older age and co-morbidity including chronic
      respiratory conditions and current smoking status. Previous studies found, that vitamin D
      deficiency is more prevalent among patients with these risk factors.

      There are observational studies reporting independent associations between low serum
      concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (the major circulating vitamin D metabolite) and
      susceptibility to acute respiratory tract infection. 25-hydroxyvitamin D supports induction
      of antimicrobial peptides in response to both viral and bacterial stimuli suggesting a
      potential mechanism by which vitamin D inducible protection against respiratory pathogens
      might be mediated. The clear functions of vitamin D in the immune system are difficult to
      define because the immune response is not a static process. The vitamin-D-receptor, which has
      also been detected in immunological cells, suggests that vitamin D can regulate some
      processes related to immunity. A further argument which supports a potential antiviral
      activity of vitamin D is the modulation of the inflammatory response. The release of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines by the influenza virus appeared to correlate with the severity of
      illness. The use of vitamin D as a prophylactic for influenza has shown promise in prevention
      of illness and reduction of secondary asthma in children. Inadequate vitamin D status is
      associated with susceptibility to upper respiratory infections in patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In the ViDiCo-trial vitamin D supplementation protected
      against moderate or severe exacerbation, but not upper respiratory infection, in patients
      with COPD. A further study retrospectively examined data from 108 patients with acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) for whom a vitamin D status was available at the time of
      diagnosis revealed that over 95% of these patients had vitamin D deficiency. When examined
      according to quarterly of serum 25- hydroxyvitamin D, a consistent inverse relationship
      between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and length of hospital and ICU stay among survivors was
      observed. Vitamin D substitution in patients with COVID-19 who show a vitamin D deficiency
      should therefore be investigated for efficacy and safety.

      For this purpose the investigators designed a randomized, placebo controlled double blind
      trial to test the hypothesis hypothesis that a single high dose of vitamin D in addition to
      standard treatment improves the recovery period positively in patients with COVID-19 and
      vitamin D deficiency compared to standard treatment only. That means, that the time of
      recovery is shorter in the single high dose vitamin D group relative to standard treatment
      group only.
    
  