
    
      The objectives of the study are to collect information about patient reported outcomes
      before, during, and after treatment for hepatitis C virus infection, to determine the impact
      of treatment on liver function and stiffness (an indicator of inflammation and fibrosis), and
      to determine the cost of treatment.

      The main questions being addressed are (1) how patient reported outcomes change during
      treatment for HCV, (2) how treatment impacts liver function and liver status, and (3) how
      much treatment costs from the payer's perspective and the patient's perspective. The
      hypothesis being tested is that treatment has a negative effect on the quality of life during
      treatment. The negative effect is expected to be temporary. Successful treatment, which is
      equated with a virological cure of the infection, is expected to result in an improvement in
      quality of life compared to baseline and to improvement in markers of liver function and
      liver status. Costs of treatment are expected to be $80,000-$200,000 per virological cure.

      The purpose of the study is to give patients and providers information about what to expect
      while undergoing treatment for HCV and to provide information for future cost-effectiveness
      studies. Previous studies of liver biopsy and transient elastography demonstrate that liver
      scarring regresses in a significant percentage of patients who achieve an SVR; however, the
      majority of patients who had liver cirrhosis at the time they achieved an SVR continued to
      have portal hepatitis and high levels of alpha smooth muscle actin ( D'Ambrosio R, et al.,
      Hepatology, 2012). Particularly because interferon is known to cause autoimmune disease, it
      is possible that some residual liver abnormalities are due to interferon exposure. If this is
      the case, liver abnormalities may regress more rapidly and completely in patients receiving
      interferon-free regimens. Currently, there are no real-world data about the impact of new
      regimens on liver status as measured by transient elastography. This project will fill an
      important gap by providing information about changes in liver stiffness in patients receiving
      the newest therapies for HCV.
    
  