
    
      Travelers' diarrhea is the most common illness experienced by those going overseas. Estimates
      vary, but incidence has been reported to range between 30-60%, depending on travel
      destination and season. Multiple organisms have been implicated as causes of travelers'
      diarrhea, but bacteria account for 80-90% of cases. There is mounting evidence that the
      integrity of the intestinal microbiome may be a strong modulator of diarrheal disease, and
      that intestinal infections and other factors, including stress, antibiotic exposure, and diet
      may disrupt the diversity and overall composition of the microbiome. Dysbiosis, a state of
      altered microbiota diversity, may be less resistant to the acquisition of intestinal
      pathogens and colonization of multiple drug resistant organisms. Furthermore, disruptions in
      the microbiome that may result from an episode of travelers' diarrhea may have a role in the
      development of chronic diarrhea and post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome.

      This prospective, observational pilot study is intended to obtain preliminary data to support
      the rationale for a subsequent larger cohort study. This study is designed to assess
      feasibility, refine the target population, and quickly test qualitative and quantitative
      changes in the microbiome after short-term travel (seven to 21 days) to South or Southeast
      Asia, regions where rates of travelers' diarrhea and intestinal colonization with
      antimicrobial resistant bacteria are highest.

      The target population will include 10 Emory University students and/or Emory University
      Hospital TravelWell Clinic (TWC) patients who have international travel plans. Consented,
      willing, and eligible participants will complete an initial eligibility screening, followed
      by pre-travel, short-term post-travel, and long-term post-travel study visits. To determine
      specific factors associated with diversity change of the intestinal microbiota and changes in
      the presence of genes that code for antibiotic resistance, questionnaires designed to collect
      data on demographics, medical history, diet, food intake, recent (within 12 weeks of
      pre-travel assessment, during travel, or post-travel) illness history, medication use, travel
      itinerary, travel activities, and relevant food and water risk behaviors will be completed at
      each study visit. A stool sample will also be provided at each time point. Participants may
      also choose to take part in an optional sub-study which involves banking leftover stool for
      future research use.

      The primary protocol objective is to pilot a study investigating the association between
      travel and changes in the intestinal microbiome (including both bacterial and fungal
      components) and the bacterial and fungal resistome.

      The secondary protocol objective is to assess microbiota profile changes and reversion to or
      toward the pre-travel state by comparing pre-travel stool specimen sequencing results to
      short-term post-travel and long-term post-travel stool specimen sequencing results.
    
  