
    
      In acute myocardial infarction, infarct size is directly related to short and long-term
      mortality and development of chronic heart failure.Therefore, limiting infarct size is of
      great worth. Therapies to reduce ischemic injury, by primarily primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention seem to be exhausted. Consequently, there still remains a need for efforts to
      develop therapies that target reperfusion injury to obtain additional reduction of infarct
      size.

      Therapeutic hypothermia (32 - 35°C) attenuates reperfusion injury and therefore reduces
      infarct size in a variety of animal models of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), if provided
      before reperfusion. In human studies this reduction has not been confirmed so far, probably
      due to the fact that systemic cooling is slow in reducing temperature and therefore target
      temperature was not reached in time in a substantial number of patients or not reached at
      all. Furthermore, systemic cooling has side effects such as severe shivering, volume overload
      and an enhanced adrenergic state. However, subgroups of patients in all randomized clinical
      trials with anterior myocardial infarction who reached target temperature before reperfusion
      did show a reduction in infarct size.

      To make therapeutic hypothermia into a valuable treatment for AMI, the method of inducing
      hypothermia has therefore to be modified. This method should be clinical feasible and quick
      enough to provide myocardial hypothermia before reperfusion, without prolonging
      symptom-to-balloon times and without the adverse effects of systemic cooling.

      In this study the investigators will evaluate the safety and feasibility of intracoronary
      hypothermia in 10 patients with acute myocardial infarction.

      In study patients, routine primary percutaneous intervention will be commenced. Before
      reperfusion, saline on room temperature will be infused though the occlusion in the infarct
      related artery using an over the wire balloon catheter during 10 minutes. The balloon will be
      inflated to prevent reperfusion in that phase. After 10 minutes the balloon will be deflated
      allowing reperfusion and infusion with saline on 4°C will be continued for 10 minutes. After
      this, a coronary stent will be placed. Primary end points are safety and feasibility of this
      method.
    
  