
    
      Title: Restart tICrH Protocol Synopsis A Prospective Randomized Open Label Blinded Endpoint
      Response Adaptive Clinical Trial of Timing to Restart Direct Oral Anticoagulants After
      Traumatic Intracranial Hemorrhage

      Objectives: To identify the optimal interval to restart oral anticoagulation after traumatic
      intracranial hemorrhage that will minimize thrombotic events and major bleeding by performing
      a response adaptive randomized (RAR) clinical trial of restarting in anticoagulant-associated
      traumatic intracranial hemorrhage patients, comparing restart at 1 week to restart at 2 weeks
      or at 4 weeks, with a primary composite outcome of major thrombotic events and bleeding.

      Hypotheses: We hypothesize that restarting an oral anticoagulant at one week after
      anticoagulant-associated traumatic intracranial hemorrhage, compared to delayed restarting,
      reduces a composite outcome of major thrombotic events and major bleeding.

      Study design Prospective, response adaptive randomized, open-label, blinded end-point
      (PROBE), 40 center national trial Study population -- Approximately 1100 participants with
      traumatic intracranial hemorrhage and an indication for Direct Oral Anticoagulant Main
      inclusion criteria

        -  Clinician intent to restart a Direct Oral Anticoagulant (DOAC) after
           anticoagulant-associated traumatic intracranial hemorrhage and equipoise concerning
           restart of anticoagulation at the specified time intervals.

        -  Acute traumatic intracranial hemorrhage on anticoagulation for Atrial Fibrillation (AF)
           or Venous Thromboembolism (VTE)

        -  Patient is higher risk for stroke or other thrombotic events as witnessed by having a
           CHA2DS2-VASc score of >= 3

      Main exclusion criteria

        -  Mechanical Valve

        -  Ventricular Assist Device (VAD)

        -  SDH >8 mm maximum width or any midline shift at any time point or more than one SDH

        -  Physician plan to start/restart antiplatelet therapy during trial period

        -  Abbreviated Injury Scale other than head >=3

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Inability to understand need for adherence to study protocol

        -  Renal function below DOAC label exclusions

        -  Any active pathological bleeding

        -  Hypersensitivity to drug or other label contraindication

        -  Any bleeding that the investigator deems unsafe to restart DOAC at 1 week post injury

        -  Completion of DOAC therapy expected prior to 60 day primary outcome

        -  Concomitant need for strong inducers/inhibitors of p-gp and CYP3A4 Interventions: • The
           trial will randomize patients with anticoagulant-associated traumatic intracranial
           hemorrhage to restart DOAC at 1 week or 2 weeks or 4 weeks, using an adaptive
           randomization algorithm that increases the probability of patients being randomized to
           treatment arms with lower event rates.

      Primary efficacy outcome: A 60-day composite outcome that includes the following clinical
      events:

      A. Bleeding Events Worsening tICrH/new ICrH

      1)Hematoma expansion/new ICrH lesion on imaging 2)causing objective change in clinical status
      and 3)leading to stop of anticoagulation (must include all three).

      Extracranial Major bleeding BARC3a or above definition 42. B. Thrombotic events Venous
      Thromboembolism (VTE) It is defined as a clinical diagnosis of acute proximal (popliteal and
      above) deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolus confirmed on imaging (compression ultrasound
      or venogram for DVT, CT angiography, other angiography or ventilation/perfusion scan for PE)
      by a radiologist qualified to interpret the scans in a timely manner. If the radiologist
      cannot or does not attest to acute versus chronic thrombus, the Adjudication Committee will
      make this determination according to its charter.

      Myocardial Infarction (MI) Fourth Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction 43.

      Stroke New focal neurologic deficit consistent with ischemic stroke and confirmed by a stroke
      specialist or brain imaging. Brain imaging must be performed but need not be positive if the
      stroke specialist (neurology, neurosurgery or internal medicine) deems a clinically probable
      stroke 44.

      Systemic Embolism A clinical diagnosis of extracranial infarction associated with likely
      thromboembolism and documented by angiography or surgery in the absence of atherosclerotic
      occlusion.

      Cardiovascular death non bleeding Death resulting from an acute myocardial infarction, sudden
      cardiac death, death due to heart failure, death due to stroke, death due to cardiovascular
      procedures, and death from other cardiovascular causes 45. A patient who has both this
      outcome and another thrombotic outcome will only be counted once as this outcome.

      Secondary outcomes: Modified Rankin Scale and Disability Rating Scale

      Safety outcomes: Incorporated in composite as thrombotic and bleeding events

      Statistical analysis: All interim and final analyses will be conducted on the primary
      outcome, the composite 60-day outcome of thromboembolic events and recurrent hemorrhage. Both
      thrombotic and bleeding outcomes will be modeled as a function of the three treatment arms in
      a dose (time)/response (events composite) model. Two Bernoulli models will be used to
      estimate thromboembolism and recurrent hemorrhage. Each of the rates for the Bernoulli values
      by dose are θd and δd for thromboembolism and recurrent hemorrhage respectively. These rates
      are combined to provide a utility function Ud=-θd-δd, so higher values of Ud correspond to
      the better dose to establish specifically whether at a week is best and generally whether
      earlier is better than later.

      Sample size: 1100

      Clinical sites: Approximately 40 trauma center clinical sites in the US.

      Recruitment period: Approximately 60 months

      Follow-up period: Participants will be followed weekly for 60 days, the study end date.

      Special procedures: N/A

      Coordinating centers: Seton Dell Medical School Stroke Institute, Coalition for National
      Trauma Research, Kansas University Medical Center

      Sponsor: Seton Dell Medical School Stroke Institute
    
  