
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of a mindfulness meditation mobile
      application (i.e., Calm College) on reducing stress in ASU undergraduate students with
      moderate, high, or extreme levels of stress as compared to a delayed response group.

      The study design is a randomized control trial with baseline, post-intervention (8 wks from
      baseline), and follow-up (12 wks from baseline) assessments. College students will be
      randomized to either a Calm College Intervention group or a delayed response group.
      Participants will be randomized after the completion of baseline and informed consent.

      Aim 1: Investigate the effects of an 8-wk mobile meditation application (i.e., Calm) to
      reduce self-reported stress in ASU undergraduate students with moderate, high or extreme
      levels of stress as compared to a wait-list control group.

      Aim 2: Explore the relationship between stress and reported health risk behaviors (i.e.,
      inadequate sleep, physical inactivity, dietary behaviors, and alcohol consumption) in college
      students who use a mobile meditation application (i.e, Calm).

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited during September 2017. Interested participants
      will be directed to a Qualtrics link to complete an online eligibility screener. The screener
      will take approximately 10 minutes to complete (See Eligibility Survey). The survey will be
      free, voluntary, and available online. Participants will be allowed to skip questions in the
      survey.

      Eligibility: Once eligibility is determined, participants will be sent an informed consent
      and baseline questionnaire via a Qualtrics link. This measure should take approximately 20
      minutes to complete (See Informed Consent and Baseline Questionnaire). Once Informed Consent
      is signed and the Baseline Questionnaire is complete, participants will be randomized via an
      online randomizer (i.e., randomizer.com) to either a delayed response group or Calm College
      group. Ineligible participants will be sent an email notifying their status and given
      information on how to download Calm College (See Participant Scripts).

      Enrollment: The Research Team will email the intervention participants that will include
      instructions to download Calm College (Participant Scripts). The control participants will be
      emailed and asked to not participate in any mindfulness based activities for 12-wks (See
      Participant Scrips). The intervention will run for 8-wks with a 4-wk follow-up period.
      Intervention participants will complete "7 days of Calm" during Week 1. For the remaining
      weeks (Week 2- Week 8) intervention participants will then be asked to meditate during the
      weekday from a 10-minute meditation of their choice. Throughout the intervention, the Calm
      College group will be sent reminder texts/emails via Google Voice to participate in the
      meditation sessions if participants are not meditating for more than 30 minutes a week (see
      Participant Scripts).

      Tracking: Participation in the Calm College meditations will be tracked (meditation name,
      time of day, and time spent in meditation) by the Calm team.

      Post-intervention: Post-intervention questionnaire will be emailed to intervention and
      control participants via a link from Qualtrics (See Post-intervention questionnaire delayed
      response, post-intervention questionnaire intervention). Intervention participants will have
      access to Calm College, but will not be asked to meditate.

      Follow-up: Follow-up questionnaire will be emailed to intervention and control participants
      via a link from Qualtrics (See Follow-up questionnaire). Once follow-up measures have been
      completed, the control group will be emailed instructions on how to download Calm College.
    
  