
    
      Depending on the severity according to EUGOGO recommendations, patients were divided into two
      groups: the first group with active, moderate-to-severe GO (49 patients) and the second group
      with DON (19 patients). Moderate-to-severe GO was diagnosed according to EUGOGO
      recommendations. Diagnosis of DON in patients with GO was based on at least two signs,
      including (i) deterioration of VA (< 1.0), (ii) loss of colour vision (more than two errors
      in Ishihara plates), (iii) optic disc swelling, and/or (iv) signs of DON in a magnetic
      resonance (MR) scan (presence of apical crowding and/or optic nerve stretching).

      Laboratory tests were performed before treatment in all patients from both evaluated groups.
      Serum markers of exposure to hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis C (HCV) were checked: hepatitis
      B surface antigen (HBs-Ag), hepatitis B surface antibody (HBs-Ab), hepatitis B core antibody
      (HBc-Ab), hepatitis C antibody (HCV-Ab). Serum autoantibodies associated with autoimmune
      hepatitis including anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA1), anti-smooth muscle antibodies (ASMA),
      anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) and anti-liver kidney-microsomal antibodies (anti-LKM)
      were also assessed. Thyroid evaluation included measurement of: thyroid-stimulating hormone
      (TSH), free triiodothyronine (fT3), free thyroxine (fT4), and serum antithyroid
      autoantibodies including anti-thyroid peroxidase (aTPO), thyroglobulin antibodies (aTG),
      thyroid-binding inhibitory immunoglobulin (TBII).

      According to EUGOGO recommendations: patients with moderate-to-severe GO were treated with
      IVMP cumulative dose 4.5g during a 12-week period (for the first 6 weeks 0.5g IVMP per week
      was administrated and for the next 6 weeks 0.25g IVMP per week) and patients with DON
      received 3.0g IVMP (1.0g/day for 3 consecutive days).

      Liver function parameters for further analysis included alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and total bilirubin. These parameters were measured the day
      before treatment in both groups and the day after administration of IVMP in selected pulses:
      after 0.5g (1st pulse), after 3.0g (6th pulse) and after 4.5g (12th pulse ) in the group with
      moderate-to-severe GO; after 3.0g IVMP in the group with DON.

      Depending on concentrations of ALT, liver dysfunction was divided into: mild (above the upper
      limit of normal but less than 100 U/L), moderate (100-300 U/L) and severe (>300 U/L). ALI was
      defined as an ALT concentration >300 U/L. However, the investigators also evaluated a 4-fold
      increase of ALT in comparison to the initial values.

      Routine laboratory tests and clinical evaluation were performed before every single pulse.
      Laboratory tests consisted of: ALT, AST, C reactive protein (CRP). In cases of moderate and
      severe increase in ALT (more than 100U/L) therapy was stopped.

      Follow-up was performed in all of the patients and it included evaluation of AST, ALT and
      total bilirubin between 1-3 months after completion of IVMP therapy.
    
  