
    
      The study will be performed at 5 clinical sites and plans for BC-DN-01 administration in up
      to 135 volunteer patients using a standard Phase 1 + 2 design. Based on conservative but
      approximate drop-out estimates of 20% in Study Phase 1 and 30% in Study Phase 2, up to 15
      subjects will receive BC-DN-01 in Study Phase 1 and up to 120 subjects will receive either
      BC-DN-01 or placebo in Study Phase 2. It is anticipated that the enrolment of 135 subjects
      will allow for 12 and 84 evaluable in Study Parts 1 and 2, respectively.

      Patient screening for study eligibility, randomisation, treatment administration, and safety
      and efficacy evaluations will be conducted at clinic visits in a qualified clinical research
      facility. It is anticipated that up to fifteen patients will be enrolled in the Phase 1
      portion of the study intended to evaluate the safety and tolerability of daily, escalating
      doses of BC-DN-01 for two weeks. This portion of the study is not blinded and non-randomized.
      Upon completion of Phase 1, results will be used for the decision to initiate the Phase 2
      portion of the study. It is anticipated that up to one hundred twenty (120) patients will be
      enrolled in Phase 2 and randomized to receive either placebo or a fixed BC-DN-01 dose for
      twelve weeks. Phase 2 will be double-blind to minimize bias.

      All clinical safety measurements, observations, reported adverse symptoms, and laboratory
      safety data for each patient will be reviewed and clinically relevant findings reported to
      the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) at the end of the Phase 1 and the end of the Phase 2
      trials. The decision to continue trial conduct will be made by BioChemics, Inc., and may be
      based on recommendations provided by a study continuation/study termination opinion by the
      DSMB. At no time will individual patient data or commentary thereon, from the blinded Phase 2
      portion of the trial be shared by the DSMB with BioChemics, Inc. personnel or their study
      conduct partners.

      This study is not formally powered to test a statistical hypothesis. The primary objective is
      to determine the magnitude of pain relief following a daily administration of 16g BC-DN-01
      (320mg benfotiamine) compared to Placebo (Phase 2). This value will be used to determine the
      sample size needed in future clinical trials to ensure adequate analytical power to
      demonstrate efficacy.

      Phase 1

      Patients considered eligible for enrolment to the phase 1 study will be required to comply
      will all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria, including:

        -  Consented to phase 1 trial participation

        -  Met the protocol criteria for inclusion and exclusion (except inc criterion #8, #9 and
           exc criteria #3))

        -  Have not taken neuropathy pain medication for at least 2 weeks

      Visit 1 (Screening) After providing written informed consent patients will undergo a physical
      examination, including leg and feet assessment, vital signs measured and safety blood samples
      taken including serum pregnancy test for women of child bearing potential.

      Visit 2 (Baseline - Day 0) Patients will undergo a physical examination, including leg and
      feet assessment, vital signs measured and safety blood samples taken including urine
      pregnancy test for women of child bearing potential.

      Patients will be dispensed BC-DN-01 study medication to provide 1 week of treatment, of 2g
      doses per leg, twice daily giving a total dose of 160mg benfotiamine/day (80mg b.i.d.). The
      first dose will be given by the study nurse, to demonstrate the correct way to apply the
      cream.

      If the drug is well-tolerated and no significant adverse events are experienced, the total
      daily body BC-DN-01 dose will be increased following the clinic visit on day 7 (with the
      first increased dose of 160mg being applied on the evening of day 7)and then twice daily up
      to day 14, to 320mg benfotiamine/day (160mg b.i.d.).

      Visit 3 (Day 7) Patients will undergo a leg and feet assessment, vital signs measured and
      safety blood samples taken including urine pregnancy test for women of child bearing
      potential.

      Patients will be dispensed BC-DN-01 study medication to provide 1 week of treatment, of 4g
      doses per leg, twice daily.

      Visit 4 (Day 14) Patients will undergo a physical examination, including leg and feet
      assessment, vital signs measured and safety blood samples taken including urine pregnancy
      test for women of child bearing potential. Patients will be contacted on days 3, 10 and 21-28
      by telephone to be interviewed to discuss the medication, general health and any adverse
      events since the last clinic visit.

      Phase 2

      Once the safety profile has been determined in Phase 1 and considered acceptable, the Phase 2
      study will be initiated to evaluate clinical efficacy of BC-DN-01. Patients participating in
      the Phase 1 safety evaluation may also participate in the randomised Phase 2 portion of the
      trial, at least four (4) months after completing the phase 1 trial. At that time, those
      patients, will be required to comply will all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      including:

        -  Consented to phase 2 trial participation

        -  Met the protocol criteria for inclusion and exclusion

        -  Have not taken neuropathy pain medication for at least 2 weeks

      Phase 2 is a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel study in up to 120
      patients. Study participants will receive either placebo or BC-DN-01 based on 1:1
      randomisation (at least 42 evaluable patients per treatment arm). Each volunteer patient will
      apply 4g of the study medication to each leg twice-a-day administering 320mg benfotiamine
      dose/day for 12 weeks.

      The primary endpoint of the phase 2 trial is the reduction in pain level associated with DPN
      as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). The duration of pain reduction will also be
      assessed.

      The secondary efficacy endpoints include the evaluation of Sural and Peroneal motor nerve
      conduction velocities, Neuropathy Symptom Score, Neuropathy Disability Score, ,
      Intra-epidermal nerve fibre density in the legs of these patients, hyperaesthesia and changes
      in lack of sensation in the leg and foot. Xerosis and changes in diabetes-related skin
      pathology, such as infiltration by inflammatory cells and mast cell degranulation as well as
      changes in the gene expression profiles of these tissues will also be assessed.

      Visit 1 (Screening) After providing written informed consent patients will undergo a physical
      examination, including leg and feet assessment, vital signs measured and safety blood samples
      taken including serum pregnancy test for women of child bearing potential.

      Visit 2 (Baseline - Day 0) Patients will undergo a physical examination, including leg and
      feet assessment, vital signs measured and safety blood samples taken including urine
      pregnancy test for women of child bearing potential.

      Patients will be randomised to a 50:50 BC-DN-01:placebo arm and dispensed study medication to
      provide 4 weeks of treatment, of 4g doses per leg, twice daily giving the equivalent total
      dose of 320mg benfotiamine/day (80mg b.i.d.). The first dose of study medication will be
      given by the study nurse, to demonstrate the correct way to apply the cream.

      Visits 3 (Week 4) 4 (Week 8) and 5 (Week 12) Patients will undergo a leg and feet assessment,
      vital signs measured and safety blood samples taken including urine pregnancy test for women
      of child bearing potential.

      Patients will be asked to complete questionnaires regarding DPN pain, sensory tests and
      visual assessments of the skin on your legs and feet will be made Patients will undergo a
      nerve conduction velocity test, which tests how fast electrical signals move through the
      nerves on the leg.

      Patients will be contacted on weeks 2, 6, 10 and 14 by telephone to be interviewed to discuss
      the medication, general health and any adverse events since the last clinic visit.
    
  