
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and the toxicities associated with
      liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351) in pediatric and young adult patients
      with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. To estimate the response rate (complete remission [CR] plus complete remission with
      partial platelet recovery [CRp]) after CPX-351 (cycle 1) followed by fludarabine phosphate,
      cytarabine, and filgrastim (FLAG) (cycle 2) in children with AML in first relapse.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the response rate (CR + CRp + complete remission with incomplete blood count
      recovery [CRi]) after one cycle of CPX-351.

      II. To describe the pharmacokinetics of plasma cytarabine and daunorubicin after CPX-351
      administration to pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory AML.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the response in biomarkers of cardiac injury to a single cycle of CPX-351.

      II. To explore the effect of CPX-351 on novel biochemical and imaging markers of
      cardiotoxicity, including plasma micro ribonucleic acid (RNAs) (miRNA) and myocardial
      deformation.

      III. To explore the role of rare coding variants as risk factors for anthracycline-induced
      cardiomyopathy.

      OUTLINE:

      COURSE 1: Patients receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 0 and at day 28-30 or up to 7
      days prior to day 1 of course 2, and liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Patients without evidence of central
      nervous system (CNS) disease (CNS1) receive no further CNS-directed therapy in course 1.
      Patients with < 5 white blood cells per microliter of blood with blast cells (CNS2) disease
      may receive additional 4-6 doses of cytarabine IT twice weekly starting 48 hours after the
      third dose of liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine until CNS is clear at the
      discretion of the investigator. Patients meeting criteria for CR, CRp, and CRi may proceed to
      course 2.

      COURSE 2: Patients receive filgrastim on days 1-5 and then on day 15 until blood count
      recovery, and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes and high-dose cytarabine IV over 1-3
      hours once daily (QD) on days 1-5.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 12 months, and
      then yearly for 5 years.
    
  