
    
      Symptomatic haemorrhoids is a very common condition. The exact number of haemorrhoid
      sufferers is difficult to estimate because many do not seek medical help and rely on over the
      counter medications. Treatment options for haemorrhoids can be largely classified into
      lifestyle modification, medical and procedural. Procedural treatment can be further
      classified into excisional (involves excision of tissue) and non-excisional. Many procedures
      have been described and there is a preference for minimally invasive procedures and to avoid
      excisional procedures currently as they cause significantly more pain. Furthermore, many
      studies have shown that the post-operative complication rates and recurrence rates are
      relatively low for non-excisional procedures. In recent years, LHP had been introduced. It is
      an example of non-excisonal procedure for haemorrhoid. The delivery of laser energy to the
      anal cushion results in inflammation and scarring, which leads to contraction and fixation of
      haemorrhoids. The potential advantage of this procedure is less pain, as it does not involve.
      excision or passage of suture. Nevertheless, one of the post-operative conditions observed
      after LHP is bleeding. As this is a rather new procedure, there are limited studies conducted
      and the incidence of post-operative bleeding for laser haemorrhoidoplasty is not reported. To
      overcome this, some surgeons supplement haemorrhoidal artery ligation to laser
      haemorrhoidoplasty to minimize the incidence of post-operative bleeding, of which its
      effectiveness has not been formally evaluated. Moreover, the reported incidence of
      post-operative bleeding for HAL is 19-22%. In our institution experience, the post-operative
      bleeding rate for LHP is 1-2%. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that supplementation
      of HAL to LHP is not effective in reducing the post-operative bleeding incidence and is
      unnecessary. This is an interventional study and is designed as a double-blinded randomized
      controlled trial to look into the post-operative bleeding incidence of patients undergoing
      LHP only versus LHP + HAL in UMMC. The study commenced in November 2016 and completed
      recruitment in October 2018. To show the effectiveness of supplementation of HAL to LHP in
      reducing the post-operative bleeding incidence, the investigators needed to study 35
      experimental subjects and 35 control subjects to be able to reject the null hypothesis that
      the failure rate for experimental and control subjects are equal with probability (power)
      0.8. The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05.
      When a 10% dropout rate was factored in, the investigators needed 38 subjects in each arm.
      The investigators will use an uncorrected chi-squared statistic to evaluate this null
      hypothesis. Randomization in blocks of four was used to assign the LHP only group and LHP +
      HAL group. Each procedure after randomized was placed in an individually numbered envelope.
      Prior to the start of operation, the operating surgeon randomly selects one envelop. All
      patients had general anaesthesia or regional anaesthesia. A standard dose of Intravenous
      Cefoperazone 2 gm and Intravenous Metronidazole 500 mg was given. Post-operatively, all
      subjects were given tablet Paracetamol 1 gm six hourly and Capsule Celecoxib 200 mg 12 hourly
      as pain control for five days. They were given Syrup Lactulose 15 cc 12 hourly for one week
      to prevent constipation. Subjects were discharged on the same day or one day after surgery.
      All patients were assessed in the clinic by a nurse/medical officer blinded to the type of
      procedure performed on post-operative 24 hours, one week and six weeks. There were a total of
      76 patients recruited for this study.
    
  