
    
      HIV disproportionately affects men who have sex with men (MSM) in the United States, and new
      infections continue to increase particularly among African American (AA) and Hispanic/Latino
      (H/L) MSM. Past studies estimate that up to 50% of these new infections originate from the
      approximately 20% of MSM who are unaware of their status. Expanded HIV testing can produce
      reductions in incidence when implemented on a broad scale by facilitating earlier diagnosis
      and treatment. Rates of HIV testing are particularly low among AA and H/L MSM, and innovative
      approaches to encourage testing may help address high incidence in these men. Home-based,
      self-testing (HBST) for HIV offers considerable promise for increasing the number of MSM who
      are aware of their status by overcoming key barriers to clinic-based testing, such as
      inconvenience and confidentiality concerns. HBST may also be particularly well-suited for AA
      and H/L MSM, given that stigma and mistrust of medical care contribute to low testing rates.
      Despite its promise, however, many are concerned that HBST does not sufficiently connect
      users with critical post-testing resources, such as confirmatory testing and care among those
      who test positive, and that these limitations may result in delayed linkage to care.
      Existing, FDA-approved HBST kits provide a free, 24-hour helpline that offers these services
      to those who seek it, but few users do, and this "passive" approach may miss critical
      opportunities to engage with MSM for further prevention services.

      To address these challenges, the investigators developed a mobile health platform ("eTEST")
      that uses internet-of-things (IoT) technologies to monitor when HBST users open their tests
      in real time, allowing the investigators to provide timely, "active" follow-up counseling and
      referral over the phone after they do so. In a pilot study, the investigators show that
      providing HBST by mail at regular intervals boosted rates of any/repeat HIV testing among
      high-risk MSM compared with clinic-based testing reminders. Moreover, those who received
      follow-up phone counseling after HBST were more likely to receive risk reduction counseling,
      to consult with a medical provider about PrEP, and to initiate PrEP. Given these promising
      results, the proposed research will conduct a fully-powered efficacy trial of this approach
      in areas with large populations of AA and H/L MSM and high HIV incidence: Jackson, MS, Los
      Angeles, CA, and Boston, MA. High-risk MSM who have not tested for HIV in the last year will
      be recruited from MSM-oriented "hook-up" mobile apps, and assigned to receive either (1) HBST
      with post-test phone counseling/referral ("eTEST" condition), (2) "standard" HBST without
      active follow-up, or (3) reminders to get tested for HIV at a local clinic ("control"
      condition) at three month intervals over the course of 12 months. The investigators will
      explore the impact of the eTEST system on key outcomes, including rates of HIV testing,
      receipt of additional HIV prevention services, and PrEP initiation, compared with standard
      HBST or clinic-based testing reminders alone. The investigators will also explore the cost
      effectiveness of the eTEST system under various scenarios compared with relying on
      traditional, clinic-based testing alone.
    
  