
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Infection with Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) is associated with an increased risk of
      cerebrovascular disease in the general population. Children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) are
      200 times more likely to have cerebrovascular disease than normal children and are known to
      have an altered immune response to many infectious pathogens. C. pneumoniae is the leading
      infectious cause of acute chest syndrome which, interestingly, is a well- established risk
      factor for stroke in children with SCA. Preliminary data indicates that SCA patients with
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-documented cerebral infarction are 12 times more likely to
      have C. pneumoniae infection than SCA patients with normal MRI scans. The investigators
      hypothesize that SCA patients have an abnormal immune response to C. pneumoniae that results
      in persistent infection which, in turn, triggers the development of cerebrovascular disease.
      Sickle cell anemia patients with an elevated velocity on transcranial doppler ultrasound
      (TCD) are known to be at high risk to develop stroke and an elevated TCD likely reflects
      underlying vascular disease. In addition, the Stroke Prevention in Sickle Cell Anemia Trial
      (STOP) demonstrated that almost 40 percent of children with an elevated TCD have evidence of
      cerebral infarction on MRI. Children with abnormal TCDs are, therefore, an appropriate
      population to investigate an association between cerebrovascular disease and C. pneumoniae
      infection.

      The study is in response to an initiative on Ancillary Studies in Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Disease Trials released in June, 2000.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is ancillary to the STOP II clinical trial. The intent is: 1) To determine if C.
      pneumoniae infection is associated with cerebral infarction in children with SCA; 2) To
      characterize the immunological response to C. pneumoniae infection in patients with SCA.
      Establishing a link between C.pneumoniae infection and cerebral infarction will open the door
      to novel, less toxic approaches to the treatment and prevention of stroke in SCA, including
      antibiotics and vaccines.
    
  