
    
      Traumatically injured hospital inpatients aged 18 - 64 will be enrolled into the study within
      12 hours of admission to the hospital. The patients randomized to the experimental arm will
      receive early ketamine infusion therapy at a rate of 3 mcg/kg/min. All ketamine infusions
      will be calculated based on ideal body weight (IBW), unless actual body weight is less than
      ideal. IBW will be calculated for males as 50kg + 2.3*(number of inches above 5 feet) and for
      women as 45.5kg + 2.3*(number of inches over 5 feet). The 65 patients randomized to the
      control arm will receive placebo saline solution at a rate equivalent. Time zero will be
      defined as the time at which the "ketamine / placebo" infusion is begun. For inclusion in the
      study, initiation of ketamine / placebo infusions must take place within 12 hours of
      presentation to Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital (FMLH).

      Prior to starting the investigational infusion, a single IV push of ketamine/placebo (Dose
      0.2mg/kg) over 5 min (MAX 20mg) will be administered to any patient with a numeric pain score
      between 7-10. This is done to achieve more rapid pain control as poor pain control has been
      shown to lead to higher rates of chronic pain and PTSD.

      Patient controlled analgesia will be provided using either morphine or hydromorphone with an
      initial starting dose of Morphine (1.5mg bolus, 12 min lockout, no continuous rate) or
      Hydromorphone (0.2mg, 12 min lockout, no continuous rate). Dose or lockout adjustments to the
      PCA should be done only after first adjusting the Investigational Drug dose. For example, if
      a patient continues to complain of severe pain (≥6) after 2-4 hours of initiation of the
      Investigational Drug then the rate of the infusion should be increased (as described below).
      The adjustments can be initiated by either the RAAPS team or Trauma service. No more than 1
      change to PCA or Investigational Drug rate should be performed every 4 hours (ie if PCA was
      adjusted at midnight, then an adjustment to the Investigational Drug should not be made
      before 4 am).

      At the completion of the 48-hour infusion the inpatient team has the option of transitioning
      the patient from the PCA to oral pain medications. Additional adjuncts to pain control
      including epidural or other regional techniques are at the discretion of the primary team but
      ideally would be delayed until the investigational infusion is completed.

      Ketamine infusions will be prepared by the IDS service but will be hung and administered by
      the inpatient nursing staff. Ketamine infusion therapy will be continued for 48 hours. At 2-4
      hours post-infusion the patient's pain will be reassessed. If the NPS is more than 5 the
      infusion will be increased to 5mcg/kg/min. Following each change in the infusion rate the
      patient's pain will be reassessed at 2-4 hours and adjustments made accordingly. Maximum
      infusion rate will be set at 9mcg/kg/min. Conversely, The RAAPS team should be notified if
      neurologic symptoms (hallucinations, delusions, disturbing dreams, vertigo) are developing
      and, at the discretion of the RAAPS service, a single dose of lorazepam or midazolam may be
      utilized. The infusion can be decreased from in 2 mcg/kg/min increments if there are symptoms
      believed to be related to the infusion that do not respond to benzodiazepines.
    
  