
    
      Rationale for study design:

      The combination of etoposide and ifosfamide is a reinduction regimen used in many previous
      studies for pediatric B lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). It does not use
      anthracyclines, and therefore can be safely used in patients at risk for cardiac toxicity due
      to previous anthracycline use.

      Previous studies in adult patients with ALL have demonstrated safety and efficacy with the
      addition of rituximab to other induction regimens. Rituximab is an anti-CD20 monoclonal
      antibody. Approximately one-half of pediatric cases of B precursor ALL express the CD20
      antigen on the leukemic blasts. The use of rituximab provides a potential target for CD20
      positive cells, therefore improving the rates of cytotoxicity associated with the
      chemotherapy. Rituximab has been previously utilized in many pediatric and adult regimens in
      combination with other chemotherapeutic agents, and is expected to be safe with the
      combination of etoposide and ifosfamide. However, since it has never been studied with this
      combination of chemotherapy, strict stopping rules are in place to ensure that it is a safe
      combination.

      A recent study demonstrated upregulation of CD20 expression on leukemic blasts exposed to one
      week of prednisone therapy. This increase in expression occurred in the majority of B-ALL
      patient samples, regardless of whether the patient initially expressed CD20 on the surface of
      the leukemic blasts. In those samples with upregulation of CD20 treated with rituximab,
      cytotoxicity from rituximab was more successful than in samples with a smaller percentage of
      CD20 expression.

      Therefore, prednisone will be given for two weeks in combination with etoposide and
      ifosfamide. It is hoped that the percentage of leukemic blasts expressing CD20 will increase
      with this combination of medications, allowing the rituximab to be more effective when given
      weekly starting on day 8 of therapy. To better understand this process, samples of blood and
      bone marrow will be collected to quantify CD20 expression and the amount of leukemia present
      at multiple time points during the month of study duration.
    
  