
    
      Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal disorder. Patients associate
      their symptoms with specific foods consumption, creating the need for developing a new
      therapeutic approach based on altering the dietary intake of these patients. Low FODMAP Diet
      is often used as a first-line treatment based on observations showing that short-chain
      carbohydrates are not adequatetly absorbed in the small intestine and exacerbate the symptoms
      of IBS. Additionally, the Mediterranean diet is a cultural heritage representative of all the
      countries surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea, described as a diet rich in herbal foods
      (cereals, fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, olives), with olive oil as the main consumption
      of fats, high to moderate consumption of fish and seafood, moderate consumption of eggs,
      poultry, dairy products and alcohol and low consumption of red meat. On the other hand, the
      nutritional recommendations of British National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
      (mNICE) managing IBS were created on the grounds of systematic reviews and are based on
      dietary and lifestyle modifications about caffeine, alcohol, fizzy drinks, fibre, resistant
      starch, fruits, sorbitol, oat and linseed consumption, meal patterns, probiotics and physical
      activity.

      The direct aim of the study is to compare the efficacy of two dietary patterns, the MED-LFD
      and the nutritional recommendations of mNICE managing IBS. Efficacy will be assessed based on
      the severity of symptoms. Additionally, possible improvements in quality of life and relief
      of symptoms post intervention between the two groups will be evaluated.

      The sample was calculated to 108 participants with prespecified statistical power 80%, level
      of significance α=0.05 and 10% adjustment for non-compliance in each group to detect an
      increase in the primary outcome measure from 59 in the mNICE group to 100 in the MED-LFD
      group (standard deviation of outcome=60). The above hypothesis of the means was based in the
      meta-analysis of Peter Varju, et al. 2017. Patients will be recruited by the Department of
      Clinical Nutrition, Attikon University General Hospital, where the nutritional intervention
      will be carried out.
    
  