
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common inherited genetic disorder in Caucasian children. It
      affects several organs, the most important being the involvement of the respiratory system.
      The respiratory condition influences the prognosis and the course of the disease, the
      respiratory complications being the main cause of mortality and morbidity. The respiratory
      assessment is based on spirometry, but the maximal expiratory volume in the first second
      (FEV1) does not reflect the initial peripheral impairment of airways and can remain within
      normal limits for a long time. Another pulmonary function test (PFT) validated for the
      follow-up of CF children is the measurement of "gas trapping", very frequent in these
      children, reflecting the ventilation inhomogeneity and incipient airways impairment. "Gas
      trapping" can be obtained by the measurement of lung volume (functional residual capacity,
      FRC) by plethysmography and helium dilution technique, but these tests are very inconvenient
      for children due to their long length (~ 30 minutes). This complete PFT is routinely
      performed every year. It also includes a measurement of Lung Clearance Index (LCI) which
      reflects the presence of ventilation inhomogeneity. Capnography is a non-invasive PFT
      technique that does not require subject's active cooperation, is of short duration and could
      replace the traditional PFT techniques for the follow-up of CF children. Capnographic indices
      also reflect the presence of ventilation inhomogeneity. The capnograph is integrated into the
      device that measures the LCI and data can be retrieved and analyzed following the LCI
      measurement.

      In this study, 2 groups of children will be identified by the gold-standard: 1 / children
      with "gas trapping" (defined by the ratio between the difference in the plethysmographic FRC
      (FRCpleth) and FRC obtained by the helium dilution technique (FRCHe) divided by FRCpleth of
      >10%) and 2 / children without "gas trapping" (defined by (FRCpleth-FRCHe) / FRCpleth of ≤
      <10%). Capnography data (included in LCI measurement) will be collected in these children and
      capnographic indices will be compared between these two groups.

      The study hypothesis is that capnographic indices change in the presence or absence of "gas
      trapping" in CF children.

      The importance of capnography is that is a test less inconvenient for follow-up and better
      accepted by children because of its short length, easy-to-use tool for monitoring disease
      progression and monitoring the effectiveness of treatments.

      The main objective is to show that the capnographic index of efficacy (EFFi), in CF children
      is significantly different between subjects "with gas trapping" (defined by the gold standard
      ((FRCpleth - FRCHe) / FRCpleth) > 10%) and subjects "without gas trapping" (defined by the
      gold standard ((FRCpleth-FRCHe) / FRCpleth) ≤10%).

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to compare the other capnographic indices between CF children "with gas trapping" and CF
           children "without gas trapping": the slope of the ascending phase, α; the slope of the
           alveolar plateau, β; the angle Q between α and β; the positive peak of the first-order
           derivative, F'CO2, which reflects the ascending phase; the first negative peak of the
           2nd order derivative, F"CO2, which reflects the curvature between the ascending phase
           and the alveolar plateau.

        -  to compare the results of the capnographic indices with the results of the FEV1 in
           identifying the presence / absence of "gas trapping";

        -  to compare the results of the capnographic indices with the results of the LCI in
           identifying the presence / absence of "gas trapping",
    
  