
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Normalization of VEGF after 3 cycles of therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Toxicity and safety of the combination of ixazomib citrate (ixazomib), lenalidomide, and
      dexamethasone.

      II. Hematologic response after 3 cycles of therapy. III. Hematologic response rates and/or
      VEGF response at 12 months. IV. Overall survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Improvement of peripheral neuropathy (Overall Neuropathy Limitations Scale [ONLS],
      Modified Neurological Impairment Score for POEMS [mNIS+7POEMS], and performance score),
      ascites/effusions, diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) after 3 cycles
      of therapy.

      II. Improvement of peripheral neuropathy (ONLS, mNIS+7POEMS, and performance score),
      ascites/effusions, DLCO, and positron emission tomography (PET)-scan (if abnormal at
      baseline) at 12 months (both groups) and at 24 and 36 months (group 2 only).

      III. Time to VEGF response, hematologic response, and clinical response. IV. Time to VEGF
      progression, hematologic progression, and clinical progression.

      V. Doses delivered will be tabulated to establish tolerance of study drugs.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe changes in bone biomarkers with treatment of ixazomib, lenalidomide, and
      dexamethasone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15, lenalidomide PO
      once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo standard of care autologous stem cell transplant
      (ASCT) after completing 3 cycles of treatment.

      GROUP II: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO, lenalidomide PO QD, and dexamethasone PO as
      in Group I. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 36 months.
    
  