
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) mostly affects young individuals aged between 20 to 40 years and is
      the leading cause of morbidity and disability in young. Most of the MS patients experience
      motor symptoms such as ataxia, tremor, dizziness, limb weakness and vertigo that induce gait
      difficulty. More precisely, it has been reported that in around 85% of patients diagnosed
      with MS the gait difficulties are the main problem, which increases the risk for falls.
      Except for the motor difficulties, MS patients experience multiple physical, cognitive and
      neurological symptoms that reduce their quality of life. Also, fatigue is another frequent
      symptom, which is considered among the most disabling symptoms. MS patients 10 years after
      the onset of the disease become unable to perform housekeeping and employment
      responsibilities, and as a consequence, the patients experience high depression rates while
      the suicide incidence is high, varying from 28.6% to 2.5% in these patients. Over the past 15
      years a variety of studies have proved that exercise training in patients with chronic
      diseases, improve their functional capacity and quality of life, and accordingly are capable
      of performing their daily living activities independently, while it can reduce depression and
      delay the progression of the disease's symptoms. Nevertheless, MS patients for many years
      were advised not to participate in exercise training programs because there was a perception
      that exercise could worsen the disease symptoms due to increased body temperature. Indeed
      60-80% of the MS patients present adverse clinical symptoms when their body temperature is
      increased not only due to physical working but even when immersing in hot water or by
      exposure to infrared lamps or the sun. Since MS has a severe economic impact as it affects
      mostly young adults in their most productive years and leads to loss of work capacity and
      exercise training has the potential to prevent or ameliorate this loss, the need to develop
      new treatment strategies that could overcome the thermoregulatory problem during exercise is
      crucial. Therefore, it has been proposed that active precooling is considered an effective
      treatment for reducing the consequences of induced-heat stress due to exercise. Therefore,
      this study will examine whether a session of pre-cooling could improve the functional ability
      of patients with MS.
    
  