
    
      Overall Design:

      This is a study in children, adolescents, and young adults (6 to 21 years) with SCD
      presenting to an emergency department (ED) with VOC. Children below age 6 are likely to be
      recruited in a subsequent phase, once proof of concept is established on optimized dose
      regimen. Eligible subjects will have documented SCD. Intravenous L citrulline (Turnobi™) or
      placebo will be administered in addition to standard of care VOC therapy to children,
      adolescents, and young adults presenting with SCD VOC - defined as painful episode without
      other apparent causes of pain and without significant organ dysfunction or signs of systemic
      infection.

      This is a single center study, conducted in 2 parts:

      Part 1: This is an open-label, ascending dose part of the study. After obtaining the informed
      consent/assent, the enrolled subjects will be in the ED for up to 7 hours where L-citrulline
      will be administered as depicted in the dosing panel below. Each dose will be administered
      sequentially until 5 subjects per dose cohort are accrued.

      Dosing panels in Part 1:

      25 mg/kg bolus + 9 mg/kg/hr infusion; 50 mg/kg bolus + 9 mg/kg/hr infusion; 100 mg/kg bolus +
      9 mg/kg/hr infusion; 100 mg/kg bolus + 11 mg/kg/hr infusion;

      After each panel of 5 have been dosed, response to a dose is determined by the Principal
      Investigator (PI) with the internal review committee based primarily on analgesic effects
      assessed by review of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score, opioid dosing, and tolerability.

      If the dose panel is assessed safe and 3 of 5 subjects in a cohort respond to the treatment,
      the current dose arm will continue to accrue a total of 10 subjects. If the dose panel is
      assessed as safe; however, fewer than 3 of the 5 subjects respond, the current dose arm will
      be stopped, and the subjects will be recruited to the next dosing panel.

      Two additional panels of 5 to 10 subjects receiving doses outside these ranges may be accrued
      at the request of the internal review committee if determined necessary to achieve the
      study's objectives. As long as supported by emerging data, the subjects in these additional
      panels may receive a lower or higher bolus injection but no greater than 150 mg/kg bolus
      and/or a lower or higher infusion dose but no greater than 15 mg/kg/hour. Up to 60 subjects
      may be enrolled in Part 1 of the study with a likely sample size of approximately 40
      subjects.

      Part 1 of the study is intended to select up to 2 effective and tolerated dose regimens for
      Part 2 of the study.

      Part 2: The optimal dose regimens (at least1 but probably 2) selected from Part 1 will be
      analyzed in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled adaptive pick-the-winner design.
      This will allow assignment of more subjects to the better treatment arm/s based on emerging
      data. Efficacy will be based primarily on analgesic effect assessed by VAS/opioid dose
      composite, admission or not, and tolerability based on adverse drug reactions by the internal
      review committee.

      A total of 60 subjects will take part in Part 2. Subjects will be randomized to 2 of the
      doses selected from Part 1 and placebo in a 1:1:1 ratio. After 30 subjects (10 per treatment
      arm) have been randomized, an interim analysis will be performed. If the higher dose is
      providing markedly more pain relief than the lower dose - with no safety issues - then the
      lower dose will be dropped. Otherwise, if efficacy and safety look similar, the lower dose
      will be retained, and the higher dose will be dropped. In other words, the most successful
      active treatment arm will be chosen for further study versus placebo. The internal review
      committee will be responsible for making this decision. Subsequently, 30 more patients will
      be randomized in a 1:1 fashion in the remaining 2 study arms (15 patients each). In the
      unlikely case that the placebo arm demonstrates superior response to both active treatment
      arms, the interval review committee will recommend discontinuing the study.

      If after 30 subjects, it is determined by the internal review committee that 1 of the 2 doses
      is significantly more effective in subjects with particular characteristics, the less
      effective L-citrulline dose regimen can be dropped for those subjects, eg, if those with more
      severe VOC only respond to the higher dose but those with less severe VOC respond equally
      well to either dose, subjects with severe VOC will be adaptively allocated into a separate
      stratum and randomized only to the higher dose or placebo.

      All subjects in both Part 1 and Part 2 will receive standard of care for analgesia per SCD
      pain management protocol consistent with the Children's national ED guidance guided
      individualized care plan irrespective of treatment with study treatment or placebo. The end
      of the study is defined as the date of the last visit of the last subject in the study or
      last scheduled procedure the last subject in the study.
    
  