
    
      There are encouraging indications from observational and prospective studies that late life
      multidomain lifestyle interventions can reduce the risk of cognitive decline and dementia, as
      well as improve cognition. However, these studies raise major issues related to scalability
      and adherence which can be addressed by relying on technology. These studies mainly used
      intensive and costly face-to-face interventions that are not easily implemented on a large
      scale. Furthermore, there are challenges with the adherence to all the components of a
      multi-domain lifestyle program.

      Technology-delivered interventions have the potential to overcome some of the limitations of
      traditional face-to-face interventions. They confer numerous advantages including scalability
      of use in a real-world setting while limiting geographical constraints and other logistical
      challenges such as clinic attendance requirements. Such delivery modes also offer user
      convenience (e.g., undertaken at home and flexible schedule) and reduced costs associated
      with large-scale deployment of studies and programs.

      In addition to the inclusion of technology, the success of health promotion interventions may
      also be improved by integrating models of lifestyle habit patterns and behaviour change
      determinants. The coach-based intervention will integrate behavioural change techniques based
      on the Behaviour Change Wheel developed by Michie. The coach intervention approach will also
      be guided by the Transtheoretical model of behaviour change principles proposed by Prochaska
      and DiClemente, and Motivational Interviewing techniques described by Rollnick and Miller.

      The Proof-of-Concept study is a 10-week pre-post within-subject parallel group treatment-only
      study. There will be three single-domain groups (diet; physical activity or cognitive
      engagement), and one multidomain group. Participants will receive up to 9 weekly
      coach-assisted counselling sessions. The goal is to recruit up to 55 participants with at
      least one of the target risk factors : unhealthy diet, low level of cognitively stimulating
      activity or physical activity). Participants with a single risk factor will be invited to the
      single-domain condition for which they have a risk. Participants with multiple risk factors
      will be invited to the multidomain condition. The risk level for each domain will be examined
      before and after the intervention to assess whether the intervention has induced a clinically
      significant change.
    
  