
    
      As part of a series of post-marketing requirement (PMR) studies for extended-release (ER) and
      long-acting (LA) opioid analgesics, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requiring New
      Drug Application (NDA) holders of ER/LA opioids to conduct studies to estimate the incidence
      of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose, and death among patients with chronic pain using
      long-term opioid therapy, and to validate the measures used to estimate the incidence of
      these adverse events.

      The purpose of this study is to validate the measurement of opioid overdose events using
      diagnostic codes and data extracted from notes written in the electronic medical record
      (EMR), accompanied by diagnostic algorithms, to be used in a study of the incidence and
      predictors of opioid overdose and death (PMR Study 1B) among patients prescribed opioid
      analgesics. Diagnostic codes, accompanied by diagnostic algorithms, will be compared against
      manually abstracted medical chart reviews.

      Code-based algorithms will be useful for identifying opioid overdoses in claims-based systems
      that include only coded data and will also find applicability in systems with EMRs.
      Code-based algorithms will be improved with text search of EMR clinical notations using
      Natural Language Processing (NLP) to identify overdose events not identified by diagnostic
      codes and to differentiate between intentional and unintentional overdoses. Yield from the
      resulting EMR-based algorithm will again be compared against manually abstracted medical
      chart reviews.

      This EMR-based algorithm will be useful for identifying opioid overdoses in systems with
      EMRs, and for further differentiating between the causes of different types of overdoses. For
      example, overdose events can be due to misuse (e.g., therapeutic use not as indicated by a
      clinician), medication errors by patients, medical errors made by prescribers, abuse by
      patients, abuse by non-patients feigning to be patients in order to receive medications; and
      suicides. Overdose events therefore differ in intentionality, that is whether the person was
      attempting suicide or not. Unintentional overdoses can occur as a result of various causes,
      including misuse (therapeutic use but not consistent with clinician orders), abuse, adverse
      reactions to medications, anesthesia, and medication errors-both patient and provider-based.
      In addition, the distinction between unintentional and intentional overdoses can sometimes be
      unclear. This validation study will attempt to differentiate overdose by intentionality using
      both code-based algorithms and NLP-enhanced algorithms.

      Currently, administrative databases use ICD-9 codes for nonfatal diagnoses and ICD-10 codes
      for fatal events. In October of 2015, ICD-10 codes are scheduled to replace ICD-9 codes for
      nonfatal diagnoses in administrative databases. This study will validate existing ICD-9 codes
      so that the study can meet the FDA-required timeline for a final report by November 2015.

      This study will not evaluate misuse since this will be captured by instruments in a
      prospective study of patients with chronic pain (PMR Study 1A) using a combination of adapted
      validated instruments, and new instruments that will be evaluated in PMR Study 2. This study
      will not include a formal validation for opioid-related deaths, since processes for coding
      deaths vary from state to state, but will include some verification of opioid-related deaths
      relative to medical records for events with available state and national death data (there is
      a 12-month to 2-year lag in state death records).
    
  