
    
      Advances in medical technology and more effective treatment for life-limiting illness have
      allowed children with complex chronic conditions to survive not only the neonatal period but
      also their adolescent years, with an ever-increasing number living well into adulthood.

      Often their families are not well prepared or supported. Currently, outpatient pediatric
      health care services are designed primarily for episodic diagnosis and treatment of acute
      diseases, and are not designed to provide holistic, comprehensive, family-center care that is
      directed at improving the quality of life of these children and their families. There is
      usually no mechanism for effective coordination between subspecialists. As a result, care is
      fragmented, redundant, inefficient, and very costly. Despite their small number, this
      population accounts for a disproportionate amount of the costs associated with pediatric
      medicine. Furthermore, current services are rarely comprehensive and some services such as
      pain-management, sleep-management, life-span palliative care, and psychosocial and behavioral
      interventions (including transition to adult medicine) are often inconsistently accessible or
      non-existent.

      The investigators plan to enroll 450 patients into this study, randomizing about half to the
      new care at Children's Comprehensive Care (CCC) and half to a control group which continues
      in the care that they are currently receiving. If they are randomized to the intervention
      group, the child will receive primary care, including preventative care, acute care, well
      checks, and immunizations from CCC. If this child is hospitalized at Dell Children's Medical
      Center (not including day surgery procedures), a practitioner from CCC will visit the child
      shortly after admission and collaborate with the hospital team to coordinate care at
      discharge. In addition, CCC will coordinate and monitor all other aspects of the child's
      medical, dental, behavioral, and developmental care, including the development of
      individualized care plans that are reviewed annually or with change of medical status, and
      implemented and maintained by CCC. Other changes to care delivery include access to embedded
      palliative, developmental, and behavioral care; use of a consultant-model for specialist
      care; use of telemedicine, greater use of care coordination and case management; and,
      holistic care of child and family-including psycho-social screening and referral. CCC will
      use Social Workers, Registered Nurse (RN) Case-managers, and a Child Life Specialist to offer
      more holistic care coordination, family support, and case-management.

      If they are randomized to the control group they will continue in whatever type care they are
      currently being treated and will be given no clinical intervention by Children's
      Comprehensive Care.

      The investigators' goal is to evaluate whether children who are patients at Children's
      Comprehensive Care receive better care or not, as defined by cost and utilization,
      parent-report for quality and satisfaction, and impact-on-family.

      Cost and Utilization matrices include-hospitalizations, Emergency Department (ED) visits, and
      specialist visits within the Seton system of care (locally, Dell Children's Hospital, a
      member of the Seton Healthcare Family is the only Children's hospital in the Austin area.)
      Investigators will also evaluate quality and satisfaction using the Consumer Assessment of
      Healthcare and System (CAHPS) 12-Month Survey with Patient-Centered Medical Home (PCMH), and
      impact-on-family using the PedsQL Family Impact Module (version 2.0). This study will seek to
      analyze three years worth of data.
    
  