
    
      Previous studies have documented that a slow-release polymeric sirolimus-eluting stent
      (Cypher, Cordis) and paclitaxel-eluting stent (Taxus, Boston Scientific) reduce neointimal
      formation and result in decrease of angiographic restenosis and target lesion
      revascularization at 1-3 years in the multicenter randomized clinical trials RAVEL, SIRIUS,
      and TAXUS I-VI. From these studies, the two leading drug-eluting stents (DESs) of the Cypher
      and Taxus have been widely and rapidly accepted as a standard treatment of coronary lesions.

      Recently, randomized studies were conducted to reveal different outcomes of the different two
      DESs. These studies showed that the sirolimus-eluting stent was better than the
      paclitaxel-eluting stent in terms of lower angiographic restenosis rate or the two DESs were
      similar in angiographic outcomes. A recent meta-analysis supported results of the former
      randomized studies. Patients receiving sirolimus-eluting stent had a significantly lower risk
      of restenosis and target vessel revascularization compared with those receiving
      paclitaxel-eluting stent.

      With a recent approval of new DES, ABT-578-eluting stent (Endeavor, Medtronic, Minneapolis,
      MN), other comparison studies have been conducted to compare Endeavor ABT-578-eluting stent
      with the sirolimus-eluting stent and paclitaxel-eluting stent. The ENDEAVOR clinical trials
      are currently in progress to evaluate a phosphoryl choline (PC)-coated ABT-578-eluting stent
      for the prevention of restenosis. Angiographic analysis at 4 months in the 100-patient focal
      de novo lesion ENDEAVOR I feasibility study demonstrated a mean in-stent percent diameter
      stenosis of approximately 14% and a late lumen loss of 0.3 mm with a low frequency of target
      lesion revascularization (1%). The clinical outcomes from the ENDEAVOR II (1,197 patients
      randomized to ABT-578 or bare metal stent) showed superior efficacy of the PC-coated
      ABT-578-eluting stent than bare-metal stent.

      In patients with acute myocardial infraction (MI), routine stent implantation has been shown
      to have a better procedural success rate and clinical outcome than balloon angioplasty [11].
      However, restenosis and vessel reocclusion remain major challenges limiting the long-term
      success of percutaneous treatment.

      In a clinical study of 400 patients with stent implantation in acute MI, angiographic
      restenosis occurred in 31%, considerably more than expected for patients with stable coronary
      disease. There is very little information available as to the efficacy and long-term safety
      of DES in acute MI. The results from the several registry and randomized trials (Cypher-AMI,
      Typhoon, PASSION) demonstrated the short-term or long-term safety and efficacy of DES
      compared to BMS.

      The incomplete evidence to date is that implantation of SES in patients with Acute MI is safe
      and effective more than BMS and results of implantation of PES are at variance with the
      results of the BMS. However, up to date, there are randomized trials to compare the efficacy
      and safety among commonly used DES (zotarolimus- vs. sirolimus- vs. paclitaxel-eluting
      stents) for the treatment of acute MI patients. The results of large randomized trials and
      larger registries will allow us to make evidence-based decisions about which stent to use in
      patients with acute MI. Therefore, we designed a randomized, controlled, partially blinded
      trial comparing the safety and efficacy of the zotarolimus vs. sirolimus vs. paclitaxel
      stents in acute MI patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
    
  