
    
      Thirty percent of African Americans (AAs) with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) have (DM),
      which increases risk for cognitive decline and dementia. Poorly controlled DM magnifies this
      risk, and AAs have worse glycemic control than Whites. This single-site, double-blind,
      active-control, phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT) will compare the efficacy of
      DM-Specific Behavioral Activation (DM-BA) vs. Enhanced Usual Care (EUC) to prevent decline in
      verbal memory (primary outcome) over 2 years in 200 AAs over age 65 years with amnestic
      multiple-domain MCI and poorly controlled DM. DM-BA is a behavioral treatment for DM, as well
      as a secondary prevention strategy for dementia. DM-BA reinforces DM self-care and addresses
      negative beliefs about medications and physicians. In DM-BA, race-concordant community health
      workers (CHWs) will: 1) deliver in-home DM education tailored to AAs with MCI; 2) use action
      plans to reinforce DM self-care; 3) facilitate telehealth visits with a DM nurse educator to
      guide management of DM and address participants' health beliefs; and 4) increase primary care
      physicians' (PCP) awareness of participants' cognitive deficits and health beliefs to
      optimize treatment of DM. The control treatment, EUC, is usual medical care enhanced with DM
      self-care education. Both DM-BA and EUC deliver DM education and have the same number of
      in-home treatment visits (i.e., 6 visits over 6 months, and 5 booster visits over the next 18
      months). EUC, however, does not include DM-BA's behavioral approach to improve glycemic
      control, telehealth visits with a DM nurse educator, or PCP communication. The treatment
      comparison will identify DM-BA's specific efficacy over and above EUC. Randomization will
      follow a fixed scheme with a 1:1 allocation ratio and stratification by hemoglobin A1c level
      (7.5% - 9% vs. ≥ 9%). We are recruiting participants from primary care practices. We will
      administer the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) (to assess verbal memory; the
      primary outcome) and the Uniform Data Set neuropsychological battery (to assess executive
      function, processing speed, language, visuospatial function, and global cognition; all
      exploratory outcomes) at baseline and months 6, 12, 18, and 24. The primary efficacy analysis
      will compare trajectories in HVLT-R Total Recall scores over 2 years by treatment group. A
      novel exploratory aim will investigate whether Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) measures of
      retinal Vessel Area Density (an indicator of microvascular disease) and/or Retinal Nerve
      Fiber Layer thickness (an indicator of neurodegeneration) [i.e., proxies for cerebral
      microvascular and neurodegenerative disease, respectively] mediate treatment effects. We will
      also explore whether APOE genotype moderates treatment effects, and explore DM-BA's impact on
      multiple cognitive domains and incidence rates of dementia. We powered this RCT to test the
      hypothesis that the slope of the trajectory of HVLT-R Total Recall scores in DM-BA
      participants will not differ significantly from 0 (i.e., no change), whereas the slope of the
      trajectory of HVLT-R Total Recall scores in EUC controls will be significantly negative
      (i.e., decline) over 2 years. With 25% attrition over 2 years, a randomized sample of 200
      participants will provide over 80% power for detecting an annual 1-point difference in slopes
      (2-point difference in 2-year means; a clinically meaningful difference) at the two-sided
      alpha=0.05 level. The scientific rigor of this study derives from the double-blind RCT
      design; recruitment of a sample at high risk for cognitive decline; use of validated outcome
      measures; adequate power; masked outcome assessments; delivery of two standardized credible
      interventions, and data already demonstrating DM-BA's effectiveness to improve glycemic
      control. This RCT is innovative because it will determine whether improving glycemic control
      prevents cognitive decline in a high risk population. Previous RCTs have studied lower risk
      populations and have been inconclusive. We will also uniquely explore whether OCT-evidence of
      retinal microvascular disease and/or neurodegeneration mediate treatment effects. This RCT is
      significant because it targets two prevalent problems in older AAs with DM (i.e., poor
      glycemic control and dementia). AAs' high risk for this comorbidity emerges in part from
      cultural factors (e.g., health beliefs) and requires culturally relevant treatment. The
      number of older AAs with DM in the U.S. (now 1 million) will double by 2030. This doubling
      will increase the burden of dementia in AAs (who already have twice the rate of dementia as
      Whites) and necessitates preventive treatment. We have the experience and expertise to test
      this treatment, and the opportunity to change how DM is treated to prevent cognitive decline
      in AAs with DM. If successful, this RCT will bring us closer to achieving health equity for
      all Americans and meet the goals of the National Alzheimer's Project Act.
    
  