
    
      This study is a single center retrospective observational study designed to assess the
      in-hospital PCs rate of HOCM patients and to identify perioperative risk factors of PCs in
      patients who underwent septal myectomy.

      Ethical approval of this study was obtained from the Institutional Review Board of the
      investigators' hospital (No. KY20192036-C-1). The requirement for written informed consent
      was waived by the Institutional Review Board, considering the retrospective nature of the
      study.

      Retrospective chart review will identify adult HOCM patients who underwent septal myectomy
      from October 2013 to December 2018 in the investigators' hospital. The clinical diagnosis of
      HOCM is made by echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, or computed tomography
      of a hypertrophied, non-dilated LV, in the absence of cardiac or systemic disease that can
      aggravate the magnitude of hypertrophy.

      Data Collection

      The following data will be collected. Data will be obtained from electronic medical records
      and collected by two trained staff who are unaware of the purpose of the study.

        1. Demographic and clinical data included New York Heart Association class, family history
           of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and sudden death, patient history, symptoms,
           medications, and comorbidities of these enrolled patients.

        2. The following preoperative echocardiographic parameters will be collected : left atrium
           diameter, left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF), maximal LV wall thickness
           (defined as the greatest thickness measured at any site within the LV wall), maximal
           interventricular septal thickness, left ventricular outflow tract diameter (LVOTd)
           (C-sept distance, the shortest distance from the septum to the coaptation point of the
           mitral valve), and resting left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient (measured with
           continuous-wave Doppler in the apical five-chamber view using the modified Bernoulli
           equation).

        3. Intraoperative data collected include the duration of anaesthesia, surgery, CPB, and
           cross-clamp; excised LV weight; type of concomitant procedure; lowest body temperature,
           haematocrit , haemoglobin and highest Lactic acid; perioperative fluid management
           including the volumes of total fluid intake, total output and intraoperative fluid
           balance (total intraoperative fluid intake is calculated as the sum of crystalloid,
           colloid and blood products; total output was calculated as the sum of the volumes of
           estimated blood loss and urine output; intraoperative fluid balance is calculated by
           subtracting the total output from the total fluid intake); and blood pressure parameters
           including the baseline mean arterial pressure and lowest mean arterial pressure, and
           duration of intraoperative hypotension (intraoperative hypotension is defined as a mean
           arterial pressure <65 mmHg).

        4. Postoperative ventilation hours, lengths of stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and
           hospital, blood transfusion in 72 hours after surgery, EF, LVOTd, resting LVOT gradient
           gradient, and in-hospital PCs will also be obtained. In-hospital PCs include all-cause
           mortality, heart failure, low cardiac output syndrome, stroke, spinal cord injury, acute
           respiratory distress syndrome, reintubation, reoperation, permanent implantable
           cardioverter defibrillator, kidney injury, renal failure, liver injury, and liver
           failure.

      Statistical analysis

      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD) or median
      (interquartile range). Differences of continuous variables will be analysed by using a
      parametric unpaired Student's t-test or non-parametric Mann-Whitney U-test, as appropriate.
      Categorical variables will be described as percentages (%) and compared using the chi-square
      test or Fisher's exact test. For all analyses, a two-tailed P-value <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. The multivariable model will be used to determine independent
      predictors by including only variables that are identified by univariable analysis as
      significant prognosis risk factors with a P-value <0.05. Receiver operating characteristic
      curve will be used to calculate the cut off values of individual risk factors. The predictive
      ability of individual predictor and different combination of multiple risk factors on PCs
      will also be calculated. SPSS software version 22.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) will be used
      to analyse the data.

      Privacy

      All data collected in this study will be stored on computer systems that require user
      authentication for log on. After data collection is complete, none of this electronic data
      will be stored with subject-identifying information and will be archived and kept
      indefinitely.
    
  