
    
      A percentage of patients with retinal degeneration, a group of progressive blinding diseases,
      are known to develop fluid within the center part of their retina known as macular edema.
      Previous studies have documented that an oral form of carbonic anhydrase inhibitor
      (acetazolamide) can be effective in reducing the amount of macular edema in such patients
      (Archives of Ophthalmology, 106:1190-1195, 1988; 107:1445-1452, 1989). However, the use of
      the oral form of this medication is known to cause clinically significant side effects such
      as fatigue and loss of appetite.

      A topical form of carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, (Trusopt) has promise for having a similar
      beneficial effect on the retinal fluid while not having the systemic side effects observed
      with the oral form of medication.

      In the current study, we propose to use topical Trusopt in a group of patients with retinal
      degeneration (RD) to determine its efficacy in reducing the amount of retinal fluid in
      patients with RD and macular edema. The methods will involve an initial one month treatment
      with topical Trusopt three times a day in each eye. After a period of one month, patients
      will return for a follow-up examination. At baseline, they will have had a measurement of
      their center vision and a measurement of their macular fluid with a photographic-like
      procedure termed optical coherence tomography (OCT). After the one month period of treatment,
      they will again have a measurement of their vision and re-evaluation with OCT. An improvement
      of one line or more of vision will be considered as a significant improvement. Since the
      short-term intervisit variability in the area of macular edema in patients with RD can vary
      from 11% to 16%, a reduction in fluid of at least 25% in area will be considered as a
      clinically significant improvement of macular edema.
    
  