
    
      Mucositis

      Mucositis is an adverse effect as a result of chemotherapy and radiation treatments and has
      significant quality of life and clinical consequences. Mucositis is a result of direct
      cytotoxic damage as well as a cytokine-mediated inflammatory response and can affect the
      epithelial mucosal surfaces along the entire gastrointestinal tract. Mucositis manifesting in
      the oral cavity can be especially distressing to patients and may involve erythema, cracking,
      inflammation, bleeding and ulceration and typically begins 5-10 days after starting
      chemotherapy. Mucositis occurs in about 40% of patients receiving standard dose chemotherapy,
      80% of patients receiving radiation therapy to the head and neck, and up to 100% of patients
      undergoing a bone marrow transplant.(1)

      Pain from oral mucositis has been reported as the single most debilitating side effect by
      patients receiving bone marrow transplants. Mucositis is also the most common condition
      requiring analgesics during cancer therapy. Complications of pain from mucositis include
      inability to tolerate food or fluid intake, difficulty or inability to talk, excess mucus,
      gagging, sleep disturbances, and drooling. Mucositis may also require hospital admission or
      extended admission for total parenteral nutrition, intravenous analgesia, and/or intravenous
      antibiotics. Seventy percent of patients with a grade 3 or 4 mucositis will require a feeding
      tube. Mucositis also has the potential to impact the effectiveness of cancer treatment as it
      is a dose-limiting toxicity and results in cessation or reduction of treatment in 35% of
      patients (2,3,4)

      Current standard of care focuses on palliation and includes systemic opiate analgesics for
      moderate to severe mucositis pain, topical anesthetics and mucosal coating agents such as
      lidocaine, benzocaine, dyclonine, diphenhydramine, doxepin, and benzydamine for moderate
      pain, and bland rinses for mild pain. Data supporting these management options are limited.
      Other agents that have been investigated with variable responses are oral capsaicin, oral
      sulfasalazine, and growth factor mouthwashes. (5)

      Ketamine

      Ketamine is a sedative hypnotic with anesthetic and analgesic properties. Ketamine works by
      selectively depressing the thalamoneocortical system, non-competitively blocking
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, and having intrinsic sympathomimetic activity.
      Ketamine also appears to selectively interrupt association pathways in the brain producing
      somatesthetic sensory blockade. Ketamine is FDA-approved for induction and maintenance of
      general anesthesia but has also been used for procedural sedation, refractory severe pain,
      and acute respiratory failure in children. (6)

      Topical administration of ketamine was shown to cause a reduction in allodynia in a
      double-blind placebo controlled study and peripheral administration of ketamine has
      antinociceptive efficacy similar to that of systemic administration which is likely mediated
      by NMDA antagonism (7). Ketamine may also potentiate the effects of other systemic opioid
      analgesics and may reverse opiate tolerance to some degree. Also, given that topical
      administration of opiates has a local effect, topical ketamine may produce a local tolerance
      reversal. Ketamine also has modest anti-inflammatory properties which could provide
      beneficial effects in mucositis pain relief. (8)

      Ketamine oral rinse use was described in a case report of a 32 year old female with
      radiation-induced mucositis pain refractory to Clark's solution, transdermal fentanyl, and
      intravenous hydromorphone. Ketamine oral rinse was given as 20mg of drug in a 5ml artificial
      saliva solution every 3 hours as needed with continued PCA use. She experienced decreased
      pain at rest and with eating and was able to decrease the dose of her opiate analgesics. Her
      overall pain was reported as decreased from 9/10 to 3/10 with oral ketamine use. No adverse
      effects were reported other than one episode of swallowing the solution which resulted in
      transient sedative and psychomotor effects. (8)

      A retrospective chart review of ketamine mouthwash use in 8 patients over a period of 4 years
      was conducted to determine safety and efficacy. Patients in this review received ketamine
      20mg/5ml mouthwashes every 4 hours as needed. Seven of the 8 patients were post-hematopoietic
      stem cell transplant (post-HSCT) patients. Five patients had a documented improvement in
      mucositis pain and 4 patients experienced an adverse event. Adverse events consisted of mild
      confusion, nausea, vertigo, and hallucinations; however 2 of the 4 patients had reports of
      these symptoms prior to beginning ketamine mouthwashes but were still included in the
      analysis. Patients received an average of 17 doses over an average of 6 days. Reporting of
      pain scores were variable and difficult to quantify but the authors concluded that ketamine
      may provide a viable treatment option for mucositis pain. (9)

      Rationale for study

      Evidence for the use of an oral ketamine rinse suggests that it could provide a distinct
      benefit for patients suffering from pain and other clinical consequences of mucositis as a
      result of cancer treatments. No treatment is currently available that provides a profound
      relief from this pain and available evidence suggests that ketamine could be a useful tool in
      the arsenal of agents available to patients. Ketamine mouthwash was approved by the WVUH
      Pharmacy Nutrition and Therapeutics (PNT) Committee as a treatment option for mucositis pain.
      It is commercially available and currently used at our hospital. No prospective data exists
      objectively evaluating the potential benefits and possible adverse effects of ketamine oral
      rinse. We postulate that using ketamine as an oral mouthwash will provide pain relief for
      patients with significant distress due to pain from oral mucositis.
    
  