
    
      Complications such as surgical site infections, deep wound infections, prosthetic graft
      infections, and non-infections problems such as wound dehiscence continue to cause
      significant morbidity for patients undergoing arterial reconstruction for peripheral arterial
      disease. Patients undergoing leg bypass surgery for limb salvage are at particular risk due
      to their medical problems such as diabetes and renal failure and location of incisions along
      the groin area. Surgical site infections (SSI) are estimated to occur in 5-40% of patients
      undergoing arterial bypass for lower extremity arterial occlusive disease. The in-hospital
      SSI rate is 5% across the Vascular Study Group of New England, a regional quality improvement
      registry. Factors contributing to wound infections include patient factors such as advanced
      age and comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes and renal insufficiency and surgical factors
      including the division of local lymphatics in the groin, placement of a prosthetic graft and
      inherent difficulty in keeping an incision across the groin crease covered, dry and
      protected.

      Despite the use of standard sterile technique and perioperative preventative antibiotics
      infections these complications continue to cause patient morbidity. In addition these
      complications increase the intensity and cost of care with an added estimated expense of
      $11,000 per incident. New strategies are needed to reduce these complications. Negative
      pressure wound therapy has the potential to prevent a variety of wound complications. One
      innovative strategy that has shown promise is the application of the Prevena dressing system
      over the closed surgical incision. The dressing consists of a sterile sponge that is placed
      over the incision followed by a plastic adhesive covering that is used to secure it to the
      skin forming an air-tight seal. The sponge is then connected by tubing to a vacuum that
      applies negative pressure to the closed system. This allows fluid to drain from the wound and
      into a container connected to the dressing. When compared to surgical dressing with sterile
      gauze and tape, the Prevena dressing system has the advantages of providing a sterile
      barrier, reducing tension on the incision, and removing fluid from the incision. Please refer
      to patient brochure for an illustration and further description of the Prevena dressing
      system.

      Negative pressure wound therapy has been applied for many years to enhance healing of a
      variety of open wounds including pressure wounds, diabetic ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, open
      infected surgical to traumatic wounds and burns with variable success. The treatment is based
      on evenly distributed local negative pressure applied to the wound surface. The open wound is
      filled with a sponge and covered with an occlusive dressing which is then connected by means
      of a set of suction tubes to a device which applies negative pressure on the surface of the
      wound that can be adjusted either cyclically or continuously. The fluid from the wound is
      collected into a container. The benefits of negative pressure wound therapy have been
      reported to include removal of infectious material, reduction in edema and improved perfusion
      to tissue.

      The success of negative pressure wound therapy with open wounds has been extrapolated to
      intact surgical incisions. Recently a negative pressure wound therapy dressing has been
      developed for use over closed surgical incisions.

      The investigators aim to study the ability of a negative pressure wound therapy dressing to
      prevent wound complications after vascular surgery involving incisions in the groin.

      The aim of this study is to compare the Prevena dressing system to standard surgical dressing
      in patients undergoing leg bypass surgery or femoral endarterectomy with or without patch
      angioplasty involving the common femoral artery and/or profunda and/or proximal superficial
      femoral artery. The index groin may have undergone prior procedures (may be inflow or outflow
      for existing grafts), but the patient must have fully healed from the prior operation. May
      include patients with concomitant proximal and/or distal peripheral vascular intervention.
      The patch may be autogenous venous or arterial or prosthetic material such as bovine
      pericardium, dacron or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) as well as bilateral femoral
      endartectomies are eligible for enrollment. The right and left groin incision would be
      randomized to the same dressing which is consistent with routine clinical practice. for
      vascular disease involving their legs in a multicenter randomized trial. All other aspects of
      the procedure are the part of standard vascular surgery practice. Patients undergoing
      vascular surgery with an incision in the groin will be treated with a standard gauze dressing
      or the Prevena wound management system which will be applied in the operating room and left
      on the wound for 5-7 days. Follow-up visits to assess the surgical wound are already standard
      of care. The two groups will be compared based on the primary and secondary endpoints listed
      in these documents. Quality of life will be compared by a patient survey and a cost analysis
      will be performed.
    
  