
    
      1. Introduction

           Ankle sprains are among the most prevalent lesions in the athletic and non-athletic
           population(1). Accounting to up than 14% of emergency visits and with an estimated year
           cost of more than U$6 billion, it has a high impact in the health care system(2,3).
           Approximately 10 to 40% of these cases will develop ankle instability. The most
           susceptive population are those with an erratic treatment and/or poor rehabilitation
           program(4). Over the past years, the open Brostrom Gould procedure has been state as the
           gold standard procedure for this specific group of patients. (5,6). (7,8).

           With the development and improvement intra-articular ligament reconstruction and repair
           for shoulder and knee, the possibility to perform the same type of procedure at the
           ankle has grown. Arthroscopic-assisted Brostrom techniques were first described by Nery
           et al and Corte-Real et al near the year 2010(9,10). Some authors proposed modifications
           to these original approaches, but the main surgery concept was maintained(11-14)..
           During the last few years, a good number of studies were able to present good clinical
           and functional results with this procedure(1,11,15-18).

           Ankle arthroscopy is a reliable procedure and has been indicated to evaluate and treat a
           great number of ankle pathologies over the past decades(19,20). Ankle impingement,
           osteochondral lesions and tibiotarsi arthrodesis are some of the conditions that have
           good literature support in favor for the arthroscopic approach(21). Also, its use, prior
           to an ankle ligament repair or reconstruction, is advocated and sustained by several
           studies(22-26). It allows a complete articular visualization, providing the surgeon with
           a definitive scenario when dealing with ankle instability. Cartilage lesions,
           impingement syndromes and loose bodies that could be neglected by subsidiary exams can
           be detected and treated arthroscopically.

           The intra-articular ligament reconstruction and repair is not novelty for others
           orthopedic areas. The development of the anterior cruciate ligament surgery went to from
           the open approach to the arthroscopic technique over the last decades until the least
           was proclaimed the gold standard(27,28). The Bankart lesion, a condition normally
           related to traumatic shoulder instability, has a similar history, although the
           arthroscopic approach wasn't able to produce superior general results when compared to
           its open counterpart (29,30). Advances in the "all-inside" ligament repair are taking
           place at the shoulder and hip segment as well, showing promising and solid
           outcomes(31,32).

           Despite all the solid results regarding the biomechanical profile and the clinical
           effects of the arthroscopic Brostrom, there is a gap in its bibliography when it comes
           to high-level studies. Only Yeo et al in 2016 were able to show similar results between
           the open and the all-inside procedures with one-year follow-up study (1). Lately, an
           attempt in producing on systematic review on the subject was published, but no clinical
           trials were found to be included(33).

           Herein, our objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of the arthroscopic Brostrom
           technique and compare it to the open Brostrom procedure regarding complications,
           function by the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT), the American Orthopedic Foot
           and Ankle Society score (AOFAS), the Foot Function Index (FFI) and the 36 Short Form
           Survey (SF-36). The primary hypothesis is that the arthroscopic Brostrom will mitigate
           pain and improve function as compared to the open approach.

        2. Material and Method

      2.1 Design, setting and recruitment

      This will be a multicentric, with parallel groups, randomized clinical trial. The study will
      be conducted at São Paulo Hospital, a tertiary, teaching hospital fully affiliated with the
      Federal university of São Paulo (UNIFESP), and at Hospital das Clínicas, another tertiary,
      teaching hospital fully affiliated with the Federal university of Minas Gerais (UFMG).

      Participants will be enrolled at both hospitals, which provide assessment and treatment to
      approximately 5 (five) new patients with ankle instability per week. They will be referred by
      local orthopedist doctors or health professionals. The information to these physicians will
      be delivered by e-mail addressed directly to them, as well as via posters exhibited in places
      containing orthopedic medical care (outpatient clinic, emergency room).

      2.2 Inclusion Criteria

        -  Individuals must be older than 18 and younger than 65 years of age, both genders;

        -  Participants must be experiencing instability symptoms at the ankle over the last six
           months;

        -  Clinical diagnosis of ankle instability, defined as the presence of at least one
           previous ankle sprain associated with a current instability sensation by the patient and
           the presence of a positive anterior drawer test; the previous lateral ligament injury
           must be confirmed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings.

      2.3 Exclusion Criteria

        -  Previous surgery involving the affected foot or ankle;

        -  History or documented evidence of autoimmune or peripheral vascular diseases;

        -  History or documented evidence of peripheral neuropathy (nervous compression syndrome,
           tarsal tunnel syndrome) or systemic inflammatory disease a (rheumatoid arthritis,
           spondylitis, Reiter Syndrome, etc.);

        -  Associated injuries, such as osteochondral lesions, tendon ruptures and fractures;

        -  Associated instability, such as syndesmotic and medial instability;

        -  Cavovarus foot;

        -  BMI over 35;

        -  Previous infiltration in the ankle over the six months preceding the initial assessment;

        -  Pregnancy;

        -  Any condition that represents a contraindication of the proposed therapies;

        -  Impossibility or incapacity to sign the informed Consent Form;

        -  History or documented evidence of blood coagulation disorders (including treatment with
           anti-coagulants, but excluding aspirin);

        -  Use of heart pacemaker;

        -  Presence of infectious process (superficial on skin and cellular tissue, or deep in the
           bone) in the region to be treated;

      2.4 Sampling

      The objective of this study is to right evaluate the efficacy of the Brostrom arthroscopic
      technique and compare it to the open Brostrom procedure in relation to the function by the
      American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society Score (AOFAS), the foot function Index (FFI) and o
      36 Short Form Survey (SF-36).

      Thus, considering a 7.2 million population in the city of Sao Paulo that fit the criteria of
      inclusion and/or exclusion (Source: Census 2010) and respecting an involvement index of
      0.072% value (0.72 by 1000 Exposition, according to the Ankle Consortium). Therefore, the
      target population estimated for the study is 5,155 people.

      Using the formula shown in appendix I to calculate the sample size with a 10% error, we
      estimated a sampling of 98. This sample quantity was defined according to the methodology
      expressed in appendix I, where, based in the central boundary theorem and the laws of large
      numbers, this sample size ensures that statistical analyses will be reliable.

      2.5 Procedures

      A written, signed and dated informed consent will be obtained from the subject before any
      study-related procedures are performed. The patients will have to fill out an initial
      questionnaire in order to be enrolled (Attachment 2). After that, the assistant doctor will
      do the physical diagnostic examination. Then, X-rays and the MRI procedures will take place,
      to complete the diagnostic assessment. The patient will be included in the protocol and duly
      randomized after the diagnostic confirmation and fulfilment of all the inclusion criteria and
      non-adequacy to the exclusion criteria.

      The randomization sequence will be generated via computing software
      (http://www.randomizer.org/form.htm), producing a list from 1 - 98, and each number will be
      related to a sole treatment method. We will do a randomization with interchanged blocks, with
      the same number of patients in each group.

      Each non-transparent, opaque, sealed envelope, numbered from 1 to 98, will contain either a
      paper with the word "open" or with the words "arthroscopic". Each treatment method will have
      the same number of envelopes. The patients will be initially assessed individually, being
      randomized and allocated in the same way. The intervention procedures will be the same, with
      the same positioning and preparations, but differing regarding the lateral ligament repair
      approach.

      The evaluator doctor won't have access to the protocol test applied to each patient, and the
      surgeries (open or arthroscopic) will be conducted by different physicians. The patients in
      both groups will receive a large bandage at the operation site before every consultation,
      blinding the evaluator.

      2.6 Interventions 2.6.1 Open Brostrom Approach

        1. Period from diagnosis to intervention: up to 1 month.

        2. Patient will receive a general anesthesia and a popliteal peripheral block. After
           surgical site preparation, the traditional arthroscopic portals will be performed.

        3. An ankle arthroscopy will be held, to confirm the nonexistence of chondral lesions,
           medial instability or syndesmotic instability. The ankle will be cleaned, and all
           impingements removed. The proximal ligament insertion at the lateral malleolus will be
           debrided.

        4. All the arthroscopic instruments will be removed. A lateral longitudinal incision will
           be held over the lateral capsule. The fibula apex, at the ATFL and CFL footprint, will
           receive a 3.0mm suture anchor (with two n2 high-resistant sutures).

        5. The ligaments will be reattached with tension in a paints-over-vest fashion, using one
           suture for the ATFL region and one for the CFL region.

        6. The incisions will be closed, and the patient placed in a post-operative boot.
           Weight-bearing will start at the 1st week (with the boot) and range of motion (ROM) will
           begin at the 3rd week (limiting inversion until the 6th week). Patients will be
           transitioned to an ankle brace at the 4th week.

        7. Patients will be evaluated, and the questionnaires applied at the 3rd, 6th, 12th, 24th
           and 48th post-operative week.

      2.6.2 Arthroscopic Brostrom Approach

        1. Period from diagnosis to intervention: up to 1 month.

        2. Patient will receive a general anesthesia and a popliteal peripheral block. After
           surgical site preparation, the traditional arthroscopic portals will be performed.

        3. An ankle arthroscopy will be held, to confirm the nonexistence of chondral lesions,
           medial instability or syndesmotic instability. The ankle will be cleaned, and all
           impingements removed. The proximal ligament insertion at the lateral malleolus will be
           debrided.

        4. The fibula apex (by arthroscopic view), at the ATFL and CFL footprint, will receive a
           3.0mm suture anchor (with two n2 high-resistant sutures).

        5. One suture will be passed at the most superior anterolateral capsular site and the other
           at the most inferolateral capsular site, respecting the safe zone between the
           superficial fibular nerve and the peroneal tendons. These maneuvers will be executed in
           a percutaneous and arthroscopic assisted technique. The ligaments will be reattached
           with tension using an arthroscopic knot.

        6. The incisions will be closed, and the patient placed in a post-operative boot.
           Weight-bearing will start at the 1st week (with the boot) and range of motion (ROM) will
           begin at the 3rd week (limiting inversion until the 6th week). Patients will be
           transitioned to an ankle brace at the 4th week.

        7. Patient will be evaluated, and the questionnaires applied at the 3rd, 6th, 12th, 24th
           and 48th post-operative week.

      2.6.3 Adjuvant therapies

      Both groups will be submitted to the same post intervention care program, and they will be
      advised to use the following adjuvant therapies according to the intensity of their symptoms:

      Elevation Every patient will be oriented to perform limb elevation during the post-operative
      period.

      Pain Killers

      Level 1:

        -  Dipyrone 1g every 6 hours, in case of pain, or

        -  Paracetamol 750mg every 6 hours

      Level 2 (in case the pain does not diminish with level 1):

        -  Tramadol 50mg every 6 hours, in case of pain, or

        -  Codeine 30mg every 6 hours, in case of pain. The patient must present, at each visit to
           the doctor, the daily annotation concerning the used sedative medication. The medication
           will be supplied to the patient after the intervention, with the respective orientation
           concerning its use. After the period of five days of sedation, in case the pain
           persists, the patient will be reassessed, to check the necessity of changing the
           medication. If after the sixth week assessment the pain is stronger than in the initial
           painful stage, the patient will have the option of either change the treatment or being
           excluded from the study.

      2.7 Primary outcome

      • Major complications such as dehiscence, neural damage, infection and re-rupture.

      Significant difference between groups.

        -  Dehiscence: inability to heal the soft tissue coverage until the end of the 4th
           post-operative week.

        -  Peripherical nerve damage: hypoesthesia or paresthesia not solved until the end of the
           6th month after the surgery.

        -  Infection: clinical signs infection or pus drainage at the wound that required the use
           of antibiotics.

        -  Re-rupture: an ankle sprain event during the follow-up.

      2.8 Secondary outcomes

        -  CAIT

        -  VAS

        -  FFI

        -  AOFAS score

        -  SF-36

        -  Minor complications such as neuropraxia and prominent suture knots.

      2.9 Subject Discontinuation

      Subjects may be discontinued from the study at any time. Reasons for discontinuation include:

        1. Voluntary discontinuation by the subject without prejudice to further treatment.

        2. Development of Complex Regional Pain Syndrome or any huge inflammatory response.

        3. Pain and function severe impairment.

      2.10 Statistical Analysis: After collecting the information, we will characterize the
      relative frequency (percentages) distribution of the qualitative variables through the Equal
      Test of Two Proportions. For relationship between qualitative variables analysis, the
      Chi-Squared test will be used. If a correlation between quantitative covariables reveals
      necessary, the Pearson's Correlation Test will be used. For the quantitative covariant
      comparison (effect measurement), we will make use of the ANOVA test.

      3. Discussion Chronic ankle instability (CAI) can be a consequence in up to 40% of ankle
      sprains. Considering that this type of trauma can occur in more than 10,000 Americans per day
      and consume more than U$6 billion in related costs per year, it's fair to say that we might
      be dealing with a worldwide public health challenge. Although this instability may be managed
      with conservative treatment, many patients will require surgical resolution due their demands
      and expectations.

      In this scenario, the Brostrom-Gould technique has emerged as the standard procedure in ankle
      instability operative care. Based on sustained and long-term results, its open fashion still
      is the preferable procedure for most of the Foot and Ankle and Sports Traumatology surgeons.
      Meanwhile, orthopedic arthroscopic techniques have progressed over the past decades and at
      the end of this century's first decade, the all-inside ankle ligament reconstruction started
      to be performed and published.

      A moderate number of surveys regarding these techniques in the past few years showed its
      efficacy and safety. Yet, there is no consensus concerning what is the best way to approach
      ankle instability when contrasting the open and the arthroscopic approach due the lack of
      quality comparative studies. Our research intends to try to answer this question by a
      randomized clinical trial with robust outcomes and a long follow-up.
    
  