
    
      The present study is proposing a 12-month translational study BHT DSMS to test the
      effectiveness of adapted Stanford DSMP in a spiritual context. A cluster randomized trial
      with repeated measures will be conducted to compare the effectiveness of DSMS intervention
      strategies among 360 adult diabetic congregants from 18 predominantly Hispanic churches in
      San Antonio, Texas (20 participants/church). Using cluster randomized trial design; nine
      churches will be randomly assigned to the Faith-Based (FB) intervention, and nine to the
      Faith-Placed (FP) intervention. The study will be implemented in two cohorts (8 churches for
      cohort 1 & 10 churches for cohort 2). All intervention activities will be implemented over 14
      consecutive weeks. Participants in the FB group will participate in BHT DSMS, which includes
      a Health Sermon, a 6-session Health Bible Study with cooking demonstrations, the Stanford
      DSMP and a Diabetes Resource Seminar delivered by two trained church lay leaders.
      Participants in the FP group will first attend a 7-session community health and safety
      curriculum as a partial attention control intervention, followed by the Stanford DSMP and
      Diabetes Resource Seminar facilitated by the local public health department. The primary
      outcome will be a change in HbA1c levels. Secondary outcomes include: changes in body mass
      index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), quality of life, diabetes self-care behaviors, eating
      behavior and physical activity level. Data will be collected at baseline, 6, 9, and 12-months
      during the study period. The aims of present study are 1) To test feasibility of the Stanford
      DSMP in FP and FB settings through observation and documentation of the implementation
      process, in-depth interviews with program staff and focus groups with participants to
      identify facilitators and barriers of the intervention. 2) To translate Stanford DSMP in a
      spiritual context for Hispanic faith community members and compare the effectiveness of a FB
      versus FP approach in improving diabetes outcomes.
    
  