
    
      This is a randomized placebo controlled study in children diagnosed with autism spectrum
      disorder (ASD). Children will have a documented history of this disorder, as confirmed or
      consistent with the International Classification of Diseases (ICD 10) or Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (Text Revision; DSM 5) criteria, having
      DSM-5 criteria based sleep disturbances at screening.

      The children will undergo 4 weeks of basic sleep hygiene and behavioral intervention, which
      will serve as a wash out period from any hypnotics and prohibited medications; Children with
      a documented history of sleep hygiene and behavioral intervention who are taking a prohibited
      medication will not require additional training and will undergo a 2-week wash out period
      before Visit 1.

      Children who are still found to be eligible for the study after the 4 week, basic sleep
      hygiene and behavioral intervention wash out period, will continue in a 2 week single blind
      (SB) placebo run in period.

      . After the 2 week SB placebo run in period (Visit 2; Week 2), children who are still found
      eligible for study participation will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either Slenyto®
      (1 or 5 mg prolonged release melatonin tablets) or placebo for 3 weeks double-blind treatment
      period. The starting dose will be 2X1mg Slenyto® or matching placebo. During these 3 weeks
      parents will complete the electronic sleep and nap diary every morning.

      After one week of double-blind treatment, on the last day of Week 3 ±3 days (Visit 3), sleep
      variables will be assessed to determine if dose modification (increase to 1X5 mg Slenyto® or
      matching placebo) is required. Children will then continue on 2 or 5 mg of Slenyto® or
      matching placebo to the end of the double blind period (End-of Study Visit 4; Week 5).

      Study duration will be either 5, 7, or 9 weeks, including the optional 2-weeks medication
      wash out and 4 weeks sleep hygiene and behavioral intervention periods (overlapping).

      The main objective is to compare treatment effect of Slenyto® 2 mg or 5 mg to that of placebo
      on sleep duration (total sleep time [TST]) as assessed by the Sleep and Nap Diary after 3
      weeks of double blind treatment.

      The key secondary endpoints are SL and LSE. Safety will also be assessed by Adverse events,
      vital signs and physical examination.
    
  