
    
      Purpose The purpose of the study is to determine whether hydrating with coconut water during
      a game-simulated, basketball-specific training session can enhance performance. It is
      hypothesized that coconut water will provide an ergogenic effect for basketball players.

      Sample The sample will include 20 varsity basketball players, male and female, ranging in age
      from 18-35 who volunteer to participate in the study. This sample size is justified assuming
      a standard deviation of 1.5 based on previous studies and using a power of 80% with the
      statistical significance of 0.05 the resulting n would be 2(1.5)^2*(0.84+1.96)^2/5=7 (Kadam,
      P., & Bhalerao, S. (2010). Sample size calculation. International journal of Ayurveda
      research, 1(1), 55). To account for dropouts, 10 participants will be recruited for each
      group. Participants will be required to have no history of kidney problems. All individuals
      must give written informed consent in order to participate in the study. Exclusion criteria
      include not being a varsity basketball player, being younger than 18 or older than 35, or
      having a history of kidney problems.

      Procedure Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be explicitly stated throughout the recruitment
      process. Potential participants will be recruited through first contacting the Men's and
      Women's Head Basketball Coaches of Western University and obtaining approval of collaboration
      from the team. Players will then be in direct contact with Reed Zehr to gain information of
      study. After given the study details, individuals will be given up to 3 days to determine if
      they want to participate and give their informed consent. See attached form in the consent
      section of the ethics application.

      Measurement: All players will perform two sessions of a 10 minute BSST (Basketball Specific
      Skills Test) which will represent the 1st and 2nd quarter respectively. Field Goal Attempts
      (FGA) (#), Field Goals Made (FGM) (#), Field Goal Percentage (FGP) (%) will be measured from
      the free-throw line, mid-range and three point distances during the BSST. A dribbling drill
      will be used as well and number of dribbles (#) will be measured. All players will then
      perform two sessions of a 10 minute BEST (Basketball Exercise Simulation Test) test which
      will represent the 3rd and 4th quarter of a basketball game. Total distance covered (m), Mean
      circuit completion time (s), mean sprint time (s), and total sprint decrement (%) will be
      measured during the BEST.

      Protocol: On test days, participants will report to he Gym at 0600 h after a 12 h overnight
      fast and having abstained from any strenuous exercise following the evening meal. At 0615 h,
      participants will consume a standardized breakfast (toast and jam) and the first beverage of
      750mL. At 0730 h, participants will be told to consume the second beverage of 250mL. At 0745
      h, the participants will undergo the first 10 min quarter of the BSST. At 0755 h, the
      participants rest during a 2 min break (1st intermission) and consume the third beverage of
      250mL. At 0757 h, the participants will undergo the second session of the BSST. At 0807 h,
      the participants receive a 15 min break (half-time) and consume the fourth beverage of 500mL.
      At 0822 h, the participants will undergo the first BEST. At 0832 h, the participants receive
      a 2 min break (2nd intermission) and consume the final beverage of 250mL. At 0834 h, the
      participants undergo the second BEST. At 0844, the exercise bout will be completed.
      Participants will complete this protocol for each of the three experimental conditions.
    
  