
    
      Overview of Study Design. The Care-coordination Approach to Learning Lupus Self-Management
      (CALLS) study is a double arm, pre-post pilot designed to examine whether modeling and
      reinforcement from a lay patient navigator/care coordinator improves disease self-management,
      indicators of disease activity, health related quality of life (HRQOL), and 30-day
      readmission in SLE inpatient admissions. We will recruit 40 patients (20 questionnaires and
      phone sessions and 20 questionnaires only) with active SLE upon hospital admittance at the
      Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC). The lay patient navigator/care coordinator will
      be trained to deliver intervention content by twelve weekly telephone sessions carried out
      across the course of the study. All participants will be assessed using validated measures of
      patient reported outcomes at baseline, mid-intervention (6 weeks post-enrollment), and
      immediately following the intervention (12 weeks post-enrollment). Outcomes for patients who
      agree to phone sessions will be compared with the outcomes of patients who opt to participate
      in questionnaires only. The study will last 12 months with recruitment and enrollment over 6
      months, 3 months for intervention delivery and 3 months for data analysis.

      Study Population. The target population for this study will be SLE inpatient admissions at
      MUSC. There are approximately 35 SLE and Scleroderma hospital admissions each month, so it is
      expected that over a 3-month recruitment period, we will be able to recruit 40 participants
      (20 questionnaires and phone sessions and 20 questionnaires only).

      Recruitment of Lay Patient Navigator/Care Coordinator The PI will identify a suitable lay
      patient navigator/care coordinator based on their maturity, emotional stability, and verbal
      communication skills. Suitable candidates will have at least a high school diploma or
      equivalency with at least one year of patient care experience in a health care facility; or a
      Certified Nursing Assistant; or successful completion of a Nursing Assistant or Medical
      Assistant course at an accredited institution or equivalent training; or EMT or Paramedic
      certification; or a Bachelor's degree. They will possess the ability to understand and
      implement a variety of detailed instructions in the execution of therapeutic procedures and
      the ability to make accurate physical observation of patients.

      Recruitment of SLE patients Admitted SLE patients will be referred by their physician for
      participation in the study, who will provide a letter that will explain the study and provide
      participants a number to call if they have questions or concerns prior to agreeing to
      participate. Participants who indicate interest in the study will be immediately screened for
      eligibility, and if eligibility criteria are met, informed consent will be obtained. Once a
      patient has been consented, they will be randomized to membership in one of the two study
      arms. assigned to the intervention (complete questionnaires and phone sessions) or control
      (complete questionnaires only) arm, and the rest of the recruitment visit will include
      baseline self-report assessments and scheduling of phone sessions (if applicable).

      Phone sessions: The CALLS program will focus on enhancing the health of SLE patients, with
      emphasis on patient empowerment and promoting proactive participation in health care.
      Recruitment and enrollment will occur on a rolling basis, and the program will consist of 12
      weeks of service delivery that will include one standard educational session by telephone or
      in-person meeting every week. The weekly educational session will be generally structured in
      three parts: introduction, structured education, and problem solving. Weekly content will be
      adapted from the twelve modules of the Peer Approaches to Lupus Self-management (PALS) study,
      and further tailored according to prominent barriers to care in the scientific literature.
      Content will include: 1) Medication adherence; 2) Communication with provider; 3) Patient
      engagement; 4) Recognizing and treating depression; 5) Overcoming socioeconomic barriers; 6)
      Social Support network; 7) Appointment/ Lab adherence; and 8) Transportation. The lay patient
      navigator/care coordinator will respond to individual patient needs by tailoring intervention
      content to personal requirements and facilitating care coordination and will be able to
      address insurance, financial, and logistical issues (e.g., transportation, appointment
      scheduling, child or elder care), while providing understandable health education that may
      lessen fears of SLE diagnosis and treatment. Lay patient navigator/care coordinator
      activities will be guided by frequent self-report assessments, which will help to identify
      patient concerns across multiple domains, triage patients to appropriate resources, and
      ultimately overcome barriers to health care. The lay patient navigator/care coordinator can
      use baseline data collected prior to phone sessions to describe preliminary patient themes
      (i.e., disease activity and damage, depression, medication adherence, communication with
      provider, patient engagement) and subsequent assessments can be used to track progress.

      Data Collection Schedule. Study questionnaires were carefully chosen based on available
      evidence of previous validation and their ability to measure key elements of the study aims.
      The primary method of data collection will be face-to-face interview. All study visits will
      take place in an MUSC affiliated hospital, the Research Nexus or comparable private location
      on the campus of MUSC. Indicators of medication adherence will be extracted from the
      electronic medical records. Financial data will be extracted from the research data warehouse
      for historical and patient-specific data for cost effectiveness. The MUSC REDCap system will
      be used for data management.
    
  