
    
      AF is the most common type of serious heart arrhythmia. It affects approximately 2% of the
      population and is becoming more common. In AF, the heart's atria, or upper chambers, contract
      in a very disorganized and abnormal manner and are unable to correctly pump blood into the
      heart's ventricles, or lower chambers. Symptoms may include a rapid or irregular pulse,
      dizziness, fainting, or breathing difficulty. Recent studies suggest that inflammation plays
      a fundamental role in the development of AF. Inflammation, and the resulting oxidative
      stress, can cause cellular and tissue damage. In turn, this may alter heart function,
      potentially leading to both the onset and recurrence of AF. Markers of inflammation, such as
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), are often elevated in patients with AF,
      providing further evidence of inflammation's role. While there are several treatment options
      for AF, they are usually only moderately effective. Previous research has shown that fish oil
      supplements have anti-inflammatory, antifibrotic, and antioxidant effects and can reduce the
      risk of AF following surgery. However, it is not known exactly how fish oil reduces this risk
      and whether the same positive effect will carry over in people who experience the more common
      type of AF that is unrelated to surgery. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of fish oil supplementation at decreasing the recurrence of AF in adults who
      have not undergone recent surgery. Researchers will also examine the ways in which fish oil
      reduces AF recurrence.

      This study will enroll people who have had at least two occurrences of AF. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to receive either fish oil supplements or placebo for 24 weeks. At study
      visits at baseline and Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 18, and 24, participants will undergo a medical and
      social history review, a physical exam, and blood and urine collection. At the baseline study
      visit, an electrocardiogram will also occur.
    
  