
    
      Summary of Research Proposal

      Background:

      Colon and rectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality in
      Canada. Colonoscopy is the preferred screening modality for CRC and has been shown to
      decrease the likelihood of developing CRC as well as CRC-related mortality, particularly
      through the detection and removal of potentially pre-cancerous polyps, with the aim of
      preventing colon cancer, and for the diagnosis of early stage CRC that is more likely to be
      treatable and result in long-term survival. However, recent evidence suggests that
      colonoscopy has not been as universally protective against CRC as had been previously hoped,
      particularly for proximal cancers located in the right colon. Theories as to why this might
      be the case include speculation about altered biology of cancers that develop in the proximal
      colon and technical issues relating to the performance of colonoscopy itself. In particular,
      one of the problems is incomplete colonoscopy that fails to examine the entire colon to the
      cecum, which may occur in 10-20% of cases. Furthermore, from a public health standpoint, a
      considerable proportion of the population remain averse to undergoing colonoscopy,
      particularly because of fears of procedure discomfort, decreasing the potential impact for
      overall CRC reduction. Thus, optimizing the technical performance of colonoscopy and
      improving its acceptance among patients is important for maximizing the possible benefits to
      society.

      One of the most common reasons for incomplete colonoscopy is excessive internal looping of
      the endoscope. This looping has also been shown to be the major cause of patient discomfort
      during the procedure. Experts agree that colonoscopy is most successful at reaching the cecum
      and most comfortable for patients when the endoscope is kept in a straight position by
      minimizing loop formation and reducing loops once they have formed. Thus, identification and
      reduction of endoscope loops is critically important for the successful and comfortable
      completion of colonoscopy. Over the years, several techniques have emerged to overcome loop
      formation, including withdrawal of the endoscope with torque, abdominal wall pressure and
      patient position changes, yet these are all done in a "trial and error" fashion. Despite this
      limitation, these maneuvers form the cornerstones of current colonoscopy technique.
      Technological innovations such as smaller caliber "pediatric" colonoscopes and "variable
      stiffness" colonoscopes with adjustable rigidity have been introduced that have had moderate
      success in diminishing patient discomfort and increasing rates of colonoscopy completion. Yet
      despite these efforts to improve colonoscopy practice, the reality is that many procedures
      are still done poorly. An audit of all colonoscopies performed in Winnipeg from 2004 to 2006
      demonstrated a dismal completion rate of only 65%. Thus, something more clearly needs to be
      done. In an effort to help improve colonoscopy from both the technical standpoint of the
      endoscopist and also the comfort level of patients, Olympus has redesigned a previously
      developed real-time imaging system that enables visualization of the shape of the entire
      endoscope while it is inside the patient's body. This technology, called ScopeGuide (Olympus
      America, Center Valley, PA), consists of electromagnetic coils embedded within the endoscope
      that are detected by an external receiver dish, generating a 3D representation of the
      endoscope that is displayed on a monitor. It is anticipated that by visualizing the entire
      scope as it moves through the body, endoscopists will gain useful visual information about
      loop formation and scope position that will enable greater technical success while creating a
      more comfortable patient experience.

      Study Objectives:

      The purpose of this project is to perform a randomized, non-blinded colonoscopy study to
      determine if real time visualization of the colonoscope using the new Olympus ScopeGuide
      system is superior to conventional colonoscopy for the achievement of endoscopic procedural
      outcomes and for an improved patient experience in terms of reduced discomfort and decreased
      sedation requirements.

      Methods:

      Consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH)
      will be considered for study enrollment. Eligible patients who meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria and who provide informed consent will be randomized to undergo
      conventional colonoscopy or colonoscopy with the assistance of the ScopeGuide system. The
      control group will use Olympus CF-H180AL variable-stiffness, high-definition colonoscopes
      that do not differ from the usual procedure and the investigational group will use Olympus
      CF-H180DL variable-stiffness, high-definition colonoscopes equipped with ScopeGuide
      capabilities. ScopeGuide will provide the endoscopist with a 3-dimensional image on the
      monitor depicting the shape of the colonoscope inside the patient's body as it moves through
      the colon.

      The colonoscopy will be performed as clinically indicated, either with or without the aid of
      the ScopeGuide system. All patients will undergo a purgative bowel preparation followed by an
      overnight fast prior to their colonoscopy according to standard clinical practice at UAH. At
      the start of the colonoscopy, all patients will initially be given standardized doses of
      conscious sedation medications consisting of midazolam 2 mg IV and fentanyl 25 mcg IV.
      However, the procedure may be initiated without any sedation upon patient request. Additional
      doses of sedative medications may be given at patient request or when the nurse or physician
      believes that the patient is uncomfortable. In all cases, the endoscopist will attempt to
      minimize the formation of loops within the colon and will straighten those loops whenever
      possible. This will be achieved by conventional methods that rely on "feel" and "instinct" in
      the control group and will be directed by the ScopeGuide visualization in the investigational
      group. The endoscopist may use any technical maneuvers deemed necessary to facilitate
      completion of the procedure, including the application of external abdominal pressure by the
      nurse, the repositioning of the patient, or tightening of the variable-stiffness setting of
      the colonoscope. Upon intubation of the cecum, the insertion distance of the colonoscope from
      the anus to the cecal pole will be recorded as a marker of the straightness of the endoscope.
      Any abnormalities detected during colonoscope insertion will be more closely inspected,
      photographed and biopsied during subsequent colonoscope withdrawal. Furthermore, polyps will
      also be preferentially removed during colonoscope withdrawal, which is the existing
      standard-of-care. Any diagnostic or therapeutic applications that are required during the
      colonoscopy are permitted as clinically indicated.

      Relevant demographic and clinical information will be recorded prior to the procedure.
      Additional data regarding procedural metrics, technical maneuvers, and sedation doses will be
      recorded during the colonoscopy. At the conclusion of the colonoscopy, the endoscopist will
      rate the procedural difficulty as "usual" or "difficult" and will also note the procedural
      diagnosis.

      After the procedure, the patient will be kept in the post-endoscopy recovery area in the
      usual fashion. Prior to discharge home from the recovery area, participants will complete a
      visual analogue scale reflecting their degree of discomfort experienced during the procedure.
    
  