
    
      Extreme prematurity affects about 2% of births per year in France and is subject to a
      significant morbidity and mortality. It is likely that the fluid and electrolyte imbalances
      associated with mineralocorticoid adrenal insufficiency transient observed in this population
      of vulnerable newborns contribute to the occurrence of complications that will influence the
      prognosis medium and long term these children. The expected impact of our pilot study is a
      direct benefit to the patient, with reduced kidney soda losses from the 3rd day of life and
      throughout the first week of life (assessed by a non-invasive method: urine collection to
      compress and measurement of urinary Na / creatinine). This physiological approach
      (substitution of the deficient hormone) allow better control of sodium and water balance.
      This could limit a number of common complications of extreme prematurity, occurring in the
      first weeks of life, such as patent ductus arteriosus, intra-ventricular hemorrhage and
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia.

      The administration of glucocorticoids during the postnatal period (with action both
      glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid) enables a reduction in the incidence of
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia severe. However, such treatment is associated with an increased
      incidence of neurodevelopmental effects related to activation of the glucocorticoid pathway.
      Using a specific mineralocorticoid agonist should preserve the beneficial effects without the
      adverse effects observed. The results of this pilot study will in a second time to consider a
      clinical trial Phase III national or international evaluating the significant reduction of
      these complications after substitution by Fludrocortisone the first week of life in the great
      premature. These results should have a major medical and economic impact. Indeed, neonatal
      morbidity indicators (intraventricular hemorrhage, patent ductus arteriosus, bronchopulmonary
      dysplasia and enterocolitis necrotizing) are associated with the subsequent development of
      neurodevelopmental sequelae (cerebral palsy and / or cognitive impairment) at the age of two
      and five years.
    
  