
    
      Approval from Ethical Committee of Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia was acquired
      prior conducting the study. Subjects were given informed consent before enrolling the study.
      Intravenous (IV) cannula, non-invasive blood pressure monitor, and pulse-oxymetry were set on
      the subjects in endoscopic room. Vital signs were recorded. Subjects were then randomized
      into two groups (three-point Transversus Abdominis Plane [TAP] blocks and continuous epidural
      infusion). The epidural group was received epidural regional anesthesia in sitting position
      before anesthesia induction, between the first and second lumbar vertebra, with 4 cm depth.
      The TAP group was received TAP block using ultrasound as a guide and injected in three points
      on trans abdominal plane using 100 mm stimuplex needle and 0.25% bupivacaine with total
      volume of 20 ml in each point (with total of 60 ml in three points) after the surgery has
      ended, before the patient was awake. Subjects were given midazolam 0.05 mg/kg body weight
      (BW) and fentanyl 1-2 µg/kg BW as premedication. Induction was done using propofol 1-2mg/kg
      BW. Endotracheal intubation was facilitated using atracurium 0.5 mg/kg BW. General anesthesia
      was maintained using oxygen, air, and sevoflurane. Mechanical ventilation was set with volume
      control ventilation, Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) 5 cm of water, and oxygen
      fraction of 30-50%. Respiratory rate was set at certain level until the end-tidal carbon
      dioxide (CO2) value reached around 35-45 mm Hg. During the surgery, the epidural group only
      received epidural regimen of 0.25% bupivacaine without any adjuvant, while the TAP group
      received fentanyl and atracurium if needed. After the surgery ended, subjects were prepared
      for ventilator weaning and extubation. After the subjects were moved to ward, both groups
      received additional analgesic consisting of fentanyl with patient-controlled analgesia (PCA)
      method. Total PCA requirements and visual analog scale (VAS) were recorded in the first 24
      hours.
    
  