
    
      -  Each patient was informed about the detailed procedure, and educated about benefits of
           the treatment, the known side effects and follow-up appointments needed. After that,
           each subject participating in the study signed an informed written consent form.

        -  Subjects were given freedom to leave the study at any time when they need to. Group A
           (Experimental group) 200 mg green tea

      Where patients in this group will receive a buccal tablet containing 200 mg of green tea
      extract which adheres to the buccal mucosa slowly releasing the polyphenoles along around 8
      hours 2 times aday for four weeks.

      Preparation of buccal tablets : Mucoahesive buccal tablets is prepared by a direct
      compression procedure. Various batches are prepared by varying the chitosan:drug ratio to
      identify the most effective formulation. The mucoadhesive drug/polymer mixture is prepared by
      homogeneous mixing of the drug with chitosan , secondary polymer, and D-mannitol, in a glass
      mortar for 15 min. Then, Mg stearate will be added and mixed for 5 min .The mixture is
      compressed using a tablet machine (Type EK: O.Erweka apparatus, Frankfurt, Germany) using
      flat-tip punches and dies with 8-mm-diameter. Each tablet weighed 212 mg with a thickness of
      3.1 mm.( Darwish and Elmeshad,2009)

      Group B (Experimental group) 300 mg green tea

      Where patients in this group will receive a buccal tablet containing 300 mg of green tea
      extract which adheres to the buccal mucosa slowly releasing the polyphenoles along around 8
      hours 2 times aday for four weeks.

      Group C (Control group) corticosteroid group:

      Where patients are treated with topical corticosteroids 1 mg/g Triamcinolone acetonide
      (Kenacort-A orabase 20 G Pomad: Deva dermatological product,Turkey) applied topically 4 times
      a day i.e. following each meal and at bed time for four weeks .
    
  