
    
      Background

      For the clinical benefit of intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) and intra-arterial thrombectomy
      (IAT) time is the most crucial factor. Reducing the time between stroke onset and treatment
      is therefore a major goal in acute stroke care. The delay from first moment the Emergency
      Medical Services (EMS) dispatch office is alarmed and initiation of treatment (IVT and/or
      IAT), i.e. 'total system delay' (TSD), depends greatly on logistics and collaboration between
      various caregivers in this trajectory. A promising method to improve workflow and thereby
      aiming to reduce TSD is to provide real-time audio-visual feedback to caregivers.

      Methods

      The A Reduction in Time with Electronic Monitoring In Stroke (ARTEMIS) trial is a
      multiregional, multicenter, prospective randomized open end-point trial to investigate the
      intervention of real-time audio-visual feedback to caregivers reduces TSD to IVT/IAT.

      The intervention compromises real-time audio-visual feedback to caregivers on actual
      treatment delay for each individual patient. Randomization of real-time audio-visual feedback
      will be automatically generated per patient.

      Study procedures

      Patients will receive a unique wristband emitting a low-voltage Bluetooth signal (activated
      automatically after being opened by EMS personnel at the time of ambulance dispatch), which
      will be automatically picked up by handhelds in the ambulance and by pre-mounted in-hospital
      tablets en route to treatment with IVT and/or IAT.

      Real-time audio-visual feedback will be delivered through handhelds and tablets en route from
      ambulance to initiation of IVT/IAT. Real-time visual feedback on actual treatment delays for
      the patient caregivers are transferring will be shown. Also, a color code (green, orange or
      red) will provide an easy-view visualization on whether or not preset median time delays
      between locations are exceeded. Additionally, on preset locations, such as the Emergency room
      (ER), computed tomography (CT) room and angio suites, auditory signals indicating the elapsed
      time will be installed.

      TSD to IVT/IAT starts at the moment the dispatch office issues an ambulance for a patient
      that is potentially eligible for IVT/IAT. TSD ends at the moment IVT/IAT is initiated. For
      TSD to IVT this will be the moment the bolus of intravenous alteplase is administered,
      whereas the endpoint for TSD to IAT will be puncture of the groin and the last angio-run.
      These endpoints will be registered automatically once a fixed real-life push button in the
      CT-room/neuro-care unit or in the angio suite is pushed. All recordings on the patient
      tracking are automatically stored in a protected cloud.

      Other study parameters collected include parameters necessary to perform cost effective
      analysis, and baseline characteristics such as patient parameters from ambulance, medical
      history, physical and additional test results and interventional features performed as part
      of standard care.

      After treatment, during the first 24-48 hours of admission to the hospital, patients will be
      informed and a deferred consent will signed by the patient or legal representative. In
      addition, consent for the collection of clinical data and clinical outcome (modified Rankin
      Score (mRS)) assessment after three months will be collected. Clinical data will be collected
      and documented anonymously from the Electronic Patient Recording. Clinical outcome will be
      evaluated through a standardized and validated telephone interview, assessed by an observer
      blinded to treatment allocation.

      Patients are allowed to refuse the wristband application without any consequences. Subjects
      can leave the study at any time for any reason if they wish to do so without any
      consequences.

      Statistical Analysis

      For the primary analysis and all secondary analyses involving endpoints with time intervals,
      the difference in time delays between calendar weeks with and without intervention will be
      calculated with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The investigators will perform
      subgroup analysis for IAT patients with- or without prior IVT, and for patients within- and
      out of office hours. Subsequently the investigators will use linear regression analysis to
      adjust for EMS region and for location of treatment as this is expected to affect TSD to
      IVT/IAT. If required we will adjust for differences in EMS response and transfer times due to
      geographically different locations of stroke. Through additional regression analysis we will
      assess if there is an effect of time on TSD and whether such an effect is group dependent.

      The total number of times the ambulance drives to a patient for suspected acute stroke will
      be used to calculate the proportion of patients with a discharge diagnosis of stroke and the
      total number of IVT/IAT treated patients will be used to calculate IVT/IAT rates during
      treatment or control weeks.

      Exploratory analysis will be performed to relate TSD to clinical outcome in each group.

      Sample size estimates

      Sample size calculation is based on the hypothesis of an at least 20-minute reduction of TSD
      to IAT and an at least 10 minute reduction of TSD to IVT. The investigators think these
      reductions are feasible based on data from MR CLEAN (n=500) in which the standard deviation
      (SD) of TSD to IAT was 40 minutes, and of TSD for IVT SD was 35 minutes.

      During a run-in phase the investigators will collect additional data on treatment delays to
      adjust the sample size calculation if appropriate. For now the investigators will use
      (unpublished) data from the "MR CLEAN" trial. In the "MR CLEAN" trial (n=500), the mean TSD
      to IAT in 233 patients was 256 minutes (SD: 40 minutes). To detect a 20-minute difference
      with a p-value of 0.05, and a power of 0.8 the investigators will need 63 patients in each
      arm. To increase power, the investigators will aim at including 75 patients with IAT in each
      arm.

      For the co-primary outcome, the TSD to IVT, in the "MR CLEAN" trial the mean TSD for IVT was
      90 minutes (SD: 35 minutes). To detect a 10-minute difference with a p-value of 0.05, and a
      power of 0.8 the investigators will need 193 IVT treated patients in each arm. In clinical
      practice approximately 9% patients for whom the dispatch office sends out an ambulance will
      end up being treated with IVT. Of these patients approximately 30% will be eligible for IAT
      and included for our primary endpoint. Therefore the investigators expect that for the
      inclusion of 150 IAT patients ending up being treated with IAT a wristband will have to be
      unpacked by ambulance personnel approximately 5000 times. Of these, approximately 500
      patients will end up being treated with IVT; subsequently, from this population around 150
      patients will be treated with IAT.
    
  