
    
      To prepare the neuroblastoma specific Natural Killer T cells (also called GINAKIT cells),
      about 80 mL (up to 6 tablespoons) of blood will be collected from the patient. For children,
      the total amount of blood drawn will not be more than 3 ml (less than 1 teaspoon) per 2.2 lbs
      of body weight.

      In case the neuroblastoma specific Natural Killer T cells cannot be expanded from the amount
      of blood that can safely be drawn from the patient, the investigators may attempt to collect
      white blood cells from the patient by using a special type of blood donation called leukocyte
      apheresis. Unlike a regular blood draw or "whole blood" donation in which whole blood is
      removed from patient's body, the apheresis process connects the patient to a machine that
      removes a particular component of their blood and then returns the rest of the blood back to
      them. The white blood cells collected during leukocyte apheresis will be used to make the
      GINAKIT cells.

      Once collected, the white blood cells will be mixed with a special protein to separate the
      Natural Killer T cells from the white blood cells using a special machine called a CliniMACS
      Reagent System in the laboratory. This is an investigational device that is not approved by
      the FDA. Although this device is not approved for use in this country, it has been in use for
      years and is approved in other countries. The investigators will put the new genes into
      patient's Natural Killer T cells by mixing them with a retroviral vector (a special virus
      that can carry a new gene into cells) containing the new gene called iC9-GD2-CD28-OX40. After
      the new gene has been put into the Natural Killer T cells, the cells will be tested to make
      sure that they kill GD2-positive neuroblastoma cells and that the cells are killed by the
      activation of iC9. The GINAKIT cells may be given back to the patient fresh or frozen.

      This is a dose escalation study. This means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest dose (1 of 4 different levels) of GINAKIT cells. Once that dose schedule proves
      safe, the next group of patients will be started at a higher dose. This process will continue
      until all 4 dose levels are studied. If the side effects are too severe, the dose will be
      lowered or the infusions will be stopped.

      Before getting the GINAKIT cells, patients will receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine
      intraveneously for 2 days and then fludarabine alone for one more day. Patients will then
      have one day of rest with no chemotherapy before receiving the GINAKIT cells.

      The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's
      Hospital. Patients will need to stay in Houston for 4 weeks after the infusion so the
      investigators can monitor them for side effects. They will have follow-up visits (at weeks 1,
      2, 4, 6, and 8; months 3, 6, 9, and 12; twice a year for 4 years and then once a year for the
      next 10 years - for a total of 15 years) and scheduled disease evaluations after the GINAKIT
      cell infusion (at week 4 and then as clinically needed). Also, to learn more about the way
      the GINAKIT cells are working and how long they last in the body, blood will be obtained
      before the chemotherapy, on the day of the GINAKIT cell infusion (before and at the end of
      the infusion) and at the follow-up visits (time points listed above).

      If the patient experiences no significant side effects during or after the first GINAKIT cell
      infusion and their cancer remains stable or responds, they may be offered additional doses of
      the same cell dose in the future.
    
  