
    
      The investigators propose an open label trial to assess the safety of using electrical
      stimulation at acupuncture sites in 42 infants receiving a routine heel stick. Two sub
      studies will precede the main safety study, with 6 infants in each sub study and 30 infants
      in the main study. These sub studies will use electrical stimulation intensities that are a
      fraction of the planned intensity of the electrical stimulation that will be used for the
      main part of the study.

      As part of routine neonatal screening, blood will be collected from a heel stick(s) by
      qualified nursing staff in the hospital nursery or in the patient's room. Less than one ml of
      blood will be drawn over 1-2 minutes. Study infants will be watched more carefully with heart
      rate, respiratory rate, and oxygen saturation performed as part of this study. Infants not
      participating in the study will be watched as per usual unit protocol.

      Electrical stimulation at acupuncture sites will be administered via an EMPI Select
      Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) unit. To produce analgesia, small
      electrodes will be placed on the baby's legs at specific acupuncture points: ZuSanLi (ST36)
      just below the knee, triggers release of endorphins; SanYinJiao (SP6) just above the inner
      ankle, important point for energy balance; Kun Lun (BL60) depression behind lateral
      malleolus, protects local tissue trauma to heel; and Tai Xi (Ki3) behind the inner ankle, an
      important energy meridian. 25, 39, 48-50, StimCare self-adhesive electrodes with a gel base
      will be applied to the skin; the skin will not be punctured by these procedures. For the main
      part of the study, a low continuous current will be provided with minimal voltage of 3.5
      milliamps (mA). The frequency will be delivered using a stimulation of 10 Hz for 10±1 minutes
      prior to the heelstick, with continued stimulation during and for 5±1 min after the
      heelstick. This paradigm is based on the basic animal research developed by Dr. Han and other
      research groups. Two sub studies will precede the main safety study, with 6 infants in each
      sub study, using electrical stimulation intensities that are a fraction of the planned
      intensity. Infants in sub study 1 will receive electrical stimulation at 1 mA and 2 Hz.
      Infants in sub study 2 will receive electrical stimulation at 2 mA and 10 Hz.
    
  