
    
      Antinuclear antibodies play a direct role in pathogenesis by forming immune complexes. These
      complexes can either deposit in the kidney or stimulate cytokine production. Dead and dying
      cells can fill the blood with a plentiful supply of immune complex components in lupus. So
      cell death is a critical issue in the pathway to auto-reactivity. Pyroptosis is a new member
      of cell death list. It combines the release of pro-inflammatory mediators and nuclear
      molecules in a way that could drive lupus. Nod-like receptor pyrins-3, caspase-1, IL-18, and
      IL-1β are commonly accepted markers of pyroptosis.

      Gasdermin D was recently identified as the final pyroptosis executioner downstream of
      inflammasome activation, and may be an attractive drug target for many diseases. GSDMD is a
      member of the gasdermin protein family. It was identified as a caspase substrate. Under
      normal cellular conditions, the C-terminus of GSDMD auto-inhibits the pore-forming activity
      of the N-terminus. When extracellular signals associated with pyroptosis activate
      inflammasomes they subsequently cleave and activate caspases-1, -4, -5, and -11.
      Consequently, activated caspase-1 cleaves and separates the N- and C-terminals of GSDMD.
      Activated GSDMD forms nanoscopic pores in the cell membrane, leading to the release of
      proinflammatory materials and cell swelling.

      Reactive oxygen species regulates the signaling pathways in response to the changes of the
      intracellular and extracellular environments. However, overproduction of ROS is toxic and
      lead to dysfunction of cell and tissue. Oxidative stress is increased in SLE. The increased
      ROS could promote the release of inflammatory related signaling factors, including nod-like
      receptor inflammasome and nuclear factor-κB. A recent study showed that inhibition of ROS
      generation suppressed pyroptosis of hematopoietic stem cells. It has been widely reported
      that NF-kB is a critical molecular switch for cellular response to oxidative stress. NF-kB
      exists in the form of dimer and has been demonstrated to be involved in the development and
      progression of various diseases associated with inflammation, apoptosis, and proliferation. A
      recent study showed that NF-kB is an essential transcription factor of GSDMD.

      In the recent decades, increasing evidence have revealed the roles of epigenetic
      dysregulation, including microRNA, in the pathogenesis of SLE. MiRNAs is a class of short
      non-coding RNA approximately 21-25 nucleotides in length that plays important roles in many
      cellular processes by regulating gene expression. MiRNAs make up a novel class of
      post-transcriptional gene regulators By combining with the 3' noncoding region of target gene
      mRNA inducing their degradation or impairing their translation.

      MiR-379-5p is located at delta-like 1 homolog-deiodinase, iodothyronine 3 genomic region on
      14q32.31. The DLK1-DIO3 region contains 54 miRNAs that is associated with organ development
      and disease pathogenesis, especially carcinogenesis. Luciferase reporter assays showed that
      GSDMD was a direct target of miR-379-5p. The over-expression of miR-379-5p blocked the
      arsenite induced increases of GSDMD levels effect that were reversed by up-regulation of
      GSDMD.
    
  