
    
      TAP treats a wide range of disease processes and, in all cases, requires inlet and return
      venous access to perform the procedure. The goal of TAP is to return the patient to baseline
      and maintain independence and function. A larger needle (18 gauge) can cause more discomfort
      to the patient as well as additional scarring. A smaller needle may present less discomfort
      and scarring to the patient. The goal in the outpatient clinic is to minimize disruption to
      the patient's routine and help the patient maintain normal activities of daily living.

      To accomplish these goals, the outpatient clinic is open Monday thru Friday offering 4
      different appointment times. All patients that are referred to the clinic for TAP, first
      receive a vein evaluation to see if the patient is a candidate for peripheral IV therapy. At
      the clinic, approximately 68% of the patients TAP's are performed peripherally. This
      eliminates the risk of a central line infection and any alteration in activities of daily
      living, such as bathing(Kramer, 2016), (Shang, Ma, Poghosyan, Dowding, & Stone, 2014),(Keller
      et al., 2018; McDiarmid, 2015).

      The hypothesis, is that the 20-gauge BD Nexiva Diffusics catheter provides the same efficacy
      as current practice with no increase in adverse events for patients undergoing therapeutic
      apheresis. The results from the study will be significant because if the 20 gauge needle is
      equally effective for TAP, it can increase the number of patients that would be candidates
      for peripheral therapy. Therefore, decreasing the need for central venous access, which place
      the patient at an increased risk of infection. The study is a comparison of 2 types of
      infusion catheters. The standard of care is an 18-gauge autogard catheter (control group)
      which will be compared to the 20-gauge BD Nexiva Diffusics (intervention).

      P - patients who require therapeutic apheresis procedures (TAP) I - use of 20 guage (20G) BD
      diffusics catheter during apheresis C - use of 18 G standard of care IV catheter during
      apheresis O - no difference in efficacy and no increase in safety events
    
  