
    
      The purpose of the study is in the first time determine the variation of the levels of
      coenzyme Q10 in different tissues, plasma, urinary epithelium, muscle, mononuclear cells,
      before and after the administration during one month of 100 mg of phytosomal ubiquinone
      (INDENA). Secondly, it is intended to determine the antioxidant functionality of the
      administered ubiquinone, evaluating its effect on the oxidative pattern that occurs after an
      exercise of moderate intensity, but performed in a stressful environment, a climatic chamber
      where the temperature is 35ºC and there is 55% humidity. To this end, the collaboration of 12
      healthy volunteers, and 10 control subjects, over 50 and under 65, active runners with
      experience, without active inflammatory pathology, without prescribed medical treatment and
      with the commitment not to take any nutritional supplementation. There is also a compromise
      by athletes on maintaining the diet and training as it is at the time of the first evaluation
      The subjects sign an informed consent to carry out the study and they are shown the
      acceptance of the Ethics Committee approved by the General Directorate of Sports of the
      Generalitat of Catalonia. Basal blood samples are taken, the sample is taken from the first
      urine in the morning and a muscle biopsy is performed on the vastus lateralis of the m.
      quadricipitalis. On a second day, a progressive, maximum effort test is carried out in order
      to characterize the level of physical condition and determine the working regimes in the
      climatic chamber. They are re-scheduled for a third day for that purpose. On that day blood
      is drawn to obtain the Total Antioxidant Capacity of the blood and they are exposed to the
      temperature and humidity and are asked to run on the treadmill for 5 minutes at each of the
      speeds corresponding to 70, 75 and 80% of the maximum speed reached in the first test. At the
      end a lactate sample is taken. This period of 15 minutes is repeated 3 times. When finished,
      at the 30th minute, a new blood sample is taken to assess the TAC postexercise/exposition.

      The stress test and blood extractions, urine collection and muscle biopsy are repeated after
      one month of taking the phytosomed Ubiquinone.

      There is a control group of 10 subjects who follow absolutely the same path, but do not take
      any supplementation (Ubiquinone) and do not have a muscle biopsy.
    
  