
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Dopaminergic (DA) modulation of brain function is disturbed in several disabling psychiatric
      disorders and represents the target of key psychopharmacologic agents, such as neuroleptics.
      Schizophrenia has been considered a prototype of dysregulated DA signaling, with associated
      prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction. Prevailing views attribute key symptoms of schizophrenia
      to deficient DA signaling within mesocortical DA tracts. Little is known, however, about the
      pre-, intra-, and post-synaptic processes that contribute to dopaminergic dysregulation.
      Regional cortical DA activity, critical to these processes, has been difficult to measure in
      patients with the available imaging techniques. The current clinical study aims to address
      this open issue by taking advantage of two recently developed positron emission tomography
      (PET) radioligands, [(11)C]NNC-112 and [(18)F]Fallypride, that bind differentially and with a
      higher binding potential (BP) than previous compounds to the D(1) (NNC-112) or D(2/3)
      (fallypride) receptors. By measuring the regional BP of these two compounds, cortical and
      subcortical DA receptor anomalies will be characterized in schizophrenia. Within the Clinical
      Brain Disorders Branch (CBDB), this PET protocol is expected to add crucial information about
      DA receptor status to ongoing regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI), magneto-encephalography (MEG) and genetic studies. It will lead to an improved
      understanding of the modulatory influence of DA on frontal lobe functioning and facilitate
      the study of how genetic polymorphisms interact with regional changes in D(1) and D(2/3)
      receptors to increase the risk for schizophrenia.

      Some specific hypotheses to be tested are as follows:

      D1 BP in frontal cortex will be affected by age, elevated in schizophrenia and inversely
      correlated with cognitive performance in patients and healthy controls.

      Cortical D2/3 receptor BP will be affected by age and inversely correlated with performance
      on tests of frontal lobe function in patients and healthy controls.

      Striatal D2/3 receptor BP will be altered in patients.

      Polymorphisms in the catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT), D1 and D2 genes as well as other
      schizophrenia risk genes will affect DA receptor BP in frontal cortex.

      The ratio of cortical D1 and D2/3 receptor BPs will be affected by age and related to risk
      for schizophrenia, cognitive performance and polymorphisms in the COMT gene and other
      schizophrenia risk genes

      STUDY POPULATION

      It will include 100 patients with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other psychotic
      disorders aged 18-60, and 230 healthy controls, aged 18-90. Fifty of the controls will be
      matched to the patients by age and sex.

      DESIGN

      Dopamine D(1) and D(2/3) receptor regional binding potentials (BP) will be quantified by PET
      in medication-free patients and controls. High resolution T1-weighted magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) scans will be obtained for co-registration purposes. Additionally, through
      enrollment in other ongoing protocols (00-M-0085, 90-M-0014, 01-M-0232, 95-M-0150,
      89-M-0160), rCBF, functional MRI, cognitive and genetic data will be obtained and compared
      with D(1) and D(2/3) receptor BP data obtained from this protocol.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      Brain dopamine D(1) and D(2/3) receptor regional binding potentials measured by
      [[(11)C]NNC-112 and [(18)F]Fallypride PET.
    
  