
    
      Alzheimer's disease is a progressive degenerative brain disorder that affects memory, as well
      as the ability to concentrate, reason, and think in abstract form. This study was designed to
      examine the effectiveness and safety of galantamine (galant.) hydrobromide at a relatively
      high dose, compared with treatment with placebo, in men and women with Alzheimer's disease.
      Approximately 600 patients were screened. This was a double-blind study, i.e., neither
      patients nor investigators knew what treatment was given. Before the start of the
      double-blind phase, each patient was randomly assigned to receive either galantamine
      hydrobromide or placebo (i.e., no active drug). The dose was increased weekly, at a higher
      rate than currently recommended in the label, until the stable daily dose of 32 mg
      galantamine was reached. All patients took their treatment (galantamine or placebo) 3 times a
      day. All patients who completed the blinded phase of the study were permitted to enter an
      open-label phase, in which the treatment was made known to both investigators and patients.
      During this additional 24-week phase, all patients received treatment with galantamine
      hydrobromide. The effectiveness of study treatment (galantamine hydrobromide or placebo) was
      assessed using several measures and included the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score.
      The MMSE consists of 12 questions and tasks designed to assess severity of Alzheimer's
      disease. Additional measures included the European Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale
      cognitive score (EURO-ADAS-cog), a Clinician's Interview Based Impression of Change (CIBIC)
      plus, and the Nurses' Observation Scale for Geriatric Patients (NOSGER). Safety and
      tolerability were assessed using physical (full and brief) examination, adverse events
      reports, clinical and laboratory measures, and 12-lead ECG results. Galant. was taken orally
      as a tablet 3 times a day with meals. Patients started their treatment with a total 8 mg of
      galantamine. The dose was increased weekly to a daily cumulative dose of 32 mg (the same as
      40 mg Gal HBr).This dose was higher and the titration schedule was 4 times more rapid that
      the 16 mg and 24 mg maintenance doses and 4-weekly titration steps specified in the US label.
      Each phase had a 5-week titration period. After 5 weeks, patients continued to receive 40 mg.
    
  