
    
      This 9-week, multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study aimed to
      determine the efficacy, safety and tolerability of nabiximols, administered as an adjunctive
      treatment for 5 weeks, versus placebo. Eligible participants had advanced cancer, with a
      clinical diagnosis of cancer related pain which was not wholly alleviated by their current
      optimized opioid treatment.

      Qualifying participants entered the study at screening and commenced a 5 to 14 day
      eligibility period. During this period, eligible participants had 3 consecutive days where
      pain severity remained within defined parameters, break-through opioid usage had not exceeded
      an average of 4 episodes per day, and maintenance opioid medication and dose had not changed.
      Eligible participants returned for randomization on Day 1 and were randomized to either the
      nabiximols or placebo treatment arm using a 1:1 allocation ratio. Participants began an
      initial titration period that lasted up to 14 days. The titration schedule required dosing to
      a minimum of 3 sprays per day, after which participants were allowed to individualize their
      dose (3 to 10 sprays per day) until Day 14 when that dose was then fixed for the remainder of
      the study. Participants returned at Day 22 and Day 36 (end of the randomized treatment
      period), or earlier if they terminated prematurely from the study. After the end of the
      5-week treatment period, participants were offered the option of entering an open-label
      extension (OLE) study; a safety follow up visit (up to Day 43) was not required if the
      participant entered the OLE on Day 36. Participants who entered the OLE, up to 7 days after
      study completion had their follow-up assessments performed on the same day as their first OLE
      study visit. Participants that did not enter the OLE study had a safety follow up visit 14
      days after treatment completion, which could be via telephone.
    
  