
    
      This is a multicentre, randomised clinical trial of MMF with steroid as a first line
      treatment for participants with ITP against the standard care pathway involving steroids
      alone as first line treatment. This is not a blinded study, therefore patients and research
      team will know which treatment arm the participant will be randomised to.

      There are no additional appointments or separate trial visits for this trial. Participants
      will be seen at their usual hospital appointments, which may take slightly longer than they
      do usually to gather all the information needed to carefully record information for the trial
      and to see how the participants are.

      Participants will be screened and given up to one week of steroid prior to randomisation to
      enable sufficient time to read information, discuss and ask questions with informed consent
      in an appropriate setting.

      Participants will then be randomised to one of either two treatment pathways below and be
      asked to complete quality of life questionnaires:

        1. Steroid +MMF pathway: 1mg/kg once daily prednisolone 4 days (maximum of 100mg), 40mg
           once daily 2 weeks, 20mg once daily 2 weeks, 10mg once daily 2 weeks, 5mg once daily 2
           weeks then 5mg alternate days 2 weeks then stop, (Dexamethasone 20mg or 40mg daily for 4
           days is an alternative option to prednisolone if deemed clinically more appropriate for
           individual circumstances).

           For the duration of steroid, patients will get a PPI (proton pump inhibitors) or H2
           antagonist to protect against gastric bleeding and appropriate bone protection.

           From randomisation (alongside steroid), MMF 500mg twice daily starting dose then
           increased to 750mg twice daily after 2 weeks if tolerated and 1g twice daily after
           another 2 weeks if tolerated (4 weeks after starting).

           After 6 months of MMF therapy, all patients who have remained in complete remission
           (platelet count> 100 x10 9/L) will reduce the dose by 250mg (one capsule) each month.
           The aim is to continue on the lowest dose that achieves a haemostatic (safe) platelet
           count (platelet 50-100 x10 9/L) and to ensure that patients who have gone into a
           spontaneous remission do not continue to take the drug indefinitely.

        2. Steroid only group: 1mg/kg once daily prednisolone 4 days (maximum of 100mg), 40mg once
           daily 2 weeks, 20mg once daily 2 weeks, 10mg once daily 2 weeks, 5mg once daily 2 weeks
           then 5mg alternate days 2 weeks then stop (Dexamethasone 20mg or 40mg orally daily for 4
           days is an alternative option to prednisolone if deemed clinically more appropriate for
           individual circumstances).

      For the duration of steroid, patients will get a PPI (proton pump inhibitors) or H2
      antagonist to protect against gastric bleeding and appropriate bone protection.

      Patients will be seen at the following time points after randomisation:

      2 months, 4 months, 6 months and 12 months when the following procedures will take place:

        -  Laboratory tests (safety bloods)

        -  Date of treatment failure (refractory or relapse AND need for second line therapy). [If
           treatment failure occurs, choice of second line treatment will be individualised
           according to patient's clinical circumstances. Further steroid will be given according
           to clinical need. Hospital monitoring of platelet levels is part of routine care for ITP
           patients and we will collect these details from the medical notes without requiring
           patients to come in for additional samples to be taken. These locally collected samples
           may be collected monthly (or less often) for patients believed to be in stable remission
           and weekly at lower or declining platelet levels. We expect this to allow us to
           calculate the time in remission and time in relapse with reasonable accuracy over the 12
           month follow up period].

        -  Vital signs

        -  Blood sugar results

        -  Medication side effects (including infections)

        -  Dose and duration of steroids

        -  Need for rescue or other treatments (including second or third line). [Emergency and
           rescue treatments will be permitted throughout the study. These include platelet
           transfusions, tranexamic acid and intravenous immunoglobulin. These are known not to
           impact on the natural history of ITP and it is recognised that they may be important for
           patient safety. The use of 'rescue treatments' will be recorded on the CRF]

        -  Hospital attendances or admissions

        -  Days off work

        -  Patient questionnaires: Quality of life assessment

        -  Immunoglobulins rechecked at 6 months and 12 months

      In addition at Screening and 2 months, participants will have the option to give an extra
      blood sample for the Bristol Biobank (ancillary translational basic science studies). There
      is an additional patient information sheet and consent form for this. Participants can
      consent to enter the trial, but decline to have bloods taken for bio banking.

      In addition at 6 and 12 months, immunoglobulins will be checked.
    
  