
    
      The annual incidence of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is 40,000 cases
      per year in the US and 60,000 cases per year in Europe. Radiation therapy is employed in
      combination with chemotherapy in primary treatment or as adjuvant therapy for over half of
      patients with SSCHN.

      A high incidence of pathologic laryngopharyngeal reflux and gastroesophageal reflux is
      observed in patients with head and neck cancer. When treatment for the cancer includes
      radiation therapy, an incidence of 90% has been reported [2]. Although the interplay between
      acid reflux and the development of head and neck cancer remains unclear, there is a strong
      argument that radiation therapy worsens the problem by muting the body's ability to
      neutralize acid.

      Radiation therapy is extensively used in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head
      and neck. Radiation therapy works by exploiting a survival differential between malignant
      cells and normal cells. Simply stated, the malignant cells are more likely to die with
      radiation when compared to normal non-malignant cells. However, not all normal cells respond
      equally and some normal tissues have marked sensitivity to radiation damage. Salivary glands
      are one such radiosensitive tissue that is permanently destroyed with external-beam
      radiotherapy.

      Damage to salivary tissues by radiation decreases their ability to excrete saliva. This is
      supported by Olmos et al, who used salivary scintigraphy on both irradiated and
      non-irradiated patients and found that 84% of those irradiated had total or partial
      disturbance in both baseline and stimulated function. Of those treated with greater than
      4500cGy, salivary excretion was almost invariably impaired. Xerostomia is the term for the
      dry mouth, which can result from this loss.

      In addition to the volume of the saliva, the contents of the saliva are also important. Helm
      et al. "…evaluated the properties of human saliva relevant to its potential contribution to
      esophageal acid clearance." By measuring the capacity for acid neutralization and plotting
      titration curves, they identified that saliva and especially its bicarbonate content play an
      important role in neutralization of esophageal acid in both resting and lozenge-stimulated
      states.

      As saliva plays an active role in the neutralization of esophageal acid and its clearance
      from the esophagus, loss of saliva is predicted to increase the severity and incidence of
      reflux as the protective effect of saliva's ability to clear and neutralize acid reflux is
      diminished. Korsten et al., assessed the effects of chronic xerostomia on parameters of
      gastroesophageal reflux and esophagitis and reported markedly impaired clearance of acid from
      the esophagus and abnormal 24-hour intra-esophageal pH studies from a cohort of male patients
      with xerostomia.

      Medications are available to increase salivary flow but these are often minimally effective
      and poorly tolerated. Decreasing stomach acid production is an alternative method of
      mitigating the effect of GERD in these patients.

      Esomeprazole has been proven beneficial in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease
      and is anticipated to be beneficial in treating SCCHN patients treated with external-beam
      radiation therapy.
    
  