
    
      Background

      The prevalence of obesity and morbid obesity is increasing worldwide and is becoming an
      increasing medical and socioeconomic burden. Bariatric surgery leads to the most sustained
      reduction of weight and associated co-morbidities. Obesity is a risk factor for the
      development of venous thromboembolism and the association between obesity and postoperative
      VTE is well established. The incidence of symptomatic DVT and PE ranges from 0%-5.4%,
      respectively 0%-6.4% and remains uncertain. Although the overall incidence seems to be low,
      VTE represents a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after surgery. Most
      postdischarge VTE events occur within the first 30 days after surgery and therefore extended
      chemoprophylaxis after hospital discharge is the standard of care and should be considered
      especially for patients classified to be at high risk for VTE.

      Anticoagulants are recommended for the prevention of VTE, but there is no consensus regarding
      optimal method of prophylaxis. Routine perioperative use of drugs such as low-molecular
      weight heparins (LMWHs), intermittent pneumatic compression and early mobilization are
      currently the major accepted forms. However, there is currently no class I evidence to
      provide guidance regarding the type or dose of antithrombotic prophylaxis after bariatric
      surgery. For parenteral application there is for example limited evidence to guide dosing of
      thromboprophylaxis in morbid obesity and higher dosages are necessary, because impaired
      absorption after subcutaneous application.

      The knowledge of the effect of extremely high body weight on pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamics parameters after bariatric surgery especially for novel orally administered
      anticoagulants that target specific factors in the coagulation cascade is scarce. One
      promising therapeutic option is rivaroxaban (BAY 59-7939, Rivaroxaban), an orally
      administered direct factor Xa inhibitor that is approved for several indications in the field
      of prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disorders.

      In several types of bariatric surgery procedures, such as sleeve gastrectomy, Roux-en-Y
      gastric bypass and biliopancreatic diversion different parts of gastrointestinal tract are
      bypassed or removed. This could affect the absorption of medications. Absorption of
      rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of drug release in the GI tract. In a study looking at
      administration of the crushed tablet via a tube, a 29% and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax
      compared to an oral tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is released in the
      proximal small intestine. The effect of altered anatomy due to RYGB on oral drug absorption
      and bioavailability is currently unknown. Previous studies focused on drugs like metformin,
      sertraline or tacrolimus, but they yielded conflicting results. In a case report by Mahlmann
      et al. the absorption of rivaroxaban was immediate and not significantly impaired by
      bariatric surgery of the upper GI tract. However, data from larger patient collectives are
      not available.

      Rivaroxaban is already approved for VTE prophylaxis in orthopaedic patients. Up to now, there
      is no clinical data available regarding obese patients after bariatric surgery. To fill this
      gap, this phase 1 clinical trial was designed with a study design that allows for
      intra-patient comparison of the effect of the bariatric surgery regarding pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamics analysis.

      Rivaroxaban as an oral anticoagulant could be an attractive option for VTE prophylaxis
      compared to subcutaneous (LMWH) standard treatment after bariatric surgery. Especially
      high-risk patients (high BMI, a history of DVT, obesity hypoventilation syndrome, pulmonary
      hypertension, hormonal therapy, venous stasis disease, male gender, expected long operative
      time or open approach, where an extended duration of thromboprophylaxis after hospital
      discharge is recommended, an oral therapy would be attractive.

      Until now there is no systematic investigation of pharmacokinetic parameters of rivaroxaban
      in obese patient undergoing bariatric surgery. This phase I clinical trial offers the unique
      opportunity to investigate PK/PD in morbidly obese patients pre and post bariatric surgery.
      The results of this trial will help to design larger trials in this particular patient
      population with the final goal of safe and efficient use of rivaroxaban in morbidly patients.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to investigate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters of
      rivaroxaban in obese patients before and after bariatric surgery.

      Methods

      Investigation of rivaroxaban AUC in bariatric.
    
  