
    
      There is good evidence that physiological arousal, associated with sustained activation of
      the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and the sympathetic nervous system, is an underlying cause of
      chronic insomnia. Accordingly, relaxation-related treatments that address elevated cognitive
      and somatic arousal have been effective for insomnia. Previous studies have documented the
      effectiveness of behavioral treatments in reducing activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary
      axis and the sympathetic nervous system and in the treatment of specific medical disorders
      including insomnia. The aim of this proposal is to evaluate the hypothesis that improvements
      in chronic psychophysiological insomnia following a behavioral treatment are tightly
      associated with reduction of arousal in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, as measured by
      plasma cortisol, and in the sympathetic nervous system, as measured by urinary
      catecholamines. Objective measures of sleep will be derived from polysomnographic recordings
      from subjects randomized into a 10-week active behavioral treatment or placebo behavioral
      control treatment group. Continuous 24-hour evaluation of cortisol and catecholamines will be
      performed under controlled laboratory conditions before and after treatment. We anticipate
      significant reductions in cortisol and catecholamines in the active treatment group as
      compared with the control group. We also anticipate that the active treatment will yield
      reductions in related measures of arousal including heart rate, autonomic arousal (as
      determined from heart rate variability), and body temperature. Given reported evidence that
      melatonin levels are chronically low in insomnia we anticipate an increase in the
      sleep-related hormone melatonin in the yoga treatment group. If achieved, these results will
      provide a novel demonstration of a reduction of arousal in a behavioral insomnia treatment
      and a behaviorally enhanced melatonin secretion under controlled laboratory conditions.
    
  