
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine, within the limits of a phase II study, whether low-dose methotrexate can
           accelerate withdrawal of glucocorticoids and decrease nonrelapsing mortality in patients
           with newly diagnosed acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) who have undergone
           nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

        -  Determine the tolerability of low-dose methotrexate and glucocorticoids in treating
           newly diagnosed acute GVHD in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a cohort study. Patients receive concurrent low-dose methotrexate and a
      glucocorticoid for treatment of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

      Patients receive the first dose of methotrexate IV ≥ 12 hours before initiation of
      glucocorticoid treatment (if glucocorticoid treatment has not been initiated) and the second
      dose 72 hours after dose 1. Patients then receive subsequent doses of methotrexate IV or
      orally once weekly for up to 1 year* until resolution of GVHD in the absence of recurrent
      malignancy, refractory or chronic GVHD, administration of secondary treatment for GVHD, or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Treatment with low-dose MTX may continue beyond 1 year at the discretion of the
      managing physician.

      Patients receive glucocorticoid therapy comprising prednisone or methylprednisolone IV twice
      daily until objective evidence of improvement in GVHD manifestation. Patients with resolved
      or significantly improved GVHD receive treatment for 10 days followed by an accelerated taper
      for a total of 72 days of treatment in case of no flare up of GVHD during the glucocorticoid
      taper. Patients with exacerbation or recurrence of GVHD during the accelerated taper are
      treated for ≥ 1 week before resuming a less rapid taper. Patients who develop GVHD
      progression or primary refractory GVHD may receive secondary systemic therapy at the
      discretion of the managing physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 year and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 53 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  