
    
      Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (COPD), a major worldwide epidemic is the 4th leading cause
      of death around the globe and though, with rise in worldwide life expectancy and tobacco
      smoking, predominantly in developing countries, it is likely to be the 3rd leading cause of
      mortality by 2020. In Pakistan, mortality rate caused by COPD is expected to reach 71 deaths
      per 100,000 that is globally the fourth leading death rate among 25 most populated countries.

      The condition is in the focus worldwide, since its increased prevalence, morbidity and
      mortality rate create alarming challenges for health-care professionals. In spite of latest
      trends in decline of COPD consistent death rates and few current achievements in anti-smoking
      efforts in many western countries, the elevating influence of increasing age in an
      ever-growing global population, combined with factors as high smoking rates and pollution of
      air in Asia, will confirm that COPD will last as an ever-increasing issue into the 21st
      century.

      A variety of environmental and intrinsic risk factors are involved in the development of COPD
      which affect at different time points during an individual's life span. Smoking is a dominant
      risk factor comprising of 80% of the COPD cases.

      During the previous 5 years, an exceeding quantity of risk factors excluding smoking have
      been associated with the COPD development, predominantly in developing countries.

      Exercise intolerance is a challenging result of COPD and often happens during arm activities.
      . Exercise intolerance can be best described by the concept of dynamic hyperinflation. The
      thoracic motion is regulated due to hyperinflation and thus capacity to increase tidal volume
      during exercise is limited. Many research studies have established that there is limited arm
      exercise capacity, and patients often complain of notable dyspnea and fatigue during arm
      activities essential in daily life. Two mechanisms have been recommended: neuro-mechanical
      dysfunction of respiratory musculature, that are diaphragm and accessory respiratory muscles,
      thoracic-abdominal asynchronous and changes in lung volume during upper limb activities.
      Impairments in ventilatory mechanics in COPD patients result in termination of arm exercises
      at lower workloads compared with healthy subjects.

      When these patients were asked to open their mouths to breathe out instead of using pursed
      lips Breathing (PLB) they immediately developed severe dyspnea and suffocation. The term PLB
      was utilized as the patients had lips almost completely sealed while they were exhaling.
      However, the term pursed lip or puckered lip breathing was not well characterized, and the
      techniques taught to patients varied depending on the clinician. PLB was defined as a
      self-induced type of positive-pressure breath. One definition given by Wikipedia, is that PLB
      is a breathing technique that consists of exhaling through tightly pressed lip (pursed lips)
      and inhaling through nose with mouth closed. The "tightly" is the word that can be subjective
      and open to interpretation. The online free medical dictionary gives a very similar
      definition as Wikipedia; however, it removed "tightly" from the "tightly pursed lip".
      Regardless of "tightly pursed lip" vs. "pressed lip", the purpose of this breathing is to
      slow down the air flow during the exhalation to build up back pressure in the airway to avoid
      a sudden drop in intra-pulmonary pressure resulting in alveolar and airway collapse. Pursed
      lip breathing, is a strategic breathing training often used by COPD patients to obtain relief
      from dyspnea.

      A shift in the pattern of recruitment of inspiratory and expiratory muscles with PLB
      exercise. There is a better activity in the rib cage and accessory muscles than with activity
      of diaphragm. The diaphragmatic tension-time index is decreased. Consequently, PLB by
      altering recruitment pattern decreases the possibility of fatigue of diaphragm and improves
      breathlessness. It also upsurges recruitment of abdominal expiratory musculature. Expiratory
      muscle recruitment does not only ease expiration but also aids in inspiration by developing
      the length-tension relationship of the inspiratory muscles.

      Body positioning is one of the controlled breathing maneuvers to improve the respiratory
      muscle functioning and decreasing dyspnea. That is why the COPD patients often assume the
      tripod position, which is, sitting with forward lean of trunk and arm support, during
      breathlessness. This position develops the length-tension relationship of diaphragm and
      decreases the activity of sternocleidomastoid and scalene muscles thus improving
      thoraco-abdominal movement and reducing breathlessness. The arm support in this position
      recruits pectoralis major and pectoralis minor musculature to improve rib elevation
    
  