
    
      Rationale: Cystic fibrosis is the most common life-shortening autosomal recessive disease
      among Caucasian populations. It is a chronic progressive disease causing deterioration of
      pulmonary function, and of general condition as well. Although it is a multisystem disease,
      the primary cause of death is respiratory failure, resulting from chronic pulmonary
      infection.

      Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the predominant pathogen. The presence of P. aeruginosa in patients
      with CF is an unfavourable prognostic indicator and is associated with accelerated lung
      tissue destruction and loss of lung function, subsequently leading tot increased morbidity
      and mortality. Preventing, limiting and treating chronic infection with P. aeruginosa is
      therefore crucial in the management of CF, to improve survival and quality of life.

      Currently most children with CF who are colonized with P. aeruginosa receive inhaled
      tobramycin every other month, mostly by use of a nebulizer. This delivery system however has
      several disadvantages. For example, the nebulisation itself and the cleaning of the nebulizer
      is time consuming. This places a high burden on a CF patient, especially for children, which
      will negatively influence compliance and quality of inhalation, thereby jeopardizing
      effective treatment. Therapy with a (disposable) dry powder inhaler (DPI) is less time
      consuming. Besides this, nebulisation brings the risk of auto-re-infection of the patient
      (contamination of nebulisation fluid and/or device). Other more technical disadvantages of
      nebulisation are a low lung deposition and pollution with tobramycin in the surrounding
      environment. With an efficient DPI, a three to six fold higher lung deposition compared to a
      nebulizer can be obtained. Nebulised tobramycin is used most in routine care, but sometimes a
      DPI is used, for example the Podhaler®. Although the dispersion behaviour of these dry powder
      systems is often good, the engineering processes make the products expensive, and the high
      excipient fractions make the inhaled powder doses high. Furthermore because these devices are
      not disposable, there is a risk of bacterial resistance development in the device. Next to
      this is the hygroscopic nature of tobramycin a risk for good dispersion when a used DPI is
      store inappropriately. In this situation powder residues in the inhaler become sticky or even
      liquefied when they absorb moisture from the air. There is one disposable DPI for tobramycin
      available, called the Cyclops®, but this DPI is not registered for children with CF yet. The
      investigators will therefore investigate dry powder tobramycin (DP tobramycin) in the
      Cyclops® in children with CF.

      Objective: The main objectives are to investigate the pharmacokinetic properties of DP
      tobramycin via the Cyclops® at different dosages in children with CF, together with the local
      tolerability.

      Study design: Single center, single ascending, single dose study.

      Study population: 10 patients with CF, age 6 - 18 years.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The following pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated:
      actual dose (dose minus remainder in inhaler after inhalation), AUC0-12 (area under the curve
      from 0 - 12 h), Cmax (maximum plasma concentration), Tmax (time to maximum plasma
      concentration), Ka (absorption rate constant), T1/2 el (terminal elimination half-life), CL/F
      (clearance following pulmonary administration (F= bioavailability)). Local tolerability of DP
      Tobramycin is determined by scoring adverse events, specifically coughing, and lung function
      measurement.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Target population of this study consists of children aged 6-18 years, because no
      information is available for inhalation of tobramycin using the Cyclops® in this population.
      Moreover, especially for children with CF a more easy to use and less time consuming
      treatment may improve their quality of life. Children participating in this study will
      receive instructions before using the DPI and their inspiratory flow will be tested. After
      each test dose serum samples will be collected with dry blood spot via a finger prick. To
      investigate safety, lung function tests will be performed before and 15, 30 and 90 minutes
      after inhalation and the occurrence of adverse events will be scored. Tobramycin is a
      registered drug for the treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa infection in CFpatients of 6 years
      and older. Inhalation of tobramycin is proven to be effective and safe in multiple studies.
      Dry powder tobramycin inhalation via the Cyclops® has been evaluated in adults with non-CF
      bronchiectasis. In this study a good drug dose - serum concentration correlation was obtained
      in adults, and the dry powder tobramycin inhalation via the Cyclops has been found safe with
      only mild tobramycin-related cough was reported once.
    
  