
    
      Background

      Schizophrenia is a major mental illness that presents in young adulthood. It affects
      approximately 1% of the population and is a major cause of Disability-adjusted Life Years
      worldwide. Besides impacting on the ability to independently carry out daily activities,
      work/studies and interactions with family and community, the illness has a profound effect on
      physical health. Diabetes and cardiovascular diseases are common complications and life
      expectancy is reduced by as much as two decades. The long term nature of this complex illness
      highlights the need for more effective, holistic care models. Increased patient involvement
      is central, as it has been shown that patients' views of appropriate interventions often
      differ from those of formal care providers.

      Person-centered care (PCC) is recognized by the WHO as a valuable approach to the care of
      chronic conditions. A basic assumption of person-centered care (PCC) is that healthcare must
      recognize the patient as a person, with own knowledge, capacity and preferences along with
      needs and problems. The PCC way to deal with illness and disease is to form a partnership
      with the person and together form a plan of action to increase health (i.e. not only focus on
      symptoms or signs of diagnosed disease) taking into account the person's context and
      priorities. Previous studies show that persons with serious mental illness can and want to
      participate in their own care and participation might increase adherence. Improved social
      function and consumer satisfaction were demonstrated when a person-centered care approach,
      Integrated Care (IC) was tested in a psychosis outpatient-based randomized controlled trial.

      To the best of the authors knowledge, PCC has yet to be tested in an inpatient setting for
      persons with severe mental illness. Favorable results have been demonstrated with regard to
      both ward level and patient level outcomes from inpatient settings within somatic care.
      Person-centered care in geriatric settings, which might share some common issues with
      hospital care for persons with schizophrenia (decreased cognitive function, lack of insight,
      compromised autonomy), have shown positive outcomes for QoL and agitation in patients and job
      satisfaction for staff. Reviews show mixed results though. Thus, we wanted to evaluate an
      intervention for inpatient psychiatric care for persons with schizophrenia and similar
      psychoses. To this end, we developed Person-centered Psychosis Care (PCPC), a staff
      educational intervention involving components of PCC as well as IC. Person Centered Psychosis
      Care was defined as having four key elements; dialogue, building partnership, formulation and
      documentation of a health plan, and early involvement of the patient's outpatient facility.
      The latter means that the patient's outpatient-based social resource group can come into play
      already during the inpatient stay.

      Purpose

      The purpose of this study is to test whether inpatient PCPC can

        1. increase patient empowerment

        2. improve patient satisfaction

        3. reduce the frequency of involuntary treatments

        4. reduce the duration of inpatient care and

        5. reduce overall ward burden

           A further purpose is to qualitatively explore which components in this complex
           intervention are experienced as facilitators or barriers to the achievement of good
           care, from both patient, next-of-kin and staff perspectives.

           Methods

           The study employs a simple "before and after" design. Quantitative data (patient-level,
           ward-level) are collected pre- and post intervention on all four wards. Qualitative data
           are provided through interviews with patients as well as focus groups with staff.

           Data collection: Patient-level data All patients on any of the four wards who fulfill
           study criteria during pre- and post-intervention periods will be asked to participate in
           the study.

           Anticipated number of participants: 50 pre intervention, 50 post intervention.Those who
           accept will complete questionnaires at the clinic together with the interviewer. The
           following outcomes will be measured:

             -  Empowerment will be measured with The Empowerment Scale. This scale is validated
                and used internationally in studies involving persons with severe mental
                ill-health. There are 28 questions; responses are given on a scale of 1 (agree
                totally) to 4 (disagree totally).

             -  Patient satisfaction measured with the UKU-ConSat Rating Scale consists of 11 items
                on different aspects of the care provided where response is given on a scale 1
                (Very bad/negative/little) to 7 (very good/positive/much). The scale also includes
                two VAS-like scales where an answer is marked on a 100 mm line to a question on
                overall life experience (0=worst imaginable, 100=best imaginable).

           Confounders including illness burden, functional ability, and overall health will be
           quantified for each patient at discharge. Positive and negative symptom burden will be
           rated with the Remission subscale of PANSS, consisting of 8 items reflecting core
           symptoms of schizophrenia and functional ability will be determined using the GAF scale
           and overall health with the EQ-5D. Ratings will be carried out by two nurses and one
           psychologist.

           After the completion of the scales, all participants are asked the following open-ended
           questions:

           1a) What are the most important things that have improved for you during your stay at
           the hospital?

           1b) What was the reason that you got better? 2a) What do you wish could improve for you
           in the future, after your hospital stay? 2b) How could the health care sector help you
           to achieve this?

           At the end of the interview, participants are asked for permission for researchers to
           contact them after discharge for invitation to a qualitative interview study. A
           purposive selection of stabilized patients who accepted follow-up contact will be asked
           if they would like to participate in an interview with a study nurse or psychologist.
           The interview will focus on experiences of care during the inpatient stay and
           patient-relevant endpoints will be explored. The sampling will aim at a heterogeneous
           group with regard to gender, age, ethnicity, level of psychosocial function, involuntary
           vs voluntary care.

           Data collection: Next-of-kin A purposive sample of family members or other persons close
           to the patient will be asked if they would like to participate in focus groups/an
           interview. The selection of family members' for focus group interview will strive to
           include next-of-kin of patients with varied backgrounds with regard to age, gender,
           ethnic background, education level, living situation (do they live together with the
           patient or not?) etc. The main focus for this focus group will be the identification of
           positive and negative experiences in the care, discrimination, facilitators and barriers
           for good care

           Data collection: Staff experiences A purposive sample of staff were invited to
           participate in focus group to collect experiences of the educational intervention and
           implementation. Facilitators and barriers to implementation of PCPC will be in focus.
           Staff were recruited through invitation via e-mail and posters on their wards. In a
           second step section leaders at the wards asked persons who would be on duty on the days
           of interview to participate. All focus groups are led by an experienced clinician with
           research experience of qualitative studies. All interviews will be recorded and
           transcribed verbatim.

           Data collection: Ward level data Mean number of inpatient days, mean number of inpatient
           days with compulsory care and mean number of involuntary treatment interventions
           (involuntary injections, medical restraint) for pre- and post intervention periods will
           be derived from the clinic's administrative database. Overall care burden is measured at
           each ward with an instrument developed by the Psychosis Clinic for quality monitoring.
           The instrument includes objective items (number of admissions and discharges, number of
           involuntary treatments during the shift etc), followed by a subjective item on the
           overall level of burden perceived during the shift. The form is filled out by one staff
           member on each ward once a day according to clinical routine.

           Data analysis: Quantitative data The main study question is whether the intervention is
           associated with a change in the degree of empowerment experienced by persons who receive
           hospital care due to psychosis. The secondary outcome measure is patient satisfaction at
           discharge. Quantitative ratings before and after the care intervention will be compared
           with standard statistical methods. Similarly, for the ward level analyses, wardwide
           outcomes will be compared in wards before and after the implementation of the
           intervention: mean number of inpatient days, mean number of inpatient days with
           compulsory care, mean number of involuntary treatment interventions and overall ward
           burden. Distribution of the variables to be studied will determine whether parametric or
           non-parametric analyses are employed.

           Data analysis: Qualitative data Free text responses to the open-ended questions at the
           end of the quantitative interview (see patient level data above) as well as data from
           individual patient interviews and focus group interviews with staff and next-of-kin will
           be analyzed using content analysis and thematic analysis.

           Ethics All participants (patients, next-of kin and staff) are given written and oral
           information about the study, the voluntary participation, possibility to withdraw from
           participation without having to give explanation. All will sign consent form before
           participating in any study related task, a copy of signed consent is given participants.
           The study was approved by the Regional Ethics Board in Gothenburg, Dnr. 773-13.

           Time plan Data collection for the pre-intervention phase is completed (December 2014);
           the educational intervention is completed (May 2015) and the implementation period will
           end April 30, 2017. Focus group interviews with staff regarding the educational package
           are now underway (2017). Audit to determine the level of PCPC implementation is
           currently underway (April 2017), which will determine whether post-intervention data
           collection could start. Complete data set should be available fall 2017.

           Comment on project so far

           This is a complex intervention involving action research and the study is registered
           first after the completion of the educational intervention and on-ward implementation of
           PCPC. The implementation process has been dynamic and varied at the four different wards
           involved in the project. The duration of the implementation period was considerably
           longer than anticipated. This is in part related to high staff turnover, serious lack of
           psychiatrically trained RNs, as well as other barriers to implementation. Barriers have
           slowly been overcome by changes in routines instigated from within the care staff (as
           opposed to being imposed on staff from "above"). While the long implementation process
           can be seen as a limitation, it's interactive nature can at the same time be construed
           as a strength, as change from within can be expected to increase sustainable change.

           A quantitative study was planned with questionnaires investigating consumer satisfaction
           and care giver burden in next-of-kin but baseline collection resulted in too few
           participants to continue that subproject.
    
  