
    
      Gastroparesis is a disorder that presents with delayed gastric emptying, abdominal pain,
      nausea, and vomiting. This condition can be found in people with complications from
      diabetes-neuropathy of the vagus nerve and gastric surgery-damage to the vagus nerve. With
      idiopathic gastroparesis (IG), the cause is poorly understood with theories suggesting viral
      infections affecting gut motility, pyloric valve spasm as well as damage to the specialized
      cells within the wall of the stomach. Unfortunately the treatment options are minimal for
      people suffering from gastroparesis regardless of what type.

      It is the action of food propulsion that is poorly understood in regards to IG - specifically
      smooth muscle, autonomic and enteric nerves and specialized cells in the gut named
      Interstitial Cells of Cajal (ICC). ICC are the pacemakers cells in the gut that conduct
      motility.

      The objective of this study is to normalize structural abnormalities in patients with
      idiopathic gastroparesis with global osteopathic manual treatments, using a quantitative
      research method with a longitudinal controlled pre-test post-test design.

      The principal investigator (PI), having a background as an emergency medicine registered
      nurse, has seen patients in the emergency department suffering from idiopathic gastroparesis.
      The acute attacks appear intense and debilitating often requiring anti-nausea, pain and
      anti-anxiety medications. As an osteopathic student, the PI would often wonder what could be
      achieved with osteopathic manual treatments (OMT) to help these people in the emergency
      department suffering from these symptoms.

      Current treatment available for people suffering from gastroparesis is limited. In his
      article, Gastroparesis - Current Concepts and Considerations (2008), Dr. Hasler, summarized
      research and the different treatment options for gastroparesis. There are several medications
      available for gastroparesis however as discussed by Dr. Hasler, the side effects from these
      medications are significant.

      There are invasive treatments, such as injection of botulinum toxin into the pyloric
      sphincter, gastric electrical stimulator and gastric resection which have shown some
      improvement in symptoms but carry heavy risks if utilized.

      The research method used to determine if global osteopathic manual treatments can help
      patients who suffer from idiopathic gastroparesis is a longitudinal pre-test post-test
      controlled quantitative study. The tool used to measure data is the Gastroparesis Cardinal
      Index Score (GCSI), which was created by Janssen Global Services, LLC. The GCSI is a reliable
      and validated tool rating symptom intensity of fullness-early satiety, nausea-vomiting, and
      bloating. The validation of this tool was tested with 169 subjects who filled out the GCSI
      and those results were compared with clinician symptom ratings. Total scores of the GCSI were
      "responsive to changes in overall gastroparesis symptoms as assessed by clinicians (P =
      0.0002) and patients (P = 0.002).

      A minimum of ten (10) subjects are required for the population according to the power
      analysis, and at lease twelve (12) subjects will be enrolled to account for the potential 20%
      drop out rate. However, (20) twenty subjects will be the goal for recruitment for this study.
      Approval from an Institutional Review Board (IRB) has been acquired through Aspire-IRB,
      gastroenterologists and family medicine physicians in the Sonoma County and Santa Rosa
      California area will be given recruitment letters and consent forms with study information to
      give to patients who qualify for the study. Flyers will be distributed throughout the
      community (grocery stores, community centers, pharmacies etc.). Social media might be
      utilized to acquire subjects as there appears to be a strong presence of support groups
      online of people with gastroparesis.

      The entire population, during the control group period, will fill out the GCSI initially and
      then again at two (2) weeks. Those subjects will transition to the experimental group period
      of the study-the GCSI filled out on the last day of the control period will be used as the
      first day of treatment GCSI results. IN the experiment period: the subjects will receive
      three (3) separate global osteopathic manual treatments over four (4) weeks (day 1, 14, and
      28). Two weeks after the third (3rd) treatment (day 42), the subjects will fill out the GCSI
      a final time. The subjects are waiting two (2) weeks to allow for full integration of the
      last treatment and the GCSI is designed to record the prior two (2) weeks of patients
      symptoms.

      The subjects in the population will be screened via email and or telephone assuring they meet
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Once consented, each participant will be instructed to fill
      out the first (1st) GCSI questionnaires and email the completed form back to the PI. The data
      of the first GCSI completion establishes day one (1) of the two (2) week control period.
      During the two (2) week control period, subjects are to continue their regular treatments for
      IG (dietary, medicine). They are not to obtain any new therapies such as massage,
      acupuncture, osteopathy or start any new conventional medical treatments. If there is an
      acute attack requiring an emergency room visit, the subject will have to be excluded from the
      study. At the end of the two (2) week period, those subjects will fill out the GCSI again and
      those results will be anonymously stored for future data analysis. The subjects then will be
      transitioned into the experimental period and assigned to have their first treatment. The
      last day of the control period will start the experimental period. All treatments will occur
      at the office/clinic of the PI in Santa Rosa California, USA. The PI will be working under
      her massage practitioner license with malpractice insurance under Associated Bodywork and
      Massage Professionals (ABMP) as well as Manual Therapy Insurance Plus through the Barral
      Institute. Both of these institutions cover general and professional liability for massage
      therapy as well as various forms of manual therapy.

      At the first treatment, day one (1) of the experimental period, the GCSI (Appendix A) and
      health history questionnaire (Appendix I) will have been completed. An anamnesis will be
      taken and the subject will then be assessed and treated with a global osteopathic manual
      treatment to treat the lesions found in the assessment. The data from the GCSI will be
      collected and stored anonymously for data analysis. The lesions found in assessment and
      techniques used to treat will be stored for use in discussion if appropriate. The process
      will be repeated at two (2) weeks and four (4) weeks from the first (1st) visit for each
      participant except without the GCSI and without the health questionnaire as it is only
      required on the first visit. Each treatment will last ninety (90) minutes. To keep results as
      consistent as possible, subjects will be seen at the same time of the day for each treatment.
      The results from two (2) weeks and four (4) weeks will be stored for possible discussion. To
      allow time for integration of the treatments each participant will fill out the GCSI two (2)
      weeks after the fourth (4th) week of the experimental period. The data from all GCSI tools
      filled out from the control and experimental periods will be sent to the PI via email for
      data analysis.
    
  