
    
      Background The weight of malaria falls most heavily on young children and pregnant women but
      studies of the safety of antimalarials in pregnancy and lactation are few. The only
      recommended medication used for radical treatment of P.vivax is primaquine. The 2010 WHO
      malaria guidelines recommend its use in all patients with P.vivax infection in areas of low
      transmission, in the absence of contraindications. Primaquine is contraindicated in
      pregnancy. The postpartum period presents a key opportunity to definitively treat women who
      suffer multiple malaria relapses during pregnancy. The 2010 WHO malaria treatment guidelines
      allow for primaquine use during lactation but there are no studies to date quantifying
      primaquine excretion in breast milk and the dose that breastfed infants would be exposed to
      is unknown. The investigators propose to study the pharmacokinetics of primaquine in maternal
      and infant plasma and in breast milk during a 14 day radical treatment of P.vivax.

      Rationale

      The global burden of malaria is great, with approximately 1-2 million deaths each year and
      many times that number of productive days lost to illness. Plasmodium vivax is the most
      prevalent malarial species, resulting in 132-391 million clinical infections each year and
      80-90% of malaria in Asia, the Middle East, and the Western Pacific. Despite its prevalence,
      P.vivax has not been a focus of research until recently, and its effects and optimal
      treatments are still not fully understood. Though infrequently a fatal infection, P.vivax
      causes high levels of morbidity due to the chronic nature of the infection. Because of
      dormant liver stages (hypnozoites), illness can continue to recur for years, even after
      effective treatment has eliminated the parasites from the blood. In settings where there are
      hopes for malarial eradication, this means infected persons continue to be hosts even if
      vector-borne transmission is temporarily interrupted, and could potentially start a new cycle
      of transmission with each relapse. Each of these relapses causes a significant amount of
      morbidity and a small mortality risk for those infected.

      These burdens are magnified during pregnancy when women experience relative immune
      suppression and can experience relapses every 4-8 weeks. P.vivax malaria in pregnancy is
      associated with low birth weight and anaemia; thrombocytopaenia; increased risk of fetal
      loss, premature delivery, neonatal and infant mortality; and, in some areas, risk for
      congenital malaria (a severe, sepsis-like illness). In Southeast Asia, where the
      investigators propose to conduct our study, the majority of cases of congenital malaria are
      from vivax infection. These women may have some respite during the postpartum period, with
      relapses spaced further apart, but frequently relapse again in subsequent pregnancies. New
      pregnancies during the end of lactation are common in many malaria endemic areas, including
      our setting, making definitive treatment of vivax infections in these women very challenging
      in the absence of data about the safety of primaquine for the breastfeeding infant.

      Though the anti-malarial pharmacopeia has expanded over the past decade, primaquine remains
      the only definitive treatment for the hypnozoite forms of Plasmodium vivax and ovale. First
      synthesized in 1946, a 14 day treatment eradicates the parasites from the liver. However,
      this medication has been associated with a risk for methemoglobinemia, and acute
      intravascular haemolysis in glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient hosts (common
      in malaria-endemic areas). The elevations in methemoglobin are generally modest and
      asymptomatic, but occasionally significant methemoglobinemia can cause cyanosis and shortness
      of breath requiring discontinuation of the medication. Primaquine is not considered safe in
      pregnancy because of the possible risk of haemolysis and methaemoglobin in the fetus. The
      most recent WHO malaria guidelines (2010) have conflicting information about the its use
      during lactation. They cite breastfeeding as a contraindication for primaquine administration
      for P. falciparum malaria, but permit the use of primaquine for P. vivax during lactation if
      the breast fed infant is not G6PD deficient. No studies have ever been done in lactating
      women to determine the safety of primaquine in breastfeeding or the optimal time of
      administration, however, the relaxation of guidelines in infancy suggest potential for its
      safe use in lactation. Some authors note that primaquine's once daily dosing might allow for
      safe breastfeeding if the mother pumps the milk at the time when peak milk concentrations are
      expected and discards that milk.

      Some inferences about the expected behavior of primaquine in lactation can be drawn from its
      known pharmacologic properties. Primaquine pharmacokinetics have been well characterized in
      healthy subjects and malaria patients after single and multiple oral dosing. Peak
      concentrations are reached within 2-3 hours after dosing and the plasma elimination half-life
      is ~7 hours. It is extensively distributed in the tissue and largely metabolized to inert
      carboxyprimaquine, the major plasma metabolite, which undergoes further biotransformation to
      unknown metabolites that are probably more toxic than the parent compound. The identification
      of other metabolites in humans has been difficult to pursue because the expected aminophenol
      metabolites are unstable. Until recently, techniques to separate positive and negative
      enantiomers for primaquine and carboxyprimaquine have not been possible, again obscuring the
      toxic and therapeutic mechanisms of the drug.

      Primaquine has limited oral bioavailability and adult plasma concentrations are generally
      low, making dangerously high concentrations in maternal milk unlikely from a theoretical
      standpoint. However, recent data suggests that a previously unrecognized sex difference
      exists in the pharmacokinetics of the medication in men and women, with women accumulating
      higher drug concentrations than men. Since side effects of primaquine appear to be
      dose-related, this finding could be significant. The time to maximum concentration is about
      2-3 hrs (longer for women than for men) and the investigators would expect to see a short lag
      in reaching peak breast milk concentrations. Primaquine has a low molecular weight (259) and
      slightly basic pH making it more likely to transfer into the breast milk.

      Literature on medication pharmacokinetics in breast milk is sparse but has begun to capture
      the interest of researchers and human rights activists who note that women are often
      systematically excluded from medical research by virtue of pregnant or lactating status. As a
      result, during these two states the pharmacokinetic properties of drugs remain poorly
      understood, and much of our clinical therapeutic approaches are based on consensus and
      conjecture. No pharmacokinetic studies have been done to measure primaquine excretion in
      breast milk. A few studies have been done of other antimalarials during lactation and have
      shown low levels of drug in breast milk during treatment. The frequent venous sampling
      necessary for pharmacokinetic research is not ideal for participants, especially in pediatric
      populations. Recent efforts have been made to evaluate the usefulness of capillary or saliva
      samples as alternative sampling measures.
    
  