
    
      The objective of this study is to ascertain the systemic exposure of the active ingredient in
      Granexin® gel (aCT1 peptide) after topical application to diabetic foot ulcers using
      pharmacokinetic analysis. It is planned that a total of 16 patients with diabetic foot ulcers
      will receive Granexin® gel treatment plus standard of care in this one arm study. The study
      includes a screening period (1 week) and a treatment period (1 week) which occur sequentially
      for a given patient. The baseline day, which demarcates the beginning of the treatment
      period, is the designated as Day 0. Screening procedures are initially conducted on Day -7.

      A target foot ulcer is identified at screening and patient eligibility is confirmed at
      screening and then again at the beginning of the Day 0 (baseline) visit. A patient enrolled
      in the study may have multiple ulcers on the same or either foot; in this case, all ulcers
      will be treated with Granexin® gel, but only ulcer(s) meeting the following criteria will be
      designated as the target ulcer(s) and will determine eligibility: >4cm2 in post debridement
      of at least 4 weeks duration.

      The treatment period for a given patient begins on Day 0 and ends one week later; the last
      scheduled day of the treatment period is designated as Day 7. During the treatment period,
      each patient is scheduled to receive topical treatment with study drug gel (3 applications
      total) administered by study staff at scheduled study site visits at each of the following
      time points: Day 0, Day 3, and Day 7. All patients, regardless of treatment assignment, also
      receive standard-of-care treatment at scheduled study visits during the treatment period.

      Study drug pre-application blood samples will be collected from each patient at Day 0, Day 3,
      and Day 7. Study drug post-application blood samples will be collected at Day 0 and Day 7 at
      time points specified in the protocol. These blood samples will be shipped to a designated
      laboratory for pharmacokinetic analysis.

      Safety will be assessed during the treatment period by monitoring adverse events, measuring
      vital signs at each visit, performing physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECG), as
      well as pharmacokinetic (PK) blood analysis.
    
  