
    
      Preeclampsia is a specific pregnancy disorder that complicates approximately 3-5% of all
      pregnancies. The effects on pregnant women vary from mild hypertension, severe hypertension /
      hypertensive crisis, eclampsia to hemolysis syndrome, elevated liver enzymes, low platelet
      count (HELLP), while the impact of these abnormalities on the fetus also varies from preterm
      birth, stunted fetal growth (CHD) to fetal death.

      The initial cause of preeclampsia is still unknown, recent developments explain the molecular
      mechanisms behind its manifestations and especially abnormal development, placental hypoxia,
      endothelial dysfunction.

      Prenatal yoga (yoga for pregnancy) is a modification of classical yoga which has been adapted
      to the physical condition of pregnant women which is done with a more gentle and slow
      intensity. Rakhsani A, et al., (2012) suggested that the positive effects of yoga for
      pregnant women are reducing occure of hypertension, preeclampsia, gestational diabetes as
      well as cases of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR).

      The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of prenatal yoga on reducing
      preeclampsia. This study was an experimental study that used pre and post-test mechanisms
      (paired test) with Yoga exercise treatment.

      The number of samples wares 24 samples from pregnant women> 20 weeks who had blood pressure
      level which was 130/80 mmHg to 140/90 mmHg. This study was carried out in September 2020.
      There were three parameters to measured decreased hypertension that is blood pressure, the
      protein level in urine, as well as blood platelets. The research was carried out in several
      public health centers where was Puskesmas Pembina and two clinics of midwives practice in
      Palembang city from September to November 2020. Yoga exercises technique used stretching and
      posture exercises (asanas) combined with deep breathing (pranayama) and meditation, to unify
      body, mind, and spirit (Babbar S, Parks-Savage AC, Chauhan SP, 2012).
    
  