
    
      Staphylococcus aureus (SA) remains a major pathogen for human beings, causing infections of
      skin, soft tissue, bone, and other organs. Bacteremia due to this organism is common, and
      often occurs in association with medical interventions such as intravenous lines and
      implantable devices. With the increase in methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), there has
      been increasing dependence upon vancomycin, a drug that is inferior to the beta-lactams in
      its activity against methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA). If the microbiology laboratory
      had the ability to identify S. aureus (SA) and its drug susceptibility within hours rather
      than days, focused therapy would be possible earlier in the course of illness. Clinicians
      would be able to discontinue antibiotics when SA is not present, to discontinue other
      broad-spectrum antibiotics when SA is present, or to replace empiric vancomycin with
      nafcillin when MSSA is identified.

      The GeneXpert system (Cepheid) uses real-time PCR to detect genes that encode Staphylococcus
      aureus protein A (SPA), the staphylococcal cassette chromosome (SCC) and methicillin
      resistance (mecA). All blood cultures with Gram stain revealing Gram positive cocci in
      clusters will be tested by PCR the day they became positive. Wound swabs submitted for
      routine bacteriologic culture will be tested within 48 hr of collection. Results will be
      compared with those of standard bacteriologic culture. In addition, discrepancies between the
      GeneXpert and wound culture results will be reviewed in the medical record to ascertain
      whether antibiotic use at the time of specimen collection is associated with false positive
      results in which the wound culture yields no S. aureus but PCR detects staphylococcal DNA
      components.

      In the second phase of the study, PCR results for wound swabs and blood cultures will be
      reported to physicians immediately upon completion of the reaction. The clinical impact of
      early identification of S. aureus will be determined by comparing antibiotic treatment and
      clinical outcome of patients for whom early identification was available with those of
      patients for whom conventional bacteriological culture was the sole diagnostic test.
    
  