
    
      Electroencephalographic (EEG)-based monitoring systems, for example the bispectral index
      [(BIS); BIS monitor, Covidien, Boulder, Colorado, USA], were designed to prevent anaesthesia
      underdosage with the risk of awareness and to reduce the time to awakening after terminating
      general anaesthesia. However, little is known about the consequences of anaesthetic overdose.
      The investigators assume that high doses of anaesthetics result in cardiocirculatory
      depression and the necessity for high-dose vasopressor therapy, followed by microcirculation
      disorder and organ dysfunction.

      The investigators hypothesised that in on-pump cardiac-surgery, goaldirected administration
      of sevoflurane guided by BIS monitoring reduces excessive sevoflurane plasma concentration
      (SPC) and the need for an intraoperative vasopressor. To test this hypothesis, the current
      study compared BIS-guided sevoflurane administration with the constant delivery of an
      inspired sevoflurane concentration of 1.8% during on-pump cardiac surgery and analysed its
      effect on the SPC and the required intraoperative dosage of norepinephrine.

      The study population was divided into two patient groups: Thirty-three on-pump cardiac
      surgery patients enrolled in the study were allocated to a conventionally treated control
      group, with the constant administration of an inspired concentration of sevoflurane 1.8%
      (group Sevo1.8%). Thirty-four patients were sequentially allocated to an interventional group
      with BIS-guided administration of sevoflurane (group SevoBIS).

      Vasoactive drugs were administered according to the following protocol in both groups. If the
      mean arterial blood pressure decreased below 50 mmHg, a continuous infusion of norepinephrine
      was given to maintain a perfusion pressure between 50 and 60 mmHg during cardiopulmonary
      bypass. If the mean arterial pressure increased above 75 mmHg, nitroglycerine was used in
      boluses of 0.1 mg until arterial pressure returned to a mean of less than 75 mmHg. If mean
      arterial pressure persisted above 75 mmHg after a cumulative administration of nitroglycerine
      1.0 mg, urapidil was administered in boluses of 0.1 mg/kg until the perfusion pressure
      decreased below 75 mmHg.

      At the end of the surgical procedure, all patients were transferred to the ICU.
    
  