
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the overall survival (OS) between two induction regimens (standard versus
           dose intense daunorubicin and cytarabine) in patients with de novo AML.

        -  To compare disease-free survival (DFS) between two consolidation regimens.

        -  To compare overall survival between two consolidation regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      induction therapy (standard-dose daunorubicin vs high-dose daunorubicin).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 induction arms.

             -  Standard: Patients receive standard-dose daunorubicin IV over 10-15 minutes on days
                1-3 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7.

             -  High dose: Patients receive high-dose daunorubicin IV over 10-15 minutes on days
                1-3 and cytarabine as in arm I.

      Patients in both arms may receive a second course of induction therapy if complete remission
      (CR) is not achieved after the first course. The second course is administered as in arm I to
      all patients. Patients who don't achieve CR after 2 courses of induction therapy are removed
      from study.

      Patients who achieve CR after induction therapy proceed to post-remission therapy with EITHER
      allogeneic transplantation only (on or off study) OR consolidation therapy and autologous
      transplantation (on study), according to risk status and donor status.

      Patients who are considered at intermediate or high risk for relapse (unfavorable
      cytogenetics/high WBC) and have a suitable related donor undergo an allogeneic
      transplantation. Patients with intermediate-risk cytogenetics, WBC no greater than
      100,000/mm^3, and appropriate donors have the option of undergoing allogeneic
      transplantation.

        -  Allogeneic transplantation: Within 1-3 months after recovery from induction therapy,
           patients receive busulfan IV every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over
           4 hours on days -3 and -2. Allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs)
           are infused on day 0. Patients receive graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis
           comprising cyclosporine IV over 1-4 hours beginning on day -1 and then orally (when
           tolerated) twice daily until day 180. Alternatively, patients may receive tacrolimus IV
           over 24 hours beginning on day -1 and then orally twice daily until day 180. Patients
           also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      Patients who do not meet the criteria for allogeneic transplantation (i.e., are favorable
      risk or do not have a matching related donor) or who opt not to undergo allogeneic
      transplantation proceed to consolidation therapy followed by randomization to 1 of 2
      autologous transplantation arms.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning 2-8 weeks after recovery from induction therapy,
           patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and
           5. A second course is administered 3 weeks after blood recovery. Patients receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily for 4 days and then autologous PBSCs are
           harvested by leukapheresis.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 autologous
           transplantation arms.

             -  Arm I: Within 1 month after PBSC collection, patients receive conditioning
                comprising busulfan IV every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over
                2 hours on days -3 and -2. Patients then undergo autologous PBSC transplantation on
                day 0. Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) or G-CSF IV or SC beginning on day 0
                and continuing until blood counts recover.

             -  Arm II (closed to accrual as of 10/4/2007): Within 2-4 weeks after PBSC collection,
                patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and GM-CSF SC or IV
                beginning on day 10 and continuing until blood counts recover. Within 2-3 weeks
                after blood count recovery, patients receive conditioning and undergo autologous
                PBSC transplantation as in arm I.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, and then every 3 months
      for up to 7 years.

      ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 657 patients were accrued for this study.
    
  