
    
      Aspiration pneumonia is a common mechanism for recurrent mechanical ventilation episodes in
      intensive care patients and leads to longer hospital admissions, increased morbidity, and
      mortality. When length of the mechanical ventilation is prolonged the translaryngeal tube is
      changed to a tracheostomy tube. This practice has several advantages: further pressure damage
      to the vocal cords is avoided, weaning from the respirator is facilitated, and oral feeding
      is made possible. Swallowing difficulty, which in many cases depends on pharyngeal and upper
      esophageal dysfunction, is shown to be linked to aspiration pneumonia. Furthermore, previous
      studies indicate that swallowing dysfunction is a frequent problem in intensive care patients
      with tracheostomy although the reported incidence varies markedly.

      Swallowing function in intensive care patients with tracheostomy is not routinely evaluated
      because the current diagnostic techniques, speech pathology bedside assessment (BSA),
      fibreoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES), and Videofluoroscopy (VF), are
      laborious, subjective expertise-dependent methods. Instead symptoms reported by the patient
      during fluid and food intake (cough, chest pain) are allowed to guide further feeding
      although it is known that silent aspiration is a common cause for aspiration pneumonia.

      To prevent leakage of pharyngeal contents into the trachea most of the tracheostomy tubes are
      provided with an air-filled cuff. This cuff, when inflated, exerts pressure against the inner
      tracheal wall and thereby seals trachea around the tracheostomy tube. As security this cuff
      is often inflated during intake of fluids and food although there are studies that indicate
      this may deteriorate swallowing function and in fact increase risk for aspiration.

      Automated Impedance Manometry (AIM) analysis is a method that combines measurements of
      manometry (pressure) and impedance (flow) using specialized equipment to generate objective
      numerical values indicative of the different physiological processes governing safe
      pharyngeal swallowing. During a swallow, these measures quantify timing of bolus flow
      relative to pharyngeal propulsion, any mechanical resistance to flow during propulsion, and
      the overall pharyngeal contractility. Pressure-flow measures are then combined to derive a
      swallow risk index (SRI) that provides a global assessment of swallowing and defines a level
      of swallowing dysfunction that may predispose to risk of aspiration. This objective
      assessment of swallowing function has potential to provide timely and more targeted treatment
      options. It is easily conducted at the bedside with minimal disruption of ongoing medical
      treatment, and carries with it only negligible risk to the patient. Measures are derived by
      using a high resolution impedance manometry (HRIM) system (Sierra Scientific Instruments,
      Inc., Los Angeles, California, USA). The system employs a solid state catheter with 4.2 mm
      outer diameter incorporating 36 circumferential 1 cm-spaced pressure sensors and 18 2-cm long
      impedance segments is placed transnasally with sensors straddling the entire pharyngo- and
      esophageal segment. Data recordings are done during several bolus swallows and analysed
      afterwards using AIM analysis.

      Twenty intensive care patients and ten healthy volunteers are included in the study. After
      researchers have described the study, participants will be consented, and asked to complete a
      brief questionnaire about their swallow function. During the study, participants will be
      sitting comfortably in their bed. The manometry catheter will be passed through one nostril
      and down into the esophagus, stopping just at the top of the stomach. Once satisfactorily
      placed, the participant will be asked to swallow 4 x 5 ml; 4 x 10 ml, 3 x 20 ml of slightly
      salty water and 4 x 10 ml semisolid jelly. If first inflated the tracheostomy cuff is now
      deflated and the procedure repeated. Furthermore, part of the patients are evaluated by FEES
      simultaneously to HRIM measurements. Once the study is completed, the tube is removed.
      Patients are followed upp two months after ICU discharge with questionnaire of swallowing
      function and also asked to perform an additional HRIM measurement. Volunteers will perform a
      similar swallow series as the patients on one study occasion.
    
  