
    
      In our study, the investigators aimed to evaluate long-term exercise capacity, functional
      status, peripheral muscle strength, balance, anxiety and depression level, cognitive status,
      pain, kinesophobia and quality of life in patients with COVID-19, and to compare them with
      healthy individuals who have not had COVID-19. Our second goal; It is the evaluation of the
      relationship between long-term exercise capacity, pain, kinesiophobia, peripheral muscle
      strength, balance, anxiety and depression level, cognitive status and quality of life in
      individuals with COVID-19. It will also be examined whether these parameters change according
      to the post-COVID functional restriction level.

      3. Materials and Methods of the Research: 3.1. The place of the study: Cardiopulmonary
      Rehabilitation Unit of Hacettepe University Faculty of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation
      and Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine Department of General Internal Medicine

      3.2. Time of the study: It is planned to collect data and write the study between February
      2021 and February 2022.

      3.3. Research population, sample, research group:

      The population of the study is individuals who have passed the diagnosis of COVID-19 for at
      least 12 weeks and healthy individuals who have not had COVID-19.

      The sample of the study is individuals in the long-term after the diagnosis of COVID-19 at
      least 12 weeks after the diagnosis of COVID-19 in Hacettepe University Adult Hospital who
      meet the inclusion criteria and volunteer to participate in the study, and healthy
      individuals who have not had COVID-19.

      Study Design:

      Individuals meeting the inclusion criteria will be included in the study. The study will be
      conducted with people between the ages of 18-65, whose education level is at least primary
      school, and whose local language is Turkish. A total of 40 participants, 20 healthy without
      COVID-19, and 20 with at least 12 weeks past the diagnosis of COVID-19, will be included in
      the study. The guidance of the participants will be provided by the relevant physicians of
      the General Internal Medicine Unit of Hacettepe University Internal Diseases Department.

      In accordance with the COVID-19 pandemic precautions, social distance rules will be followed
      in the tests to be carried out with individuals, care will be taken to use masks, and the
      materials to be used in tests and measurements will be disinfected before and after use.

      COVID-19 Group Inclusion Criteria

        -  Having been diagnosed with COVID-19 at least 12 weeks ago,

        -  Being literate,

        -  Being in the age range of 18-65,

        -  Volunteering to participate in research,

        -  To be clinically stable, to be under control if any accompanying comorbid conditions
           (such as hypertension, diabetes),

        -  Not having any orthopedic and neurological problems that might interfere with evaluating
           peripheral muscle strength, balance and exercise capacity.

      COVID-19 Group Exclusion Criteria Those with an ICU hospitalization history due to the
      diagnosis of COVID-19,

        -  Recent myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism.

        -  Having accompanying chronic diseases,

        -  Those who have any orthopedic or neurological disorders that will prevent walking,

        -  Another COVID-19 PCR Test positivity in the last 12 weeks,

        -  Not being able to cooperate and adapt to exercise test due to neurological influences
           such as cerebrovascular disease or psychiatric disorders,

      Healthy Group Inclusion Criteria

        -  Not having COVID-19,

        -  Being literate,

        -  Being in the age range of 18-65,

        -  Volunteering to participate in research.

      The Criteria for Not Including the Healthy Group in the Study

        -  Those who have any orthopedic or neuromuscular disorders that will prevent walking,

        -  Having any chronic illness or psychiatric conditions or mental afflictions that may
           interfere with cooperation or compliance with exercise tests.

      Individuals participating in the study will be informed verbally and in writing about the
      study protocol and informed consent form will be obtained.
    
  