
    
      Pump therapy has been established as "gold standard" for insulin delivery offering
      improvements over multiple daily insulin injections, but there is a proportion of patients
      for whom the Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion (CSII) has not been completely
      successful therapy leaving some room for improvement of the glucose level of those patients.
      Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems represent an important advance in diabetes
      technology that can facilitate optimal glucose control in type 1 diabetes. Numerous
      randomized control trials have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of real-time CGM in both
      sub-optimally and well-controlled type 1 diabetes. In all these trials, the benefits of CGM
      correlate with frequent sensor wear and more advanced age. In clinical practice, the
      sensor-augmented pump therapy (SAP therapy) is indicated for patients who cannot achieve good
      metabolic control on CSII, who have a history of severe hypoglycemia and/or hypoglycemia
      unawareness, or who desire increased flexibility in their daily lives while maintaining or
      even improving their HbA1c levels.

      This was a post-market release, minimally interventional study. All the study devices and
      related software were CE-marked and commercially available in the countries participating to
      the study. The devices were prescribed and reimbursed, if applicable, according to routine
      practice.

      The gathered information during this study may help to define which patient groups benefit
      the most from the treatment with SAP therapy systems. The real-life results of these
      descriptive analyses will aid improvement of guidelines helping the medical community to
      better choose the right patient population and treatment patterns. Moreover, based on these
      real-life data, hypotheses could be defined when addressing further research questions.
    
  