
    
      Insomnia is a large public health concern with latest reports pointing to almost 15 % of the
      population in Norway having insomnia (Pallesen, Sivertsen, Nordhus, & Bjorvatn, 2014). At the
      same time there is a scientific consensus about how to best treat insomnia (CBT-I), and it is
      empirically proven that this is quite effective treatment (Okajima, Komada & Inoue, 2011).

      We therefore want to conduct a study to examine if CBT-I treatment in an public outpatient
      clinic is effective compared with waiting list and a psychoeducational course.

      The design is a randomized controlled study with three different conditions (CBT-I versus
      waiting list versus TAU) that will be compared over time. We will use an A-B-design which can
      effectively compare the different conditions in the study. We have recruited a total of 62
      patients, and completed a individual session with each of these individuals resulting in a
      total admission of 38 participants in the study. The remaining 24 patients either didn't fit
      the selection criteria, or we were unable to get in touch with them to agree on an
      appointment.

      Of the 38 participants enrolled in the study, 16 will get CBT-I, Group based treatment during
      May and June of 2017 (a total of seven sessions over nine weeks), and the remaining 22 will
      get the same treatment in September and October 2017. The maximum number of patients per
      group is eight (8) and we randomized whether participants got assigned to treatment in
      May/June or September/October.

      We measure all participants at the individual pre-screening (T1), Treatment Group 1 and 2
      gets treatment in May and June and will be measured in every other treatment session (2,4,6
      and 7) From now on called (T2, T3, T4, T5). Treatment Group 3,4 and 5 (all getting treatment
      i September/October) is measured at T2 and T5. T1 was conducted during the last week of April
      and T5 is towards the end of June 2017.

      Treatment Group 3, 4 and 5 will start their treatment and be measured at session 2 (T6) in
      mid-September, and Treatment Group 1 and 2 will also be measured at this point. Treatment
      Group 3, 4 and 5 will then be measured at treatment session 4,6 and 7, just like treatment
      Group 1 and 2 was during their treatment. (From now on T7, T8, T9). Treatment Groups 1 and 2
      will also be measured at T9.

      The treatment-as-usual condition is conducted in Nesodden kommune, and it is a
      psychoeducative, learning based course. This course consists of 4 sessions, and the
      participants is measured at session 1,3 and 4 in addition to a 6 months follow-up measure.
      They also get measured at pre-screening. We expect about 16 participants to complete this
      course.
    
  