
    
      This is an investigator-initiated, multi-centre, 2:2 factorial design, randomized, two-arm,
      double-blinded, cross-over, prospective trial

      Main study objectives

      The main objective of the CRICKET study is demonstrate that AV and VV optimization using SonR
      improves LV reverse remodeling response to CRT, compared with 'Fixed Settings' (FS) after 6
      months of treatment.

      Study endpoints

      Primary endpoint: The primary endpoint is a reduction (absolute difference) in LVESV with
      SonR vs FS after 6 months of treatment. The difference intra-patient of absolute change of
      LVESV value will be compared between two treatments: "SonR optimization" vs. "FS", defined as
      a sensed AV delay of 125 ms, VV delay of 0 ms (simultaneous).

      Secondary endpoints:

      Change in 6 MWT distance Change in NYHA class Change in quality of life Change in patient
      global assessment (EQ-5D) Change in Quality of life (MLWHF questionnaire) Change in LVEF AF
      burden Adverse Events

      Number of subjects

      Two hundred (200) patients will be enrolled. All patients will be implanted with the SonRtip
      bipolar atrial lead and a LivaNova (Sorin) CRT-D device offering both SonR optimization
      algorithm and atrio-biventricular pacing. Patients will be assigned to either the treatment
      or control arms, employing a 1:1 randomization with up to 100 patients in each of the 2
      groups: Study Group (SonR CRT Optimization programmed "AV+VV") and Control Group ("Fixed
      Settings" (FS), defined as a sensed AV delay of 125 ms, VV delay of 0 ms (simultaneous); SonR
      CRT Optimization programmed "Off"). After the first 6 months, patients will be crossed-over
      to the alternative arm for another 6 months. There will be no washout period.

      Duration of the clinical investigation

      The study inclusion phase is expected to last approximately 1.5 years.

      Follow-ups

      Patients will be evaluated at baseline and randomized prior to implantation to SonR
      optimization or FS. A further clinical assessment, ECG and echocardiography will be
      undertaken at 6 months. At this point, patients will be crossed over to the other arm for
      another 6 months. The study closes following a further clinical and echocardiographic
      assessment at 12 months.
    
  