
    
      Patients with signs and symptoms of URI will be forwarded to the Research Center for a
      screening in which the researchers will select those meet the inclusion criteria. This visit
      will be informed of the objectives study, methodology, risks and benefits, the right of
      patients to give up research, the confidentiality of data and other details that provide the
      the patients to consider their participation basement viable or not. All aspects relevant to
      the consideration of the patient on their participation will described in the Informed
      Consent, which will be read and signed before any procedure. The patients included are
      randomized, open treatment immediately and will be sent to perform a radiological examination
      (Rx - sinus of the face). This examination used to detect other clinical pictures than URI.
      After 24 hours (visit 02), the patient will return for the assessment and clinical questions
      about their symptoms, which provide the scores of efficacy of the product. This visit will
      review the radiological examination, and on the finding that infection of sinuses without
      symptoms, the patient will excluded because of antibiotic use will begin. In return for three
      days (visit 03), patients will again evaluated in relation to their clinical status. On this
      visit, the doctor may take the following behaviors:

        -  Patients who have no clinical symptoms get high.

        -  Patients who have not improved, take a dose of medicine increased.

        -  The worsening of the present that, due to infections bacterial or other clinical
           pictures, will be excluded and referred to a general practitioner employed by the
           sponsor. In return for seven days, patients should return the products and again
           participate in a clinical consultation, in which researchers may take the following
           behaviors:

        -  Patients who have no clinical symptoms get high.

        -  Patients who have not improved or have worsened will be exempted from study and referred
           to the general practitioner hired by the sponsor is repeated for the diagnosis and
           establish a new treatment. Will be allowed the use of rescue medications such as
           paracetamol or sodium dipyrone, justified by the existence of the placebo group and
           those products do not interfere in the results evaluated, it was a pain and
           antipyretics.
    
  