
    
      The study will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. We will recruit 25
      children between the ages of 6 and 18 years, from the pediatric renal transplant program at
      Texas Children's Hospital. The study consists of three phases, a screening phase, and a
      treatment phase, and a crossover phase.

      Clinical study design: The study will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial.
      We will recruit 25 children between the ages of 6 and 18 years, from the pediatric renal
      transplant program at Texas Children's Hospital. The study consists of three phases, a
      screening phase, and a treatment phase, and a crossover phase.

      Laboratory Measurements: The laboratory measurements will be performed in the CLIA approved,
      clinical laboratory at Texas Children's Hospital.

      Definition of high blood pressure: We will use the guidelines for blood pressure measurement
      that have been adapted from the Update on the Task Force Report (1987) on High Blood Pressure
      in Children and Adolescents [22]. Hypertension will be defined as >95th percentile blood
      pressure for age, height percentile (rounded to the nearest of 5th, 10th, 25th, 50th, 75th,
      90th, or 95th percentile of height above the patients actual height) and gender. Each blood
      pressure measurement will be the mean of 3 right arm readings, taken with an mercury
      sphygmomanometer at least three minutes apart with the patient sitting upright and relaxed.
      For the purposes of the study, to be defined as hypertensive, a patient will need to have
      mean systolic or diastolic blood pressure >95th percentile on three consecutive occasions, on
      separate days over at least a 1 week period. Patients with previously confirmed hypertension
      will be reconfirmed during the screening period.

      Screening phase: The screening phase will last between 1 and 2 weeks. Patients will be taught
      to use a digital blood pressure monitor with an appropriately sized cuff and be instructed to
      perform daily blood pressure measurements and keep a blood pressure log. Blood tests will be
      done to determine eligibility based on clinical laboratory parameters. Girls who are
      post-menarche will have a urine pregnancy test. Each child will undergo 24hr ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring during the screening phase. Children will collect urine for 24-hours for
      the purpose of screening urinary nitrates and bradykinin.

      Phase 1: The active phase will last six weeks and include a clinic visit on the first day of
      the phase, laboratory testing between day 4 and 7, and weekly telephone contact throughout
      the phase. Subjects will receive allopurinol or placebo. Laboratory tests will be performed 4
      to 7 days after starting the medication to screen for hepatic or bone marrow toxicity (AST,
      ALT, CBC), renal function (Cr), cyclosporin or tacrolimus level and serum uric acid. Evidence
      for toxicity, increased creatinine or unstable cyclosporin levels will lead to immediate
      discontinuation of allopurinol withdrawal from the study. The families will also be
      instructed to continue the daily blood pressure log started in the screening phase. At the
      end of the phase, prior to discontinuation of the allopurinol, children will again undergo
      24hr ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Children will repeat the 24-hour urine collection
      for the purpose of screening urinary nitrates and bradykinin.

      Washout Phase: There will be a two-week washout interval between the allopurinol and placebo
      phases.

      Crossover Phase: The crossover phase will identical in procedures to the active phase except
      that the children will be receiving allopurinol or placebo, whichever was not received in
      Phase 1.
    
  