
    
      Specific Aims Effectiveness of Physical Therapy in chronic neurologic disease; the role of
      co-morbidities and delivery of PT services.

      Despite frequent referrals of people with chronic neurologic disease to outpatient physical
      therapy (PT) services, the relative effectiveness of various types of PT delivery for this
      population is uncertain. The investigators have encouraging data to support the effectiveness
      of a customized, evidence-based agility exercise program for patient's with Parkinson's
      disease but wonder whether less expensive modes of delivery of this PT service, a group
      program or independent, home exercise program could be as effective as individualized,
      one-on-one treatment by a physical therapist. Traditional studies of exercise in patients
      with chronic neurologic disease also tend to exclude subjects with co-morbidities, so common
      in complex, degenerative diseases, especially in the elderly so the extent to which the
      presence of co-morbidities determine success of PT services is also unknown. This proposal
      will use a randomized, intervention study to evaluate three modes of PT delivery of an
      agility exercise program to improve mobility of people with longstanding PD who also have at
      least one other significant co-morbidities. This study will help determine the optimal
      referral patterns for PT services in patients with complex, chronic problems affecting
      mobility.

      Aim 1. To determine the effects of differing modes of delivery for PT services on mobility
      disability, gait and balance in people with chronic neurologic disease. The investigators
      will examine the changes in disability as well as gait and balance performance measures
      before and after 4 weeks of exercise performed 3 times per week for a 1) home exercise
      program provided by a PT, 2) group PT-led exercise program, and 3) individual program. The
      primary outcome will be the Physical Performance Test of disability. Secondary outcome
      measures will provide information about the processes underlying effectiveness: an
      instrumented Timed up and go test and PDQ-39 for perceived mobility, mood, and cognitive
      deficits. The investigators will also compare adverse events and the number of exercise
      sessions that subjects miss because of complications from the exercise program as well as
      compliance, the number of PD subjects that drop out and do not maintain the 12-session,
      exercise programs.

      Aim 2. To determine how specific PD-related and age-related co-morbidities influence
      effectiveness of different types of PT delivery. The investigators will categorize the
      co-morbidities into those directly related to PD, including mental (depression, cognition),
      balance (falls and fractures) and autonomic (orthostatic hypotension) and those related to
      aging (peripheral neuropathy, pain and muscle weakness). The investigators will determine if
      the number and type of such co-morbidities influence the outcome of each exercise program.

      This project has great clinical significance for rehabilitation of elderly people with
      chronic, complex neurologic disease. The information from this study will influence how to
      best approach physical therapy services to improve mobility in patient with complex problems
      affecting their balance and gait.
    
  