
    
      The overall goal of this work is to investigate the changes in the spinal cord resulting from
      limb amputation. Limb amputation results in an extreme form of peripheral nerve injury.
      Damage to peripheral nerves, such as with neuropathy, crush injuries, nerve transection, or
      limb amputation often results in chronic pain, which may be associated with altered
      excitability of spinal sensorimotor pathways. These spinal pathways become hyperexcitable due
      to a lack of sensory input, which causes tonic disinhibition of descending circuits and
      spontaneous activity in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Spinal excitability can be measured
      using the H-reflex, in which electrical stimulation of muscle spindle Ia afferents activates
      spinal motoneurons via the myotatic reflex, as well as the posterior root-muscle (PRM)
      reflex, which is elicited by transcutaneous stimulation over the dorsal roots and is
      considered to be half of the H-reflex, excluding the peripheral primary afferents, but with
      multiple root activation. Spinal excitability has not been measured in amputees but may offer
      a potential biomarker for PLP. Neuromodulation may restore normal spinal excitability and
      reduce PLP, thus offering the potential to improve the quality of life in individuals with a
      lower limb amputation. The results of this study will provide the foundation for future
      development of a neuroprosthesis to restore spinal excitability and reduce PLP in individuals
      with a lower limb amputation. Subjects will undergo 5 testing and stimulation sessions in 1
      week. An additional 3 days of recording sessions may be necessary if a phantom limb pain
      episode does not occur during normal testing days.

      Specific Aim 1: Quantify spinal excitability. A lack of sensory input results in spinal
      hyperexcitability through several pathways including tonic disinhibition of descending
      circuits and spontaneous activity in the DRG. Spinal cord excitability is directly related to
      reflex modulation; impaired or enhanced reflex modulation indicates abnormal spinal cord
      excitability. Spinal cord excitability will be determined in people with a lower limb
      amputation using the H-reflex and posterior root-muscle (PRM) reflex. The H-reflex is
      elicited with electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves, exciting muscle spindle Ia
      afferents projecting to spinal motoneurons via the myotatic reflex. Stimulation of the
      peripheral nerves also elicits a direct motor (M) wave. The PRM reflex is elicited by
      electrical stimulation of the posterior roots on the back. It is considered to be half of the
      H-reflex, excluding the peripheral motor efferents, but activates multiple dorsal roots.
      Reflex amplitude and latency, threshold, recruitment curves, and rate-dependent depression
      will be measured and compared to intact controls. The investigators hypothesize that H and
      PRM reflex hyperexcitability will be present in the residual limb of amputees with PLP. These
      results will provide insight into the role of limb amputation on spinal cord health and
      excitability.

      Specific Aim 2: Characterize the effects of transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation on spinal
      cord excitability and phantom limb pain.

      Neuromodulation of sensorimotor pathways using transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
      (TENS), dorsal root ganglia stimulation (DRGS), and epidural spinal cord stimulation (eSCS)
      to reduce phantom limb pain have been explored with mixed results. The most promising methods
      for pain reduction were DRGS or laterally-placed eSCS, indicating that the DRG and dorsal
      roots are optimal targets for reducing PLP. However, these methods require surgical
      implantation of electrodes. Transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation (tSCS) is a non-invasive
      method for stimulating the dorsal roots in a similar way as eSCS. Through activation of the
      primary afferents, tSCS may inhibit pain pathways and reduce the hyperexcitability that leads
      to chronic pain. tSCS in people with spinal cord injury has been shown to restore spinal
      inhibition and reduce H-reflex hyperexcitability. The investigators hypothesize that tSCS can
      reduce PLP through modulation of sensorimotor pathways. By comparing the H- and PRM reflex
      excitability recorded from the residual limb before and after each session of tSCS, a
      potential mechanism of PLP could be elucidated. H- and PRM reflex modulation, and any
      differences in the extent of modulation for each, can further inform on the mechanisms of
      tSCS and how it modulates sensorimotor pathways. The investigators will also quantify the
      subjects' experience of PLP before and after the 5 days of tSCS and correlate their pain
      experiences with spinal excitability measures. The investigators will use a visual analog
      scale and the McGill Pain Questionnaire to assess changes in pain perception. The
      investigators will also use an algometer to determine changes in local pain threshold.
    
  