
    
      Gastroenterologists without prior training in NBI from two affiliated academic hospitals will
      participate in an ex-vivo training session in which they will view a short audiovisual tool
      describing previously validated NBI criteria to determine polyp histology, followed by
      reviewing 80 videos of diminutive polyps under NBI and will record predicted polyp histology
      and degree of confidence. After each video, targeted feedback regarding actual polyp
      histology and NBI criteria supporting the diagnosis will be provided. Participants will then
      employ NBI in real-time colonoscopy (in-vivo) and record predicted polyp histology, degree of
      confidence and predicted surveillance intervals based on NBI interpretations. Each study
      polyp will be sent for histology separately. Performance will be assessed by comparing
      predicted histology with actual histology. Structured performance feedback will be given to
      promote practice-based learning, establish a real-time learning curve and determine the
      number of observations required to achieve competency in-vivo.

      The primary aim of this study was to determine whether endoscopists with no prior experience
      or training in Narrow Band Imaging can achieve the thresholds set forth by the American
      Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy: For diminutive colorectal polyp diagnoses made with
      'high-confidence,' a (1) greater than or equal to 90% negative predictive value in the
      rectosigmoid colon and a (2) greater than or equal to 90% agreement in surveillance intervals
      predicted by narrow band imaging and those based on the current gold standard of histology.

      The secondary outcomes for the in-vivo phase included (1) evaluating overall group
      performance (accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, predictive values) of optical diagnoses
      using NBI based on degree of confidence and location within the colon, (2) evaluating
      individual performance on the ASGE benchmarks, (3) determining predictors of performance, and
      (4) determining real-time learning effect in the setting of ongoing, structured performance
      feedback. The secondary outcomes for the ex-vivo (training) phase included (1) evaluating
      overall performance by degree of confidence, (2) determining predictors of performance during
      training and (3) evaluating a learning effect in the setting of ongoing feedback during
      training.

      Sample size was calculated to show an NPV of 90% or higher assuming that the true NPV is 95%
      for rectosigmoid polyps characterized with "high-confidence," based on 26 participating
      endoscopists and within-endoscopist correlation of 0.05. This will require 336 total
      rectosigmoid non-adenoma polyps characterized with "high-confidence," and assuming
      approximately 22% rectosigmoid polyps, 70% with high confidence and 80% hyperplastic, the
      study will require approximately 2,727 polyps and 1,364 colonoscopies in total, assuming
      approximately two polyps per colonoscopy.
    
  