
    
      General Approach: This study proposes to compare sublingual 0.4 mg doses of nitroglycerin to
      placebo for initial treatment for acute pain from suspected symptomatic cholelithiasis.
      Patients with right upper quadrant abdominal pain of less than 24 hour duration between ages
      18 and 60 years of age will be offered treatment with sublingual nitroglycerin or placebo.
      Patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, pronounced hypovolemia, STEMI or
      presumed cardiac chest pain, inferior myocardial infarction with right ventricular
      involvement, raised intracranial pressure, cardiac tamponade, and patients taking certain
      drugs for erectile dysfunction (phosphodiesterase inhibitors), pregnancy, or with a known
      allergy to nitroglycerin will be excluded from the study.

      2. Methods: A convenience sample of patients presenting to the Emergency Department will be
      randomized to receive either sublingual 0.4 mg doses of nitroglycerin or placebo. Pain prior
      to and at two minutes and five minutes after medication administration will be assessed using
      a visual analog scale. The medication will be either a 0.4 mg dose of nitroglycerin or a
      placebo. If pain is not completely relieved within five minutes, a second dose will be
      administered after blood pressure assessment. If the pain is not completely relieved after an
      additional two minute and five minute assessment or the pain returns, it will be treated in
      the standard manner at the discretion of the treating Emergency Physician. Ancillary studies
      and other treatments will be at the discretion of the treating physician. The 0.4mg dose of
      nitro has been proven to be a safe and well tolerated dose when administered to our patient
      population in treatment of acute coronary syndrome or suspected angina. Our attending,
      resident, and nursing staff are very familiar with this dose, the potential side effects of
      the medication, and its administration procedure. Therefore, we believe that 0.4mg will be a
      optimal starting dose for enrollees in our study.

      3. Retrovirology Research: None

      4. Investigational Drugs/Devices/Biologics Research: None

      5. Statistical Analysis: Demographic information, patient characteristics, assignment to
      experimental group, and visual analog pain scale data will be entered into a spreadsheet .
      Pain will be recorded per patients at 5 time points: 0, 2, 5, 7, and 10 minutes. Descriptive
      statistics will be presented in tables and graphs. Pain scale results will be analyzed by a
      two-way (2x5) repeated measures analysis of variance with interaction and post hoc multiple
      comparisons. The primary time pair to be tested will be the difference between treatment and
      placebo groups in pain reduction from 0 to 2 minutes. The planned sample size is 62, with 31
      in the placebo group and 31 in the nitro group. The sample size was calculated with the aid
      of Dr Riffenburgh. He agrees with sample size suggested above.

      6. Military Relevance / Operational Use, if any: Sublingual nitroglycerin is a standard AMAL
      list item for independent providers in most field and operational settings. Relief of biliary
      colic can significantly reduce the number of urgent medical evacuations for right upper
      quadrant pain. There is also no mental status degradation with the use of nitroglycerin,
      unlike the opioids commonly used to treat biliary colic.
    
  