
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved radium-223 by itself as a
      treatment option for the participant's disease.

      The FDA has not approved pembrolizumab for the participant's specific disease, but it has
      been approved for other uses, such as a type of skin cancer called melanoma.

      In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the immune response, safety and
      tolerability of the combination of pembrolizumab (a type of immunotherapy drug) plus
      radium-223. Pembrolizumab works to block the PD-1 pathway, which plays an important role in
      lessening the activity of one's immune system to fight cancer. Pembrolizumab is therefore
      referred to as a PD-1 inhibitor, and acts by stimulating the patient's T cells, which are
      important immune cells, to attack tumors and treat cancer. Radium-223 targets cancer that
      exists in the bone directly. Radium-223 binds to minerals in the bone to deliver radiation
      directly to the cancer that has spread to the bones while limiting damage to the surrounding
      body tissues. Part of this study is to look at whether the investigators may more effectively
      control the participant's prostate cancer by combining these drugs. Radium-223 may kill
      cancer cells and release proteins specific to the tumor. The participant's immune system can
      then use those proteins to teach the T cells what the cancer looks like, and identify it for
      attack. Pembrolizumab can increase the number and activity of these immune cells, building a
      T cell "army" specialized to recognize and attack the cancer. The way these two drugs work on
      the cancer and the immune system may result in better control of the tumor than just
      radium-223 alone but needs to be investigated.
    
  