
    
      EUS guided core biopsy using various needle designs and sizes, seems to be a promising
      technique to procure tissue in solid pancreatic masses for making an accurate histological
      diagnosis. EUS-guided core biopsies of pancreas may aid in patients with non-diagnostic
      EUS-FNA samples and institutions where they do not have on-site cytopathology available for
      prompt evaluation of tissue adequacy. Making an accurate diagnosis not only assists in
      planning appropriate treatment but also may decrease morbidity/mortality from unnecessary
      surgeries.

      Our goal is to evaluate and compare the diagnostic accuracy and specimen adequacy of the Cook
      Medical 25 gauge ProCore ultrasound biopsy needle and the Medtronic (Beacon) 25 gauge
      SharkCore ultrasound biopsy needle. We hypothesize the endoscopic ultrasound tissue biopsy
      will not be different in diagnostic accuracy of solid pancreatic lesions when using a 25
      gauge SharkCore ultrasound biopsy needle in comparison with the 25 gauge ProCore ultrasound
      biopsy needle.

      This is a non- inferior paired, prospective, single-blind study design in which patients
      undergoing EUS for a solid pancreatic mass. Two biopsies with each of the two endoscopic
      needles of interest in this study will be used in random order. The biopsy needle passed
      first will be randomized, after which the two needles will be alternated for each of the
      remaining biopsies. Randomization will occur in permuted blocks of 3. Physician will record
      the ease/ difficulty of obtaining each of the 4 biopsies on a scale of 1 to 5. Also, they
      record the needle visibility on ultrasound. The biopsy site will be examined for evidence of
      bleeding. Biopsies will be sent to the pathology laboratory in a blinded fashion in coded
      containers, where pathologist determine the number of adequate biopsies out of two passes of
      each needle.The pathologist will also provide a scale of perceived diagnostic usefulness of
      material in a blinded fashion. Post procedure care will including a letter to referring
      physician with recommendations for treatment and follow up.

      This study include 30 patients referred to Hershey Medical Center.
    
  