
    
      Myopia is the most prevalent ocular disorder in children worldwide, and one of the major
      causes of visual deterioration in all age groups. Highest prevalence rates are in East Asian
      countries (affecting up to 83% of Singaporean teenagers), however, it is very common in all
      other countries. While mild to moderate myopia usually stabilizes within the third decade,
      pathological myopia is associated with progressive globe elongation, and development of
      various macular complications including; foveoschisis, choroidal neovascularization (CNV),
      myopic macular hole, and myopic vitreomacular traction (VMT).

      Refractive surgery has become popular for correcting ametropia including myopia. Most
      commonly used refractive procedures include corneal refractive surgeries especially laser
      in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK), and Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), Phakic Intraocular
      Lenses (Phakic IOLs) and refractive lens exchange.

      In LASIK, the creation of a corneal lamellar flap requires placement of a suction ring on the
      anterior segment of the eye, which transiently elevates the intraocular pressure (IOP) to
      levels exceeding 65 mmHg. Experimental studies in animal eyes have found that the IOP can
      increase to between 80 mmHg and 360 mmHg during this vacuum phase and lamellar cut with the
      microkeratome. Recent advances utilizing the femtosecond laser may serve as an alternative to
      the mechanical microkeratome, with a low-pressure suction ring. In studies using porcine
      eyes, the IOP during the suctioning or laser application phase reached a maximum of 135 mmHg
      using the femtosecond laser, lower than pressures reached with a traditional microkeratome,
      but for a longer duration of time. Similarly in refractive lens procedures, intraoperative
      IOP was found to exceed 60 mmHg.

      Intraocular pressure elevation during refractive procedures may cause a reduction in the
      perfusion of the retina and optic nerve head, posterior displacement of the lamina cribrosa,
      and a decline in ocular perfusion pressure of the posterior ciliary arteries. Although this
      IOP elevation is temporary, the potential for ischemic or pressure-induced damage to the
      optic nerve head and the retinal nerve fiber layer exists.

      Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) is a recent noninvasive imaging technique
      that allows for volumetric visualization of eye vasculature. OCTA has shown promise in better
      elucidating the pathophysiology of several retinal vascular diseases. Swept-source OCTA uses
      long wavelength ̰ 1,050nm, which can penetrate through deeper layers of the eye and can
      traverse opacities of media such as cataracts, hemorrhages and vitreous opacities [6].
      Optical coherence tomographic angiograms can further be manually or automatically segmented
      with preprogrammed software to highlight individual layers of the retina, optic nerve head
      choriocapillaris, and choroid. The user can either analyze en face images extending from the
      inner limiting membrane to choroid or use automated views to locate a vascular or structural
      lesion within the retina.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the change of macular and papillary perfusion, using
      optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) imaging of the macula and optic disc of
      myopic patients subject to various refractive surgery methods. We will compare between these
      methods to evaluate which one is associated with least adverse effect on ocular perfusion. To
      date no such evaluation has been done using OCTA, because of relatively recent onset of this
      technology. Traditional imaging methods such as color fundus photography and fluorescein
      angiography have limited resolution for retinal vasculature that mad such evaluation in the
      past using these methods not feasible, however, OCTA is very promising for the proper
      analysis of changes in the ocular perfusion. Results of this study will have significant
      clinical and practical implications and may change the approach for surgical correction of
      such patients.
    
  