
    
      An imaging modality that allows for fast, simultaneous, noninvasive probing of both 3D
      cellular resolution retinal morphology by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and
      molecular-specific functions by autofluorescence (AF) could substantially improve both basic
      understanding and the early diagnosis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading
      cause of blindness in the developed world. The evaluation and management of AMD utilize
      several investigation modalities, but advancements in OCT technology have significantly
      contributed to better understanding of the disease, and have helped with monitoring
      progression and therapeutic efficacy. However, due to optical aberrations of the eye, the
      transverse resolution of conventional OCT is generally limited to 10-15 µm, restricting its
      use to visualize individual retinal cells in vivo. The integration of adaptive optics (AO)
      into OCT has demonstrated an immense success in mitigating these aberrations. Among various
      AO-OCT techniques, computation-based AO (CAO) becomes the spotlight of research because it
      shows unique advantages in data postprocessing flexibility and a reduced system cost.
      However, CAO is extremely sensitive to phase stability. The rapid motion of the eye can
      easily scramble the phase of reflected photons, restricting imaging to a single en-face
      layer.

      To overcome this problem, the study team will integrate a snapshot hyperspectral imaging
      method, Image Mapping Spectrometry (IMS), with full-field spectral-domain OCT. The integrated
      system will first enable 3D CAO imaging of the retina because the single camera exposure (4
      s),is too fast for eye movement to scramble phase between layers. Next, to improve resolution
      in 3D, the study team will adapt an established CAO algorithm to correct for wavefront
      aberrations. The resultant method, which the study team terms snapshot ultra-high-resolution
      OCT, will allow an acquisition of a quarter million A-scans simultaneously. Given a typical
      flash illumination duration (4us), the equivalent A-scan rate is 62.5 GHz, which is
      approximately three orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art methods.
      Furthermore, to expand the system's functionality to molecular imaging, the study team will
      add a second IMS imaging channel for simultaneous hyperspectral imaging of retinal pigment
      epithelium (RPE) AF, enabling spectral biopsy of RPE and subRPE lesions such as drusen, the
      hallmark lesion of early AMD. The resultant dual-channel AO-OCT/AF system will be the first
      imaging modality that can provide both structural and molecular information about the retina
      in vivo and in 3D. The study team envisions such a system would shift the landscape of AMD
      evaluation and management. The insights so obtained will be of high value in clinical
      diagnosis and treatment. In addition, such a system will accelerate translational research
      with sensitive and early outcome testing of prospective therapeutic agents, saving sight and
      thereby providing enormous benefit to society.
    
  