
    
      Postoperative pain is an important issue in patients underwent mastectomy and axillary
      dissection surgery. Postoperative effective pain treatment provides early mobilization and
      shorter hospital stay, thus complications due to hospitalization such as infection and
      thromboembolism may be reduced.

      Various methods may be performed to reduce the use of systemic opioids and for effective pain
      treatment following mastectomy and axillary dissection surgery. Ultrasound (US)-guided
      interfascial plane blocks have been used increasingly due to the advantages of ultrasound in
      anesthesia practice. The US-guided pectoral nerve block (PECS) may be used for postoperative
      pain treatment following breast surgery. It is a novel interfascial block that was defined by
      Blanco. It is easy to perform; under ultrasound (US) guidance, the interfascial region
      between the pectoral muscles (pectoralis major (PMm) and minor (Pmm), serratus anterior Sam)
      is injected with local anaesthetics. It has been reported that PECS type-2 block provides
      effective analgesia management for mastectomy and axillary dissection surgeries.

      Rhomboid intercostal block (RIB) is a novel block and was first described by Elsharkawy et
      al. Local anesthetic solution is administrated between the rhomboid muscle and intercostal
      muscles over the T5-6 ribs 2-3 cm medially of the medial border of the scapula. RIB targets
      both the posterior rami and lateral cutaneous branches of the thoracic nerves and provides
      analgesia for the hemithorax from T2 to T9. It has been reported that RIB may provide
      effective analgesia management for several breast surgeries.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the US-guided PECS-II and RIB for
      postoperative analgesia management compare to no intervention control group after mastectomy
      and axillary dissection surgery. The primary aim is to compare postoperative opioid
      consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate postoperative pain scores (VAS), adverse
      effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  