
    
      Long term dopaminergic treatment of RLS produces an exacerbation of RLS symptoms worse than
      before treatment for a significant percentage (5 - 70%) of those treated. This appears to be
      related to half-life, dose and duration of treatment. Shorter half-life medications appear to
      produce more augmentation. Once started augmentation appears to be progressive in many of the
      patients with the end result that the patient has much more severe RLS symptoms than before
      treatment. These symptoms can still be temporarily reduced by adding more dopaminergic
      treatment, but eventually this fails to suffice even with very high dopaminergic doses. The
      problem is finding a way to detect augmentation early during dopamine treatment both to
      determine the true rate of occurrence of this problem and to change treatment strategies
      before the problem becomes severe.

      The suggested immobilization test creates the stimulus situation of protracted rest while
      lying down that provokes RLS symptoms. It provides a sensitive test for the severity of the
      symptom.. It should therefore provide an early detection of any exacerbation of symptoms such
      as that occurring with RLS augmentation.

      In addition diphenhydramine also creates an exacerbation of RLS symptoms. This exacerbation
      would amplify the current severity of the RLS and as such could provide a tool for enhancing
      the degree of augmentation. Thus testing with a diphenhydramine challenge dose before the SIT
      test could provide an even more sensitive measure of augmentation

      The investigators specifically hypothesize:

        1. The objective measures from the SIT test will reveal an increase in severity of RLS that
           occurs with RLS augmentation at the same time or before the augmentation is detected by
           the usual subjective clinical assessments.

        2. An oral dose of 25 mg of diphenhydramine taken 45 minutes before a SIT test will amplify
           the augmentation effects shown on the objective measures of the SIT. This will provide
           an enhanced detection of augmentation before or at the same time as that detected by
           either the SIT test alone or the clinical evaluation.

      This study may for the first time provide a standard highly repeatable objective measure of
      RLS augmentation that is as or more sensitive as a very careful clinical evaluation by
      someone well trained in detecting RLS augmentation. As such it would prove clinically useful
      to evaluate RLS treatment progress. It would also provide an efficient method for evaluating
      the augmentation potential of new medications for RLS. .
    
  