
    
      Background:

      The purpose of this study is to improve the quality of VA diabetes care using an automated
      telephone disease management (ATDM) system that administers patient assessments and targeted
      self-care education between clinic visits.

      Objectives:

      In this ongoing study, we are determining: 1) the reliability and validity of Automated
      Telephone Disease Management (ATDM) assessments of patients' glycemic control, health-related
      quality of life (HRQL), self-care, and satisfaction with care; 2) the extent to which these
      assessments identify patients at risk for poor outcomes; and 3) the cost-effectiveness of an
      intervention in which ATDM assessment reports are provided regularly to patients' primary
      care providers.

      Methods:

      We are refining and expanding previously-developed ATDM assessment instruments by
      incorporating measures of patient-centered outcomes. We are enrolling 450 patients from VISN
      12 and VISN 21. Patients receive weekly ATDM assessments for six months. Other data on their
      health status and service use are being collected from medical records, laboratory tests,
      telephone surveys, and Austin Automation Center files. After determining the concurrent
      reliability, validity, and prognostic significance of the ATDM assessments, we will examine
      variation in ATDM-reported outcomes across Networks, facilities, and patient groups. In the
      second phase of the study, we will conduct an effectiveness trial with a one year follow up
      period. We will use the findings from our process evaluation to modify the ATDM assessments
      and design provider feedback reports. We will enroll 240 patients from the two Networks
      (i.e., 480 patients overall). Patients will be assigned to experimental or usual care control
      groups using a combination of randomization and cutoff-based assignment. We will measure the
      intervention's impact on patients' glycemic control, symptoms, self-care, and
      patient-centered outcomes. We will use VA costing database and Medicare claims files to
      evaluate cost-effectiveness.

      Status:

      Analyses of ATDM assessment data suggest that this method is feasible with VA diabetes
      patients and provides comparable data regarding patients' satisfaction with care and
      functioning to telephone surveys. Other analysis suggest that VA interpersonal processes of
      care and rates of cost-related medication adherence problems are as good or better than that
      experienced by patients with comparable characteristics treated in other systems of care.
    
  