
    
      Background: Chest pain is a key symptom of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), but can also
      represent other cardiac and non-cardiac diseases. Rapid identification of ACS in terms of
      'rule-in' or 'rule-out' is essential in order to minimize treatment delay and time to
      discharge. In the absence of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) at initial
      ACS evaluation, the European Society of Cardiology guidelines recommend repeated measurements
      of high-sensitive cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) at presentation (0h) and 3 hours (3h) after
      presentation to rule-in and rule-out myocardial infarction (MI). An accelerated algorithm for
      ruling-in and ruling-out MI after 1h (0h/1h algorithm) has recently been suggested by the
      European Society of Cardiology as a valid alternative to the standard approach. The novel
      0h/1h algorithm has only been validated for certain hs-cTn assays. However, routine use of
      the 0h/1h algorithm is still not widely implemented, as further data on algorithm performance
      are warranted.

      A study of patients undergoing transcoronary ablation of septal hypertrophy, a clinical model
      of MI, shows that troponin concentrations measured by a hs-cTn assay significantly increase
      already after 15 minutes. This indicates that it may be possible to evaluate troponin
      dynamics even earlier than suggested by the 0h/1h algorithm. So far, no large-scale studies
      have included measurements of hs-cTn at 30m, and no 0h/30m algorithm has been derived.
      Therefore it is unknown if rule-in and rule-out of MI can be done safely using a 0h/30m
      algorithm.

      Aim: To investigate if a high-sensitive Troponin Assay can rule-in or rule-out MI, when using
      a 0h/30m and a 0h/1h algorithm.

      Patients and methods: This prospective cohort study will include patients presenting to the
      Emergency Department with chest pain suggestive of ACS. The study is designed to enroll 1.000
      patients with complete blood samples (0h, 30m, 1h and 3h).

      The expected incidence of MI in our population is inevitably low due to pre-hospital
      risk-stratification based on point-of-care troponin and electrocardiogram evaluation in the
      ambulance. Thus, patients with a very high pre-test probability of MI will be admitted to
      tertiary care centers with cardiac catheterization facilities rather than a regional hospital
      as in present study. Pilot study calculations estimate an expected prevalence of MI in our
      study cohort of approximately 7.4%. Assuming a negative predictive value of 99.7% in the
      rule-out group, a distribution with 7% patients in the rule-in group and 20% assigned to the
      observational zone (patients who can't be stratified to either the rule-out or the rule-in
      group), enrolment of at least 500 patients for derivation of the algorithms and at least 500
      for the validation of the respective algorithms will provide an acceptable lower boundary of
      98.2% of the two-sided 95% confidence interval.

      All patients aged ≥18 years referred to the emergency department at Randers Regional
      Hospital, Randers, Denmark with chest pain and admitted on the suspicion of ACS will be
      eligible for the study. Patients will be recruited after initial contact with an emergency
      department nurse when results of an electrocardiogram as well as vital sign parameters (blood
      pressure, heart rate, peripheral oxygen saturation, respiratory rate and temperature) are
      available. Patients <18 years of age, with STEMI at admission, in dialysis treatment or
      pregnant will be excluded.

      The study is conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Oral and written
      consent will be obtained. Patients will be asked for informed consent to have information
      passed on from the electronic patient journal regarding gender, age, medicine, previous MI
      and co-morbidity for use in this study only. Patients declining to participate will receive
      standard treatment.

      Serial blood samples will be drawn at 0h (admission), 30m, 1h and 3h. The blood samples will
      be analyzed using high-sensitive troponin assays. Additional blood will be stored for each
      time point to establish a research biobank. Troponin values and troponin dynamics will be
      paired with final diagnosis for each patient. Two independent physicians will adjudicate the
      patients' final diagnosis based on data from the electronic patient journal (including
      physical examination, patient history, laboratory results, electrocardiogram, and other
      examinations). In cases of disagreement, a consensus decision will be reached after a case
      review. The treating physician will be blinded to test results at 30m and 1h, with the final
      therapeutic decision being left to the discretion of the attending physician and relying on
      troponin measurements at 0h and 3h only. All patients will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire on, e.g., time of chest pain onset and peak, chest pain characteristics
      (localization, radiation, sensation), additional symptoms at presentation (diaphoresis,
      nausea, abdominal pain, syncope, dyspnoea, palpitations), height and weight, smoking status
      and family history of coronary artery disease.

      Significance: This study challenges existing time limits for ACS evaluation by investigating
      the diagnostic value of hs-cTnI measurements at 30m. If our study shows that rule-out of MI
      can be performed safely at 30m, ACS evaluation can potentially be accelerated even further.
      Furthermore, our study will provide data on the performance of the 0h/1h algorithm in a
      Danish patient cohort. If this study demonstrates that the 0h/1h diagnostic algorithm can be
      used to safely rule-out MI in a patient cohort with a different risk profile, it can
      contribute to the acceptance of novel accelerated diagnostic approaches and favor global
      implementation of the 0h/1h algorithm.
    
  