
    
      It has been shown with 'in vitro' studies that LF is able to prevent the entry of SARS-CoV-2
      into the of the host cells.

      Overall, the available evidence suggests that LF may be a therapeutic option that can be used
      to counteract and reduce the severity of Covid 19 infection. The study hase been designed in
      order to demonstrate efficacy of Lactoferrin in vivo.

      Patients who will be admitted by Participating Centers for Covid-19 Infection will be
      screened for eligibility for study . If considered eligible, they will be offered
      participation in the Study, and it will be proposed and informed consent will be explained.
      Eligible patients will be registered in a centralized database at the IT systems of the
      University of Piedmont Orientale (UPO)/Hospital-University Company "Maggiore della Carità" of
      Novara. The pseudo-anonymized patient data will be recorded by the clinical centre in an 'ad
      hoc' Clinical Report Form with web-based access.

      After obtaining informed consent, patients will then be randomised to LF or placebo group
      allocation using previous randomization lists Prepared. Randomization will take place on a
      competitive and balanced basis per clinical center participant. Permuted block randomization
      of size 4 will be implemented with an allocation ratio of 1:1 to ensure the balance between
      the groups of treatment. The randomization list will be managed through a REDCap
      randomization module.

      The Hospital Pharmacy of the Participating Center, not involved in the enlistment of
      patients, will prepare a numbered sequence of sealed envelopes containing the code of
      allocation, and will keep its list that will remain inaccessible to the professionals
      involved in recruitment.These sealed envelopes will be opened sequentially, at the time of
      randomization.

      The maintenance of the blind person will be guaranteed by keeping the staff randomization
      lists, i.e. the staff of the Hospital Pharmacy, on the one hand (staff who will also manage
      and deliver to the investigators the products being studied, which will look the same), and
      the randomizing and experimenting medical staff, on the other.

      The logistical location of the two staff will also be completely separated, in sectors of the
      Hospital different and distant from each other, and not communicating in any way.

      It should be pointed out that the patient enrolled by the clinical centers on the basis of
      the selection criteria can start standard-of-care therapy, in any case, before the
      randomization procedure being the identical basic therapeutic regimen in the two study arms.

      For the calculation of the sample size required to demonstrate the primary endpoint, it was
      used a model built on historical data regarding the same endpoint. Pre-trial data from the
      two Participating Centres estimate the need for ICU admission at 25%; the need for mechanical
      ventilation in 30%; hospital mortality in 15%; the average duration hospitalization in 16
      days.

      The sample size was determined considering a two-sided t-test for two independent samples
      according to the following parameters:

        1. A correct alpha level of 0.025 for two Bonferroni-method endpoints (Alpha
           total=0.025x2=0.05)

        2. A total power of 0.8

        3. A Cohen h effect size of 0.44 (corresponding to an effect standardized medium/small
           [Cohen 1977]), i.e. with a 14-day resignation rate of 60% for controls and 80% for
           treaties.

      In this scenario, the size of the study achieved consists of 97 patients per arm of study.
      Calculations were performed using the R 3.6.1 software [Core Team 2015] and the pwr package
      [Champely 2018]. references:

        -  Cohen, J. Statistical power analysis for the behavioral sciences (rev.ed.1977).

        -  Core Team R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing; R Foundation for
           Statistical Computing: Vienna, Austria, 2015;

        -  Champely, S.; Ekstrom, C.; Dalgaard, P.; Gill, J.; Weibelzahl, S.; Anandkumar, A.;Ford,
           C.; Volcic, R.; De Rosario, H.; De Rosario, M.H. Package 'pwr.' R package version 2018,
           1-2.
    
  