
    
      The "Wrocław Walk Again" project is a continuation of the innovative experimental therapy
      involving reconstruction of patient's severed spinal cords, using their own olfactory glial
      cells from the olfactory bulb as well as implants from peripheral nerves. The first operation
      of its kind was performed in 2012. The reconstruction of the cord was a success: the patient
      regained partial feeling and volitional mobility in paralysed limbs (Cell Transplantation,
      Vol. 23, pp. 1631-1655, 2014). The experiment's success provided inspiration to continue with
      the project in order to assess the safety and effectiveness of the therapy applied. The
      continuation involves planning to qualify two patients with traumatic spinal cord injury, who
      will then be given treatment and physiotherapy. The programme will be conducted in Wroclaw,
      Poland, by an interdisciplinary team of doctors and scientists. The Nicholls Spinal Injury
      Foundation (UK) will be making a significant contribution to the project. Due to this,
      participants will not need to pay for their experimental treatment or physiotherapy.

      The main goal of the study is to answer the question if there is possible to evoke functional
      regeneration of severed spinal cord axons after a two-stage surgical intervention in patients
      sustaining a complete spinal cord transection between the spinal cord segments C5 and Th10.
      Patients with clinically, electrophysiologically and radiologically features of complete
      spinal cord injury will undergo an 8-month neurorehabilitation regimen. Patients who will not
      show electrophysiological and clinical signs of recovery from the spinal cord injury will
      enter the surgical part of the study.

      During the first surgery the patient's own olfactory bulb will be obtained. The human
      autologous olfactory ensheathing glia and olfactory fibroblast isolated from the olfactory
      bulb will be used for production of Glial Neuropatch in a laboratory facility in accordance
      with good manufacture procedures (GMP). The final Product will consist of the aforementioned
      cell suspension embedded with collagen scaffold. The European Medicines Agency/Committee for
      Advanced Therapies (EMA/CAT) considers that the Product Glial Neuropatch falls within the
      definition of a tissue engineered product of an advanced therapy medicinal product (decision
      EMA/CAT/293903/2018 from 22 June 2018: Scientific recommendation on classification of
      advanced therapy medicinal products Article 17 - Regulation (EC) No 1394/2007).

      The second surgery will consist of laminectomy/laminotomy, midline durotomy above the area of
      spinal cord lesion, detethering of the spinal cord from fibrous adhesions, resection of the
      posttraumatic spinal cord glial scar, delivering of cultured OEC/ONFs explants (Glial
      Neuropatch) to the area of spinal cord injury and finally bridging of the spinal cord gap by
      harvested autologous sural nerve grafts.

      After discharge from the hospital, the patients will be subjected to a minimum 2-year
      neurorehabilitation in accordance with the same program as before the operation.
    
  