
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cancer type worldwide, with more than 1.1 million annual
      deaths. There are two types of the disease, namely non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and
      small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), with the first accounting for 85% of the total number of
      cases. The 5-year survival across stages remains disappointingly low, around 10% in most
      countries, due to a high incidence of both loco-regional and distant failure [3]. However,
      during the last decade improved radiotherapy techniques allowed an increase of the radiation
      dose, while at the same time more effective chemo radiation schemes are being applied. These
      developments have lead to improved outcome in terms of survival. As the TNM staging system is
      highly inaccurate for the prediction of survival outcome for non-surgical patients, attempts
      have been made to develop a more accurate risk stratification for these patients [1,2]. A
      model based on clinical variables yielded an AUC of 0.74, which was encouraging, but also
      left room for improvement [2]. An extended model, which included clinical as well as
      biomarker variables, reached a higher AUC, but the limited number of patients included in
      this study made it impossible to draw definitive conclusions [1].

      New prognostic parameters can be retrieved from several sources, which include anatomic,
      molecular and functional imaging, genomics, proteomics and clinical analysis of patients. The
      unlimited amount of information is expected to lead to more accurate predictions of
      individual treatment outcome [4].

      The analysis of biomarkers, including proteins, is a fast developing, promising and
      challenging area of research. Biomarkers can measure or evaluate normal biological processes,
      pathogenic processes, or pharmacological responses to a therapeutic intervention.
      Oncoproteins are produced by, or in response to tumor cells, and may be secreted in the
      circulation of patients. As tissue sampling is often not possible in lung cancer patients,
      blood sample collection by venepuncture offers an attractive alternative, which is safe and
      easy to implement. A number of studies described the prognostic and predictive value of blood
      biomarkers for NSCLC [5-7]. In this study we will investigate the prognostic value of blood
      biomarkers related to 1) hypoxia: Osteopontin (OPN), carbonic anhydrase IX (CA-9), and
      lactate dehydrogenase (LDH); 2) inflammation - interleukin 6 (IL-6), IL-8, and C-reactive
      protein (CRP), and α-2-macroglobulin (α-2M); and 3) tumor load: Carcinoembryonic antigen
      (CEA) and cytokeratin fragment (CYFRA 21-1).

        1. Dehing-Oberije C, Aerts H, Yu S, De Ruysscher D, Menheere P, Hilvo M, et al. Development
           and validation of a prognostic model using blood biomarker information for prediction of
           survival of non-small-cell lung cancer patients treated with combined chemotherapy and
           radiation or radiotherapy alone (NCT00181519, NCT00573040, and NCT00572325). Int J
           Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2011 Oct 1;81(2):360-368.

        2. Dehing-Oberije C, Yu S, De Ruysscher D, Meersschout S, Van Beek K, Lievens Y, et al.
           Development and external validation of prognostic model for 2-year survival of
           non-small-cell lung cancer patients treated with chemoradiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol
           Biol Phys. 2009 Jun 1;74(2):355-362.

        3. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Müller-Hermelink HK, Harris CC. World Health Organization
           Classification of Tumours: Pathology and Genetics of Tumours of the Lung, Pleura, Thymus
           and Heart. Paul Kleihues MD, Leslie H. Sobin MD, editors. Lyon, France: IARC Press,
           International Agency for Research on Cancer; 2004.

        4. Lambin P, Rios-Velazquez E, Leijenaar R, Carvalho S, van Stiphout RG, Granton P, et al.
           Radiomics: extracting more information from medical images using advanced feature
           analysis. Eur J Cancer. 2012 Mar;48(4):441-446.

        5. Donati V, Boldrini L, Dell'Omodarme M, Prati MC, Faviana P, Camacci T, et al.
           Osteopontin expression and prognostic significance in non-small cell lung cancer. Clin
           Cancer Res. 2005 Sep 15;11(18):6459-6465.

        6. Muley T, Fetz TH, Dienemann H, Hoffmann H, Herth FJ, Meister M, et al. Tumor volume and
           tumor marker index based on CYFRA 21-1 and CEA are strong prognostic factors in operated
           early stage NSCLC. Lung Cancer. 2008 Jun;60(3):408-415.

        7. Pine SR, Mechanic LE, Enewold L, Chaturvedi AK, Katki HA, Zheng YL, et al. Increased
           levels of circulating interleukin 6, interleukin 8, C-reactive protein, and risk of lung
           cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Jul 20;103(14):1112-1122.

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        -  Higher levels of blood biomarkers are associated with worse survival

        -  The biomarker information will improve the performance of prediction models, that were
           previously developed and validated [1, 2]

        -  Subgroups of patients can be identified that benefit most in terms of a more accurate
           prediction of survival when using biomarker information

      Measurement procedure: Blood samples, that were collected, processed and stored in the
      Maastro biobank in a standardized way, will be used to measure CRP, LDH, Osteopontin, CA-9
      IL-6, IL-8, CEA, CYFRA 21-1, and α-2M. Clinical data will be retrieved from the electronic
      medical files.
    
  