
    
      In the present study, our aim is to translate, culturally adapt and validate four used scales
      for use in patients with bipolar disorder. The four scales are:

        1. The Medical Adherence Scale (MARS), used to assess beliefs and barriers to medication
           adherence. The scale has 10-items, a total scores on the MARS may range between 0 and
           10, with a higher score indicating better medication adherence.

        2. Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness Inventory - 9-item Version (ISMI-9) used to assess
           self-stigma. The scale consists of nine questions evaluated on a four-point Likert scale
           from 1 (strongly agree) to 4 (strongly disagree). The resulting score should range from
           1 to 4. A score ranging between 1.00-2.50: does not report high internalized stigma vs.
           a score ranging between 2.51-4.00: indicating high internalized stigma

        3. The Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) is a clinical interview scale to assess the severity
           of manic states and has 11-items.

        4. The Mood Disorder Questionnaire, is a self-reported screening instrument used for
           identifying persons likely to have bipolar disorder. The instrument comprising a list of
           13 hypomanic symptoms.

      The translation and adaptation process:

      One a nonprofessional translator, bilingual and knowledgeable about mental health care. The
      second is a translator with no particular knowledge about mental health healthcare. Following
      the forward translations, a meeting will be held to generate an agreed version. Next, two
      professional, bilingual, native English speakers back-translated the synthesized version to
      English. After that, an expert meeting will be held with all translators and five clinicians.
      Item by item, all versions, and back translations will be discussed to agree on an optimal
      pre-version for semantic and conceptual equivalence between the original English and the
      Kinyarwanda version. After that, the tools will be validated among 500 participants.
    
  