
    
      Nausea and vomiting in the perioperative period are common sequelae during abdominal
      operations, with variable rates up to 80%, as reported in the literature. Perioperative
      nausea and vomiting associated with pregnancy originate from multiple factors. Pregnancy
      hormones induced lowering of the lower oesophageal sphincter tone, elevated gastric pressure
      by the effect of gravid uterus, hypotension, manipulation of the uterus during the operation
      that leads to visceral stimulation, and the use of opioids; which represent some of the
      proposed causative factors .

      There is a lack of cost-effectiveness and consensus about prophylactic antiemetic use before
      abdominal surgeries. However, there is enough data reported in the literature that suggests
      the prophylactic use of antiemetic therapy for patients undergoing cesarean section (CS)
      under either general or regional anesthesia and as rescue medication for the treatment of
      episodes of intraoperative and postoperative nausea and vomiting.

      Metoclopramide studied intensively as one of the best premedications in patients undergoing
      abdominal surgeries, especially in the obstetric population. It has a favorable effect on
      reducing the gastric fluid volume during the operation and consequently decreasing the
      incidence of aspiration pneumonia .

      Granisetron is a selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with little or no affinity for other
      serotonin receptors is classified as drug group B in pregnant patients and approved by the
      FDA (Food and Drug Administration) for the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting in
      adults . 5-HT3 receptor antagonists exert appropriate clinical efficacy and low incidence of
      adverse drug reactions. In comparison with ondansetron, granisetron is a more potent
      antagonist with a longer duration of action .

      Different methods such as paracetamol absorption, polyethylene glycol dilution (PEG), and
      electric impedance tomography (EIT) suggested as methods for visualizing the structure,
      volume, and time to the emptying of the stomach. Gastric scintigraphy remains the gold
      standard for such detections . However, scintigraphy is discouraged in routine clinical
      settings and pregnant patients owing to the risk of radiation exposure, low
      cost-effectiveness, and intricate instrumental setups.

      Gastric ultrasonography (GUS) has emerged as an accessible, cost-effective, safe, and
      portable diagnostic modality for visualizing the gastric morphology. Different studies
      suggest that gastric contents and volume measured through GUS significantly correlated to the
      cross-sectional antral area. As a result, the reliability and reproducibility of bedside GUS
      cannot be challenged.
    
  