
    
      For patients with severe pancreatitis refractory to medical and endoscopic therapy, total
      pancreatectomy (TP) with islet autotransplantation (IAT) may be considered. While 90% of
      TPIAT recipients have some function of the transplanted islet graft, only about 1/3rd come
      completely off insulin. The long-term goal of the proposed research is to develop new
      therapies that will increase the number of patients who are non-diabetic following islet
      autotransplant. Such therapies may also benefit recipients of islet allotransplant for type 1
      diabetes.

      Following islet transplantation, the islets must acutely survive the stress of the procedure,
      and then they must engraft in the liver and establish a vascular supply. The greater the
      functional islet mass engrafted, the lower the risk of post-operative diabetes. It has been
      estimated that more than half of the islet mass may be lost in the early post-transplant
      period in islet transplant recipients. Beta cell apoptosis is common during the first month
      post-transplant and is upregulated in the presence of inflammatory cytokines such as
      TNF-alpha. Thus, a major contributor to islet loss is the inflammatory damage sustained by
      the transplanted islets in the early post-transplant period; we propose to directly target
      this destructive process.

      Two promising anti-inflammatory therapies are available to address this problem: (1) the
      TNF-alpha inhibitor etanercept and (2) the serine protease inhibitor alpha-1 antitrypsin.
      Both agents are commercially available for clinical trials. Proof-of-principle for etanercept
      has been demonstrated in type 1 diabetic allotransplant recipients, in whom a 10 day course
      of etanercept early post-transplant significantly improved long-term insulin independence,
      due to better survival of the transplanted beta cell mass in the engraftment period. Alpha-1
      antitrypsin (A1AT) reduces inflammatory cytokines, protects against cytokine-induced beta
      cell apoptosis, and prolongs islet graft survival in mice and intraportal IAT non-human
      primates.

      This initial 3-arm drug-treatment clinical trial will investigate the use of Etanercept and
      A1AT to improve IAT function at 90 days and 1 and 2 years post-TPIAT compared to standard
      care. Forty-five patients undergoing TPIAT will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive either: 1)
      etanercept (50 mg on day 0; 25 mg on days 3, 7, 10, 14, and 21), 2) alpha-1 antitrypsin (90
      mg/kg IV days -1, +3, 7, 14, 21, 28) or 3) standard care. Patients will have mechanistic
      assessments drawn in the early post-operative period including inflammatory cytokines and
      chemokines and measures of beta cell loss. Metabolic testing will occur at 90, 365, and 730
      days post-TPIAT, including mixed meal tolerance testing, IV glucose tolerance testing, and
      glucose-potentiated arginine-induced insulin secretion (GPAIS). The latter measures the
      maximally stimulated acute C-peptide response (ACRmax) as the best estimate of islet mass and
      the primary endpoint (at day 90) for this study. Results will be used to select the most
      promising agent for future study in a randomized, blinded multi-center clinical trial.
    
  