
    
      PATIENT POPULATION:

      All patients with CML in any phase of the disease (chronic, accelerated or blast phase) that
      has received treatment with any tyrosine kinase inhibitor (eg, imatinib, dasatinib,
      nilotinib) regardless of prior treatment history that has had at least one clinic visit at
      MDACC will be eligible.

      STUDY PLAN:

      The following information will be collected:

        -  Demographic information including age, gender, ethnicity, education, and work history.

        -  All laboratory values obtained at MDACC or other institutions, including CBC, blood
           chemistries, electrolytes, bone marrow aspirations and biopsies, cytogenetic analyses,
           mutation analysis, FISH, and PCR, and other tests obtained during regular care of these
           patients.

        -  Treatment history including starting and stopping dates, doses, treatment interruptions,
           dose changes and reasons for dose modifications.

        -  Information about toxicity including type, grade, dates of onset and resolution,
           interventions to manage toxicity, and sequelae.

        -  Information regarding pregnancy or conception during imatinib therapy for both male and
           female patients, including dates of pregnancy, outcome of pregnancy, interventions
           during pregnancy, management of CML during pregnancy, complications during pregnancy,
           status of the product, condition of the born child, and information on lactation.

        -  This information will be reviewed from the documents received as part of the routine
           communication with the local oncologist or from the studies obtained at MDACC.

        -  There will be no treatment changes or recommendations as a result of this study. This
           study will be strictly limited to review of charts. Patients will continue their
           treatment as recommended by their local oncologist and treating physician at MDACC.

        -  These results will be compared to similar patients treated with imatinib in the context
           of clinical trials both from published literature and from other studies conducted at
           MDACC. The efficacy, safety and prognostic markers will be compared.

        -  We will review data from July 1, 1998 to August 1, 2019.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      Approximately 3000 charts will be reviewed.
    
  