
    
      Insomnia is common in adults with chronic heart failure (HF), a condition associated with
      functional performance deficits, symptom burden, and high levels of morbidity and mortality.
      To date there has been little study of strategies to improve sleep in this large population.
      Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is an effective treatment for insomnia
      comorbid with several medical and psychiatric disorders, but has not been tested in HF. The
      purpose of this exploratory developmental research is to test the feasibility, acceptability,
      and size of the effects of CBT-I on subjective and objective characteristics of sleep and
      insomnia symptoms and functional performance in patients with stable HF. Forty patients with
      stable HF will be randomized to 7 weeks of CBT-I or 7-weeks of HF self-management education
      with sleep hygiene (attention control). Subjective (diaries, questionnaires) and objective
      (wrist actigraphy) characteristics of sleep; symptoms, and self-reported functional
      performance will be measured pre- and post-intervention. The investigators will also obtain
      day and night measures of urinary free cortisol, free epinephrine/norepinephrine, and
      melatonin sulfate. They will: 1) refine the protocol, procedures, patient materials, and
      training manual for the CBT-I intervention and a group HF self-management class
      (attention-control); 2) evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the CBT-I intervention
      and the attention-control conditions; 3) evaluate the size of the effects of group CBT-I,
      compared with attention-control, on objective (actigraph) and subjective (questionnaire and
      sleep diary) sleep characteristics, self-report of insomnia symptoms, and beliefs and
      attitudes about sleep; and 4) evaluate the size of the effects of CBT-I, compared with
      attention-control, on daytime symptoms (fatigue, depression, anxiety, excessive daytime
      sleepiness) and functional performance. The primary outcome will be self-reported sleep
      continuity (sleep efficiency). Investigators will also explore the effects of changes in
      characteristics of sleep and insomnia symptoms on symptoms and daytime function; the effects
      of CBT-I, compared with attention control, on nocturnal symptoms, and the effects of CBT-I,
      compared with attention control, on biological indicators of nocturnal and daytime
      Hypothalamic Adrenal Pituitary axis (urinary free cortisol), sympathetic nervous system
      (urinary epinephrine/norepinephrine, and pineal (urinary melatonin) function. The results
      will be used to support design decisions for a future larger scale efficacy study and may
      ultimately lead to translation of CBT-I into the care of patients with HF.
    
  