
    
      Background: Tonsils are the primary nasopharyngeal lymphoid tissue and constitute the first
      contact point of the immune system to allergens and infectious agents. A peripheral T cell
      repertoire exists in tonsils, and tonsils have an active role for inducing and maintaining
      peripheral tolerance to allergens. Intralymphatic immunotherapy is a promising alternative
      for a subcutaneous or sublingual immunotherapy. More data is needed on the interaction
      between the peripheral (tonsillar) T cell response and specific allergen exposure and impact
      of respiratory virus infections on tolerance induction. Objective: To study the effects of
      sublingual grass pollen immunotherapy and/or nasal live attenuated influenza vaccine on
      tonsillar T cell and interferon (IFN) expression. In addition, we collect material on the
      investigation of role of tissues in immune tolerance and chronicity in allergic diseases.

      Patients: Human tonsil samples will be obtained from less than 30-year-old routine
      tonsillectomy patients after sublingual grass immunotherapy (n=30), nasal live attenuated
      influenza vaccine (n=30 for atopic; and n=30 for non-atopic) and immunotherapy+influenza
      vaccine intervention (n=30). Controls without age limit or intervention (n=580) will also be
      recruited. Of these, age and atopy-matched controls will be selected as comparator groups for
      each intervention trial (n=30 for atopic; and n=30 for non-atopic). Control group will also
      be used for investigation of role of tissues in immune tolerance and chronicity in allergic
      diseases, immunomodulatory effects of respiratory viruses main focus being on human bocavirus
      and human rhinovirus infections, and in the search of new respiratory viruses.

      Design: Study intervention products will be administered openly but the immunology outcomes
      will be analysed blindly.

      Main outcomes: Gene expressions of IFN and T cell related genes will be the main outcomes and
      compared between intervention groups and correlated with the number of allergen extract doses
      or time from nasal influenza vaccination. Systemic immunologic outcomes (in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells, blood RNA expression profiles, antibodies and cytokines in serum) will
      also be studied. The analyses include immunogenetics, virology, bacteriology and
      sensitization status. Clinical symptom scores will be recorded during the next 12 months from
      the screening visit.

      Anticipated results: We expect that our tonsil approach will offer a new in vivo model for
      the understanding immune tolerance induction and will give new insights to the immunologic
      mechanisms in lymphoid tissue level. We hope to demonstrate that the immunologic effects of
      sublingual pollen immunotherapy can be modified with a nasal live attenuated influenza
      vaccine and thereby it should give basis for other add-on treatments aiming for more
      effective immunotherapy. The influenza virus vaccine is expected to promote Th1 cell
      expression over Th2 cell expression. Since the immunologic outcomes will be correlated to
      clinical efficacy during next influenza and pollen seasons, we hope to understand the
      clinical significance of the immunologic outcomes.

      Innovation and impact: The unique strength of the project is to answer essential questions on
      development of allergen tolerance and a protective vaccine response in a human in vivo
      situation that cannot be answered in other settings. The proposed investigations may
      substantially enlarge our knowledge on the pathogenesis of organ directed allergic and
      non-allergic inflammation in humans, because the experiments will be performed directly with
      disease associated human cells and tissues. We expect that novel genes and pathways of immune
      regulation can be identified in tonsils by a detailed investigation of human immune response
      development to sublingual immunotherapy and influenza vaccine. The transcriptome and
      epigenome of these groups and further analyses of the role of T cells, B cells and innate
      lymphoid cells will provide essential information particularly on differences between atopic
      and non-atopic individuals, and anti-vaccine responses, natural viral infection, chronic
      viral infection, mechanisms of hypertrophic tonsillitis versus recurrent tonsillitis. The
      identification of new immune tolerance and immune activation pathways involved in the
      regulation of tissue cells is expected to provide novel knowledge for many other diseases in
      addition to asthma, because dysregulated immune system activation occurs in various human
      disorders such as cancer, autoimmunity, transplantation rejection and chronic infections.
    
  