
    
      Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a minimally invasive technique that has been
      increasingly applied to superficial colorectal tumours over the past two decades (1, 2).
      Although serious complications with this procedure are uncommon, both significant delayed
      haemorrhage (1-2%) and perforation (4-6%) are recognised complications (3). Although
      perforation is generally recognised and treated at time of endoscopy, delayed bleeding often
      requires repeat readmission and endoscopy for haemorrhage control. There is growing evidence
      to support prophylactic clip closure of mucosal defects to reduce incidences of delayed
      haemorrhage.

      Prophylactic clip closure of mucosal defects (≥20mm) after colonic ESD is supported by large
      retrospective case series. In a series of 524 lesions in 463 patients, Liaquat et al. (2013)
      reported prophylactic clipping of resection sites to close mucosal defects versus
      non-closure, reduced delayed haemorrhage (9.7% vs 1.8%) (4). Ogiyama et al. (2018) reported
      similar findings in a series of 156 lesions (0% vs 8.2%, p=0.008) (5).

      Prophylactic defect closure also has a theoretical benefit in reducing delayed perforation
      from unrecognised muscular breach during dissection. Though it is recognised that there is a
      paucity of evidence to support mucosal apposition in reducing delayed perforation rates
      (~0.2%) (3). This is likely due to the underpowered published studies and a very low event
      rate.

      For these reasons, it has been routine practice of many endoscopists for clip closure of
      mucosal defects after endoscopic resection of large colorectal neoplasia. However, this
      technique remains technically challenging within the narrow colonic space and at times may
      not be feasible. The 'underwater closure technique' in mucosal defect closure of colonic and
      duodenal endoscopic resections has promising early results. Compared to conventional CO2
      insufflation clip placement, at the time of mucosal closure this technique applies luminal
      water infusion to 'float' the resection borders and downsize the target. Early experience
      suggests this technique facilitates easier apposition of resection borders and complete
      closure. There are currently no randomized trials comparing these clip closure techniques.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate whether prophylactic underwater closure technique
      facilitates easier ESD mucosal defect closure compared to conventional clip closure.

      This is a single centre prospective randomized controlled trial. Consecutive patients
      undergoing endoscopic resection for colonic lesions would be recruited. Participants would be
      randomized to receive prophylactic conventional clip closure versus underwater technique.
    
  