
    
      -  Any patient desiring minimally invasive hysterectomy will be contacted by a study team
           member during their visit to the MIGS (minimally invasive gynecologic surgery) clinic.
           The risks and benefits of participation will be explained to them. If they choose to
           participate they will sign the consent form at that time or if they need more time to
           consider participation they will sign later. They will then complete the health-related
           quality of life (HrQoL) questionnaire UFS-QOL* before surgery.

        -  Computer-generated randomization will be used to randomize patients between 3 groups:

        -  Group A: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal local anesthetic (LA) during
           72 hours

        -  Group B: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal LA combined with an NSAID
           during 72 hours

        -  Group C: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal placebo during 72 hours.

        -  Study participants will then undergo a minimally invasive hysterectomy by one of the
           highly experienced minimally invasive gynecologists using a standard technique. At the
           conclusion of the procedure, all women will have an infusion catheter attached to an
           ON-Q pump inserted percutaneously into the pelvis under direct laparoscopic vision. The
           catheter tip will be placed in the peritoneal cavity at the vaginal vault. In order to
           ensure patency of the catheter tubing, a 10 mL bolus of assigned medication will be
           given. The ON-Q pump infusion will then provide 540 mL of assigned medication for a
           total of 72 hours following surgery.

        -  Surgical variables (length of surgery, estimated blood loss, type of analgesia and
           anesthesia used, concomitant procedures, uterine weight, ASA, and intraoperative
           complications - organ injury (bladder, bowel, vaginal laceration), EBL > 1000 cc,
           conversion to laparotomy, transfusion) will be recorded on a data collection sheet.

        -  Additional analgesia will be administered by the nursing staff in the PACU at the
           patient's request. The total dose of analgesia over the 72 postoperative hours will be
           calculated for each woman (e.g. each of the following was considered to be one dose; 1 g
           of paracetamol, 50 mg diclofenac, 400 mg ibuprofen, 50 mg tramadol). The total morphine
           equivalents per patient will also be recorded.

        -  All medication administered for pain as well as VAS pain scores at 1, 2, 4, 6, 24, 48,
           and 72 hours postoperatively will be recorded.

        -  Subjects will be discharged when clinically appropriate and according to our usual
           hospital procedure, which is usually same day discharge. Subjects staying in hospital
           for less than 72 hours will be given verbal and written instructions on catheter
           removal.

        -  The subjects will be given a post-operative pain diary to fill out during their 2 week
           recovery period including pain scores and amount of pain medication used. This diary
           will be collected at their first post-operative visit at around 2 weeks postoperatively.
           Subjects will be asked to complete the EQ-5D again during this visit. Postoperative
           complications will also be recorded (ICU-admission, reoperation, transfusion, DVT/PE,
           readmission, bowel obstruction/ileus, incision
           seroma/cellulitis/hematoma/separation/hernia, and cuff
           cellulitis/abscess/dehiscence/granulation tissue).

        -  Hospital (operative and pathology reports) and clinical (clinical visit notes) reports
           will be reviewed to compare baseline demographics, past surgical history, past medical
           history, comorbidities, and complications between groups.

        -  Pumps and syringes will be filled with study drugs depending on the assigned group to a
           max of 540 mL for pumps and a max of 10 mL for syringes:

        -  Group A: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal local anesthetic (LA) during
           72 hours: 10 mL bolus of 0.2% Ropivacaine + 540 mL of 0.2% Ropivacaine at 8 mL/hour
           infusion

        -  Group B: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal LA combined with an NSAID
           during 72 hours: 10 mL bolus of 0.2% Ropivacaine combined with 30mg/550mL toradol + 540
           mL of 0.2% Ropivacaine combined with 30mg/550mL toradol at 8 mL/hour infusion

        -  Group C: receiving a continuous infusion of intraperitoneal placebo during 72 hours: 10
           mL bolus of 0.9% normal saline + 540 mL of 0.9% normal saline at 8 mL/hour infusion

        -  The IDS research pharmacist will fill the pumps for use and a member of the research
           team will transport the filled pumps to the hospital for the surgeries.

        -  Statistical Analysis: Pre-operative variables such as patient demographic and clinical
           information (medical and surgical history) will be recorded and compared as well as
           intra-operative variables such as surgical modality, length of surgery, estimated blood
           loss, concomitant procedures, uterine weight, ASA, and complications. Before and after
           their surgery, patients will complete a questionnaire regarding quality of life and
           pain. To combine the results of both sites, REDCap will be used to securely share
           de-identified data. These outcome variables will be analyzed by calculating the
           unadjusted and adjusted means and 95% confidence intervals using simple and multiple
           linear regressions.
    
  