
    
      Study Setting: This study will be conducted at the Chronic Pain Clinic at Hotel Dieu Hospital
      and the General Gynecology Clinic at Kingston General Hospital in Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
      All of the physicians who provide trigger point injection treatment for chronic pelvic pain
      in the Chronic Pain Clinic have agreed to participate as co-investigators in this study (RN,
      RH, and SC). Women are referred to this clinic for treatment of chronic pelvic pain by both
      primary care providers and gynecologists in the Kingston and surrounding area. Two of the
      investigators (RN and SC) see patients in the General Gynecology Clinic for assessment and
      management of chronic pelvic pain. Both investigators regularly refer patients to the Chronic
      Pain Clinic for consideration of trigger point injections.

      Participant Timeline: Participants in this study will be followed for a total of 8 treatments
      and 9 study visits over a period of 12 weeks. Participants in the third wait-listed arm of
      the study will be followed for 3 visits over a period of 12 weeks.

      Treatment Arms, Baseline Visit & Treatment 1: At the baseline study visit a research nurse
      will administer a questionnaire in order to obtain a thorough medical history and collect
      information on participant demographics. The research nurse will then administer the VAS pain
      scale and pelvic pain specific functional questionnaire based on the participant's
      experiences in the week preceding the baseline visit and the WHOQOL-BREF based on the
      participant's experiences in the 4 weeks preceding the baseline visit. A study investigator
      will then mix and administer the trigger point injections. The research nurse will remain
      present for the treatment to assist with recording and administer the VAS pain scale for
      procedural discomfort immediately following completion of treatment.

      Treatment Arms, Follow Up Visits & Treatments 2-8: In total, participants will be seen for 7
      follow up visits with additional treatment. Visits 2 through 4 will be done on a weekly basis
      and visits 5 through 8 will be done bi-weekly, for a total time of 11 weeks. At these visits
      a research nurse will administer the VAS pain scale and pelvic pain specific functional
      questionnaire based on the participant's experiences in the week preceding the visit. The
      research nurse will ask further questions about concomitant medication usage and screen
      participants for any adverse event or injection-associated complications. In addition at
      visit 5 the research nurse will administer the WHOQOL-BREF. A study investigator will then
      mix and administer the trigger point injections. The research nurse will remain present for
      the treatment to assist with recording and administer the VAS pain scale for procedural
      discomfort immediately following completion of treatment.

      Treatment Arms, Final Study Visit 9: For participants who undergo a full course of treatment
      the final study visit will be visit 9 and will occur 12 weeks after the baseline visit. If a
      woman chooses to conclude treatment early, for any reason, then the final visit will occur
      earlier than 12 weeks. However, the final visit must always be done at least 1 week after the
      final trigger point injection treatment. At the final study visit a research nurse will
      administer the VAS pain scale and pelvic pain specific functional questionnaire based on the
      participant's experiences in the week preceding the visit and the WHOQOL-BREF based on the
      participant's experiences in the 4 weeks preceding the visit. The research nurse will ask
      further questions about concomitant medication usage and screen participants for any adverse
      event or injection-associated complications. In order to assess blinding participants will be
      asked which treatment they believed they received and their reasons for this belief.
      Participants will also be asked if they would recommend the treatment to others experiencing
      myofascial pelvic pain. Finally, participants will be offered continuation of treatment under
      the care of the primary investigator with an injection formulation of their choosing if they
      are still experiencing myofascial pelvic pain.

      Wait-List Arm, Baseline, Follow Up and Final Study Visit: At the baseline study visit a
      research nurse will administer a questionnaire in order to obtain a thorough medical history
      and collect information on participant demographics. The research nurse will then administer
      the VAS pain scale and pelvic pain specific functional questionnaire based on the
      participant's experiences in the week preceding the baseline visit and the WHOQOL-BREF based
      on the participant's experiences in the 4 weeks preceding the baseline visit. The research
      nurse will ask further questions about concomitant medication usage. A follow up visit will
      be completed 5 weeks after the baseline visit. At this visit a research nurse will administer
      the VAS pain scale and pelvic pain specific functional questionnaire based on the
      participant's experiences in the week preceding the visit and the WHOQOL-BREF based on the
      participant's experiences in the 4 weeks preceding the visit. The research nurse will ask
      further questions about concomitant medication usage. For participants who are on the
      wait-list for at least 12 weeks the final study visit will occur 12 weeks after the baseline
      visit. If a woman is on the wait-list for under 12 weeks then the final study visit will
      occur at her first visit to the Chronic Pain Clinic. At the final study visit a research
      nurse will administer the VAS pain scale and pelvic pain specific functional questionnaire
      based on the participant's experiences in the week preceding the visit and the WHOQOL-BREF
      based on the participant's experiences in the 4 weeks preceding the visit. The research nurse
      will ask further questions about concomitant medication usage.
    
  