
    
      Patients who are eligible to participate in the study are invited. Before starting prednisone
      therapy, the following data are collected: basic demographic data (age, gender), education
      history, past medical history (particularly IBD history such as age of diagnosis and previous
      treatments/surgery), current medications/non-prescription drugs will be collected. IBD
      activity is measured by Harvey-Bradshaw Index for Crohn's Disease and Simple Clinical Colitis
      Activity Index (SCCAI) for all subjects with Ulcerative Colitis. Subjects are asked to
      complete self-administered surveys --- Internal State Scale (ISS) for patients to self-report
      mood states including depressive, manic, or mixed states and Beck Depression Inventory II
      (BDI-II) for screening depression

      Two weeks after starting Prednisone 40 mg/day and at the end of steroid taper, IBD activity
      will be measured by Harvey-Bradshaw Index for Crohn's Disease and Simple Clinical Colitis
      Activity Index (SCCAI) for all subjects with Ulcerative Colitis. Self-administered surveys
      --- Internal State Scale (ISS) and Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II) are completed.

      It is possible that a new diagnosis of an underlying psychiatric disorder may be discovered
      as a result of participating in this study. In the event that an underlying psychiatric
      disorder is suspected based on the results of the questionnaires on the first visit (BDI-II
      ≥21 moderate depression or ISS Activation scale ≥ 155), the patient would be offered the
      option for an expedited formal psychiatric referral. This will not exclude them from the
      study unless therapy is deemed necessary by the consulting psychiatrist.

      Should patients develop significant mood changes impairing daily/social functioning during
      the study as a result of steroid therapy, they will be assessed urgently by attending
      gastroenterologist and if necessary, in consultation with a psychiatrist to determine the
      best course of action, which may include cessation of steroid therapy or addition of
      psychiatric therapy. Otherwise, less significant mood changes will be monitored closely as
      these may be expected to resolve upon discontinuation of steroid therapy.
    
  