
    
      Background Approximately 600 patients with acute stroke are treated in-hospital at Skåne
      University Hospital in Malmö. Of those, approximately 450 patients can be discharged straight
      to their own home after hospital stay. Currently, there is no structured follow-up routine
      for patients with stroke discharged from Skåne University Hospital in Malmö, and Primary care
      health providers are managing most follow-ups for stroke depending on individual patient
      needs. Previous research has shown that one in four patients with stroke are not followed up
      within three months after hospital discharge in Skåne.

      Stroke-related medical complications are common both in the acute phase after stroke and in
      the longer term. Acute medical complications comprise infections, falls and fractures,
      confusion, deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and also epileptic seizures. The
      risk of medical complications increases with co-morbidity, but can also be a consequence of
      the stroke itself. Beyond the acute phase, other stroke-related health problems occur in the
      majority of patients. They comprise fatigue, impaired cognition, low mood, incontinence,
      sexual impairment, post-stroke pain, spasticity, relational problems, isolation, inadequate
      secondary preventive treatment and impaired mobility and daily activities. Previous studies
      have shown that these problems are common and can persist for years post-stroke. Knowledge of
      how to best organize and manage stroke and stroke-related health problems in the long-term is
      sparse, even though there are guidelines on some general principles for secondary prevention
      and rehabilitation.

      Post-stroke Checklist (PSC) was developed by an international stroke expert group. It is a
      simple checklist collecting eleven common stroke-related health problems, and can be used as
      a clinical tool to identify common and treatable complications to stroke. The feasibility of
      the 11-items PSC as a screening tool for stroke-related health problems has been tested
      systematically and it has been considered implementable. Modified versions of PSC are being
      implemented in different countries.

      PSC can be used both by nurses, physicians and other health professions. The National
      Guidelines for Stroke Care in Sweden from 2018 recommend the use of PSC for stroke follow-up.
      PSCs use has not been systematically tested in Sweden though and PSC is not yet routinely
      used. A modified 14-item PSC is recommended by Region Skåne (the county council of Southern
      Sweden).

      Aims The aims of this study are to test the feasibility of a structured and multimodal
      follow-up model for stroke systematically, as well as to test the validity of the PSC as a
      screening tool for stroke-related health problems. The study aims further at studying the
      prevalence, and changes over time, of stroke-related health problems as well as survival,
      functional outcome following stroke, and patient satisfaction.

      Working plan Study design The study design is longitudinal and explorative. This is a
      feasibility and validation study where the intervention consists of a structured follow-up
      visit, a multidisciplinary team rounds resulting in an individual treatment plan for
      stroke-related health problems, and a final follow-up at 12 months. Individual items in PSC
      will be validated towards routinely used validated tools. The prevalence, and changes over
      time, of stroke-related health problems will be investigated, as well as survival, functional
      outcome following stroke, and patient satisfaction. The study takes place in the clinical
      setting at the stroke unit, using clinical stroke team professional to mimic the normal
      clinical situation.

      Study population We plan to include 200 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke or
      intracerebral hemorrhage, treated in-hospital at Skåne University Hospital in Malmö and
      discharged straight to own home. The estimated inclusion rate is 3- 5 patients per week, and
      the estimated time for including 200 patients is one year. Two hundred patients represent 40%
      of the total population of the 500 patients who can be discharged straight to own home, and
      are expected to be representable of the population with respect to age, sex, vascular risk
      and stroke severity. The generalizability of the population will be assessed through
      comparison to the Swedish Stroke Register.

      Procedure for inclusion Eligible patients are identified daily in the stroke ward and
      included by written informed consent.

      Follow-up procedure The three-months visit is managed by a stroke nurse and include the
      semi-structured PSC interview, additional validated diagnostic tools, secondary prevention
      status, comorbidity, and functional outcome.

      The three-months visit is followed by a multidisciplinary team rounds with stroke physician,
      stroke nurse, occupational therapist and if needed physiotherapist, speech therapist,
      dietician, psychologist and/or social worker. The rounds result in an individual treatment
      recommendation plan that is sent to the family doctor and other relevant instances. The
      amount and type of referrals and other interventions warranted by the results of the
      follow-up visits and rounds are recorded.

      The 12-months visit is managed by a stroke nurse and include a new semi-structured PSC
      interview, secondary prevention status, comorbidity, and a met needs assessment. The 12-month
      visit is followed by a multidisciplinary team rounds leading to referrals and other
      interventions are if warranted.

      Use of other register data Patient baseline characteristics and three- and 12-month data on
      living conditions and functional level will be obtained from the Swedish Stroke Register
      (Riksstroke). Mortality at 12 and 18 months will be obtained by linkage to the Swedish Causes
      of Death register.

      Data management, statistical analyses and ethical considerations The database will be built
      and managed in close cooperation with Clinical Studies Sweden, Forum South. Analyses will be
      performed on de-identified data after the dataset has been closed.

      All statistical analyses will be performed in SPSS. Data will be presented using descriptive
      statistics and graphs, as well as linear models. Power calculations are not relevant for this
      study type.

      The local Ethics approval committee has approved of the project (Dnr 2017/1028)
    
  