
    
      Background

      In case of severe infections, the first 24h of treatment are critical to limit the severity
      and the mortality (1). Thus, the antibiotic treatment must be initiated as soon as possible,
      be efficacious against the causative organism, and reach concentrations in the infected
      tissues larger than the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC). In case of sepsis,
      pharmacokinetic parameters are modified (e.g., increase of the volume of distribution [Vd]),
      increase [initially] and decrease [later] of the renal clearance), which impacts on the
      actual concentration and activity of the antibiotic. For most antibiotics, the adaptation of
      the dosages is performed in a very crude fashion in case of renal failure (5). A first study
      has demonstrated that the antibiotic doses prescribed in case of sepsis were, in most of the
      cases, insufficient to obtain a concentration of 4 times or even 1 time the MIC of the
      causative organism during the desired fractions of the time between two successive
      administration (70% for ceftazidime) (6). A second study has shown that the doses of
      antibiotic prescribed in case of sepsis and of renal failure requiring extracorporeal
      hemofiltration are insufficient (7). Both studies showed also that there is a large
      interpatient variability in the antibiotic serum concentrations. An additional factor, rarely
      taken into account, is that only the free fraction of the antibiotic is active (8). Yet, the
      free fraction is rarely measured.

      The use of ceftazidime in first intention probabilistic antibiotherapy in patients undergoing
      chronic hemodialysis is supported by its broad spectrum of activity against the most
      frequently observed organisms in this patient population, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
      The low incidence of adverse effects reported for this antibiotic makes it a better choice
      than ciprofloxacin. Moreover, its rather simple and controllable mode of administration (one
      intravenous dose administered at the end of the dialysis period) guarantees a better
      compliance compared to a daily oral antibiotherapy. Ceftazidime shows a low protein binding,
      and its activity is therefore not expected to be grossly affected in patients compared to
      what can be measured in vitro in reference media (9). However, mots reported data on
      ceftazidime protein binding have been obtained on healthy volunteers and the extent of
      binding of beta-lactams to serum proteins may considerably vary according to the type of
      subjects (10).

      Presently, the recommendations for the dosages of ceftazidime in patients undergoing chronic
      hemodialysis are based on rather old pharmacokinetic studies assuming a plasma half-life of
      ceftazidime reduced to 3.3 h during hemodialysis vs. 33.6 h in anuric patients and
      recommending to administer half of the total daily dose at the end of the hemodialysis (11).
      But these recommendations do not take into account the progresses made since then in
      hemodialysis techniques. The international recommendations and those of the US Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) recommend to administer 1 g of ceftazidime after each hemodialysis
      session (12). Different dialysis parameters modulating the level of removal of ceftazidime in
      modern dialyzers have been studied (13). This showed that the ceftazidime clearance increases
      with the rate of dialysis fluid flow, the ultrafiltration volume, and the urea clearance.
      There is a positive correlation between the increase in blood flow and the ceftazidime
      clearance that, however, is observed only in patients for whom an AN69 membrane was used
      (14). Another study has examined the impact of the use of membranes with high permeability on
      the pharmacodynamics of ceftazidime using mathematical modeling. This study led to a
      recommendation that ceftazidime should be administered at a daily dose of 1 g to obtain a
      serum trough concentration higher than the MIC of the causative (or suspected) organism
      during at least 70% of the dosing interval. A dose of 2 g of ceftazidime after each dialysis
      session was effective for isolates for which the MIC of ceftazidime was not superior to 16
      mg/L (14). This study, however, is based on data collected in 1983 and included only 6
      patients. Thus, there has been no in vivo study looking as to whether a dose of 1 or 2 g of
      ceftazidime administered after each dialysis session is sufficient when using contemporary
      dialysis equipment. Moreover, no measure of the free fraction has been made.

      Objectives

      The study will measure the ceftazidime serum concentrations in patients undergoing
      hemodialysis (before the hemodialysis session and at the end of the hemodialysis session,)
      and receiving standard doses of ceftazidime in order to determine whether these
      concentrations are sufficient based on accepted literature-based criteria concerning
      suspected or documented infections (15). The data will be confronted with the evolution of
      the patients' clinical conditions in order to draw possible correlations between these two
      aspects of the treatment.

      Primary objective

      Assess whether the standard doses of ceftazidime (1 or 2 g) administered at the end of the
      dialysis session (intermittent dialysis) allow to obtain the following serum concentrations:

        -  If the causative organism is not identified: a trough level equal or superior to 8 mg/L
           (1 time the MIC of the least susceptible isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa based on the
           interpretative criteria of EUCAST (European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility
           Testing; resistance set at > 8mg/L).

        -  If the causative organism is identified and MIC determined and lower or equal to 8 mg/L:
           a trough level equal or superior to 1 time this MIC

      Secondary objectives

        -  Assess whether the standard doses of ceftazidime (1 or 2 g) administered at the end of
           the dialysis session (intermittent dialysis) allow to obtain a trough concentration at
           32 mg/L if the causative organism is not identified and 4 times its MIC if it is
           identified and its MIC determined and lower or equal to 8 mg/L

        -  Assess whether the criteria mentioned in the primary objectives also apply to the free
           fractions of ceftazidime.

        -  Assess whether reaching the desired free and total trough concentrations of 8 mg/L or 1
           time the MIC impacts the clinical outcome of the patient (as judged by the attending
           physician).

        -  Assess whether reaching the desired free and total trough concentrations of 32 mg/L or 4
           time the MIC impacts the clinical outcome of the patient (as judged by the attending
           physician).

        -  Assess the impact of main hemodialysis parameters (type of membrane, flow rate of the
           dialysis fluid, length of the dialysis session; volume of ultrafiltration) on the
           ceftazidime total and free serum concentrations.

        -  Assess the impact of patient's residual renal function on the ceftazidime serum free and
           total concentrations.

        -  Assess the impact of potential drug-drug interactions (based on the record of all drugs
           administered to the patient) impact on ceftazidime serum free and total concentrations.

        -  Asses how the MIC of the causative organism (if known) affects the expected
           effectiveness of ceftazidime, considering both the total and the free serum
           concentrations.

      Materials and Methods

        -  Prospective monocentric study in the hemodialysis center of the Centre
           hospitalier-universitaire (CHU) of Charleroi, Belgium.

        -  Drug assay: all assays will be made in duplicate in two laboratories:

             -  total serum concentrations in the laboratory of Biological Chemistry of the
                hospital where the study will be conducted (CHU) using a validated High Performance
                Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) separation method and an UV photometric detection

             -  total and free concentrations in the laboratory of Cellular and Molecular
                Pharmacology of the Université catholique de Louvain (Drug Research Institute)
                using an HPLC separation method and a tandem mass spectrometry (MS-MS) detection
                method (to mitigate the risk of interferences by other drugs or metabolites in
                abnormal quantities). Assay of the free fraction will be made after separation by
                membrane sieving.

        -  Expected number of enrolled patients: 20. This number has been chosen arbitrarily but is
           compatible with (i) previous studies indicating that it is sufficient to provide useful
           information; (ii) the present number of patients admitted to the hospital for
           hemodialysis per year (from 100 to 120) with a proportion of about 20% needing
           antibiotic treatment for an infection for which ceftazidime is indicated.

        -  Sampling:

      Total: 6 per patient

        -  after the first administration of ceftazidime (loading dose): sampling #1: at trough
           before 1st dialysis; sampling #2: after the end of the dialysis session

        -  after the second administration of ceftazidime (maintenance dose): sampling #3: at
           trough before 2d dialysis session

        -  after the third administration of ceftazidime (maintenance dose): sampling #4: at trough
           before 3d dialysis session

        -  after the fourth third administration of ceftazidime (maintenance dose): sampling #5: at
           trough before 4th dialysis session; sampling #6: after the end of the dialysis session

           - Ceftazidime doses

        -  loading dose (1st administration): 2 g

        -  maintenance dose (all subsequent administrations): 1 g (the dose may be modified by the
           clinician in charge if deemed necessary and recorded accordingly)

             -  Patient's clinical and biological data collection

             -  collection patient's data:

        -  indication(s) of ceftazidime administration

        -  dose and time of ceftazidime administration

        -  documentation of the infection and treatment outcomes: (fever (Celsius degree);
           suspected site (confirmed or suspected); inflammatory syndrome (biological data) (C
           reactive protein (mg/l), leucocytes count (/µl)); bacteriological data: clinical
           outcome: cure - improved - failure - relapse (by the same organism), infection-related
           adverse effects: septic metastasis, death; administration-related adverse effects:
           catheter-clogging and infection; treatment-related adverse effects: any that could be
           related to the drug

        -  parameters of the hemodialysis: type of dialysis membrane and membrane area
           (Polysulfone. 2 m2, 2,2m2), blood flow (ml/min (350ml/min)), dialysate flow rate (500
           ml/min (fixed)), KT/V ratio (at 2d and 5th sessions) (1,2 to 1,5) where K = dialyzer
           clearance of urea; T= dialysis time; V = volume of distribution of urea [approximately
           equal to patient's total body water], access route: catheter (double lumen) or direct
           arterio-venous connection, length of dialysis session (minutes), added solutes
           (bicarbonate and other filling fluids) (mmol/liter).

        -  nutritional status: albumins and total proteins (g/l)

        -  associated medications: other antibiotics (e.g., vancomycin in case of suspicion of
           infection by a methicillin-resistant Gram-positive organism [e.g., S. aureus or S.
           epidermidis]), antivitamin K, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent(s).

      Modeling and population pharmacokinetics Serum concentration data will be analyzed using
      appropriate softwares to determine the pertinent pharmacokinetic parameters for the
      population of patients studied. The analysis will focus on

        -  median and mean ceftazidime clearances and half-lives out of and during the dialysis
           periods

        -  the extraction rate of ceftazidime during the hemodialysis sessions After establishing
           the best model and based on Monte-Carlo simulations, the results will be used to
           determine whether the threshold for efficacy defined above holds true when considering
           the population of patients routinely undergoing hemodialysis. The general methodology
           and calculations approaches will be similar to those described in previous publications
           with adaptation if necessary (16, 17).
    
  