
    
      The aim of the project is to collect data from systematic and uniform clinical assessments to
      study predictors of the clinical course and treatment response in patients admitted to and
      treated in clinical units delivering Dialectical Behaviour Therapy in Norway.

      Aims and research questions:

      The study will address the following main research questions:

        1. Which patient characteristics (sociodemographic variables, psychiatric
           diagnoses/comorbidities, previous suicidal and self-harming behaviour, previous
           treatment history), predict a favourable clinical course and treatment response?

        2. Which factors mediate the clinical change in key outcomes such as a) target symptom
           levels (depression, hopelessness, suicidal ideation, borderline symptoms etc.), b)
           function levels (emotion regulation capacity, use of coping skills, social functioning,
           occupational / academic performance level etc.), c) problem behaviours (suicide
           attempts, non-suicidal self-harm, substance abuse, eating disorder symptoms etc.), d)
           global functioning and e) the use of emergency treatment services.

        3. What are significant moderators of treatment response with respect to key clinical
           outcomes (mentioned above)?

        4. Which of the treatment modalities are evaluated as the most salient and helpful by
           patients who receive the treatment according to their age, gender, psychiatric diagnoses
           and previous treatment history?

      Methods:

      A uniform protocol for psychiatric diagnostics and clinical assessment of patients who
      receive treatment at the participating clinical units will be used. Since some participating
      clinical units will treat adult patients and some will treat children and adolescents, the
      protocol will offer assessment instrument suitable for the specific age group whenever this
      is relevant. The evaluation system includes assessments at baseline before treatment starts,
      evaluation at several time points during the treatment period, at termination of treatment
      and at follow-up. Assessments will be made both through interviews and ratings made by
      therapists and through self-report from patients.

      Self-reports will be filled out electronically by patients, on tablets stationed at each
      participating clinical unit. At intervals patients will also provide self-rated information
      on dimensions such as emotions, cognitions and impulsive behaviour several times per day
      through a mobile app developed specifically for the purpose, so-called Ecological Momentary
      Assessment (EMA). Interview data and ratings will be entered into the database by each
      clinician to tablets in a similar fashion as self-report data from patients.
    
  