
    
      Routine immunization at birth is standard for hepatitis B in the United States (US) and for
      hepatitis B, polio and tuberculosis (BCG) in many countries. Other vaccines have not been
      routinely administered at birth largely due to concerns relating to immaturity of the
      neonatal immune system and the possibility of reduced immune response to vaccine antigens.
      With the recent licensure in the US of a pentavalent combination vaccine (DTaP-Hep B-IPV;
      Pediarix™) researchers propose to evaluate a new immunization schedule that includes a birth
      dose of this vaccine, in an effort to determine adequacy of neonatal immune response to the
      study vaccine antigens. The primary objectives of this study are: to evaluate the safety of
      administering the pentavalent combination vaccine (DTaP-HepB-IPV; Pediarix™) to infants at
      birth, two and six months of age compared to the administration of a hepatitis B vaccine
      (Engerix-B) at birth and the same pentavalent combination vaccine at two, four and six months
      of age; and to assess age specific antibody response following each vaccine dose. Five
      healthy newborns; 0 to 5 days of age, greater than or equal to 37 weeks gestation, and
      greater than 2500 gm birth weight were recruited from two Southern California Kaiser
      Permanente medical centers. Infants were randomized to one of 2 study groups: Group A
      received DTaP-HepB-IPV (Pediarix™) vaccine along with other required vaccines at birth, two,
      six months of age; Group B received the monovalent hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B) at birth,
      the DTaP-HepB-IPV (Pediarix™) vaccine with other vaccines at two, four and six months.
      Children will be evaluated for post-vaccination adverse events. Blood will be collected and
      immunogenicity evaluated by standardized humoral immunologic assays. The main outcome
      measures are to assess immune responses to each vaccine antigen over time, antibodies to
      pertussis (PT, FHA, PRN), diphtheria, tetanus, haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), polio
      (Types 1, 2, 3) and hepatitis B (HbsAg). The secondary outcome measures are to assess vaccine
      safety, systemic and local immediate reactions.
    
  