
    
      A challenge during cancer surgery is determining all sites of malignant disease. Accurate
      tumor localization is of utmost importance as complete resection increases the chance of cure
      and improves patient outcomes even when cure is not possible. However, finding the primary
      tumor can be very challenging and, in some cases, impossible. With the recent FDA approval of
      a PET tracer (Ga-68 DOTATATE) that binds to somatostatin receptors for imaging neuroendocrine
      tumors (NETs), the investigator's institution has the opportunity to dramatically improve the
      surgical care for these patients. Therefore, the aim for this study is to develop a molecular
      image-guided surgery program starting with GI NETs. GI NETs are malignant neoplasms that are
      increasing in prevalence. NETs cause a variety of debilitating symptoms, and, as a result,
      contribute substantially to cancer-related morbidity. Since the primary treatment for NET is
      surgical resection, NETs are an ideal model to launch a comprehensive image-guided surgery
      program. Many NETs are metastatic at presentation or will develop metastases during their
      course, and it is difficult to identify all disease visually and through manual palpation.
      Failure to surgically resect all disease leads to symptoms, metastatic disease, and multiple
      surgical interventions. Many institutions have recently begun using Ga-68 DOTATATE for PET/CT
      imaging of NETs, and this same tracer can be used for intra-operative localization of primary
      NETs as well as metastases. The primary impediment to using Ga-68 DOTATATE for this purpose
      is the need to develop and validate a high-energy gamma (HEG) probe for detecting NETs during
      surgery. This study will explore the new PET tracer technology and begin a molecular
      image-guided surgery program for NETs. This initial paradigm will be used to develop a
      molecular image guided approach to other cancers. It is expected that this type of program
      could usher a new era of cancer management at the investigator's institution at its forefront
      and improve outcomes for study participants.
    
  