
    
      Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) affects 4% of men aged 65-79, a prevalence rising as our
      population ages. As most patients suffering rupture die immediately, elective AAA repair is
      critical and the National AAA Screening Programme (NAAASP) is being implemented across the UK
      to identify AAAs for elective repair. Manchester is the first major urban population to be
      screened. The UK had the highest mortality rates following elective open AAA repair in Europe
      (7% v 3.5%); the AAA Quality Improvement Programme's (AAAQIP) target is to reduce this to
      under 3.5% by 2013.

      The benefits of exercise across a broad spectrum of medical conditions are now increasingly
      recognised; especially in the elderly. Exercise training may reduce mortality and
      complications in major surgery. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) measures
      cardiopulmonary reserve and predicts outcome in major surgery. The Manchester CPET study
      group demonstrated that anaerobic threshold (AT) and peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak)
      predict 30 and 90-day mortality in elective AAA repair.

      The investigators propose a pilot randomised controlled trial (RCT) to determine whether a
      structured exercise programme improves fitness measured by CPET, and the optimal duration of
      training for AAA surgery. As over 90% of AAAs detected by screening are < 5.5cm and enter
      surveillance, these patients offer a unique opportunity to explore the ideal duration of
      exercise training as surgery is not indicated for months or years.

      100 participants on AAA surveillance will be recruited and randomised to either exercise
      training or standard preoperative care (50 in each arm) to answer the following research
      questions:

        1. Can a supervised exercise programme improve performance in CPET measures that predict
           outcome in AAA surgery?

        2. What is the optimal period of training needed to achieve a significant improvement in
           CPET scores?

        3. How long is any exercise-induced improvement in fitness sustained?

        4. The economic and health costs of a supervised exercise training programme

      Exercise subjects will attend a 60 minute supervised exercise programme of moderate intensity
      (70% of heart rate reserve) x3/week at a local gym. All participants will undergo CPET
      assessment of cardiopulmonary fitness and complete a health-related quality of life (Medical
      Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey) at baseline and 18 weeks. The exercise
      subjects will undergo further CPET studies at 6, 12 and 36 weeks to investigate the duration
      of training needed to optimise fitness and the length of time improvements in fitness
      persist. Other important health related outcomes include blood pressure and lipid profile and
      frequency of health service visits (e.g. General Practitioner appointments) will be recorded
      for all participants at baseline and 18 weeks to provide data on the effects of exercise on
      health care costs. Longitudinal regression models, with Normal and Poisson distributions as
      appropriate, will be used to assess differences between the groups with respect to CPET
      changes, other health-related outcomes and frequency of health service visits over the whole
      study period. This pilot study will also explore strategies to encourage participation and
      compliance with exercise which may also improve general health outcomes and save National
      Health Service (NHS) costs by reducing demand.

      The overall aim is to collect the data needed to design a definitive multicentre trial on
      whether physical exercise reduces morbidity and/or mortality in AAA repair.

      Those aged >65 are the fastest growing segment of our population. This pilot study will
      contribute to public health policy drive on the impact of physical activity on functional
      capacity, quality of life and independence.
    
  