
    
      This research study is developing a new checklist to measure communicative coping behaviors
      of persons with Alzheimer's Disease in the home environment. The Communicative Coping
      Behavior Checklist (CCBC) is an observation checklist to be completed by the caregiver or
      knowledgeable informant. The current version includes 23 behaviors to be rated for frequency
      and effectiveness. The behaviors that will be observed cover management of memory loss within
      three broad categories: humor, explanations, and general coping behaviors.

      Two kinds of couples will participate in this study. One includes a person with Alzheimer's
      Disease and their caregiver. The second includes a cognitively intact participant and study
      partner, both over the age of 60, to serve as controls.

      Study Visit 1 (3 hours long) During the first visit, the person with Alzheimer's
      Disease/control participant can expect to be asked questions about their memory, thinking and
      concentration, demographics, quality of life, and mood. The caregiver/study partner will be
      asked about their quality of life, mood, and daily activities.

      At the end of the visit the caregiver/study partner will be given a copy of the CCBC and
      asked to take it home. S/he will be instructed to rate the person with Alzheimer's Disease/
      control participant's communicative coping behavior over the course of the next two weeks. At
      the end of that time, a research assistant will call the caregiver/study partner and
      administer the CCBC over the telephone.

      Study Visit 2 (3 hours long) The second visit will occur in the clinic approximately 12
      months from the date of the first visit. As with the first study visit, again both the person
      with Alzheimer's Disease/control participant and the caregiver/study partner will answer
      questions about their memory, quality of life, mood, and daily activities. Once again, the
      caregiver/study partner will be given a copy of the CCBC and asked to take it home and
      complete.

      Both visits will take about three hours for the caregiver/study partner and about two hours
      for the person with dementia or control subject.
    
  