
    
      Spinal orthosis is an option to treat Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS) and is the most
      commonly used among conservative treatment. According to Scoliosis Research Society (SRS),
      orthotic treatment is indicated for AIS patients with curves greater than 25˚ but smaller
      than 45˚. However, the in-brace correction is hardly maintained and the effectiveness of
      orthotic treatment is limited, which has been an impetus to develop a more effective method
      for AIS patients to fulfill the unmet need. In order the orthosis is effective, biomechanical
      intervention and the patient compliance are two key factors. The purpose of this two-year
      project is to develop a new spinal orthosis in which an integrated system of electric surface
      stimulation and heat sensing is imbedded such that the AIS will be effectively treated with
      the mechanical orthosis plus a nocturnal use of electrical stimulation. In addition to the
      already stellar device, a totally new concept of spine erectability is proposed to provide
      evidence that can manifest the unique value of orthotic treatment as opposed to surgery. It
      is hypothesized that the new spinal orthosis would not only reduce the Cobb angle and apical
      rotation but also would strengthen the spine erectability in AIS patients. The new device
      with digital technology provides a new avenue to enable clinicians to communicate wirelessly
      with the imbedded core system such that they can adjust the electrical stimulation parameters
      and retrieve the temperature data for further compliance analysis. The smart phone and cloud
      technology can be effectively applied for both security and convenience. The electrical
      stimulation technology integrated with the total contact spinal orthosis combines the
      external correction forces on the spinal skeleton from the passive orthosis with the muscle
      forces at the lateral trunk from the stimulation process. The electrical stimulation is
      purposely to tone the muscle in order to replace the external mechanical forces gradually.
      Ultimately, when being weaned off the orthosis, patients may maintain the correction. With
      the spinal orthosis, the applied current in stimulation process would be reduced and the skin
      irritation would too. First year, there will be three tasks. An instrument will be developed
      for clinicians to assess the applicability of electrical surface stimulation to each AIS
      patient. System integration of the spinal orthosis with electrical surface stimulation and
      heat sensing will be accomplished. Clinical study of the effectiveness of passive spinal
      orthoses on 30 AIS subjects as a control group, where the Cobb angle, apical rotation and
      spine erectability will be measured before treatment and after. Second year, another 30 AIS
      patients will be recruited; the applicability of electrical surface stimulation will be
      assessed; and the new spinal orthosis will be applied to the experiment group. The Cobb
      angle, apical rotation and spine erectability will be measured before treatment and after for
      each subject. Independent t test will be carried out for the two groups to test the
      hypothesis.
    
  