
    
      Operatively managed diabetic ankle fractures have significant risk for complications. The
      cause for failure is likely multifactorial, however, a component of failure has to do with an
      inability to process pain and pressure normally. This loss of protective sensation allows for
      an increase in abnormal stresses placed on the recently repaired fractures. Historically,
      diabetics have been kept non weight bearing for extended periods of time, which has its own
      functional and cardiovascular issues. The purpose of the study is to determine if a protocol
      of immediate weight bearing with a hindfoot offloading brace after surgically corrected ankle
      fracture in a diabetic patient will maintain adequate motion, have no difference in
      complications when compared to regular non-immediate weight bearing protocols, and lead to
      good outcome scores and patient satisfaction scores

      Patients will be recruited from the trauma and foot & ankle service lines. Patients who have
      experienced an isolated ankle fracture (excluding pilon fracture) and will undergo operative
      fixation within 3 weeks of injury will be approached for consent. Patients will then be
      screened based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Up to 25 patients will be enrolled

      The following protocol will be applied after enrollment

        1. Pre-operatively

           a. Hemoglobin A1c will also be collected from each patient if it has not been performed
           within the last 30 days.

        2. Post-operatively a. Post-surgery i. Standard of Care:

      1. Placement into short leg, non-weight bearing splint to allow for wound healing and brace
      fabrication ii. Research Specific:

      1. Fitted for brace (will be custom made and take approximately 1-2 weeks) b. 2 week visit
      (standard of care timepoint) i. Standard of Care:

        1. Placed into compression stockings

        2. Counseling regarding skin checks and diabetic skin care

        3. Physical therapy prescription given ii. Research Specific

      1. Placement into brace so it offloads the hindfoot to 15 pounds of pressure or less 2.
      Education by prosthetist, physiatrist, and/or attending physician about proper brace wear and
      maintenance, and the importance of weight bearing only in brace.

      c. 3 Week visit (not standard of care timepoint) i. Research Specific

      1. Ankle radiographs d. 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 Weeks, 26 weeks, and 1 year visits (standard of
      care time points) i. Standard of Care

        1. Surveys (PROMIS, AAOS Foot and Ankle)

        2. Ankle Radiographs ii. Research Specific

      1. Counseling regarding brace wear 2. Brace adjustments as needed e. 8 week, 10 week, 14
      week, 16 week, (non-standard of care biweekly visits until healing occurs) i. Research
      Specific

        1. Ankle Radiographs (if early failure is suspected)

        2. Skin Check

      Upon study completion, patients will continue with post-operative rehab following the
      surgeon's standard of care. If a patients is removed prematurely or if the study ends
      prematurely, they will receive standard of care procedures going forward
    
  