
    
      Due to optimized therapies life expectancy of patients with metastasizing cancer increases.
      Bone metastases affect 10% - 30% of all cancer patients, especially located in the vertebral
      column. The main clinical problems are back pain and an increased risk of pathological
      fracture. Therefore optimized palliative treatments to improve quality of life are necessary.

      External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) is a well-established treatment option for patients with
      spinal metastases. EBRT often results in an adequate pain relief with good local tumor
      control . Of the retrospective series that described pain outcome mentioned in the systematic
      review by Gerszten et al., a mean of 70% of patients had improvement in pain after radiation
      therapy. The mean rate of local control was 77%. Although EBRT is the standard treatment for
      painful vertebral metastases, the optimal dose fraction schedule or the optimal standard dose
      has not been established. Different fractionation schedules of EBRT are discussed in a
      recently published review. Literature data confirm time to pain reduction of about 8-10 days
      after EBRT.

      Balloon kyphoplasty is another valuable treatment option for patients with painful and
      instable metastases to the vertebral column. In the recent published trial by Berenson et al.
      134 patients with vertebral compression fractures were enrolled and randomly assigned to
      kyphoplasty or non-surgical management. The study found that patients treated with
      kyphoplasty had a significant reduction of back pain after seven days. Nevertheless
      kyphoplasty has no direct anticancer effect and external beam radiotherapy has to follow to
      avoid early regrowth. But EBRT after kyphoplasty or EBRT alone takes up to 2-4 weeks. This
      long treatment period can often be a mental and physical strain. Moreover patients with
      simultaneous visceral metastases often need chemotherapy which cannot be applied concurrently
      to radiotherapy due to the risk of potentiated toxicity. To reduce treatment time and
      increase quality of life novel techniques like kyphoplasty combined with other physical
      methods are under development. Recently published trials showed good results relating to pain
      relief and local tumor control in patients with spinal metastases treated with kyphoplasty
      combined with intravertebral administration of 153Samarium or interstitial implantation of
      125I seeds. Therefore we developed a novel approach to deliver intraoperative radiotherapy
      during kyphoplasty (Kypho-IORT). Based on our recently published reports Kypho-IORT is a
      technical feasible new treatment option without severe side effects. We observed an excellent
      pain relief. At the first postoperative day improvement of pain was observed in 11 of 16
      (69%) patients and no change in 5 of 16 (31%) patients. During further follow-up, improvement
      of pain was seen in 75% - 83% of the patients compared to the preoperative status. According
      to these results a dose escalation study has been initiated, which has been completed (NCT
      01280032). According to the results of this study a dose of 8 Gy in 10 mm depth from the
      applicator surface (correlates to a dose prescription from the isocenter of the radiation
      source of 8 Gy in 13 mm) is recommended for further Kypho-IORTs.

      According to this the aim of this planned phase III study is to test the superiority of
      kyphoplasty or vertebroplasty + IORT (in the following abbreviated as Kypho-IORT) compared to
      EBRT with regard to time to pain reduction at defined points in time (day 1, week 2, 6 weeks
      after start of treatment).

      We assume a pain reduction of VAS-3 points at day one (first day after Kypho-IORT, one day
      after the first EBRT) for 40% of the patients after Kypho-IORT vs. 5% of the patients after
      EBRT under standard pain medication (no change of the pretherapeutic pain medication 12 h
      after Kypho-IORT or rather 24 h after the first EBRT). Each study arm needs 22 patients, to
      reach an alpha of 0, 05 and a power of 0,817. Plus a dropout rate of 20% at least 54 patients
      have to be recruited.

      All patients with spinal metastases who present for treatment will be given, if these have
      not been done in advance: a MRI and a CT of the total spine and a clinical examination,
      especially a neurological examination.

      Kypho-IORT will be carried out under general anaesthesia like the standard procedure with
      minor modifications. All patients will be placed in prone position on a radiolucent table.
      For intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) the Intrabeam System (Carl Zeiss Surgical, Oberkochen,
      Germany) will be used. In order to carry out the intraoperative radiation therapy, working
      cannulas are inserted into the affected vertebral body in a normal bipedicular procedure,
      special sleeves are inserted monopedicularly. These serve as guides for the radiation
      applicator. After checking the correct positioning of the working cannulas using fluoroscopic
      guidance, the specially designed applicator is placed precisely in the vertebral body.
      Documentation of the location of the tip of the INTRABEAM System should be performed whenever
      possible using bi-planar X-rays.

      After verification the selected dose of 8 Gy in a depth of 13 mm from the isocenter of the
      radiation source is applied for a period of approximately 5 minutes.

      After completion of the radiation therapy, the radiation unit including the applicator is
      removed and the operation is concluded in accordance with standard procedure.

      The external beam radiotherapy will be usually carried out as an outpatient procedure. All
      patients will receive a planning CT before the first irradiation. EBRT will be performed with
      30 Gy, added in 3 Gy per fraction or 8 Gy single dose (only for international study centers,
      not permitted in Germany) on a conventional linear accelerator (LINAC). During EBRT, patients
      are routinely seen once weekly by physicians and evaluated for adverse reactions.

      Before treatment the registration form has to be filled out including the following items:

        -  evaluation of inclusion and exclusion criteria,

        -  anamnesis (size, weight, Karnofsky Index, standard pain medication, concomitant
           illnesses),

        -  objectification of the patient's current pain situation using the Visual Analog Scale
           (VAS) local and in general,

        -  primary tumor,

        -  localization and size of the vertebral body metastases

        -  quality of life assessment (EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-BM22). Moreover all patients
           receive an MRI and a CT of the spine and a neurological examination.

      Follow-up visits will be scheduled after 6 weeks, then after 3 months, then every 6 months up
      to 5 years. At each follow-up the following information will be documented:

        -  weight,

        -  Karnofsky Index,

        -  general progress/regress of underlying illness,

        -  standard pain medication

        -  pain level based on the VAS (in general, local).

      Furthermore, an inspection of the surgical scar to exclude wound healing problems and a
      neurological examination to document any functional impairment due to spinal cord or nerve
      damage will be carried out. To assess skin toxicity, photographic documentation of the
      surgical scar/irradiation field will be carried out. For documentation of osteoradionecrosis,
      pathological fractures and relapses a MRI or CT examinations will be carried out. The
      evaluation of the MRI or CT examinations will be performed by the radiologists of the
      respective participating clinic, or in the case of externally prepared images, by the
      radiologists of the medical practice. To document Quality of Life, the patients will be
      requested to complete two questionnaires of the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-BM22) before Kypho-IORT/EBRT and during the
      follow-up examinations. Answering the questions will take approximately 10 minutes. The
      follow-up and documentation of patient specific data will end 5 years after therapy.

      Classification and graduating of side effects are rated by "Common Toxicity Criteria"
      (CTCv4.0) of the National Cancer Institute. To document acute toxicities after Kypho-IORT, a
      physical examination including in particular an inspection of the surgical scar and an
      evaluation of the current pain level (VAS) will be performed one day and 2 weeks after
      Kypho-IORT. Moreover a conventional X-ray of the affected section of the spine will be
      performed one day after Kypho-IORT. One day after the first EBRT and after the last EBRT,
      same-day, a physical examination and an evaluation of the current pain level (VAS) will be
      performed to document acute toxicities. Moreover during EBRT, patients are routinely seen
      once weekly by physicians and evaluated for adverse reactions. If necessary, any occurring
      acute reactions will be documented upon discharge from the hospital and checked at the
      follow-up appointments.

      The acquisition of late toxicities will be done based on the LENT SOMA score. To document the
      late toxicities, follow-up examinations with magnetic resonance imaging or computer
      tomography, as well as another physical examination will be performed. Moreover a
      photographic documentation of the surgical scar/irradiation field will be carried out to
      assess skin toxicity.

      Serious adverse events (SAEs) are defined as any event that is fatal, life threatening,
      causes or prolongs hospitalization; causes disability or incapacity or requires medical
      intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage, or any grade 4 toxicity. Only
      radiation or surgery related SAEs should be reported. Hospitalization for performing
      protocol-required procedures is not classified as an SAE. Hospitalization for disease-related
      procedures (surgery, imaging, laboratory tests) or any procedures planned before entry into
      the study are not considered SAEs. Hospitalizations for social reasons in the absence of an
      adverse event are not classified as SAEs either. Furthermore radiation or surgery related
      SAEs requiring therapy should be documented (e.g. antibiotics, re-surgery).

      In case of death an autopsy should be done to clarify the cause of death. The trial will be
      carried out in compliance with the protocol, the principles laid down in the declaration of
      Helsinki, version as of October 1996 (as long as local laws do not require to follow other
      versions), in accordance with the ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical
      Practice (GCP), the harmonized standards for Medical Devices (ISO 14155) and all other
      applicable regulatory requirements (local, regional and global). Standard medical care
      (prophylactic, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures) remains in the responsibility of the
      treating physician of the patient.

      This study is approved by the local ethics committee and the Federal Office of Radiation
      Protection.

      The informed consent is performed written and verbally by the responsible physician. The
      informed consent is done at least 24 h before treatment. During the education the physician
      has to indicate that a withdrawal is possible at each time and does not result in
      disadvantages for the patient.

      Treatment of the patient must be discontinued if one or more of the following criteria apply:

        -  revocation of the patient's declaration of informed consent

        -  lack of compliance

        -  discontinuation of the therapy for other reasons deemed necessary by the responsible
           physician (unfavorable intraoperative geometry)

        -  Grade IV skin toxicity, i.e. skin necroses that require surgical intervention

        -  Grade IV bone toxicity, i.e. aseptic bone necroses that require surgical intervention

        -  Grade IV nervous system toxicity, i.e. paresis When therapy is discontinued, the reasons
           for discontinuing patient participation in the study must be listed in the patient's
           file.

      The steering committee is allowed to close the study ahead of schedule.

      Other termination criteria include:

        -  insufficient patient recruitment

        -  unexpectedly severe toxicities (second Grade IV toxicity within the study)

        -  unexpected findings which prevent the continuation of the study for ethical and/or
           medical reasons (new benefit/risk analysis)
    
  