
    
      A SPF 30 sunscreen (containing chemical and physical UV filters), an after-sun lotion
      containing liposomal encapsulated micrococcus luteus lysate with endonuclease activity and
      photolyase (active AS), and an after-sun placebo formulation (containing no DNA repair
      enzymes) (placebo AS) has been used in this study. Fourteen PLE patients were enrolled. On
      day 1, the individual minimal erythema dose (MED) was assessed on patients' buttock skin by
      exposure to a test ladder of solar-simulated UVR (xenon arc source, Oriel Corp. Darmstadt,
      Germany). From day 2 to 5, 0.75 individual MED exposures (increased by 0 to 25% per exposure,
      depending on the erythema response to a preceding dose) were given to a total of four 5-by-5
      cm skin test fields on symmetrically located, individual PLE predilection sites on the trunk
      or extremities. The test fields were treated in randomized and double-blinded fashion either
      with SPF30 sunscreen 20 min before UVR exposure, active AS or placebo AS (all creams at a
      concentration of 2mg/cm2) immediately after UVR exposure, or left untreated. Sixty minutes
      after UVR exposure all test areas were treated with visible light (400 to 450nm, 5J/cm2) to
      activate the light dependent photolyase DNA repair mechanism. The photo test procedure led to
      the appearance of PLE symptoms in unprotected test fields of 12/14 (86%) patients, active
      AS-treated test fields of 6/14 (43%) patients (p<0.05), placebo AS-treated test fields of
      10/14 (71%) patients (p, ns), and no (0%) sunscreen-protected test fields of any patient
      (p<0.0001 vs. unprotected test fields, Fisher exact test). These results provide evidence
      that i) DNA damage is a trigger of PLE, ii) increasing DNA repair can prevent induction of
      PLE symptoms, and iii) the use of sun care preparations containing DNA repair enzymes may be
      clinically useful for PLE patients.
    
  