
    
      OBJECTIVES Evidence of the cardiovascular health effects of both acute and chronic exposure
      to ambient fine particulate matter (PM) has continued to accumulate in epidemiologic and
      experimental studies, without a demonstrated coherent pathophysiologic explanation. At the
      same time, the role of endothelial homeostasis in the development and triggering of
      cardiovascular disease has become more clear and compelling. Importantly, oxidative stress
      has emerged as a potential link between these two developments: Oxidative stress is known to
      play a role in endothelial dysfunction and is exerted by components of PM, especially of PM
      from combustion products. Based on this we propose an overall hypothesis: Inhalation of
      combustion-derived particles impact cardiovascular health by impairing endothelial function,
      through mechanisms mediated by increased oxidative stress.

      Diesel exhaust particulate (DEP), an important contributor to ambient fine PM, has been
      demonstrated to exert oxidative stress in experimental systems. We propose a series of
      experiments to explore whether human exposure to DEP results in alteration of endothelial
      homeostasis and evidence of oxidative stress, and whether an antioxidant regimen can blunt
      the effects on endothelial function.

      The objectives of this proposed research are to address the following specific hypotheses:

        1. Human exposure to inhaled DEP (at concentrations approximating 0, 100, 200 μg PM2.5/m3
           [PM less than 2.5 microns in aerodynamic diameter]) results in concentration-related
           alteration of endothelial homeostasis, as reflected in ultrasonographic measurement of
           the brachial artery, plasma markers of endothelial homeostasis (endothelin-1, ICAM-1
           [intercellular adhesion molecule-1], e-selectin, nitric oxide metabolites nitrate [NO3-]
           and nitrite [NO2-], IL-6, and TNF-α), and markers of thrombosis associated with
           endothelial activation or injury (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 [PAI-1], Von
           Willebrand's factor [VWF], and D-dimer).

        2. Human exposure to inhaled DEP at 200 µg PM2.5/m3 results in evidence of systemic
           oxidative stress as assessed by markers in plasma and urine (isoprostane F-2α).

        3. Reduction in oxidant stress by ascorbate and N-acetylcysteine supplementation blunts the
           effect of inhaled DEP on endothelial function, as determined by ultrasonographic
           assessment of the brachial artery, plasma markers of endothelial homeostasis, or markers
           of thrombosis associated with endothelial activation.
    
  