
    
      The objective of this investigation is the comparison of CoOxHb, HCT and SaO2 values of a
      blood gas analyzer (ABL 825, Radiometer Medical A/S) with simultaneously measured SpHb values
      of the Radical 7 device during the procedure of major spine surgery.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the reliability of SpHb to detect CoOxHb and its changes
      during the process Secondary endpoint is the reliability of RadSpO2, RadPR, SpHCT and SpMET
      to detect SaO2, PR, HCT and MetHb and its changes during the process.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Patients scheduled for major spine surger

        2. Age 18 years and older

        3. Written consent of the participation after clarification about the study

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. No consent to participate

        2. No German comprehension

        3. Black skin patients

        4. Patients with COVID-19 illness All patients were monitored based on the institutional
           routine monitoring for major spine surgery (continuous 2-channel electrocardiogram, a
           continuous invasive arterial blood pressure monitoring via fluid-filled cather system,
           inserted in the radial artery mainly of the non-dominant hand, SpO2, and in the case of
           high-risk patient a triple-lumen central venous line). Then a single use finger sensor
           (MasimoSet RD rainbow SET SpHb SpMet-Sensor) is attahed to the ring finger of the hand,
           where the catheter is introduced in the radial artery.

      During the surgery routinely, arterial blood samples are drawn before induction of
      Anaesthesia, every 45 min and after acute blood loss during surgery. With each blood sample
      for a blood gas analysis the SpHb, SpMet, PI, PVI and the low SQI are recorded.

      No additional blood sampling is necessary to perfom this investigation

      50 patients will be included and the duration of the study is 24 month's Sample size
      calculation was performed with the StatsDirect Statistical Software Version 2.8.0 2013
      (StatsDirect Ltd, Altrincham, UK) and revealed a sample size of 95 paired SpHb and CoOxHb
      measurements to achieve a power of 0.9, α = 0.05 to detect a mean difference (bias) of CoOxHb
      and SpHb of 0.50 g/dl with an estimated standard deviation (SD) of 1.0g/dl. The mean
      difference is determined based on previous investigations. Continuous variables are tested
      for normal distribution with the Kolmogorov-Smirnow test. Normally distributed data are
      expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD); median, interquartile range (IQR ; 25th to 75th
      percentile) and [maximum] are specified when the data were not normally distributed.
      Categorical variables are presented as number and percentage (%). For subgroup analysis
      continuous variables are compared using the t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, when appropriate.
      All tests are two-sided and a P-value < 0.05 was determined to be significant.

      For all determinants that might have an impact on the fault detection of the SpHb stepwise
      multiple regressions analysis was performed. Correlation is evaluated by Spearman rank test.
      To determine agreement of the methods, the Bland Altman analysis for repeated measurements is
      performed for SpHb and CoOcHb.
    
  