
    
      Description of Study Visit and Follow-Up:

      Screening and Baseline Assessment Visit. Individuals who complete the online screener (i.e.,
      REDCap) and meet initial study inclusion criteria will be invited to complete the in person
      screener and baseline visit at the Tobacco Treatment Research Program (TTRP). Potential
      participants will be provided with detailed information about the study and given the
      opportunity to have their questions answered within a private room to ensure confidentiality.
      Study staff will review the consent form with interested participants, who will be screened
      for eligibility on-site in a private room in the clinic. Participant eligibility for the
      current study will not influence eligibility for treatment at the TTRP. The Rapid Estimate of
      Adult Literacy in Medicine-Short Form (REALM45) will be administered to ensure that all
      participants are able to read at > sixth grade level (i.e., required to complete EMA and
      self-report questionnaires). Participants will also be asked to read aloud from the Informed
      Consent form. Expired carbon monoxide (CO) will be measured with a Vitalograph BreathCO
      carbon monoxide monitor and a Bedfont iCO carbon monoxide monitor. The purpose of using both
      monitors is to validate the Bedfont iCO device. Participants will be questioned in person to
      verify the information they provided during the REDCap screening process. Race/ethnicity,
      sex, cigarettes smoked per day, education, and readiness to quit smoking will be used to
      randomize participants to the Phoenix, Phoenix + NRT, or Factoid groups using adaptive
      randomization software. Participants will complete the assessment portion of the baseline
      visit on a laptop/tablet computer; and weight, and height will be measured in a private room
      to ensure confidentiality.

      Participants will be instructed that the app will prompt and deliver two messages per day and
      that they should click the "Set New Quit Date" button when/if they want to set a smoking
      cessation quit date. They will be informed that the app will offer smoking cessation
      resources after they set a quit date.

      Week 26 Follow-Up Phone Call. All participants will be asked to complete a brief 10-15 minute
      follow-up interview over the phone. Participants will be asked about their current smoking
      status, their opinions about the smartphone app, and how the app could be improved for future
      studies.
    
  