
    
      Hypothesis Subjects can safely use the Myomo e100 NeuroRobotic System in the home.

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      1. Safety:

        1. Safety of the device will be measured by the number of unanticipated or significant
           device related adverse events reported over a three week period of time. Minor known
           risks anticipated from device use are mild muscle soreness and fatigue. These will not
           be considered adverse events.

           Secondary objectives & outcome measures:

           A series of secondary outcome measures will be taken for the reasons listed below:

           • ROM in the affected arm will be taken at the elbow, specifically elbow extension and
           flexion

             -  MMT will be taken for the bicep and tricep muscles

             -  The Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Inventory (CAHAI) will be administered at the
                start and end of the study scale to measure changes in functional recovery of the
                arm and hand. 4 This is a valid, clinically relevant, responsive functional
                assessment of the recovering paretic upper limb and uses bilateral, real-life
                items. Successful changes in this test will be defined as a predetermined minimum
                increase in scores. This inventory will provide two types of information: 1st
                baseline measures of the severity of the individual's impairment and functional
                levels. This will help identify which groups of stroke patients are best suited for
                this product in the home

             -  Additionally, since the subjects will be practicing specific tasks on the Chedoke
                via repetitive task practice it is anticipated that there may be a change in the
                Chedoke scores at the end of four weeks.

             -  Motor Activity Log, a semi-structured interview for hemiparetic stroke patients
                will be administered at the study start and end, as well as weekly by the therapist
                during the weekly visits to assess the use of their paretic arm and hand (amount of
                use [AOU]) and quality of movement [QOM]) during activities of daily living. It is
                anticipated that the subject will use the device more each week as the subject is
                more acquainted with the device and as tasks become easier. 5

             -  Data will also be captured to determine if subjects are able to be trained to
                successfully don, doff, and operate the device via passing a competency exam.

             -  Pain in the shoulder, arm, and hand areas will be assessed on a VAS (0-10) weekly
                at the therapist visit. It is not anticipated that there will be an increase in arm
                pain beyond normal muscle soreness related to increase utilization of muscle fibers
                after several months of inactivity.6

             -  Skin areas on the affected arm will be examined by the therapist at the weekly
                visit and noted for redness or skin breakdown.

           Subject Population:

           Goal: 6 (completers) subjects

           (Goal 15 enrolled to accommodate drop outs and those who may not pass the competency
           exam)

           Study Intervention:

           Initial training:

           Subjects will come to the clinic over a period of 5 days, for up to three, 2 hour
           sessions each to perform all pre tests, learn how to properly don, operate the device,
           and to safely perform a series of home activities. The teaching therapist will determine
           the appropriate device settings for the subject.

           During the first session the subject will:

           1. Review and sign the informed consent form 2. Perform all pre and post tests under the
           supervision of a therapist 3. Receive an introduction to the device that will include
           fitting, basic operation and safety related items to operating the device (i.e.) and
           simple flexion and extension tasks.

           4. The subject will be given a user manual and MAL. He/she will be asked to fill out the
           MAL so the therapist can get an idea of what the person can do on a daily basis. The
           subject will be asked to be familiar with the user manual. The subject will return in 2
           days.

           During the second training session the subject and therapist will:

           1. Review donning and doffing the brace 2. Review turning the device on and off 3.
           Review safety and the user manual 4. Take a device competency test to ensure the subject
           is aware of all safety precautions and basic device operation. If they fail they will be
           allowed to come back to Myomo for up to 4 additional visit in order to provide an
           opportunity to pass the competency. .

           5. Next the therapist will program the device specifically to the subject's level of
           competency. The subject will be given specific device settings based on their ability to
           perform the tasks in table 1 which the therapist feels is the most appropriate for the
           patient. The goal of the setting is to provide the subject with assistance with the
           activities.

           6. The subject will be instructed in how to fill out the home user log. 7. The subject
           will be provided with the therapist's direct number if any questions related to
           operation arise.

           The third through sixth visit will be utilized if the subject requires further
           instruction and review.

           Initial assessments:

           On the first training session, the treating therapist will adminster commonly utilized,
           non invasive, therapeutic outcome measures. These measures will include but are not
           limited to: the subject's range of motion( elbow flexion and extension), manual muscle
           strength in the bicep and tricep, functional measures such as: Chedoke Arm and Hand
           Activity Inventory (CAHAI), the Motor Activity Log (MAL) and affected arm pain
           assessment using the Visual Ananlog Scale.(VAS)

           Assigned treatment tasks:

           During 15 sessions, over a period of three weeks, the subjects will then be asked to
           perform tasks at home with the device on. The subjects will be asked to perform these
           tasks at home for approximately one hour each session. The frequency of sessions will
           be: 5 times per week..

           After a brief stretching and warm up period, each subject will be asked to perform
           muscular re-education and ROM activities. A sample of possible activities put together
           by a panel of expert therapists can be found in table 1.

           Table 1. # Task Device mode to be used Number of Sets/Reps

             1. Bend and straighten the elbow while seated (bicep/tricep mode) 3sets/10 reps

             2. Straighten the elbow and hold 10 seconds while seated (tricep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

             3. Wall Push Ups/Seated or standing (tricep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

             4. Bicep curls with a rolling pin (bicep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

             5. Pick up a box from various heights (bicep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

             6. Place container on table (focus on straightening the arm) (tricep mode) 3 stes/10
                reps

             7. Steady oneself on a counter top while standing x 20 seconds (tricep mode) 3 sets/10
                reps

             8. Carry an object in hand from place to place (bicep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

             9. Toss a ball (overhand or underhand) (bicep mode/tricep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

            10. Pick up tooth-brush and brush teeth (bicep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

            11. Pick up glass (bicep mode) 3 sets/10 reps

           The therapist will provide the patient with a work sheet that lists the exercises chosen
           from the list above, the mode and settings for the device and the number of sets and
           reps that should be performed.

           Then, after each session the subject will be asked to complete a simple log that tracks
           compliance.

           If any type of injury occurs when using the device it will be reported by the subject
           immediately to the therapist or PI via phone. The incident will be thoroughly documented
           using guidelines set in place by the New England IRB.

           Weekly therapist visit The patient will return to the research laboratory once a week at
           Myomo,Inc. The therapist will then review the home use journal with the subject and
           confirm if no adverse events were reported that none occurred.

           Final study visit:

           The last study visit will include post evaluation report. The research therapist will
           take ROM, MMT measurements, administer the MAL,the CAHAI and the VAS for pain. Finally,
           a simple questionnaire about the ease of use of the device and satisfaction with use.
           Any adverse events since the last visit will be recorded.

           Physician visit:

           Any patient who reports upper limb pain, rash, joint swelling, skin changes or skin
           injury or any other condition associated with use of the device will be directly
           referred to their treating physician by the PI or study therapist via phone and a follow
           up letter.

           Adverse Event:

           An Adverse Event is defined as any injury sustained by the subject during the study
           visits. Examples of occurrences that would be considered Adverse Events include but are
           not limited to:

             -  Bruising of arm soft tissue

             -  Spasms

             -  Shoulder pain

           All Adverse Events must be noted in the CRF by marking the Adverse Event check box and
           then providing a detailed description of the Adverse Event in the notes section of the
           form. In addition to the standard information captured in the CRF, the notes on the
           Adverse Event should include information about the specific activity (functional,
           exercise, or otherwise) that the subject was engaged with at the time of the event, as
           well any relevant circumstances surrounding the event. Any adverse event must be
           reviewed by the entire study staff. The adverse event must be reported to the NEIRB in a
           timely manner and not more than 72 hours after the event.

           Serious adverse events must be reported to the NEIRB as soon as possible, but not more
           than 24 hours after the event.
    
  