
    
      Blood transfusion is one of the most common procedures performed during hospitalization.
      Approximately 85 million red blood cell (RBC) units are transfused globally each year. RBC
      units are matched for blood groups but matching for other donor characteristics such as sex,
      is not considered. By the current standard of care, female or male patients can receive RBCs
      from male or female donors. However, accumulating data suggests that sex-mismatched
      transfusions may be harmful.

      Sex-mismatched transfusions and transplantations have been associated with poor outcomes.
      Plasma from female donors is associated with an increased risk of transfusion related acute
      lung injury (TRALI); sex-mismatched heart transplantation is associated with increased
      transplant-associated mortality; and stem cell transplants from female donors are associated
      with worse outcomes.

      Anemia is common during critical illness and 20-40% of critically ill patients require a mean
      of two to five RBC units during admission to the intensive care unit (ICU). Once a patient
      receives more than six RBC units, virtually all patients (>97%) will have received at least
      one sex-mismatched RBC. The population of transfused ICU adult patients is already at high
      risk of death, with a demonstrated 90-day all-cause mortality of 35-37% based on the ABLE
      study, and in-hospital mortality of 24-34% (institutional data). Thus, new supportive care
      strategies are needed to improve outcomes of this highly vulnerable patient group.

      Transfusion data linked to donor sex spanning a 6-year period was previously analyzed. Using
      a careful analysis that controlled for covariates and stratified on time-dependent and fixed
      variables, 25,219 transfusion recipients were retrospectively analyzed and a significant
      association between male to female RBC transfusions and death [hazard ratio (HR) 1.31, 95%
      confidence interval (CI) 1.02-1.69] was found. A trend towards higher mortality was also
      noted with female to male RBCs (HR 1.13: 95% CI 0.92-1.39), and with sex-mismatched vs.
      sex-matched RBCs overall (HR 1.23: 95% CI 1.04-1.45). These findings suggest that matching
      RBC transfusions for sex can reduce mortality in ICU patients.

      The investigators hypothesize that donor-recipient sex-matched RBC transfusions are
      associated with improved survival in hospital compared to sex-mismatched RBC transfusions.
      Sex-matched RBC transfusions may represent an important, readily implementable advance in
      supportive care of critically ill patients.
    
  