
    
      Cerebral stroke, the first cause of death in China, seriously affects the health and living
      of people.Its high incidence, disability, mortality and recurrence rate give a heavy burden
      on the family, society and country. According to TOAST classification, large-artery
      atherosclerosis ischemic stroke is one of the most common subtypes, and majority experts
      demonstrate its dynamic Cerebral Autoregulation (dCA) is impaired in affected hemisphere.

      Thrombolytic therapy with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), which remains the
      only therapeutic drug for acute ischemic stroke approved by the US Food and Drug
      Administration, is limited by the narrow time window of thrombolysis, bleeding complications,
      or high costs. Other treatment strategies mainly utilize therapeutic agents to prevent or
      reduce cell damage from ischemia. Butylphthalide (NBP) is a multiple target drug for the
      treatment of acute mild to moderate ischemic cerebral stroke.

      Cerebral autoregulation (CA) is the main mechanism that maintains relatively constant
      cerebral blood flow, which is critical for the normal functioning of physiological functions,
      as well as the occurrence, development and prognosis of the cerebral stroke.whether NBP can
      improve the dCA in large-artery atherosclerosis acute ischemic stroke has not been
      illustrated.

      Thus, in this study, investigators plan to enroll 774 eligible patients, which will be
      randomized into either the NBP or placebo group in a 2:1 ratio within 90 days follow-up to
      explore whether NBP can improve the dCA in large-artery atherosclerosis acute ischemic
      stroke. DCA measurement will be performed at 0, 10-14 and 83-97 days after entering the
      trial, nurses will collect intravenous blood 6ml 3 times (each time before dCA measurement,
      the blood samples will be stored for laboratory test). High resolution nuclear magnetic
      resonance will conduct twice (0, 83-97days after entering the trial). Clinical information,
      neuroimaging data, biochemical examinations and follow-up information will be collected and
      recorded in case report form (CRF) once signing of informed consent.
    
  