
    
      Background and significance. Patients with Migraine without Aura at high frequency of attacks
      (9/14 episode per month) are particularly exposed to the risk of medication overuse and
      chronification of their headache. The treatment of this category of patients can be difficult
      and they need a multidisciplinary treatment to learn techniques to manage their pain before
      than a chronic migraine condition has been induced. In recent years, non-pharmacological
      treatments have been proposed for treating patient with different forms of migraines and,
      among them, Mindfulness showed to be comparable to pharmacological prophylaxis.

      ACT (Acceptance Commitment Therapy) belongs to the third wave of behavioral approaches used
      for different pathological conditions; the attention is focused on mental processes and the
      objective of this intervention is the psychological flexibility by cultivating six different
      positive psychological capacities; acceptance, defusion, sense of self, mindfulness, values,
      committed actions.

      Reports in literature documented the effectiveness of ACT intervention to improve disability
      and impact in pain conditions and to develop the resilience of patients suffering from
      different physical or mental clinical problems. People with low resilience are exposed to
      have more emotional difficulties in terms of depression and anxiety and stress, in particular
      when they are suffering from chronic pain conditions such as migraine at high frequency,
      which has high impact on patients life. It has been demonstrated that specific interventions
      addressed to promote resilience can be helpful to reduce the impact of the disease and of
      pain. Studies on the use of mindfulness and ACT in particular in chronic pain conditions and
      migraine have demonstrated how these practices are helpful to tolerate pain, to contain the
      use of symptomatic medications and to modulate some specific characteristics of migraine
      patients personality, e.g. rigidity, low acceptance, low resilience.
    
  