
    
      This is a performance evaluation study designed to assess the precision and accuracy of the
      LumiraDx Point of Care (POC) D-Dimer test when used in patients presenting with symptoms of
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE), which mainly comprises deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary
      embolism (PE).

      The LumiraDx POC D-Dimer test is a quantitative immunoassay providing results in under 10
      minutes. The accuracy of the LumiraDx POC D-Dimer test will be assessed using capillary whole
      blood, venous blood, and plasma samples, by comparison to the D-Dimer results obtained from
      the same individuals as analysed by trained laboratory professionals using a reference
      device. The results of this study are intended to be used for regulatory filings for use as
      an in vitro diagnostic test in the European Union (EU) and other relevant geographies.

      Adult males and females presenting to the study sites with symptoms of VTE will be included
      in the study. Approximately 1000 subjects will be recruited in total. An initial analysis
      will be completed on the first 200 patients to determine accuracy of the LumiraDx D-Dimer
      test versus the reference method. The study will continue until 1000 patients are recruited
      and with a minimum of 120 confirmed VTE events, in order to complete retrospective analysis
      using the LumiraDx D-Dimer cut-off for exclusion of VTE.

      Once consent is obtained, blood tube samples will be drawn and finger-stick samples of
      capillary blood will be taken from the subject, these will be applied directly to unique test
      strips for immediate measurement of D-Dimer on the LumiraDx POC D-Dimer test.

      The D-Dimer results obtained via the LumiraDx D-Dimer test will be used in a set of
      comparative analyses designed to determine the performance characteristics of the test. This
      study is an observational, cross-sectional design. As an observational study of an
      investigative device, results obtained during the course of the study will not inform or
      alter patient management or treatment decisions in any way.
    
  