
    
      The Registry, which is Internet based, is intended to collect information about current
      practices in the management of GIST without making any specific change to the standard of
      care as decided by each patient's treating physician.

      If you agree to participate in this study, your doctor will provide information to a data
      registry about your physical and clinical traits, the past and current medical care you have
      received to treat your GIST, and clinically-related, economically-related, and health-related
      quality of life information. About 200 doctors will provide information on their patients for
      the Registry. Your doctor will collect this information when you first join the Registry and
      at each regularly scheduled visit you make to your doctor's office. The information
      collection will continue for as long as you and your doctor feel it is appropriate. The
      information that is entered into the Registry will remain there indefinitely. It is hoped
      that this sharing of information will lead to a better understanding of how to best treat
      patients with GIST.

      You and your doctor will decide what treatment you will receive. Because this Registry is
      only to observe actual medical practice, it does not require you to receive any particular
      treatment.

      Only your doctor and people who will help your doctor collect the information for this
      Registry will know which information submitted to the Registry belongs to you. Data will be
      tracked in the Registry using only ID numbers and patient initials. The information submitted
      on the Registry data collection forms will not be associated with a specific patient's
      identity. Separately, you will be asked to provide your name, place of birth, and Social
      Security number. This information will not be entered into the Registry databases and will
      only be used if it is necessary to perform a search should you become lost to follow up. If
      you do not want to provide your Social Security number you may still be enrolled in the
      Registry.

      This is an investigational study. About 100 patients from M. D. Anderson will be entered into
      the Registry. In all, about 1800 patients will be registered. The Registry will be active for
      at least 7 years.
    
  