
    
      Many patients with advanced prostate cancer along with their decision partners/ proxies (DPP)
      struggle with complex treatment decisions, such as when to start, change, or stop cancer
      directed treatment. Despite the utility of decision aids (DAs) to address decisional
      conflict, little is known about treatment decision-making for advanced cancers. The study's
      primary aim is to test the effects of a theory- based mHealth DA (CHAMPION) administered by
      Registered Nurse (RN)-Community Patient Navigator (CPN) teams to advanced prostate cancer
      patients and decision partners/proxies on the following outcomes: less decisional
      conflict/uncertainty, higher psychosocial quality of life domain (HRQL-PSY), and less regret
      at the time of making an anti-cancer treatment decision. The secondary aim is to evaluate the
      CPN role in delivery of the mHealth DA (CHAMPION) from the patients' and decision
      partners/proxies' perspective. Preliminary estimates of treatment effects by race to see if
      the data support a larger effect among African Americans versus Others in the primary and
      secondary aims will also be explored. This mixed-methods population-based randomized
      controlled trial will gather data from 158 patient/DPP pairs at three sites: University of
      Virginia Emily Couric Cancer Center, the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
      Hopkins University, and Virginia Commonwealth University Massey Cancer Center. The
      pretest/posttest design will measure a time period that includes three single-event decisions
      over the course of their cancer-directed treatment; and a qualitative retrospective design
      will allow exploring the experiences of both patients and their DPPs separately in an
      interview at the completion of the study. Stratification by race (African-American and
      Caucasian/Other) and decision point (starting vs. changing vs. stopping anticancer treatment)
      will be used. There will be two groups: the control (enhanced usual care [EUC]) group and the
      decision intervention (DI) group. The DI group will receive an interactive 7-component
      cognitive-behavioral skills mHealth program (DA) with a RN-CPN team, primarily focusing on
      decision-making during cancer treatment. Self-report measures will be used for all
      participants in addition to probes for the taped interviews with DI. The primary outcome
      measures are 1) decisional conflict (uncertainty), 2) decisional regret, 3) HRQL-PSY, and 4)
      decision-making participation preference. Generalized linear models will be used for data
      analysis for the quantitative component, and qualitative evaluation of the intervention will
      be conducted to capture each pair's experience of the CHAMPION intervention. This innovative
      mHealth DA delivered by a CPN is expected to increase acceptability and the uptake of both
      the DA and the technology components. This addresses several NIH/NINR innovative questions,
      through the use of information technology to promote health-related decision-making for
      providers and patients, examining patient outcomes for improvement in healthcare, as well as
      to engage and support individuals such as extended family, lay coaches, etc. to augment
      provider care and recommendations.
    
  