
    
      Patients with sickle cell anemia often require blood transfusion as part of the treatment for
      their disease. Since each teaspoon of packed red blood cells contains about 5 mg of iron and
      humans have no way to get rid of excess iron, the levels of iron in sickle cell patients
      increase rapidly with each transfusion. Too much iron is extremely dangerous and causes
      damage to blood vessels, red blood cells, liver, hormone producing glands and heart. It is
      very difficult to know what damage due to iron overload in sickle cell patients because the
      sickle cell disease itself causes organ damage to the same organs affected by iron.

      The purpose of this project is to demonstrate that iron overload significantly increases the
      morbidity of sickle cell disease and that treatment of the iron overload with Exjade®
      prevents or attenuates iron-related morbidity. To accomplish this we will screen sickle cell
      patients with a history of many blood transfusions to see if they have high iron levels. Then
      we will treat the patients who have very high iron levels with a drug which will remove the
      iron. Only patients with a very high iron level will be eligible for the treatment. These
      patients will have been transfused many times before but cannot currently be on blood
      transfusions. Before we start the treatment we will test the level of anemia, how fast the
      red cells are being destroyed, how well their blood vessels work and how well their heart
      works. When the treatment is over, we will repeat these tests and see if there is an
      improvement.

      To qualify for this study, you must carry the diagnosis of sickle cell anemia and you must
      have received 10 or more blood transfusions in your life. You also cannot currently be on a
      regular transfusion program where you are getting blood transfusions regularly planned more
      than three times a year.
    
  