
    
      Currently early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) complicating liver cirrhosis is often treated
      by percutaneous ablation techniques under ultrasound guidance: their performance is easy,
      safe and efficient. They are less invasive and expensive than surgical removal, representing
      a potential local cure for a larger number of patients than those who could be treated by a
      liver resection or offered a liver transplantation.

      Percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI), the first non-surgical technique introduced in clinical
      practice, has been widely used since the late eighties. PEI induces a chemical and ischemic
      coagulative necrosis in 70-80% of small (<3cm) HCC lesions. Necrosis obtained by this way is
      generally restricted to the neoplastic lesion itself; the chemical ablation may be moreover
      hampered by internal scars, that limit the uniform spreading of ethanol and by possible
      uncontrolled flows outside the lesion, with the ultimate result of a reduced necrotic effect
      and persistence of residual vital nests of neoplasia in as many as 33% of the cases.
      Nevertheless, the survival after PEI seems not different from surgery in retrospective series
      and this technique was indicated as the standard percutaneous treatment for early HCC in the
      2001 guidelines of the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL).

      In 1993 radio-frequency ablation (RF) was proposed as a new technique for the ablation of
      small HCCs. RF induces heat-generated coagulative necrosis of the neoplastic lesion and
      surrounding liver tissue. However, RF is not suitable for lesions situated close to large
      vessels or hollow viscera, as the first can decrease heat generation and the latter can be
      damaged by the procedure itself; it is more cumbersome, needs anaesthesiology assistance in
      most of the cases and, accordingly to early reports, is aggravated by a higher complication
      rate and higher costs. A major advantage of RF is the achievement of complete ablation of the
      neoplastic lesion with less sessions than PEI. This advantage impacts on the "quality of
      life" of the patient, who prefers to be cured in a single session rather than by the
      multisession approach of PEI.

      When the present study began in January 2001, no randomised controlled trial comparing RF and
      PEI had been published and no data were available on mid-long term local tumor progression
      and on comparative survival rate after either treatment. Some retrospective studies about the
      primary effectiveness had been published.

      The aim of our study was to compare the effectiveness of RF versus PEI in a randomised
      controlled trial: our primary end point was to evaluate the local control (sustained complete
      response) after 1 year from the treatment of every lesion defined as HCC in the single
      patient at the beginning of the trial; secondary end points included the primary
      effectiveness (early complete response)of the treatment after 1-2 months,the overall survival
      at four years, the complication rate, and the costs.
    
  