
    
      Patients undergoing cardiac catheterisation are understandably anxious. This is due to a lack
      of familiarity with both the hospital environment and the planned procedure. Anxiety may
      negatively affect their patient experience. Appropriate patient information can help improve
      understanding and reduce anxiety. In particular, video-based patient information prior to
      cardiac catheterisation has been shown to improve patient's knowledge and reduce
      peri-procedural anxiety. Generic video-based patient information about the cardiac
      catheterisation procedure is widely available. Ideally any patient information delivered
      pre-cardiac catheterization would be specific to the hospital delivering care. The use of
      virtual reality (VR) in healthcare is novel, but expanding rapidly. The immersive nature of
      VR allows patients a unique opportunity to prepare for the procedure and environment within
      which they will be treated. To date, the use of VR to prepare patients for invasive cardiac
      procedures has not been studied.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether the use of an immersive VR experience decreases
      peri-procedural anxiety in patients undergoing cardiac catheterisation. The investigators
      will also assess whether the VR experience improves overall patient satisfaction.

      With the help of a local media company, a VR cardiac catheterisation video was produced
      (Figure 1 depicts a screenshot from the VR video). The video is watched with a VR headset to
      create a 360 immersive experience. The investigators are undertaking a single-centre
      randomised control trial comparing the use of an immersive VR experience 1 week prior to
      catheterisation with standard pre-procedural care. Pre procedural anxiety levels and
      procedural knowledge are assessed by questionnaire, using the validated six-item short-form
      of the Strait Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). A satisfaction questionnaire is also completed
      before the patient is discharged.
    
  