
    
      In treating youth at clinical high risk of developing psychosis we have not been able to
      address what treatment to offer first and when to offer more intense and, ultimately, more
      costly treatments. The goals of achieving Precision Health objectives require that these
      questions be addressed through research.

      The overall aim is to determine the most effective and efficient way to offer active and
      maintenance treatment resources for CHR youth. The first step would be to offer a range of
      treatments starting with the most benign as advocated in the McGorry and Hickie stage model.
      We will use this project to test whether clinical staging will improve prediction of
      prognosis and result in improved matching of treatment. The specific objectives of this
      project are: (1) to determine which and what proportion of participants would remit (i)
      within the first 1-2 months of treatment, (ii) after a brief supportive therapy, (iii) after
      longer term, focused psychological interventions such as CBT, CBSST and family intervention
      and (iv) how many make use of medications; (2) to determine adherence of CHR individuals to
      different treatments; and (3) to determine the need for maintenance treatment. To assess
      these objectives the following outcomes will be determined:

        1. Improvement of Attenuated Psychotic Symptoms

        2. Improved social functioning as rated by Global: Social Functioning

        3. Percentage of the sample that demonstrate either symptomatic or functional improvement
           after Step 1 treatments and do not require to move to Step 2 treatments.

        4. Percentage of sample that move to Step 2 Treatments and the percentage that achieve
           improvement in either symptoms or functioning.

        5. Percentage of participants allocated to a given treatment that adhere to the treatment.

      Participants will be between ages 13 and 25. We will recruit 60 participants who meet
      well-established criteria for clinical high risk for psychosis based on the Structured
      Interview for Psychosis-Risk Syndromes (SIPS).

      Assessments will be conducted at baseline and 2, 6, 12, and 18 months after baseline.
      Assessments consist of clinical assessments. Clinical raters will be experienced raters and
      will be trained on all clinical measures and routine reliability checks will be conducted.
    
  