
    
      Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic, progressive inflammatory rheumatic disease
      involving primarily the sacroiliac joints and the axial skeleton. The main clinical features
      are back pain and progressive stiffness of the spine. Oligoarthritis of the hips and
      shoulders, enthesopathy, and anterior uveitis are common, and involvement of the heart and
      lungs is rare. The current understanding of the pathogenesis of this disorder is limited.It
      mainly about to hereditary susceptibility (eg HLA-B27),infection and autoimmunity.

      Although traditional drugs, such as Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
      disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs such as methotrexate, salicylazosulfapyridine
      OR thalidomide) and steroids have been used in the treatment of AS, however, many studies
      have indicated that the overall response to these drugs is not satisfied. Addition, the
      severe side effects of these drugs have also been observed. The management of AS patients
      therefore remains unsatisfactory and targeted therapies are needed. Although the application
      of TNF alpha receptor inhibitor (such as Etanercept) has got the success in the early
      treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, the tolerance to this biological agent make the therapy
      to this disease rather difficult. Recently, owning to its immunoregulatory,
      immunosuppressive, stimulating hematopoiesis and tissue repairing properties, the infusion of
      human MSCs isolated from human bone marrow have been a promising and effective treatment to
      AS patients. This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of MSC transplantation in
      the AS patients and compare the efficiency with the Etanercept to treat AS patients.

      This study will last 2 to 3 years. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      MSC transplant therapy (experimental group) or Etanercept therapy (control group). Patients
      will undergo MSC transplant at the start of the study on Day 0. The experimental group will
      receive infusion per week in the first 4 weeks and every two weeks in the second 8 weeks,
      totally for 12 weeks. After 3 months, patients will receive the second MSC transplantation.
      After 12 weeks (Phase I) and 48 weeks (Phase II) from the first transplantation, patients
      will be evaluated.
    
  