
    
      Background Efficient healthcare can be decisive for patients who suffer an out-of-hospital
      time-critical medical condition. If untreated these conditions can compromise health and even
      become life-threatening. The most common time-critical conditions assessed and treated in the
      prehospital environment are cardiac arrest, chest pain, stroke, severe respiratory
      difficulties and severe trauma. In addition to receiving rapid assessment and immediate
      treatment, it is also important that these patients are quickly transported to a location
      where they can receive the appropriate level of care.

      If a person is suffering from an out-of-hospital time-critical medical condition, the
      emergency medical dispatch center is alerted when contacted by the use of '112' the emergency
      phone number common to European countries. An operator will answer the call and assess the
      situation using a medical criteria-based index . The operator will than dispatch the right
      resource, either Ground Emergency Medical Services (GEMS) or Helicopter Emergency Medical
      Services (HEMS).

      The dispatching of HEMS has long been considered as a weak link in the chain of response. The
      use of HEMS is region specific and that the mechanism of injury is a poor predictor for HEMS
      dispatch. Dispatch criteria should be designed to match specific systems.

      The prehospital care in Sweden has developed rapidly over recent decades. Prehospital care
      today is a system in which qualified prehospital care providers deliver advanced emergency
      healthcare. GEMS vehicles are staffed with at least one registered nurse (RN) and over the
      years programs has been developed, which leads to at postgraduate diploma in prehospital care
      nursing. GEMS has less access to medical-technical equipment for advanced medical life
      support and critical care. The HEMS medical staff consists of a RN with a postgraduate
      diploma in prehospital care nursing and a physician, specialized in anaesthesia and intensive
      care and HEMS is equipped for advanced life support and critical care interventions. All of
      Sweden´s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organisations require educational programs and
      certification for prehospital trauma and emergency medical care on a yearly basis. These
      educational programs aim to improve emergency care based on evidence based medicine. Previous
      studies have demonstrated that EMS provides rapid access to the healthcare system, quality
      care on scene, and transport with support en-route to appropriate care if not provided on
      scene. An increased survival rate could be identified in trauma patients if transported by
      HEMS, compared to GEMS. Another study reported increased survival rate of patients over 55
      years of age who suffered minor trauma and where transported by HEMS compared to GEMS.
      Previous studies has also shown an advantage in using HEMS in treating patients with acute
      MI, initiating treatment as early as possible. The time gained, using HEMS, in treating acute
      MI was reported to reduced mortality compared to patients treated by GEMS.

      There is a steadily growing body of literature that describes the activities in both GEMS and
      HEMS and the assessment and treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and acute Myocardial
      Infarction (MI). But these studies are not generalisable to the Swedish prehospital
      environment, due to the importance of evaluating triage criteria for HEMS activation by local
      and regional authorities and the variation of health care system in which GEMS and HEMS
      operate. A systematic collection and analysis of incidence and outcomes in prehospital care
      of time-critical conditions can therefore increase dispatch accuracy and contribute to
      knowledge about which patients should be assessed and treated by GEMS and HEMS, respectively.
      This, in turn can lead to cost-effectiveness and better outcomes. Previous studies have been
      criticized for the low quality of evidence and variation in study methods, which overall has
      resulted in a lack of credibility in the conclusions of the studies.

      TBI is a major cause of death, disability and cost to society. The perceived benefit of HEMS
      transport of trauma patients, including TBI is driven by the principle that time is a
      critical factor in the survival of severely injured patients. For patients with acute MI,
      time to treatment should be short as possible because every delay increases mortality. Since
      today, from a national perspective, both descriptive data and evidence in the form of studies
      comparing GEMS and HEMS are modest, it is very important to describe GEMS and HEMS for
      assessment, treatment and outcome of patients suffering from TBI and acute MI. Once a
      thorough description of GEMS and HEMS has been completed, hypothesis-generating controlled
      studies can be initiated. The project is expected to contribute to optimisation of the
      prehospital assessment and treatment of TBI and acute MI and the role of GEMS and HEMS in
      Sweden.

      Overall aim To describe and to compare morbidity and mortality, assessment and treatment of
      TBI and acute MI in patients treated by GEMS and HEMS.

      Specific aim Study I To describe the scope and characteristics of GEMS and HEMS assessing and
      treating patients with TBI and acute MI in the field of prehospital care and to illustrate
      the complexity of the topic. The collected data will be the starting point for study II.

      Study II To understand the effects of GEMS compared to HEMS in patients suffering from TBI
      and acute MI and what care logistics should we use. Previous collected data from study I will
      be used for this purpose.

      Research questions

      Study I

        1. What is the incidence of mortality and morbidity in the assessment and treatment of TBI
           and acute MI of GEMS and HEMS?

        2. What types of assessment and treatment are performed in patients with TBI and acute MI?

      Study II

        1. What are the field diagnosis accuracy related to final diagnosis? Are there differences
           in diagnose accuracy in patients treated and transported with GEMS vs. HEMS?

        2. What are the differences between GEMS vs. HEMS on mortality and morbidity in patients
           suffering from TBI and acute MI?

      Hypothesis (study II): HEMS compared to GEMS provides significant time gains resulting in
      fewer morbidity and reduced mortality when assessing and treating patients with TBI and acute
      MI.

      Design: Study I is a descriptive observation study with quantitative approach. Study II
      consists of a comparative cohort study with 30-day follow up. These studies will be reported
      according to STROBE´s recommendations for observational studies and cohort studies. The
      project will be registered in ClinicalTrials.gov before the start of the study.

      Setting

      Population:

      Study I consists of patients considered to be suffering a TBI or acute MI and been treated by
      either GEMS or HEMS during the period of January 1st, 2018 to December 31st, 2018. Inclusion
      criteria are GEMS and HEMS prehospital care providers, men and women ≥18 years of age in a
      time-critical condition. Exclusion criteria are men and women < 18 years of age in a
      non-time-critical condition. Participating counties are located in the middle of Sweden.

      Study II consists of patients considered to be suffering from a TBI or acute MI treated by
      GEMS prehospital care providers (Reference) (n=2000) and HEMS (Exposed) (n=2000) during the
      period of January 1st, 2017 to December 31st, 2018. Inclusion criteria are GEMS and HEMS
      prehospital care providers, men and women ≥18 years of age in a time-critical condition.
      Exclusion criteria are men and women < 18 years of age. Participating counties are located in
      the middle of Sweden.

      Data collection Data for both studies is collected from existing digital and manual
      prehospital care reports (digital models: Cosmic, Ortivus, Paratus, TakeCare and manually
      written prehospital care reports (PCR)). The participating prehospital care providers will be
      the regional council of Uppsala, Jämtland/Härjedalen and Dalarna and the county council of
      Värmland. Data retrieved is scene location, time from dispatch to arrival to the patient on
      scene, time from dispatch to prehospital assessment/treatment, time from dispatch to patient
      arrival at the receiving health care facility, location of the receiving facility, type of
      condition, vital signs in the prehospital setting, treatment and survey of the patient.
      Searching and extracting data will be done using protocols where the study outcomes are
      documented as intended to answer the purpose of the study. Exported data from all patient
      record systems are reviewed for quality.

      The IBM SPSS Version 25 Statistics Program will be used. The collected data will be processed
      with descriptive and comparative analyses as with regression models to evaluate the
      significance of variables for medical complications and mortality.

      Exposed group: Patients suffering TBI or acute MI and has been treated by HEMS crews
      dispatched by an emergency dispatch centre re in all the counties.

      Reference group: Patients suffering TBI or acute MI and has been treated by GEMS dispatched
      by an emergency dispatch centre.

      Possible confounders Several confounders are yet unknown but this will be probably clarified
      by study I.

      Outcome The primary outcome is mortality, and will be controlled with measure of time from
      dispatch to assessment and treatment to patient arrival at the receiving medical facility The
      secondary outcomes are comorbidity (diabetes), medical complications (Infection, haemorrhage)
      and 30-day mortality. Independent variables: HEMS vs GEMS and these groups will be controlled
      for age, sex and possible other variables that will be examined for their impact on
      regression models

      Description of the groups (Study II) Exposed group: Patients suffering TBI or acute MI and
      has been treated by helicopter emergency medical service crews dispatched by an emergency
      dispatch center.

      Reference group: Patients suffering TBI or acute MI and has been treated by ground emergency
      medical service care providers dispatched by an emergency dispatch center.

      Power calculation: A power calculation is made in study II where comparative analysis are to
      be used.

      Description of project logistics Information on the aim of study I and its implementation
      will be provided to the staff at all HEMS bases and to all ambulance stations in the regions
      participating in the study. The information will be given primarily to the medical director
      and the director of operations responsible for HEMS operations and GEMS. Data extract from
      digital PCR systems will be carried out by the operation managers. Manual data collection
      from HEMS is carried out by the collaborator of the study on the basis of approval from the
      director of operations. Data extracts of patients considered to suffer an TBI or acute MI are
      performed based on the outcomes of the study. Data extracts are handed over unidentified to
      researcher and is provided in a pre-defined folder on the computer of the responsible
      researcher through the server of the region where the computer is encrypted.
    
  