
    
      The proposed 5-year project uses a 2-stage randomized controlled trial (RCT) design (Figure
      2) to evaluate a brief, practical adherence intervention (iTAB-CV) delivered via interactive
      text messaging+ Self-Monitoring (SM) compared to SM alone. 200 individuals with BD and HTN
      who are < 80% adherent with HTN medicine will be enrolled from mental health and primary care
      settings and the community. The underlying premise is that improving adherence to
      antihypertensives in BD is likely to be an efficient path to improving health outcomes in a
      vulnerable population. Findings on the relationship between habit strength, medication
      attitudes, mood, and adherence in this project will be generalizable to other populations.

      The entire observation duration will be 12 months. In stage 1, after consenting and passing
      screen, participants will receive an automated device (eCAP) to track their use of
      antihypertensive medication. Participants will use the eCAP for 2 months until completing
      their baseline assessment. At that time, they will be randomized to either Arm 1 (iTAB-CV +
      self-monitoring) or Arm 2 (self-monitoring alone). Both interventions will be provided for 2
      months with an interim phone/video assessment for adherence. At the end of this 2 month
      stage, participants will be seen for either a virtual or in-person assessment.

      In stage 2, following the 4-month assessment, those in iTAB-CV will be re-randomized to
      receive either a high intensity (starts off with 1 reminder per day and tapers down to 1
      reminder per week over the course of 2 months) or low intensity (1 reminder per week) booster
      + self-monitoring compared to self-monitoring alone. Adherence will be assessed by
      phone/video at 5 months as an interim measurement and a virtual or in-person assessment will
      occur at 6 months. In stage 3, investigators will follow participants for another 6 months
      without intervention with 1 interim phone/video assessment and a final virtual or in-person
      assessment at 12 months.
    
  