
    
      Primary Outcomes: As this study has no control or comparator group, the goal will be to
      provide descriptive data regarding the prevalence of osteopenia and osteoporosis at each of
      the anatomic sites evaluated by DEXA in this specialized population (BMD outcome measures).
      Additionally, the use of bone-specific interventions (vitamins, nutritional supplements,
      medications), previous diagnostic testing (DEXA) and history of falls and fractures will be
      assessed to determine the extent to which bone health has been considered and evaluated in
      this population of individuals at increased risk of fracture.

      Secondary Outcomes: Functional status measures will also be obtained to enable correlation
      with bone data.

      This study involves a cross-sectional, descriptive evaluation of a cohort of 225 patients
      with brain injury who are being managed at the out-patient clinics by physicians from RIC.
      The goal of the study is to provide representative data of both the general bone health of
      this population of patients (degree, extent and localization of bone loss) as well as
      interventions that may have been implemented to manage their bone health (vitamins,
      nutritional supplements, prescription medications). After obtaining informed consent, those
      patients who wish to be involved will be asked to complete a medical history questionnaire
      that focuses on bone health and will then undergo measurement of bone density by DEXA (dual
      energy X-ray absorptiometry). At the time of the DEXA examination, muscle strength will be
      evaluated by a trained research coordinator. A dietary history and a blood sample will also
      be obtained, the latter for storage in order to later measure vitamin D levels and/or other
      bone markers. All subjects will then be given the opportunity to continue in the longitudinal
      arm of the study (second phase). Those who do will sign the informed consent and will then be
      re-evaluated at yearly intervals with the same set of data being obtained.

      Descriptive Data to be Obtained:

        1. Demographics: date of birth, sex, race, ethnicity

        2. Detailed and complete medical history, with particular focus on:

             -  Information regarding brain injury: time of occurrence, motor/sensory, etc.

             -  Bone specific information: history of falls, fractures, use of medications,
                smoking, alcohol, family history of osteoporosis and fractures, previous DEXA, etc.

             -  Questionnaire of functional status: use of affected arm, ambulation, assistive
                device, orthotic, frequency of spasms.

             -  Evaluation of motor status using the Motor Components of the NIH Stroke Scale
                (items 4 - 7)

        3. Dietary history

      Study procedures:

      1. DEXA evaluation. Specific measurements will be made for lumbar spine, hip and distal
      radius; lateral vertebral assessment will be obtained if possible.

      Biological Samples:

      1. Two 10ml tubes of blood will be obtained from each participant. Serum will be separated
      and frozen in two aliquots to be saved for possible measurement of vitamin D levels (25OH
      vitamin D) and/or bone markers.
    
  