
    
      Background:

        -  Adenocarcinoma of the prostate is the most common cancer diagnosis in American males and
           follows lung cancer as the leading cause of cancer death.

        -  Vaccine strategies represent a novel therapeutic approach in the treatment for prostate
           cancer. One potential target for a prostate cancer vaccine is prostatic specific antigen
           (PSA), due to its restricted expression on prostate cancer and normal prostatic
           epithelial cells.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to determine the impact of granulocyte-macrophage colony
           stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and recombinant fowlpox granulocyte-macrophage colony
           stimulating factor (rF-GM-CSF) on the immunologic response in patients treated with
           these vaccines.

        -  Secondary - to determine the change in prostatic specific antigen (PSA)-specific T cells
           in patients treated with these vaccines using enzyme linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT)
           assay analysis.

        -  To document any objective anti-tumor responses that may occur.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have androgen insensitive metastatic prostate cancer.

        -  All patients will have received and progressed on hormonal therapy.

        -  Must have objective evidence of metastasis or relapsing local disease. Therefore, must
           have a rising PSA and at least one of the following: positive bone scan, palpable
           disease, or positive imaging studies.

        -  Must have a life expectancy of more than 6 months and the Eastern Cooperative Oncology
           Group (ECOG) status of 0 to 2.

        -  Patients must be HLA-A2+.

        -  Granulocyte count greater than or equal to 1,500/mm^3, Platelet greater than or equal to
           100,000/mm^3, hemoglobin (Hgb) greater than or equal to 10Gm/dL, Lymphocyte count
           greater than or equal to 500/mm^3; Bilirubin less than 1.5mg/dL, aspartate
           aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) less than 2.5x upper limit of
           normal (ULN),Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 60

        -  No significant cardiac disease, no significant pulmonary disease, no serious
           inter-current medical illness.

      Design:

        -  Cohorts three, four and five will provide safety data combining cohort two with rGM-CSF
           as well as two doses of rFGM-CSF respectively.

        -  This study will be conducted as a small, randomized pilot study to compare the
           immunologic effects of the above vaccine strategy alone, with recombinant GM-CSF, or
           with either of 2 doses of fowlpox-GM-CSF.

        -  This study will consist of 4 randomized arms of 8 patients each, all of whom are
           HLA-A2+.
    
  