
    
      In Montreal, individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent are eligible to have carrier screening
      for three genetic conditions: Tay-Sachs disease, Canavan disease, and familial dysautonomia.
      The investigators have developed a new website to educate persons of Ashkenazi Jewish
      ancestry about their increased risk for having children with these genetic conditions, and
      the genetic testing the investigators offer. This study aims to pilot the website to find out
      whether it is effective and to learn what the investigators can improve. Specifically, the
      investigators will measure knowledge acquisition, level of anxiety, and degree of
      satisfaction with their experience.

      Participants in the study will be assigned to one of two conditions:

        1. Standard in-person genetic counselling session to learn about inheritance of Ashkenazi
           Jewish genetic conditions and genetic testing. Participants will fill out two short
           questionnaires, one before and one after the genetic counselling session. These
           questionnaires assess demographic information, knowledge regarding the three genetic
           conditions listed above, feelings and anxiety levels, e-health literacy, and overall
           satisfaction. They will then be given a requisition form to undergo blood draw for
           genetic testing at the Montreal General Hospital test centre.

        2. Use of a web-based pre-test genetic counselling tool to learn about inheritance of
           Ashkenazi Jewish genetic conditions and genetic testing. They will fill out two short
           questionnaires, one before, and one after using the web-based tool. These questionnaires
           are similar to those in the condition above, except there will also be questions
           regarding the utility of the web-based tool and ways to improve the tool. Participants
           will then be electronically sent a requisition form to undergo blood draw for genetic
           testing at the Montreal General Hospital test centre.

      In both conditions, genetic test results will be communicated by telephone once they are
      available. Participants' genetic test results will not be used in any way for the study.
    
  