
    
      Rationale for Study:

      When patients undergo elective implantation of an ICD, the device is tested by inducing
      ventricular fibrillation (VF) in the patient and allowing the ICD to sense, charge and
      discharge in an attempt to shock the patient back into a normal rhythm. This provides a
      controlled, elective situation in which to measure the cutaneous current on the patient's
      skin which is the current to which a rescuer could potentially be exposed.

      By understanding the leakage currents from these devices, the investigators will be able to
      better understand the safety of rescuers in contact with patients fitted with an ICD and make
      specific recommendations to enable to safe undertaking of uninterrupted external chest
      compressions while the ICD may be discharging.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective:

      To measure cutaneous leakage current on the chest wall during conventional and S-ICD
      discharge.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To make recommendations based on this data regarding the safety of rescuers in contact with a
      patient during ICD discharge.

      ENDPOINTS

      Primary Endpoint:

      Maximum cutaneous current measured at multiple sites on the chest wall during ICD discharge.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective cohort study, aiming to study sequential patients
      undergoing elective ICD implantation and testing over a 12 month period at University
      Hospital Southampton.

      The patient will undergo elective ICD implantation according to normal protocol. There will
      be no change in their treatment. After induction of general anaesthesia, an array of small
      self-adhesive electrodes (similar to ECG 'dots') will be placed on the patient's chest wall,
      and connected to a multichannel recording device.

      After implantation of the ICD, the device will be tested as per normal protocol. VF is
      induced in the patient. The ICD senses this arrhythmia, charges and immediately delivers a
      shock to the myocardium. As this shock is delivered, the investigators will record the
      current reaching the surface electrode array using the multichannel recorder. Most patients
      only require one shock as defibrillation rates with ICDs are >90%. If a second shock is
      required, the ICD will charge automatically and discharge once again. If this occurs, the
      investigators will also measure the cutaneous current at this second, higher energy level.
      The study is then concluded. Any subsequent shocks are delivered through external paddles and
      the investigators would not require any data from this stage of the procedure.

      STUDY POPULATION Number of Participants The investigators aim to assess 20 patients
      undergoing conventional ICD implantation and a further 20 patients undergoing S-ICD
      implantation.
    
  