
    
      GOALS The project goals are to improve combat readiness of U.S. soldiers and sustain the
      availability of the military to deploy by, 1) decreasing the number of days not physically
      ready for duty after diagnosis of a stress fracture of the tibia, 2) decreasing the need for
      a physical profile or medical board after stress fracture of the tibia, and 3) decreasing the
      recurrence rates of these injuries.

      AIMS AND HYPOTHESES Specific Aim One is to determine the difference in the time from
      diagnosis to full return to activity for soldiers with diaphyseal tibia stress fracture who
      receive the teriparatide protocol compared to those who receive a placebo-control
      self-injection. This aim will be addressed by performing a prospective, longitudinal
      randomized, placebo-controlled trial in which 183 soldiers with acutely diagnosed diaphyseal
      tibia stress fractures will randomly receive a 1-month course of daily, self-injected 20 mcg.
      of teriparatide or daily, self-injected placebo.

        -  Hypothesis 1.1: Soldiers receiving teriparatide will return to duty 40% more quickly
           than those receiving placebo as measured in days from diagnosis to return to duty.

        -  Hypothesis 1.2: Following return to duty soldiers receiving teriparatide will be able to
           sustain a high daily duty load as measured in metabolic equivalents (METs) on a daily
           training log.

      Specific Aim Two is to determine the long-term effects of the administration of teriparatide.
      Study participants will be followed for 1-year after the completion of the study drug year to
      determine the incidence of drug related side effects, injury recurrence and/or additional
      bone stress injury based on data from the participants' Electronic Medical Record.

        -  Hypothesis 2.1: Soldiers receiving teriparatide will have a reduced rate of new and/or
           recurrent bone stress injuries as measured by their need for a military physical profile
           due to bone stress injuries and/or their medical record diagnosis of a bone stress
           injury than those treated with placebo.

        -  Hypothesis 2.2: Soldiers receiving teriparatide will be more likely to complete their
           first assigned station as measured by a medical discharge board than those treated with
           placebo.

        -  Hypothesis 2.3: Soldiers receiving teriparatide will have a high bone mass as measured
           by DEXA scan age matched t-score than those treated with placebo than those treated with
           placebo.

      RECRUITMENT AND SCREENING OF PARTICIPANTS Soldiers who have pain in the mid-tibia area while
      in basic training at Ft. Jackson, SC report to Moncrief Medical Clinic where they are
      medically evaluated by their Primary Care Manager (PCM). The injured soldiers would have
      further diagnostic testing in the form of anterior-posterior (A-P) and lateral view
      radiographs of the tibia followed by a radio-nucleotide bone scan if indicated. Soldiers
      found to have a DTSF report to the physical therapy department for further evaluation and
      treatment. The physical therapist will notify the embedded research nurse coordinator of a
      new soldier who has a DSTF and will initiate a pre-screen for study participation.

      If the DTSF and resulting functional limitation is so severe to require convalescent leave,
      the research nurse coordinator will be notified and will approach the patient to provide
      general information about the study and invite the patient to learn more about potential
      participation. For patients who are interested in participating, the research nurse
      coordinator will initiate the informed consent process. All study risks and potential
      benefits will be discussed with the patient. Informed consent information and discussion will
      include information about the need to self-administer the study medication. Once a fully
      executed informed consent document has been signed, the research nurse coordinator will
      initiate the study screening visit that will require participants to complete a medical
      questionnaire to assess eligibility based on their personal medical history. An initial blood
      draw will be obtained that will assess suitability for initiating therapy with teriparatide,
      including lab values within the following ranges:

      Total serum calcium (normal range 8.5-10.2 mg/dL) Total serum alkaline phosphatase: (normal
      range 44 to 147 IU/L) 25-hydroxyvitamin D: (normal range 20 and 40 ng/mL) Parathyroid
      Hormone: (normal - 10-65 pig/mL or 10-65 ng/L) Creatinine clearance: (normal 88-128 mL/min
      for healthy women or 97-137 mL/min for healthy men) Serum qualitative urine pregnancy test
      (females): negative Serum uric acid: (normal 2.4-6.0 mg/dL. (female) and 3.4 - 7.0 mg/dL.
      (male). Individuals with laboratory results outside of the normal range will be excluded from
      further study procedures and will be ineligible to participate in further study procedures
      including being ineligible to be randomized or receive study drug.

      To assess bone mass, a bone mineral density (BMD) by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)
      of the lumbar spine and bilateral hips will be performed. Additional inclusion and exclusion
      criterion are described below. Results from the screening visit will be reviewed by the
      medical monitoring team and investigators, who will make the final decision regarding the
      patient's eligibility for inclusion in the study.

      RANDOMIZATION AND GROUP ASSIGNMENT Upon completion of the screening visit if the consenting
      soldier is found eligible for the study, the participant would then be randomized via
      computer generated block randomization performed by the research nurse coordinator. There
      will be a 1:1 randomization into either the placebo arm or the 20 mcg teriparatide treatment
      arm. The Pharmacist of Record would then record which study arm into which the patient was
      randomized, dispense the appropriate blinded medication (active study drug vs placebo) to the
      research nurse and store the assigned information securely using an encrypted data base. The
      injection pens will be blinded to the patient, the research nurse coordinator, and the staff
      at Ft. Jackson. If an emergency in patient care arises, any medical staff treating the
      patient can request un-blinding by calling the research team. The investigative team will be
      immediately informed of any such requests to ensure safety of the study subject.

      INTERVENTION Following group assignment, the study participant will have a meeting with the
      research nurse to be instructed on care and handling of the medication. The participant will
      then directly observe the first administration of the medication to ensure safe and effective
      administration and remind the subject/participant to alternate injection sites such as the
      abdomen or leg as well as not injecting in same spot on the abdomen or leg each day to avoid
      bruising. Next the participant will be a given 28 tablets of 500 mg Calcium to take orally.

      The participants will then leave Ft. Jackson and return home for convalescent leave. The
      participant will self-administer the mediation daily via injection pen and will receive a
      weekly call from the research nurse to ensure study medication compliance and monitor for any
      adverse events.

      Upon return from 30 days of convalescent leave, participants will report back to Ft. Jackson
      and begin the reattachment process to their unit. At this time, the participant will have
      another peripheral venous blood draw to evaluate calcium level. Participants will then
      transition into the active rehabilitation phase of the study in which they will report daily
      to the physical therapy department on Ft. Jackson for treatment, per the standard of care.

      During their scheduled reporting at physical therapy, participants will complete a training
      log of their previous day's activities. This will allow for a day-to-day tracking of
      physiologic load. They will continue to advance the training and activity as tolerated based
      on their pain and guidance from the physical therapist until the participant successfully
      completes the Army Combat Fitness Test (ACFT) which will qualify them for return to duty.

      Once participants have matriculated through basic training, they will receive their initial
      duty station. Their military record, including physical profile (limited duty) status, new or
      recurrent bone stress injury diagnosis, the need to convene a medical discharge board or
      successful uninterrupted completion of their duty station will be monitored and recorded. To
      determine the long-term effects of the administration of teriparatide, study enrollees will
      be followed for 1-year post study drug year. this follow-up is to determine the incidence of
      drug-related side effects, injury recurrence and/or additional bone stress injury based on
      data from the participants' Electronic Medical Record.
    
  