
    
      Accurate epidemiological data on severe influenza-associated hospitalizations and fatalities
      in children are lacking in Germany. The purpose of this study is primarily, to assess the
      number of severe, laboratory-confirmed influenza in children hospitalized to paediatric
      intensive care units due to suspected acute respiratory infections/ influenza/
      influenza-triggered complications and in children developing influenza during paediatric
      intensive care unit hospitalization, as well as the number of influenza-associated
      fatalities. In addition we aim at assessing clinical features, severity, risk factors,
      complications, diagnostic procedures, treatment and outcome of severe, laboratory-confirmed
      influenza (and other acute respiratory infections) in these children. Another objective is to
      estimate the proportion of laboratory-confirmed influenza cases in all children hospitalized
      to paediatric intensive care units with acute respiratory infections and to evaluate the
      number and proportion of paediatric intensive care unit hospitalizations due to other viral
      acute respiratory infections. Additional aims are to estimate the (minimum) incidence of
      severe influenza-associated hospitalizations in Bavarian children and to estimate the
      (minimum) incidences of other acute respiratory infections.

      Ideally, this study will be conducted between October 2010 and March 2012 in all Bavarian
      (Germany) hospitals with paediatric intensive care units or paediatric intensive care beds
      (neonatology excluded). To optimize reporting there will be one study physician at each site
      responsible for documentation, diagnostic procedures and queries. The local study physician
      will receive an initiation visit at the start of each season, and will be contacted by the
      study coordination (situated at the University Children's Hospital in Wuerzburg) bi-weekly by
      phone. This local study physician summarizes the paediatric intensive care unit admittance in
      a log sheet, documents epidemiological, demographical, and clinical data in a questionnaire
      for all suspected acute respiratory infections/influenza patients with parental informed
      consent (pseudonymous data only), and draws a nasopharyngeal swab or -wash if indicated as
      routine procedure. A sample will be sent to the central laboratory (Institute for Virology
      and Immunobiology, University of Wuerzburg) for analysis (influenza-polymerase chain
      reaction, influenza virus subtyping, other viral acute respiratory infections (respiratory
      syncytial virus, parainfluenza 1-4, humane metapneumovirus, adenoviruses, rhinoviruses,
      enteroviruses). The central laboratory will analyse the samples timely and report the results
      to the respective study site. Additional influenza-tests may also be performed by the local
      laboratory, at the discretion of the hospitals. All tests, locally and performed in
      Wuerzburg, and their outcome should be reported in the questionnaire.
    
  