
    
      In order to understand the utility of face mask sampling for the diagnosis of COVID-19 and
      the public health implications, three cohorts of participants will be asked to take part in
      this study. Each participant will be asked to wear a modified face mask containing strips of
      sampling material for up to one hour and undertake a nasopharyngeal (nose/throat) swab
      concurrently. Depending on which cohort the participants are recruited to, the number of
      these 'sampling sessions' will vary. Basic demographic and microbiological data will be
      collected for every participant.

      Cohort 1:

      Patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19 symptoms will be approached to undertake a face
      mask sample and nasopharyngeal swab at two time points 12 hours apart on a single day whilst
      in hospital. Medical records will be accessed for basic clinical, demographic and
      microbiological data.

      Cohort 2:

      Healthcare workers who have report COVID-19 symptoms will be asked to undertake a face mask
      sample and nasophayngeal swab on days 1,3,5,7,10,14 and 21 of the study, for part of which
      they will be quarantined at home.

      During this time they will complete a simple symptom diary. Members of the research team will
      visit their home to consent and train them on sampling techniques on day 1. Masks and swabs
      will then be left with them to complete.

      These samples will then be collected at a mutually convenient time as teh samples are sample
      at room temperature for many days. If the healthcare worker does not feel able to complete
      self-sampling then a research team member will visit to undertake the sampling. Full PPE will
      be worn at all times and Staff working on the study will have NHS honorary contracts in place
      and will operate under University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust policies and procedures
      surrounding infection control and risk assessments whilst conducting this research. Medical
      records will be accessed for basic clinical, demographic and microbiological data. The
      results of the face mask sample are not intended to provide any diagnostic results and as
      such, the results will not be made available to the participant or the Occupational Health
      Department and HCWs will be directed to continue to follow the University Hospitals of
      Leicester NHS Trust policy when determining whether or not they are safe and able to return
      to work.

      Cohort 3:

      Healthcare workers from different areas of the hospital will be approached as part of a
      screening programme. They will be asked to undertake a single face mask and swab sample.
      Basic clinical and environmental data will be collected about each participant so they
      exposure risk can be stratified. The research team will work closely with the senior managers
      of each area to introduce the study to each participant so to minimise any stigmata related
      to deciding to participate or not. Any participant that has either a mask or swab positive
      result will be followed up and offered conventional screening as per Public Heath England's
      guidance. Staff working on the study will have NHS honorary contracts in place and will
      operate under University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust policies and procedures surrounding
      infection control and risk assessments whilst conducting this research. HCWs will be reminded
      that the results of the FSM are not conclusive and should not be used for diagnostic
      purposes. Each individual who produces a FSM+ sample will be referred back to the Trust
      Occupational Health Department for followup and management as per Trust policy.
    
  