
    
      Subjective nasal obstruction is usually caused by intranasal anatomic obstruction. A critical
      area is the anterior nasal valve, and nasal septal deformity and inferior turbinate
      hypertrophy often combine to produce symptomatic obstruction at the anterior valve.

      Surgical treatments to reduce turbinate size and also to correct nasal septal deformity have
      been shown to be effective at improving nasal obstruction. While many studies have
      demonstrated the improvements after surgery, most prior studies assessed outcome using
      non-validated questionnaires, or primitive measures such as a single-item rating scale.

      There is now a validated, patient-based, outcome instrument to assess nasal obstruction,
      which is valid, reliable, and sensitive: the Nasal Obstruction Symptom Evaluation (NOSE)
      scale (Stewart, Witsell, et al). This brief and easy to complete instrument is a valid
      measure of the patient's perception of nasal obstruction. A multi-center prospective study
      using the NOSE scale showed that septoplasty alone resulted in significant improvement in
      nasal obstruction, and septoplasty with PRIT had an even larger improvement in nasal
      obstruction, although the difference did not reach statistical significance because of sample
      size (Stewart, Smith, et al). Nevertheless, turbinate reduction appeared to have some
      additive effect on symptomatic improvement, which is a clinical findings that has been noted
      by surgeons for many years.

      The techniques of inferior turbinectomy have evolved over time. Initially, partial or even
      total resection of the inferior turbinate was performed. However, total inferior turbinate
      resection was found to have a high rate of several long-term complications, including
      excessive dryness (rhinitis sicca), atrophic rhinitis, crusting, bleeding, etc. (Moore GF,
      Moore EJ), and this technique is generally not performed today. By extension, many surgeons
      have been concerned about the potential sequelae of partial inferior turbinectomy, even
      though large prospective series have demonstrated excellent outcomes and minimal
      complications from the PRIT technique (Fanous, Ophir, Grymer, Stewart/Smith).

      Several alternative techniques for turbinate volume reduction - that do not involve
      full-thickness resection of a portion of the turbinate - have been reported, and all seem to
      be effective in single-modality series (Nease, Bhattacharyya, Utley, Li). In fact,
      anecdotally many surgeons claim that RFA is as effective as PRIT. In addition, radiofrequency
      techniques can be performed under local anesthesia in the office setting, which increases the
      ease of use. While RFA is appealing because it can be performed under local anesthesia, the
      improved ease of use must be weighed against the potential for lower effectiveness, since
      tissue is not removed. There are no data from direct comparative studies, probably partly
      because there has not been a validated outcome tool available.

      Therefore, sufficient clinical equipoise exists to randomize patients to receive one of these
      two widely-accepted techniques.
    
  