
    
      The overarching goal of this research program is to construct and evaluate paternal and
      familial interventions to improve the trajectory of ADHD outcomes in at-risk young children
      with ADHD symptoms who have not yet been treated with stimulant medications. These children
      are at risk for ADHD by virtue of paternal ADHD and maladaptive parenting. Our primary
      outcome measure for the child will be whether child ADHD symptoms on the Conners Parent and
      Teacher Rating Scales decreased at the completion of the study. The primary outcomes for the
      fathers will be the Conners Adult ADHD Rating Scale-Self Report and Other Report (CAARS), the
      clinician completed Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S) and the Barkley Functional
      Impairment rating Scale (BFIS). Secondary outcomes include the Family Routines Questionnaire
      (FRI), the Alabama Parent Questionnaire (APQ) and the Dyadic Parent-Child Interaction Coding
      System (DPICS).

      Specific Aim 1: To develop screening and recruitment strategies for identifying fathers with
      ADHD who have young children at risk for ADHD.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the comparative efficacy of treating fathers with LDX (or a
      different ADHD medication if poor response to LDX) and functional impairment after 8 weeks of
      treatment.

      Hypothesis 1a: LDX will be associated with a greater reduction in paternal ADHD symptoms
      (CAARS, CAARS-Other Informant) and impairment (CGI-S) than families treated with BPT.

      Hypothesis 1 b: BPT will be associated with greater improvement on measures of parenting
      (e.g. APQ, DPICS) and family functioning (DAS, BFIS) than LDX.

      To the investigator's knowledge, this 2.5 year study will be the very first to examine the
      benefit of identifying and treating fathers with ADHD prior to treating the at-risk child. In
      addition, to the investigator's knowledge, this is the first study to directly compare the
      impact of BPT vs. LDX on both father and child outcomes. Thus, the investigator's propose a
      novel treatment strategy for a not uncommon but difficult to treat patient population: young
      children who are at risk for ADHD by virtue of their early-onset behavior problems and
      environmental factors such a poor parenting.
    
  