
    
      Noninvasive prenatal genetic testing (NIPT), also known as cell-free fetal DNA screening, has
      dramatically altered the delivery of prenatal care. Prior to NIPT, fetal aneuploidy risk was
      assessed using conventional screens, most commonly maternal serum screens (MSS, e.g. the
      Quadruple screen). While MSS provided information about the risk of trisomy (T) 21, T13, and
      T18, its use led to many false positive results which required amniocentesis or chorionic
      villus sampling to clarify. The risk of iatrogenic miscarriage from these diagnostic
      procedures is low, but the possibility of this consequence is a major driver in how
      healthcare providers and patients think about prenatal genetic risk and assessment. NIPT has
      significantly changed this long-standing paradigm. While not diagnostic, NIPT offers
      increased accuracy with lower false positive and false negative rates than MSS when screening
      for common autosomal aneuploidies. Unlike conventional screens, NIPT provides information
      never before a part of routine screening, such as the presence of sex chromosome aneuploidies
      (SCAs), microdeletions, and fetal sex. Already the capability exists to utilize NIPT in
      conjunction with whole exome sequencing to detect an unlimited number of fetal genomic
      variants, many with undetermined significance. The list of conditions that NIPT can screen
      for is expanding rapidly and has outpaced the rate at which evidence-based strategies for its
      integration can be developed and implemented.

      Expectant parents must be prepared to make informed decisions about NIPT, including whether
      to use it and how to address the prenatal care decisions that result from that choice. For
      some, information from NIPT may inform the decision to undergo additional tests and either
      prepare for the birth of a child with a serious, potentially life-threatening condition, or
      end the pregnancy if a condition is confirmed by diagnostic testing. While this has been the
      case for all forms of prenatal testing, NIPT presents unique challenges to this
      decision-making process because it provides information about a series of conditions with
      variable phenotypic severity of which patients have little familiarity (e.g., Turner
      syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome), as well as providing information about markers of
      undetermined significance. As with conventional screening, there is the potential for a false
      positive or false negative result for each of these findings. Furthermore, information gained
      from NIPT may have unintended consequences by identifying maternal or paternal factors that
      may be unwanted or unexpected. Previous studies have demonstrated that expectant parents
      already face a number of challenges in obtaining accurate, unbiased in-formation and
      decisional support when navigating conventional prenatal genetic screens and diagnostic tests
      (abbreviated as "prenatal testing" in the rest of this document) and the consequences of
      being un-prepared for a positive test result. This situation has been exacerbated with the
      introduction of NIPT and will worsen with its expansion. Initially, NIPT was indicated for a
      subset of the obstetric population, namely women considered high-risk for aneuploidy due to
      advanced maternal age or reproductive history. Now, NIPT is becoming available for use by the
      general obstetric population as a primary screen. Clinicians will have to provide
      individualized counseling to pregnant patients about the advantages and dis-advantages of
      NIPT compared to other prenatal testing options. As part of this process, they will need to
      assist patients in placing this information in the context of their goals, values, and
      beliefs about parenthood, disability, and termination. The magnitude of the resulting
      challenge becomes evident when considering that over four million women receive prenatal care
      in the U.S. annually10 and there are not enough prenatal genetic counselors (GC) or
      maternal-fetal medicine specialists (MFM) to meet this demand, particularly in rural and
      urban settings that already face poorer obstetric outcomes due to barriers in access to
      prenatal care. It is unclear how the medical profession will respond to this unprecedented
      challenge.

      The current situation places a heavy burden on primary obstetric (OB) providers to play a
      greater role in introducing patients to the option of NIPT and to facilitate decision-making
      about its use. Already, there are growing numbers of OB providers ordering NIPT, either with
      or without the involvement of a GC or a MFM, a trend that is expected to continue with the
      ongoing expansion of NIPT.39 Thus, an urgent clinical problem has emerged: there is a lack of
      evidence-based tools to guide OB providers in effective and individualized education and
      decision support for NIPT. To date, the focus of interventions has been on the development of
      decision aids and other educational resources to independently educate patients and OB
      providers about prenatal genetic assessment. These tools may impart information and provide a
      degree of decision support; however, they do not address the dynamic interaction that leads
      to the exchange of such information during the clinical visit. Data accrued from our recent
      work indicate that these strategies do not provide sufficient support or guidance about how
      to structure effective shared decision-making (SDM) discussions between the patient and OB
      provider. Studies, including work from our cur-rent R21, demonstrate that important barriers
      exist for patients seeking the information and support needed to navigate their prenatal
      testing options and make informed, value-reflective decisions about NIPT. While many women
      are familiar with common autosomal aneuploidies such as T21, they have little knowledge of
      SCAs and significantly less knowledge of microdeletion syndromes. Patients are over-whelmed
      by the prospect of learning enough about each of the different conditions that NIPT can
      detect. As a result, women increasingly rely upon guidance from OB providers with whom they
      have an established relationship to help determine which, if any, prenatal testing option to
      utilize. These are important discussions that take place in the clinical encounter and which
      educational modules and decision aids alone cannot sufficiently replace. Barriers also exist
      for OB providers, who report uncertainty about how to provide personalized, effective, and
      patient-centered counseling about NIPT, particularly under conditions of limited time,
      reimbursement for counseling, and resources to meet the needs of a diverse population of
      patients with varying degrees of health literacy and knowledge of genetic conditions, as well
      as different beliefs about parenthood, disability, and pregnancy termination. Current
      educational and counseling efforts used by OB providers may not be meeting the self-reported
      educational needs and decision-making preferences of patients considering NIPT, particularly
      those pertaining to personal values. Moreover, both patients and providers are concerned
      about being negatively judged or stereo-typed in discussing topics related to pregnancy
      termination and infant/child disability, particularly as NIPT increasingly identifies
      conditions with a range of phenotypes.

      The delivery of high-quality, evidence-based prenatal care and access to NIPT will only occur
      if patients have information and support to make informed, values-based choices about their
      prenatal testing options. Given the relationship of informed decision-making with healthcare
      quality, access, and outcomes, it is critical to have effective, evidence-based mechanisms
      that are responsive to the needs and priorities of patients, the day-to-day challenges faced
      by providers, and the current scientific evidence and clinical practice guidelines about
      NIPT. While it is recognized that providers should involve patients in healthcare by means of
      a SDM process, how to achieve that level of communication within the constraints and
      challenges of the practice of obstetrics remains unknown. Thus, the goal of this study is to
      conduct a cluster, randomized trial to test an evidence-based tool termed NEST (for NIPT
      Education Sup-port Tool) to support patients' decision-making, focusing on the communication
      that takes place in the clinical encounter. The investigators will also identify aspects of
      the patient-provider interaction that are key to implementing effective strategies responsive
      to the challenges posed by the continued development of NIPT. Our hypothesis is that, by
      focusing on the dynamic interaction between the patient and provider, NEST will result in a
      SDM process that, in turn, will both increase patients' ability to make an informed choice
      about NIPT and decrease the decisional conflict associated with that choice. The expected
      outcome of this study is a clinically relevant, point-of-care tool that can be utilized among
      a diverse group of patients and providers to facilitate decisions that are informed,
      consistent with the patient's values, and with which patients do not experience decisional
      conflict.

      The investigators will recruit three groups: 1) pregnant women, 2) partners of pregnant
      women, and 3) prenatal healthcare providers. Randomization will occur at the level of the
      healthcare provider. Pregnant women will be randomized per their prenatal healthcare provider
      to NEST (intervention) or usual care (control).

      The investigators anticipate that this study's findings will ultimately contribute to
      improving the quality of prenatal care by empowering pregnant women to make informed choices
      that reflect their needs and preferences as individuals and parents. The investigators also
      anticipate that OB providers will feel more prepared and confident when approaching
      conversations about NIPT.
    
  