
    
      The purpose of this phase II study is to assess the toxicity and efficacy of sequentially
      administered high dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell rescue in the treatment
      of multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is a chemotherapy sensitive disease but is not curative
      with standard therapy with a median survival of 2 to 4 years. Prior studies have shown that
      dose-intensified melphalan can produce higher response rates and complete remission in some
      patients. Over the past several years, multiple phase II studies utilizing high dose
      chemotherapy or high dose chemo-radiotherapy with autologous marrow or peripheral blood stem
      cell rescue have demonstrated improved response rates and survival rates compared to
      historical controls. Recently a prospective randomized trial has demonstrated improved
      response rates, response duration and overall survival utilizing high dose therapy with
      autologous bone marrow support compared to standard chemotherapy. The primary cause of
      failure is relapse and it is unclear how many, if any, patients are cured by this approach.
      Based on observations of efficacy in Hodgkin's Disease, Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, and breast
      cancer, an approach utilizing sequential high dose chemotherapy in multiple myeloma was
      developed. This protocol tests the sequential regimen in multiple myeloma patients who have
      responded to a standard dose chemotherapy regimen prior to enrollment. As originally written,
      eligible patients were required to have sensitive disease.

      The protocol was revised in August 1998 to allow entry of patients with newly diagnosed
      myeloma who had stable but not progressive disease following VAD chemotherapy. Patients with
      recurrent myeloma were still required to have chemotherapy sensitive disease. Eligible
      patients must also have pathologically confirmed multiple myeloma, no prior bone marrow
      transplantation and acceptable organ function (pulmonary, renal, hepatic, and cardiac). The
      recent revision of the protocol also allows entry of patients with renal insufficiency due to
      multiple myeloma to be enrolled on the protocol. Prior to initiating high dose therapy,
      patients must undergo a complete history and physical exam with routine lab work plus titers
      for HIV, CMV, HSV, and VCV: immunoglobulin levels, beta-2 microglobulin and serum protein
      electrophoresis as well as immunoelectrophoresis and bone marrow aspirates and biopsies.
      These studies are all standard for multiple myeloma patients. All patients require a double
      Human Hickman to be placed prior to the start of therapy. The protocol was originally written
      to include total body irradiation and high dose Melphalan as a preparative regimen for
      patients who had not received prior radiotherapy. Patients who were not eligible for TBI
      received high dose BCNU plus Melphalan. A revision removed the TBI Melphalan arm from the
      protocol after analysis of over 100 patients treated at Stanford University Medical Center on
      this same protocol showed no difference in event-free survival or overall survival between
      the TBI containing arm and the chemotherapy only preparative regimen. The TBI arm was dropped
      due to the increased cost and morbidity of TBI and the associated scheduling and logistics
      problems. The other revision to the protocol was the inclusion of CD34 stem cell selection on
      the stem cells collected by leukapheresis following high dose cyclophosphamide. This change
      was based on the results of a Phase III study which demonstrated that the degree of tumor
      cell contamination of these stem cell collections could be decreased by 3-6 logs with CD34
      cell selection. The dose of Melphalan was also increased to 200 mg/m2 after completion of a
      dose escalation study at Stanford.
    
  