
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study
      group is better, the same, or worse than the other group. You will have an equal chance of
      being in any group.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive minocycline.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive a placebo.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take minocycline/placebo 2 times every day (about 12 hours apart). This will be from
      1-2 days before surgery until 3 weeks after surgery.

      Most of the time, you will take the minocycline/placebo by mouth or through your feeding
      tube. If you are unable to take it by mouth or through your feeding tube, you will receive it
      by vein every 12 hours.

      You should take the study drug/placebo with a full glass (8 ounces) of water. You may take it
      with or without food, but if it causes an upset stomach, you should take it with food.

      You should not lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking the study drug/placebo to reduce
      the risk of side effects.

      You will also be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects from the
      surgery. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their
      risks.

      Study Visits:

      After you agree to participate in the study, on the day of surgery, 1 and 3 days after
      surgery, and then about 2 times a week until the end of the study, you will complete a
      questionnaire about any side effects you are experiencing. This should take about 5 minutes
      to complete. When you are at home, you will complete this questionnaire over the phone
      through a computerized system. You will answer the questions using your telephone keypad.

      After you agree to participate in the study, and at 1 and 3 days after surgery, you will
      complete 2 questionnaires about your quality of life. This should take about 10 minutes to
      complete.

      After you agree to participate in the study, soon after your surgery, and 1 week after
      surgery or when you are discharged from the hospital, saliva will be collected and used to
      test for markers of inflammation. If possible, blood (about 2 teaspoons) also will be drawn
      to test for markers of inflammation. This will be during a regular blood draw and you would
      not need to have an extra needle stick.

      Length of Study:

      You will take the study drug/placebo for 3 weeks after surgery. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug/placebo if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or
      if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visit.

      Follow up Visit:

      At about 3 weeks after your surgery, you will return to the clinic. The following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  Saliva will be collected and used to test for markers of inflammation.

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires about your quality of life and any side effects you
           are feeling. This should take about 20 minutes to complete.

        -  If possible, blood (about 2 teaspoons) also will be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation. This will be during a regular blood draw and you would not need to have an
           extra needle stick.

      This is an investigational study. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. Using minocycline to try to reduce the side effects of
      surgery in patients with head and neck cancer is investigational.

      Up to 130 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  