
    
      The investigators conducted a prospective study to investigate the performance of 18F-choline
      (FCH) PET/CT and 99mTc- sestamibi scintigraphy in the pre-operative localization of
      hyperfunctioning parathyroid glands.

      Single isotope dual phase Tc-99m sestamibi imaging protocol:

      Fasting is not needed before radiotracer injection. No specific drug restriction is needed.
      Scan will be conduced by using a dual head gamma camera unit (Infinia Hawkeye; GE Medical
      Systems, Milwaukee,Wis), and scans will be interpreted on a work station with the use of
      compatible software (Xeleris).

      An indwelling intravenous catheter connected to an infusion line and an saline syringe will
      be set on each patient. 99mTc-sestamibi (925 +/- 10% MBq) will be injected intravenously
      through the infusion line and will be flushed by saline. The image acquisition of the first
      phase is to be taken 15 minutes after radiotracer injection. The second phase will be
      acquired 2-4 hours after the initial tracer injection. The scintigraphic scan field will
      cover from neck to chest. Additional field-of-view will be performed if the patient has known
      surgically reimplanted parathyroid gland in the arms.

      Two nuclear medicine physicians assess the single isotope dual phase 99mTc-sestamibi
      scintigraphy. The investigators have access to the patients' history and interpreted
      individually by each reader, with disagreements to be resolved by consensus. Uptake
      conspicuity will be evaluated in 4-graded scale. 0. Unable to identify any focal uptake; 1.
      Inconspicuous focus; 2. Focal mild uptake; 3. Focal intense uptake. For the determination of
      a diagnosis, score 0 and 1 are considered a negative resulte and 2 to 3 a positive result.

      18F-FCH PET imaging protocol: Fasting is not needed before radiotracer injection. No specific
      drug restriction is needed. Scan will be conduced by using a PET/CT unit (Discovery ST; GE
      Medical Systems, Milwaukee,Wis), and scans will be interpreted on a work station with the use
      of compatible software (Xeleris).

      An indwelling intravenous catheter connected to an infusion line and an saline syringe will
      be set on each patient. 18F-FCH (185 +/- 10% MBq) will be injected intravenously through the
      infusion line and will be flushed by saline. The injected 18F-FCH dose, injection time,
      post-injection residual activity, time of start imaging and time of end imaging will be
      recorded on case report form. 18F-FCH PET/CT scan acquisition is to be taken 5 to 10 minutes
      after radiotracer injection. The PET/CT (80-120 mA, 120 kVp) scan field will cover from skull
      to mid-thigh. Patient with reimplanted focus will be put into the field-of-view. The 18F-FCH
      PET/CT scan time will require 35-40 minutes.

      Two nuclear medicine physicians assess the 18F-FCH PET/CT images. The investigators have
      access to the patients' history and interpreted individually by each reader, with
      disagreements to be resolved by consensus. However, the interpreters have no access to the
      sestamibi imaging results. For 18F-FCH PET/CT images, uptake conspicuity will be evaluated in
      4-graded scale. 0. Unable to identify any focal uptake; 1. Inconspicuous focus; 2. Focal mild
      uptake; 3. Focal intense uptake. For the determination of a diagnosis, score 0 and 1 are
      considered a negative resulte and 2 to 3 a positive result.

      Reference standard is established by surgical pathology:

      The reference standard will be the surgical pathological results. Removed gland will be
      histologically confirmed as parathyroid adenoma or hyperplasia. For in situ hyperfunctioning
      parathyroid glands, the image results will be compared with the surgical results as correct
      lateralization (right side or left side), and correct polarity (upper pole or lower pole),
      sequentially. For ectopic and reimplanted glands, presence of pathological or biochemical
      evidence of hyperfunctioning gland removal of the image suggested lesion will be the
      reference standard.
    
  