
    
      Differences and delays in the delivery of cancer care lead to more advanced cancer at the
      time of diagnosis and ultimately to more deaths for low-income and minority communities. Our
      group helped develop a patient-navigation model using lay health workers to address patient
      barriers and coordinated cancer-care services, leading to more timely care. Despite the fact
      that patient navigation is now a standard required by the Commission on Cancer, the
      investigators' research shows that delays in care persist for our low-income patients with
      socio-legal barriers. Socio-legal barriers are defined as social problems related to meeting
      life's most basic needs that are supported by public policy or programming and thus
      potentially remedied through legal advocacy/action (e.g., unsafe/unstable housing, unlawful
      utility shutoffs, or job termination). Direct feedback from cancer patients suggests a
      critical need to address socio-legal barriers in order to achieve quality care for all. To
      expand the current impact of patient navigation on quality care for low-income patients, the
      investigators will partner with patients, key community stakeholders, and the Medical-Legal
      Partnership (MLP)|Boston, the founding site of a nationwide program assisting healthcare
      teams in addressing socio-legal barriers to health. Under direction from a Patient Advisory
      Group and a Community Advisory Board, the investigators will conduct a study to compare
      standard navigation with an MLP navigation intervention enhanced by legal support for
      low-income cancer patients.

      The investigators will enroll 374 low-income, racially diverse, newly diagnosed cancer
      patients. Half will receive standard navigation, i.e., a lay navigator integrated into the
      healthcare team who provides one-on-one patient contact to address traditional system
      barriers to care. The other half will receive MLP navigation, i.e., standard navigation
      enhanced by legal support including:

        1. a full socio-legal needs assessment and care plan in consultation with MLP; and

        2. legal assistance for eligible urgent legal needs. We will compare each group on all
           outcomes.

      Compared to standard navigation, we expect that addressing socio-legal barriers to care with
      MLP navigation will improve patient-reported outcomes and lead to more timely care delivery.
      Because of widespread national availability of patient navigation and MLP programs at
      hospitals serving vulnerable patients, this intervention can be quickly replicated to improve
      patient experience and survival.
    
  