
    
      Compared to other children, those with disability have additional challenges to being
      physically active. Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a genetic form of childhood obesity that is
      characterized by hypotonia, growth hormone deficiency, behavioral, and cognitive disability.
      In children, the low prevalence of PWS (1 in 10,000 to 15,000 live births) makes group-based
      physical activity (PA) interventions impossible. In contrast, the home environment presents a
      natural venue to establish a PA routine for this population. The present high prevalence of
      non-syndromal childhood obesity (one in four) and high physical inactivity rates, make
      alternative approaches to increasing PA in this population an area of high interest.
      Specifically, approaches that involve the family have been identified as possible areas where
      further research is needed. Therefore, we have developed a 24-week home-based physical
      activity that could be suitable for children and adolescents ages 8-15 with PWS as well as
      obese children without PWS ages 8-11 years. It is hypothesized that: 1) an age-appropriate
      24-week home-based PA intervention will increase PA levels in youth with PWS and without the
      syndrome but with obesity; 2) motor proficiency, central sensory reception and integration,
      and body composition will significantly improve in youth with and without PWS following
      completion of the home-based PA intervention and 3) physical activity self-efficacy and
      quality of life will increase significantly in youth with and without PWS who complete the
      home-based PA intervention. The study participants are 115 youth ages 8-15 y (45 with PWS and
      70 without PWS but categorized as obese). The study utilizes a parallel design with the
      wait-listed control group receiving the intervention after serving as control. Participants
      are expected to complete the PA curriculum 4 days a week for six months including playground
      games 2 days a week and interactive console games 2 days a week. Parents are trained at
      baseline and then provided with a PA curriculum (Active Play at Home) and equipment to guide
      their implementation of the program at home. Tips related to scheduling and coping with
      barriers to daily program implementation are also included. Throughout, parents are contacted
      by phone once a week (weeks 1-4) and then every other week to provide support in between
      visits. Measurements of children and parent dyads are assessed at baseline, at 12-weeks of
      receiving the intervention and at the end (week 24) of the intervention or control periods.
      PA intervention compliance is monitored using mail-in daily self-report checklists.
    
  