
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary - Feasibility Study

        -  To determine the proportion of consenting patients that can provide a formalin-fixed
           paraffin-embedded block containing tumor.

        -  To determine the feasibility of topoisomerase-1 (topo-1) IHC and K-ras, BRAF mutational
           status determination being completed with 10 working days of initial consent.

        -  To determine reproducibility of results between reference laboratories.

        -  To determine the real costs of molecular testing.

        -  To determine the patients' ability to comprehend the study and their attitude during the
           waiting period for testing.

        -  To assess patients' ability to fully comprehend the trial as explained to them.

      Secondary - Feasibility Study

        -  To further identify the EGFR-responsive subset within the K-ras wildtype population.

      Primary - Definitive Study

        -  Compare the clinical outcomes of patients with metastatic or locally advanced colorectal
           cancer and low topo-1-expressing tumors treated with fluorouracil alone versus
           irinotecan hydrochloride, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium (IrMdG).

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with high topo-1-expressing tumors
           treated with oxaliplatin and IrMdG versus IrMdG alone.

        -  Compare the response rate in patients with K-ras wildtype tumor treated with cetuximab
           and IrMdG versus IrMdG alone.

        -  Compare the response rate in patients with K-ras mutant tumors who are unlikely to
           respond to EGFR inhibition treated with bevacizumab and IrMdG versus IrMdG alone.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, 2-part study.

        -  Part I (feasibility study): Once consent for tissue block release has been obtained and
           patient is registered, the block is requested from the Pathology Department. This begins
           the 10 working-day time line. Treatment commences once the results of the testing are
           known. The following evaluations are performed during this period:

             -  The frequency of EGFR gene amplification on FISH, PI3K gene mutation, PTEN loss by
                IHC, estimation of mRNA for EGFR ligands (amphiregulin and epiregulin), and other
                protein assessments.

             -  An evaluation of the impact on the use or further investigation of these markers in
                the main study.

             -  Patients consenting to trial entry and (if agreeable to data collection) patients
                refusing trial entry complete a questionnaire assessing patients' ability to fully
                comprehend the trial as explained to them.

             -  Patients are interviewed before allocation of treatment about their attitudes about
                the waiting period necessary for tumor testing.

        -  Part II (definitive study): Patients are stratified according to availability of both
           lab tests (K-ras mutation [yes vs no], BRAF mutation [yes vs no], and topoisomerase-1
           [topo-1] expression [low vs high]). Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups
           based on their biomarker test results.

             -  Group 1 (low topo-1 and both K-ras and BRAF wildtype): Patients are randomized to 1
                of 3 treatment arms.

                  -  Arm I (regimen A [IrMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over
                     30 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV bolus
                     followed by infusion over 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks
                     for at least 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                     toxicity.

                  -  Arm II (regimen B [MdG]): Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours
                     and fluorouracil IV bolus followed by infusion over 46 hours on day 1.
                     Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for at least 6 months in the absence of
                     disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  Arm III (regimen D [IrMdG and cetuximab]): Patients receive cetuximab IV over
                     1-2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV
                     over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV bolus followed by infusion over 46 hours on
                     day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for at least 6 months in the absence of
                     disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group 2 (low topo-1 and either K-ras or BRAF mutation): Patients are randomized to
                1 of 3 treatment arms.

                  -  Arm I (regimen A [IrMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride,
                     leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm I.

                  -  Arm II (regimen B [MdG]): Patients receive leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil
                     as in group 1, arm II.

                  -  Arm III (regimen E [IrMdG and bevacizumab]): Patients receive bevacizumab IV
                     over 30-90 minutes, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes, leucovorin
                     calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV bolus followed by infusion over
                     46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for at least 6 months in
                     the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group 3 (high topo-1 and both K-ras and BRAF wildtype): Patients are randomized to
                1 of 3 treatment arms.

                  -  Arm I (regimen A [IrMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride,
                     leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm I.

                  -  Arm II (regimen C [IrOxMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV
                     over 30 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, oxaliplatin IV over 2
                     hours, and fluorouracil IV bolus followed by infusion over 46 hours on day 1.
                     Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for at least 6 months in the absence of
                     disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  Arm III (regimen D [IrMdG and cetuximab]): Patients receive cetuximab,
                     irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil IV as in group
                     1, arm III.

             -  Group 4 (high topo-1 and either K-ras or BRAF mutation): Patients are randomized to
                1 of 3 treatment arms.

                  -  Arm I (regimen A [IrMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride,
                     leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in group 1, arm I.

                  -  Arm II (regimen C [IrOxMdG]): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride,
                     leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil as in group 3, arm II.

                  -  Arm III (regimen E [IrMdG and bevacizumab]): Patients receive bevacizumab,
                     irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil IV as group 2,
                     arm III.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 240 patients will be accrued for the feasibility study and
      approximately 3,000 patients will be accrued for the definitive study.
    
  