
    
      Several studies show a significant drop in pain scores, improved fertility outcomes and
      amelioration of impaired sexual functioning in women following surgical resection of
      colorectal endometriosis. However, there is inceasing evidence that intermediate and
      long-term bowel dysfunction may occur as a consequence of radical surgery for rectal deep
      endometriosis (DE). Typical symptoms include constipation, feeling of incomplete evacuation,
      clustering of stools and urgency. This is described in the colorectal surgical literature as
      low anterior resection syndrome (LARS). The choice of operation is largely dependent on the
      extent of disease. Statistically significant differences in functional outcomes were found in
      favor of the conservative surgical approach, i.e. resection of endometriotic tissue with
      preservation of the luminal structure of the rectal wall thereby avoiding segmental bowel
      resection. In a recent retrospective multicentric cohort analysis, the incidence of LARS
      after either nerve and vessel sparing segmental resection (NVSSR) or transanal disc excision
      (TADE) performed for the surgical treatment of colorectal DE was assessed. All patients
      underwent a low rectum resection, with a resection line lower than 7cm from anal verge. In
      contrast to previoisly published data, no statistically significant difference between the
      incidence of the LARS among patients operated using TADE when compared to women treated by
      NVSSR were found. Interestingly, the occurence of LARS was positively associated with the use
      of protective ileo-or colostomy. A higher rate of severe complications was observed in the
      TADE group than among patients who underwent a NVSSR. Weaknesses of this study are the
      retrospective design and a possible bias in the TADE regarding larger DE nodules as well as
      the possibility of bowel dysfunction prior to surgery in women with DE.

      The primary aim of the present study is the prospective comparison of two surgical approaches
      for full thickness excision of rectal DE resulting in an anastomotic height ≤7 cm distance
      from the anal verge. One technique involves the preservation of the residual luminal wall
      integrity (disc resection) known as Rouen technique/ TADE. The other technique involves
      limited resection of the bowel wall with preservation of all adjacent structures (autonomic
      pelvic plexus, rectal vascular supply) known as NVSSR. Gastrointestinal functional outcomes
      of the two procedures will be compared using the LARS / GIQLI by Eypasch questionnaires.
      Since digestive complaints may also be present presurgically, evaluation of digestive
      complaints will be recorded pre- and post surgery.
    
  