
    
      Experimental design A National, Multicentre, Prospective, Randomised, Double Blind,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial with two parallel groups.

      Eligible patients will be randomised in two groups:

        -  Experimental group Sildenafil citrate 140 mg/day (single morning oral dose of 140 mg)
           for a total duration of 24 weeks.

        -  Control group Placebo (single morning oral dose) for a total duration of 24 weeks.

      Treatment will be proposed in addition to optimal treatment (Antiplatelet + Lipid Lowering
      Drugs + AT2 antagonists / ACE Inhibitors; unless contra-indicated) + advice to walk.

      The experimental drug will be delivered for a 4 weeks treatment period. Phone contact will be
      carried out at 7 and 14 days focusing on tolerance, compliance and eventual side effects.

      First follow up visit at week 4 will focus on tolerance, compliance and side effects. If no
      major side effect is found, the study drug will be delivered for an additional 8 weeks.

      Phone contact will be carried out at 8 weeks focusing on tolerance, compliance and eventual
      side effects.

      Patients will be evaluated at week 12 (second follow-up visit) for persistent or
      non-persistent indication for revascularization and considered for revascularization if
      needed. In parallel, attention will be given to tolerance, compliance and eventual side
      effects. If no major side effect is found, the study drug will be delivered for an additional
      12 weeks period.

      Phone contact will be carried out at weeks 16 and 20 focusing on tolerance, compliance and
      eventual side effects.

      Third and fourth follow-up visits are scheduled at week 24 (end of treatment) and week 48 (24
      weeks after the end of experimental drugs).

      Perspectives

        -  Improving quality of life of patients suffering a chronic debilitating disease is a
           major issue not only in vascular medicine.

        -  It is expected that the treatment may help patients change from a vicious circle (Pain >
           inactivity > disease progression > pain > increased morbi-mortality) to a virtuous
           circle (no Pain > improved ability for activity > collateral vessel development >
           slowing of disease progression > decreased morbi-mortality )

        -  We expect that half of the patients that fulfil inclusion criteria will be sufficiently
           improved not to require surgery anymore even 24 weeks after the end of the drug as a
           result of this virtuous circle.
    
  