
    
      Introduction: Red meat consumption contributes important nutrients to the diet, including
      essential amino acids, long chain and complex lipids, vitamins (including B12) and minerals
      (including iron and zinc) [5]. While supplying these important nutrients, red meat may
      contain components which may negate optimal health such as the saturated fat content and
      nitrates, that are added during processing [5]. The degree to which red meat affects health
      is likely related to its inherent nutritional profile, the quantity consumed and any
      processing (e.g. nitrates or cooking techniques). Regardless, the simple notion of a complex
      whole-food containing single nutrients which are 'good' or 'bad' for health is now considered
      overly simplistic [6]. For example, to reduce heart disease, nutritional guidelines now
      suggest an increase in polyunsaturated fats at the expense of saturated fat, rather than a
      complete reduction of all fats [6].

      Alongside the controversy over the health consequences of red meat, recent attention has
      focused on the possibility of using "plant-based" proteins as an alternative to red meat
      consumption. The search for meat alternatives has resulted in a sharp increase in the
      production of novel "plant-based" meat analogues that have been designed to replicate the
      taste and eating experience of red-meat. To date there are very few studies addressing the
      nutritional differences between traditional red meat and plant-based meat analogues, and the
      nutritional differences that arise due to different production systems. Given the nutritional
      composition of red meat is likely to be influenced by the farming and feeding practices of
      the animals, production procedures and end-user cooking techniques [7], these differences
      need to be accounted for in the research design and application.

      Aims: To investigate the digestive responses to an acute intake of pasture-fed beef,
      grain-finished beef, lamb and a plant based meat-analogue consumed as a component of a mixed
      meal. This study is part of a larger programme to understand the nutritional implications of
      consuming New Zealand, pasture-fed red meat as part of a balanced diet.

      Study Design and Setting: The study is designed as randomised cross-over trial to capture
      biological difference in postprandial nutrient dynamics. Research subjects will act as their
      own controls and will consume each meal (pasture raised, grain-fed beef, lamb and a meat
      alternative meal) on a separate occasion in random order. The study compares exemplars of
      pasture-fed New Zealand beef, grain-finished New Zealand beef, lamb and a meat analogue. The
      plant-based meat analogue has been selected on the basis of its macronutrient profile
      (protein and fat) and appearance in order to that best matches that of meat.

      The digestion and metabolism of key nutrients in beef will be measured immediately after the
      ingestion of a single meal. This experimental setting will also be used to examine some
      subjective qualities of the meal experience, such as satisfaction score (i.e., liking,
      satisfaction, enjoyment, satiety, appetite) and gastrointestinal score (i.e., comfort,
      fullness, bloating, rumbling, flatulence, faecal urgency, diarrhoea).
    
  