
    
      Invitalize has developed the High Intensity Physio Light (HIPL) Therapy™, a phototherapy
      method that utilizes an emission wavelength spectrum that has been identified for treatment
      of musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) such as OA.

      Design: Double (patient and investigator) blind, parallel group, pilot randomized control
      trial with 1:1 allocation ratio to HIPL Therapy™ or placebo control.

      Recruitment: For the pilot, 20 adults who have been diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis (OA)
      of any duration will be recruited to participate in this study at Queen's University.
      Participants will be recruited from two primary care practices in Kingston, Ontario.

      Randomization and allocation concealment: Participants will be randomized to either the
      placebo or control group using a computer generated random number generator. The allocation
      sequence will be recorded on cards placed in sealed, opaque envelopes. Allocation will be
      concealed until after the initial assessment is completed. Patients and investigators will
      remain blinded throughout the trial.

      The HIPL Therapy™ group will receive phototherapy in addition to an education and exercise
      intervention with a physiotherapist twice weekly for four weeks. Participants will lay in a
      relaxed position on a therapy plinth with the light applied to the affected knee for 20
      minutes. In the case of bilateral knee OA, the treatment time will be doubled and applied to
      both knees with an intensity setting aimed at delivering 150 mW/cm2.

      The control group will receive the same education and exercise intervention, as well as 20
      minutes of phototherapy twice weekly for four weeks. However, the intensity setting will be
      set at 5 mW/cm2, a dosage at which there is no therapeutic benefit expected, but the light
      will still be visible to the participant.

      All participants will complete brief questionnaires at each visit and will complete
      functional assessments and pressure point testing at the initial, fourth and final visits.
      Participants will complete online questionnaires at the 8-, 12- and 16-week time points as
      well.
    
  