
    
      Within a three-year research programme the investigators used the RAND/UCLA Appropriateness
      Method (Fitch, 2001) to achieve national consensus on the components of Compassion ('the
      Intervention'), a complex intervention for a model of end of life care for people with
      advanced dementia. The Intervention consists of two core components: facilitation of an
      integrated, multi-disciplinary approach to assessment, treatment and care; and education,
      training and support for formal and informal carers. The development is described in detail
      in a manual and a publication (Jones, 2015). The Intervention is coordinated by an Advanced
      Dementia Interdisciplinary Care Leader (ICL) The ICL role requires extensive clinical
      experience in care of frail older people and those with dementia, particularly towards end of
      life. Skills may be drawn from the fields of nursing, social work or a profession allied to
      medicine. This theory-driven approach to improving end of life care in advanced dementia has
      not previously been tested in a real-world setting. The protocol is published (Elliott,
      2014).

      The study will be an exploratory, naturalistic implementation study of the Compassion
      Intervention following the principles of dynamic sustainability, recognising that
      implementing protocols in real-life settings requires adaptations, and that rigid adherence
      to guidelines tested in controlled settings may not be suitable or effective in broader
      contexts (Chambers, 2013). The investigators structured their approach using the phases of
      implementation described by Grol and colleagues (2007) including orientation, insight,
      acceptance, change and maintenance. A full time ICL with a social care background and
      considerable experience working with people with dementia in care homes was employed. The ICL
      will be supervised by clinicians with palliative and dementia expertise within the research
      team and two external clinicians.

      Two care homes, both predominately nursing home level of care, were invited to participate
      having been involved in an earlier phase of the research programme; a longitudinal (9 months)
      cohort study to examine the needs of people with advanced dementia and their family carers
      (Jones, 2012). Care home managers gave written consent for their site to participate, and
      permission for the ICL to carry out clinical assessments of eligible residents and have
      access to their files. Managers will identify eligible residents. Implementation will occur
      over 15 months. In month 1, in each care home, the ICL will meet with care home managers,
      deputy managers and key external healthcare professionals who visit the care homes. Posters
      promoting the intervention will be displayed in each care home. The Intervention was launched
      in Care Home 1 in May 2014 and Care Home 2 in June 2014. The ICL will be actively engaged in
      each care home for six months to co-ordinate activities. After six months the ICL will cease
      active engagement. To assess maintenance of activities, interviews with relevant stakeholders
      will be conducted after the ICL withdraws at months 7, 11 and 15.

      The ICL will keep a reflective diary to document observations of practice, liaison with
      staff, family and residents, examples of improvements in care and personal responses to the
      role. The diary will influence implementation by enabling the ICL to reflect on her role in
      situ and modify her approach if required. The ICL will keep a daily log of time spent on
      tasks related to implementation to enable estimation of costs. It was expected that care home
      and external healthcare professional time to be involved in Intervention meetings and
      training will be consistent with their usual job descriptions and so will not be considered
      an additional cost of the Intervention and any opportunity costs will be offset by the
      training skills acquired. During the six months at the care homes, the ICL will collect
      monthly care home-wide data on the number of residents with: documented resuscitation status;
      a pain management plan; preferred place of death recorded; and hospital admissions. Data on
      emergency phone calls and location of deaths will be collected. Resident assessments
      undertaken by the ICL will not be used as research data. These data will be maintained within
      the care home as clinical information according to their governance polices. Findings from
      assessments, however, can be reflected on in the anonymised ICL diary and used to inform
      other Intervention activities such as training. Formal training sessions will be evaluated
      using evaluation forms.

      Monthly individual resident outcome data will be collected by researchers (not the ICL) from
      residents assessed by the ICL and their family carers. As residents are unlikely to have
      capacity to make an informed decision to participate in research, care home managers will
      invite next of kin/primary contact to give consent for this monthly outcome data to be
      collected. If a next of kin is not available, a professional consultee will provide agreement
      according to UK's Mental Capacity Act (2005). Residents will be recruited during the first
      four months of implementation to ensure collection of at least three months of outcome data.

      Process data will reported as total number of activities undertaken and total ICL hours spent
      on different activities. ICL hours spent on activities associated with the implementation
      will be costed using the UK Department of Health and Health Education England tariffs to
      estimate the cost of engaging the ICL. Training evaluations and outcomes (facility wide and
      individual) will be analysed using descriptive statistics using statistical package IBM SPSS
      Version 22 (2013). Outcome data will be used for monitoring potential harm and to examine the
      feasibility of collecting measures in future trials, hence a sample size calculation will not
      performed. Using descriptive statistics we will compare individual outcomes with data from
      our earlier cohort study but the sample size will be too small for statistical analyses.

      Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with a purposive sample of care home staff and
      external healthcare professionals after the ICL has completed six months at each site and
      also to assess sustainability after the ICL has left. Interviews will be conducted at months
      7, 11 and 15. Family carers who agree for a resident to have monthly individual data
      collection will be invited to take part in an interview at month 7. Participants will provide
      written informed consent prior to each interview. Interviews will be audio-recorded and
      transcribed verbatim. The interviews aim to: assess participants' views of the strengths and
      weaknesses of the Intervention; identify whether any changes in practice to improve the care
      of residents with advanced dementia and their family carers were implemented due to the
      Intervention; and explore whether these changes were maintained after the ICL left.
      Transcripts will be checked against the audio-recording. One researcher involved in
      interviewing and transcribing will code all transcripts using QSR International Pty Ltd NVivo
      V10 software (2012). Framework analysis will be used (Gale, 2013), based on Grol's (2007)
      phases of implementation. Small chunks of text will be extracted and coded, summarising their
      content. Coded text will be grouped into larger themes within each of the five phases. Themes
      will be reviewed and checked by a second researcher.
    
  