
    
      The Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is a stressful environment for all critical care healthcare
      providers. In the United States, there are more than 500,000 critical care (ICU) nurses that
      treat the most seriously ill patients. These ICU nurses have especially challenging and
      sometimes overwhelming jobs due to high patient mortality and morbidity, and frequent
      encounters with ethical dilemmas. The repetitive exposure to these extreme stressors and the
      inability to adjust to their difficult work environment may cause significant psychological
      stress. The investigator's multidisciplinary research team was one of the first to identify
      that ICU nurses have significantly high rates of psychological distress including: symptoms
      of anxiety and depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and burnout syndrome (BOS).

      Work-induced distress initiates a negative cycle that contributes to the unacceptably high
      ICU nursing turnover rate. Nationally, nursing turnover rates range between 17-20% per year.
      In the ICU, the growing nursing shortage is particularly concerning. Presently, there are no
      interventions to reduce BOS in ICU nurses. Many stresses on ICU nurses are inherent to the
      critical care environment such as performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the death of a
      patient. Therefore, the investigators multidisciplinary research group has focused on
      enhancing the ability of ICU nurses to adapt to their work environment.

      Resiliency enables one to thrive in the face of adversity. Humans respond to stress and
      trauma in a variety of ways. Some people are resilient; defined as the ability to succeed, to
      live, and to develop in a positive way despite the stress or adversity that would normally
      involve the real possibility of a negative outcome. In practice, resilient individuals
      believe that what they do can have a positive impact on a situation, that some components of
      the 'system' can be controlled or influenced by one's own actions, that persistent effort is
      worthwhile, and that setbacks or potentially threatening events are inevitable and
      surmountable. A variety of qualities are associated with resiliency including the ability to
      engage the support of others, the belief that stress can be strengthening, and overall
      optimism. Though some individuals are inherently resilient; resiliency can be learned.
      Developing resiliency may be one strategy to prevent and treat symptoms of BOS. The
      investigators have demonstrated that resilient ICU nurses were less likely to have symptoms
      of anxiety, depression, PTSD, and BOS. The investigators also identified methods used by ICU
      nurses to promote resiliency and emotional wellness. The investigators ICU nursing pilot
      program also increased resiliency and decreased symptoms of BOS.

      From the investigators prior studies, mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) and cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) are two modalities currently used by resilient ICU nurses. In the
      investigators most recent national survey, ICU nurses were eager to learn MBSR and CBT
      techniques to help reduce symptoms of BOS. Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT)
      combines the best of MBSR and CBT, and may build resiliency and reduce BOS symptoms. MBCT was
      developed by integrating the framework and practices of MBSR and CBT. Classically
      incorporated into an 8 week course, MBCT uses mindfulness skills to help individuals become
      aware of negative thoughts and feelings that are activated by stress. MBCT also incorporates
      CBT techniques to develop a different relationship to those thoughts and feelings, and
      interrupt the negative thought patterns.
    
  