
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the effect of prophylactic transfer of donor CD4 cells after T-cell depleted
           reduced-intensity HLA-identical sibling transplantation upon the risk of relapse or
           progression in patients with haematological cancers (e.g. NHL, HL, CLL/PLL, PCM, AML,
           ALL, MDS or CMML depending on the disease status).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the effect of prophylactic transfer of donor CD4 cells upon the risk of
           graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the effect of prophylactic transfer of donor CD4 cells upon the rates of
           conversion to full donor chimerism in peripheral blood in these patients.

        -  To determine the effect of prophylactic transfer of donor CD4 cells upon immune
           reconstitution in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the impact of prophylactic transfer of donor CD4 cells upon non-relapse
           mortality and overall survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive fludarabine IV, melphalan IV, and alemtuzumab IV as reduced intensity
      conditioning for T-cell depletion followed by a reduced-intensity HLA-identical sibling stem
      cell transplantation on day 0. Withdrawal of cyclosporine immunosuppression therapy commence
      at day 40 with tapering over a period of 3-4 weeks, according to the discretion of the PI.
      Patients are reassessed between day 70-90 post-transplantation. Patients with stable
      engraftment, no significant graft-versus-host disease, and no early relapse or progression
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an allogeneic CD4 donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) at a dose of 1
           x10^6 CD4 cells/kg body weight without any other medication once between day 100-120.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive no further treatment.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection for chimerism studies and translational research.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 1 years and
      then annually.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Bloodwise.
    
  