
    
      1. Background

           Drug resistance has been associated with increased numbers of hospital admissions,
           increased cases of clinical malaria and malaria-specific mortality . Several strategies
           have been proposed as means by which the spread of antimalarial drugs resistance could
           be delayed. These strategies include reducing drug pressure, improving the quality of
           drug use, using combinations of antimalarial drugs and use of vector control measures.
           Restricting the use of drugs to reduce drug pressure is presently unrealistic due to
           poor access to health facilities and a lack of equipment. Improving the quality of use
           of antimalarials through the use of pre-packaged doses, education and training is a
           sound control strategy. However, the impact of this strategy on drug resistance has not
           yet been evaluated. Another promising approach to contain drug resistance is the use of
           combination therapies. The most successful combinations so far are those using
           artemisinin and its derivatives. It is likely that implementing combination therapy in
           resource limited countries will be hampered by its high cost. Given their impact in
           reducing malaria transmission, cases of clinical malaria and all-cause malaria
           mortality, insecticide-treated materials (ITMs) have recently been proposed as a
           potential tool for delaying the development and spread of drug resistance. So far, the
           debate on the interaction between malaria transmission intensity and drug resistance has
           been driven by analytical models and, to our knowledge, only 2 field studies have yet
           addressed the impact of ITMs on antimalarial drug resistance. If ITMs reduced the
           development and spread of antimalarial drug resistance, this would enhance their
           usefulness as a malaria control tool. This study examines the impact of
           insecticide-treated curtains (ITC)used over 6-8 years on the prevalence of antimalarial
           drug resistance in Burkina Faso.

        2. Objectives

           2.1 Primary objectives

             -  To determine the frequency of in vivo clinical and parasitological failures
                following treatment of uncomplicated malaria with CQ in children living in villages
                protected and not protected by insecticide treated curtains (ITC).

             -  To determine if children in ITC and non-ITC villages with clinical malaria differ
                in their ability to clear genetically resistant parasites after treatment with CQ.

           2.2 Secondary objectives

             -  To determine the proportions of children infected with parasites carrying the
                pfcrt-76T and pfmdr1-86Y alleles associated with resistance to CQ in villages
                protected and not protected by ITC.

             -  To determine the proportions of children infected with parasites carrying parasites
                with the dihydrofolate reductase (dhfr) and dihydropteroate synthetase (dhps)
                alleles associated with resistant to SP in ITC and non- ITC protected villages.

             -  To relate in vivo clinical and parasitological failure rates to the presence of
                genotypic markers of resistance to CQ by estimating genotype-failure indices (GFIs)
                and genotype-resistance indices (GRIs).

        3. Methods

      3.1 Field work

      Passive case detection was used to recruit children aged 6-59 months with uncomplicated
      malaria using a slightly modified version of the standard WHO in vivo method for assessing
      therapeutic efficacy of anti-malarial drugs .Children seeking care at the selected health
      centres were screened for eligibility to join the study, enrolled and followed up for 14
      days. If a child's axillary temperature was >=37.5 ºC and no obvious cause of fever other
      than malaria was found on clinical examination, about 500 ml of blood was drawn into a
      micro-container containing EDTA. Microscopic diagnosis of malaria and measurement of
      packed-cell volume (PCV) were performed immediately after samples were received in the
      laboratory. After enrolment, further clinical examinations were performed on days 1, 2, 3, 7,
      and 14. In addition, the caretakers were advised to bring children back to the health centre
      at any time between day 1 and day 14 if the child's condition did not improve. Thick and thin
      blood films and filter paper blood spots were prepared on days 0, 3, 7, 14 and at unscheduled
      visits.

      Treatment of children and treatment outcome

      A standard treatment with CQ was administered to children with uncomplicated malaria. The
      treatment dosing was 25 mg/kg body weight of CQ over 3 days; 10 mg/kg on days 0, 1 and 5
      mg/kg on day 2. Treatment was administered at the clinic under the supervision of a nurse.
      Outcomes for the in vivo trial were classified according to the WHO clinical and
      parasitological assessment system

      Prevalence of pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86 mutations in the community

      A cross-sectional survey was conducted to estimate the prevalence of pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86
      mutations in asymptomatic children. Random samples of children aged 6 to 59 months and
      children aged 5 years to 14 years were selected per village. Thick and thin blood films and
      filter paper blood spots were prepared from a finger-prick.

      Estimation of the entomological inoculation rate

      A cross-sectional survey was conducted at the peak period of malaria transmission (September
      2002) for the estimation of the EIR. Catches were performed using CDC light traps. An ELISA
      test was used to detect the presence of P. falciparum circumsporozoite protein (CSP).

      Socio-economic and health seeking behaviour survey

      In 2003, a survey was performed in a random sample of 20 compounds in each village to collect
      data on health seeking behaviour, socio-economic and demographic features of the study
      population including the frequencies of population movements between villages.

      3.2 Laboratory methods

      Thick and thin blood films were stained with Giemsa stain (3%) for 45 minutes. Asexual
      parasites and gametocytes of P. falciparum were counted against 400 white blood cells. For
      molecular biology analyses, DNA was extracted from pre, post-treatment and cross-sectional
      survey filter paper blood spots using chelex. DNA was amplified by nested PCR to detect
      mutations at pfcrt-76. Nest 2 PCR products were digested by Apo I endonuclease restriction
      enzyme and electrophoresed onto a 3% agarose. Sequence-specific oligonucleotide probing
      (SSOP) was performed to detect the presence of pfmdr1-86 mutation. Mutations at dhfr (51, 59
      and 108) and at dhps ( 437 and 540) were also detected by SSOP. MSP2 gene polymorphisms were
      studied by PCR to differentiate recrudescence from new infections.

      3.3 Sample size and power

      With 18 communities (9 per group), the study would have 80% power to detect, at the 5%
      significance level, a 50% decrease in clinical failure rate in eligible children. This number
      of communities would also permit the detection of a 40% decrease in parasitological failure
      rate in eligible children with the same power, and at least 60% and 40% increases in clinical
      and parasitological failure rates, at 5% significance level, in children carrying parasites
      with CQ resistant genotypes before CQ treatment was started.

      3.4 Data processing and analyses

      Two data clerks independently entered data onto computers using EPIINFO version 6.0. Analyses
      were performed using STATA (Release 8.2, www.stata.com). The study main endpoints were
      examined using Generalized Estimating Equations regression model

      3.5 Community approval

      This was obtained after meetings with community leaders to explain the objectives of the
      study and what it involved. In addition to community consent, individual signed informed
      consent was obtained from caretakers of children before enrolment.
    
  