
    
      Dengue fever is a major cause of illness and death worldwide. The disease is caused by dengue
      virus (DENGV) which gets transmitted to humans by the bites of infected Aedes mosquitoes. The
      dengue virus is a flavivirus genus as for example the West Nile virus, yellow fever virus or
      Zika virus. In march 2018 a Dengue epidemic seems to start in La Reunion island.

      dengue virus transmission occurs generally via the bite of the female mosquitoes while rare
      cases of non-vector transmission were reported. Only one case-report showed dengue virus in
      vaginal tract following dengue infection and any research was published about the links
      between male genital tract and dengue virus while a study revealed that 27 others viruses
      that can result in viremia have been found in human semen.

      In this context, the purpose of this study is to seek the presence of dengue virus in semen,
      to determine its localization and to assess the efficiency of spermatozoa processing methods
      to obtain virus free spermatozoa.

      This is a prospective study involving 15 patients, with acute dengue virus infection and a
      positive RNA detection in blood or/and urines. Men will give semen, urine and blood specimens
      7 days after the beginning of clinical signs and 15, 30, 60 and 90 days after. Dengue virus
      RNA being diagnosed with blood and/or urine sample positive for dengue virus RNA. Dengue
      virus RNA will be detected in seminal plasma, native semen cells and processed spermatozoa.
      Semen sampling and processing will be performed within the ART laboratory of the University
      Hospital of La Reunion (St Pierre) and research of dengue virus RNA in the laboratory of
      Virology of Toulouse University Hospital. This study will identify the presence or absence of
      dengue virus seminal shedding, its dynamic, and in case of shedding, verify the efficiency of
      semen processing to obtain virus free spermatozoa.

      These results are important to understand the physiopathology of dengue virus infection and
      will help to counsel the infected patient in epidemic zona or returning from epidemic
      country. Moreover, they will help to define the management and viral safety procedures during
      Medically assisted Procreation in the context of dengue virus epidemic.
    
  