
    
      For patients with untreated peripheral pulmonary stenoses, the course of disease is
      characterised by a chronic pressure load of the right ventricle. In the medium to long term
      this can lead to right heart failure and cardiac arrhythmia unresponsive to therapy. The
      probability of these events as well as the time of their occurrence depends on the severity
      of the stenoses, the duration of stress and a possible additional volume load. Within the
      scope of the prospective study introduced here, we intend to characterise the stenoses with
      respect to degree and type and to document the treatment success in terms of decrease of
      afterload of the right ventricle. In this context, imaging and catheter-based methods as well
      as respective functional analyses are to be used to provide evidence of a reduction or
      neutralisation of the pulmonary artery stenoses.

      Accordingly, the following questions, or corresponding objectives, can be identified as the
      base for the conduct of this clinical trial:

        -  Morphological and functional categorisation of the angiostenoses and standardisation of
           the diagnostic procedures. For this purpose, the quantitative criteria for both the
           morphological degree of stenosis (lumen constriction) and the functional degree of
           stenosis (pressure gradient) are established by means of cardiac catheterisation and
           angiography. Non-invasive imaging methods, which have as yet been restricted primarily
           to echocardiography, are complemented by the method of spin angiography. Compared to
           conventional angiography, this has the advantage of being less invasive and not
           involving radiation exposure.

        -  On the strength of past experience, the implantation of stents can be viewed as a very
           promising approach to a treatment with lasting effectiveness of pulmonary artery
           stenoses. The stents have the advantage of high radial forces that can be offset against
           the elastic recoil of the vessels occurring after sole dilatation. Furthermore,
           constrictions that are caused by either kinking of vessels or their compression by
           neighbouring structures can be dilated sufficiently by the use of stents.

        -  With respect to the interconnectedness of all the projects of the Competence Network for
           Congenital Heart Defects, one essential aspect is the standardisation of diagnostic
           methods of evaluating right ventricular function. The data obtained during the study are
           to provide the basis for the development of diagnostic guidelines.

        -  Concerning evaluation, particular attention is paid to the patients' self-assessment
           with respect to their exercise tolerance. In this context, it is a matter of interest to
           what degree the patients' subjective maximum stress and therefore their quality of life
           correlate with the objective measurement parameters. The anticipated results are of
           direct clinical significance for the patients, as they aim at medium to long-term relief
           of the right ventricle, which may effect a decrease in morbidity and therefore an
           improvement of the quality of life. This is of particular importance with regard to the
           fact that there will be a continuously increasing number of patients with congenital
           heart defects reaching adulthood.
    
  