
    
      The purpose of this 9 nursing homes (NH) cluster randomized study is to determine whether
      repositioning frequency can be extended for NH residents who are low, moderate, and high risk
      for pressure ulcer (PrU) development and on visco-elastic (VE) high-density foam
      support-surfaces without compromising PrU incidence. The investigators will also determine
      how changes in medical severity interact with changes in risk level and repositioning
      schedule to predict PrU development. PrUs result primarily from pressure over bony
      prominences that occlude blood flow to tissues. Current PrU prevention protocols recommend
      repositioning moderate, high, and severe risk residents a minimum of every 2 hours. The
      investigators propose to include low risk residents because studies suggest they too develop
      PrUs. New pressure redistribution mattresses may make 2 hour repositioning unnecessary, but
      optimal time between repositioning remains unclear. Aims are 1) determine differences in
      incidence of new PrUs in NH residents (low, moderate, high risk level) using VE surfaces and
      repositioned at 2, 3, and 4 hour frequencies; and 2) determine how medical severity
      components (measured by a modified Comprehensive Severity Index), changes in clinically
      assessed risk-level (low, moderate, high as measured by Braden Scale), repositioning
      schedule, and their interactions are associated with PrU development; and an Exploratory Aim:
      Evaluate PrU prevention intervention approach between NH groups repositioned at 2, 3, or 4
      hour by: 1) comparing the intervention resource costs (VE surfaces, Leaf service/sensor use,
      fixed and variable labor costs for training and repositioning) and incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratio of cost per % reduction in PrUs, and 2) exploring staff and resident
      satisfaction with intervention approach. The investigators will randomly assign each NH to
      one of 3 study arms (2, 3, 4 hour) while providing standard nursing care. Leaf Patient
      Monitoring System will be used with sensor worn continuously to monitor repositioning.
      Periodic safety and care checks will be performed to ensure skin integrity. Residents
      admitted to study NHs for at least 3 days during the 6 week intervention, without an existing
      PrU, not using a specialty support surface, and of low, moderate, or high risk for PrU
      development will be included in analysis based on intention to treat. The outcome, no
      difference in PrU incidence, will determine whether repositioning frequency can be extended
      for low, moderate, high risk residents. Medical severity components and clinically assessed
      risk level will be examined for assessment to assessment change in relation to PrU
      development, thus identifying severity components associated with new PrUs. Data will be
      monitored by investigators daily. Data analysis and management will be performed by HSIR. NH
      staff and resident satisfaction with the intervention approach will be explored using focus
      groups. This study will advance knowledge about repositioning frequency and clinically
      assessed PrU risk-level in relation to medical severity. Outcomes of this research will
      contribute to future guidelines for more precise preventive nursing practices and refinement
      of PrU prevention guidelines.
    
  