
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess for a decrease in phosphorylated (phospho)-protein kinase B (Akt) (Ser^473)
      levels in tissue after a pre-surgical trial of weekly MK2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) (2 doses)
      in patients with operable invasive breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effects of MK2206 on the immunohistochemical expression of other
      phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway biomarkers on pre-and post-MK2206 tumor
      tissue, such as phospho-S6 kinase.

      II. To assess modulation of PI3K/AKT signaling following MK2206 use with reverse-phase
      protein microarray analysis.

      III. To explore whether phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit
      alpha (PIK3CA) mutations demonstrate different modulation of PI3K/Akt-pathway signaling as
      compared to tumors with loss of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN).

      IV. To explore whether MK2206 alters PI3K/Akt pathway signaling differently in hormone
      receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2-negative tumors, as compared
      to triple-negative or HER2-positive breast cancers.

      V. To evaluate whether tumor proliferation, as measured by Ki-67 staining of breast tumor
      cells, is reduced in patients taking MK2206 pre-surgically and correlate Ki-67 modulation
      with changes in PI3K/AKT signaling.

      VI. To determine safety and tolerability of MK2206 in patients with early-stage breast
      cancer.

      VII. To collect fasting blood for evaluation of predictive markers of drug effect, such as
      markers in the insulin growth-factor receptor pathway (i.e., fasting insulin, c-peptide,
      insulin-like growth factor [IGF]-1, and IGF binding protein [BP]-1 and 3), as well as
      modulation of phospho-markers in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) on days -9 and -2, and undergo segmental
      resection or total mastectomy on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  