
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common physical disability in childhood.1 It affects 3.6/100
      children in the US2 with ~10,000 new diagnoses every year. The prevalence of CP in developing
      countries is estimated to be ~5-10 times greater. CP is a disorder resulting from sensory and
      motor impairments due to perinatal brain injury, with lifetime consequences that range from
      poor adaptive and social function to communication and emotional disturbances,9 all
      contributing to a shortened life expectancy. The societal costs are difficult to estimate but
      the financial burden is well over $1 M per life affected. A growing number of evidence-based
      therapies aim to improve gross motor function through changes in body structures and function
      in children with CP (e.g. hip surveillance, surgery). However, infants with CP have a
      fundamental disadvantage in recovering motor function: they do not receive accurate sensory
      feedback from their movements, leading to neglect of an affected extremity and difficulty
      learning new movements, a process called developmental disregard (DD). As a consequence, even
      children who receive time- and resource-intensive standard therapies have stable or declining
      motor function and developmental trajectories that do not "catch up" to those of typically
      developing children. DD can then lead to school-age learning problems, decreased
      participation in physical and social activities and costly long-term mental and physical
      morbidities.

      Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy (CIMT) is one of the few effective neurorehabilitative
      strategies shown to improve upper extremity motor function in adults and older children with
      CP, potentially overcoming developmental disregard. It is mainly applicable to CP patients
      who are diagnosed with asymmetric or hemiparetic forms of the disorder, in which one side of
      the body is more affected than the other. CIMT is based on the premise that preferential use
      of an affected upper extremity (by constraining the less affected one), and shaping with
      repetition of movement by skilled therapists, can overcome neglect and restore function of
      that extremity.

      The investigators are conducting a randomized trial of CIMT in children with CP using a
      wait-list control group. This design allows every child with CP to eventually receive the
      treatment and avoids issues of equipoise. The RCT portion of the study extends only for a
      7-month period, from baseline to 6 months after the 1-month CIMT ends. For CP wait-listed
      controls, the study continues for 6 months following the CMIT intervention, separate from the
      completed RCT. We will reference data from both groups to a cohort of typically developing
      (TD) children to determine developmental trajectories.
    
  