
    
      Urothelial bladder cancer (UBC) represents a major worldwide healthcare challenge in western
      countries as well as in developing countries, both oncologically and economically. Initially,
      most patients present with nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) with disease confined to
      the mucosa (stage Ta, carcinoma in situ) or submucosa (T1) characterized by a far lower
      mortality rate compared with muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC).The vast majority of newly
      diagnosed are non-muscle bladder cancers (NMIBC) which represents about 75% and can be
      treated with transurethral resection of bladder tumors (TURBT). Therefore, correct initial
      staging is critical. The quality of TURBT strongly determines patient prognosis and overall
      treatment.

      Conventional transurethral resection of bladder tumors (cTURBT) causes fragmentation.
      Possible consequences include cell seeding and poor specimen quality, including missing
      detrusor muscle, thermal tissue damage, and tissue fragmentation. ERBT is developing concept
      as an alternative to conventional TURBT. En bloc is identified by using various energy
      sources or modified resection loops as a promising technique. Such as HybridKnife or laser.

      The question has been raised as to whether ERBT is ready for guideline implementation. Only
      two prospective, randomized trials on ERBT have been published. However, there are details on
      statistical preparation, patient selection, and definitions of primary and secondry goals are
      missing. Thus, there is still an urgent need to compare ERBT with cTURBT in a thoroughly
      planned trial.

      This study will be conducted in a single centre at Department of Urology, Tongji Hospital,
      Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

      Eligible patient presented with papillary bladder tumor will be asked to participate in this
      study and will be provided with an informed consent form in line with Good Clinical Practise
      and the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  