
    
      Bronchiolitis is the commonest respiratory infection in infancy leading to hospital
      admission. 46 per 1000 infants were admitted to hospital with bronchiolitis in England in
      2011 and more recent studies suggest this number has remained static. This has a significant
      cost burden on the NHS. Respiratory support, mainly oxygenation, and keeping infants well
      hydrated are the mainstay of management in hospital.

      Respiratory support has traditionally been the domain of intensive care settings. This has
      been provided through an escalation of therapy from simple oxygen delivery by nasal cannula,
      to non-invasive ventilation with Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) and finally to
      intubation with mechanical ventilation. These latter two strategies require highly skilled
      staff, so are costly, and are associated with a greater incidence of adverse events including
      ventilator-induced lung injury, barotrauma, and potential neurotoxicity associated with
      sedation. Over the last decade High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) therapy has emerged as a new
      method to provide respiratory support for bronchiolitis. HFNC therapy works by delivering an
      increased volume of air and oxygen into the nasal passages than standard sub-nasal oxygen
      therapy, using a higher flow of humidified and heated gas. These increased flow rates exceed
      peak inspiratory flow and thereby result in more efficient delivery of oxygen to the terminal
      airways. Physiological studies have demonstrated reduced work of breathing and improved gas
      exchange. The PARIS study has demonstrated that HFNC can be used in a ward setting to reduce
      admission rates to the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU). 12% of the study population
      receiving HFNC needed escalation to PICU compared to 23% receiving standard care (oxygen
      therapy). The safety data from the PARIS study shows no difference in adverse effects between
      HFNC and standard oxygen therapy. Numerous studies over the last three decades have
      investigated the role of various medications in managing infants with bronchiolitis including
      adrenaline, steroids, salbutamol, and hypertonic saline; none of these studies have
      definitively changed the outcome of the disease nor the length of stay in hospital. Although
      the PARIS study showed a reduction in number of patients requiring escalation of care, it did
      not demonstrate any difference to the total length of stay in hospital.

      Aim Since HFNC is a relatively new method of providing respiratory support in bronchiolitis,
      there is lack of evidence on weaning strategy. The investigators aim to identify the weaning
      strategy most effective for infants, up to 12 months of age, supported on HFNC for
      bronchiolitis. This may lead to shorter total length of stay in hospital, without
      compromising their care. Infants with bronchiolitis who are on HFNC (the devices used will be
      Airvo 2, Fisher & Paykel Healthcare) will be on a flow of 2L/kg/min (maximum 20L/min) and
      variable oxygen concentration to maintain target oxygen saturations >90%. The participants
      will be randomised into one of two arms for weaning a) titrating oxygen to FiO2 21% and then
      stopping HFNC b) titrating oxygen to FiO2 30% and switching HFNC to low flow oxygen.
    
  