
    
      A. Background and Rationale. Despite the availability of proven safe and effective treatment
      options, the majority of patients with low trauma fracture are under-investigated and
      under-treated, indicating that treatment for osteoporosis after fracture is less than
      optimal. Most of the published studies on interventions using a coordinator recruited
      patients from one or a few academic centres or health maintenance organization. However, in
      Ontario, one-third of fracture patients are treated in non-academic centres and hospitals
      which have no dedicated osteoporosis fracture clinic coordinator and are underserviced for
      osteoporosis specialists. It remains unclear whether the impact will be as great for smaller
      centres where the coordinator function is centralized across multiple centres; hence the need
      for this trial.

      B. Objectives 1. The primary objective is to evaluate if a quality improvement program
      including physician and patient osteoporosis recommendations from a regional osteoporosis
      coordinator will increase the proportion of individuals with a low trauma fracture who
      receive appropriate management for osteoporosis compared to those who receive only falls
      prevention advice.

      2. A secondary objective is to determine if the above program will result in changes in
      perceived susceptibility, osteoporosis knowledge and use of supplements compared to those who
      receive only falls prevention advice.

      C. Methods. Design: cluster randomized controlled trial (hospitals=cluster site) with the
      outcome assessors and data analyst blinded to group allocation.

      Patient population: patients 40 years old and over (men and women) presenting with a low
      trauma fracture of the hip, forearm/wrist, rib(s), sternum, thoracic and lumbar spine,
      shoulder, upper arm, pelvis, lower leg and ankle. Hospitals that treat more than 40
      patients/year and have no dedicated fracture clinic coordinator in their Emergency
      Department/Fracture Clinic will be considered.

      Hospital recruitment: out of 63 hospitals 30 will be recruited (15 as intervention and 15
      control); 20 patients from each hospital will be identified with the expectation that 10 will
      consent to the study, for a total sample size of 300 patients.

      Intervention: provide evidenced-based recommendations and having a centralized osteoporosis
      coordinator follow-up with fracture patients and their physicians to provide information
      about fracture risk and osteoporosis treatment as part of educational outreach, assist with
      ordering BMD test and arranging consultation to Multidisciplinary Osteoporosis Program (MOP)
      via telehealth if required. For the control sites the same process will be followed for
      identifying fracture patients. They will receive educational material and telephone
      counseling regarding fall prevention and home safety and will be encouraged to visit their
      family physician.

      Data collection. Patients will be identified from NACRS database. Baseline data will be
      collected by the osteoporosis coordinator. The questionnaire will be similar to "Fracture
      Clinic OP Screening Program". Follow-up data will be collected by a research assistant who
      will call consenting patients.

      Data Analysis. The analysis of primary and secondary outcome measures will compare the
      intervention and control groups and will be carried out at the level of the cluster
      (hospital), based on the standard two-sample t-test with 2(k-1) degrees of freedom, where k
      is the number of sites in each group (α= 0.05, power=1-β).

      D. Future implications. This trial will increase our understanding of how to implement care
      delivery models in communities in terms of resources, services and patient and provider
      preferences. At the health system level this trial will have direct relevance to Ontario's
      Osteoporosis Strategy. The findings will be used by decision-makers to determine if hospitals
      with no dedicated osteoporosis coordinator should be provided access to a centralized
      fracture coordinator. At the provider and patient level the trial will increase access to
      osteoporosis care and treatment utilization, along with awareness and knowledge regarding
      osteoporosis treatment.
    
  