
    
      Beyond the profound impact on memory, Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, even in its
      early stages, affects the prefrontal lobes leading to executive dysfunction and mobility
      disturbances. Prefrontal cortex functions, including executive control, attention, and
      working memory, are known to decline with the progression of AD. In older adults, better
      performance on executive cognitive tasks is associated with greater activation of the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC). Reduced activation within the dlPFC is believed to
      play a role in both the executive and physical functioning declines seen in AD, significantly
      contributing to loss of functional independence. In mild AD, an individual's state of
      executive functioning is a sensitive predictor of the ability to stand and walk safely,
      especially when performing additional cognitive tasks (i.e., dual tasking). Therefore, the
      investigators contend that by facilitating the excitability of the left dlPFC, some of the
      early cognitive and mobility impairments of AD may be reduced, ultimately leading to more
      functional independence, increased physical activity, and improved quality of life.

      tDCS provides a noninvasive means of facilitating the excitability of the prefrontal cortex
      and its connected neural networks, and thus holds promise as a therapy to improve the
      executive control of cognition and mobility in older adults with mild AD. tDCS modulates
      cortical excitability by passing low-level currents through electrodes placed upon the scalp
      over the dlPFC. These currents induce electrical fields within the brain that in turn
      polarize neuronal populations and alter their likelihood of firing. The research team
      demonstrated in older adults aged 65 years and older with executive dysfunction and slow gait
      that 10 sessions of 20-minutes of tDCS targeting the left dlPFC improved cognitive and
      physical functioning for at least two weeks following the intervention. Considerable
      evidence, including our preliminary studies, now suggest that multi-session tDCS
      interventions targeting the dlPFC may induce measurable and meaningful improvements in
      cognitive and/or mobility outcomes in relatively healthy adults and in those with
      mild-to-moderate executive dysfunction. Still, the size and duration of tDCS-induced benefits
      in older adults with executive dysfunction have not been established. Moreover, to date, tDCS
      delivery has not attempted to account for interpersonal differences in older adults,
      particularly the high inter-individual variance in skin, skull, brain, and cerebrospinal
      fluid and how each of these characteristics impacts the current flow. Such personalization is
      now possible with the current flow modeling the investigators propose.

      The overall aim of the study is to conduct a pilot, randomized sham-controlled trial to
      determine the feasibility and effects of a 10-session personalized tDCS intervention
      targeting the left dlPFC on cognitive function, dual task standing and walking, and other
      metrics of mobility in 24 older adults with mild AD living in supportive housing. The
      investigators will include personalized current flow modeling approach using baseline
      structural MRIs to determine the tDCS electrode placement and stimulation parameters to
      optimize current flow to each participant's brain. The investigators do not expect tDCS to
      revere the structural brain changes that result from AD, but instead maximize the function of
      remaining, intact brain neurons and frontal networks, and thereby improve functional outcomes
      in people suffering from the neurodegenerative process.

      The investigators hypothesize that, in older adults 65 years and older with mild AD, a
      personalized tDCS intervention targeting the left dlPFC, as compared to sham, will mitigate
      dual task costs to the control of gait and standing posture and enhance executive
      functioning.
    
  