
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although angiographic evidence of coronary atherosclerosis is one of the best predictors of
      clinical events, non-invasive imaging of this arterial bed is not yet possible. The
      availability of non-invasive methods for imaging the carotid arteries, and the
      intra-individual similarity of extent of disease in the coronary and carotid arteries
      provides rationale for this study that assesses the usefulness of B-mode ultrascan evaluation
      of extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis as an independent predictor of clinical
      sequelae such as fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Pilot data from an ongoing case-comparison study of risk factors for coronary and carotid
      atherosclerosis as defined by angiography and B-mode ultrasound provided a background for
      this project. Patients from the pilot study were used in this study. Beginning in 1986,
      traditional risk factors such as lipids, lipoproteins, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking
      were measured as were non-traditional risk factors such as apolipoproteins and genetic
      markers. The cohort was followed for 3.5 to 8.5 years for incidence of clinical events.
      Multivariate techniques were used to relate disease or risk factor status to all-cause
      mortality, fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction, and fatal and non-fatal stroke. The
      same subjects were re-evaluated periodically by B-mode for extent of carotid atherosclerosis.
      A fifty percent random sample of patients positive for both cerebrovascular disease and
      coronary artery disease and a fifty percent random sample of patients negative for both
      cerebrovascular disease and coronary artery disease had repeat B-mode measurements at 2.5
      years. All patients surviving at the end of five years had repeat B-mode scans.

      The study was renewed in 1996 through April 1999 to conduct a longitudinal study testing the
      following hypotheses: 1.) Incidence of cardiovascular events (bypass surgery, angioplasty,
      fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction, and stroke and endarterectomy) in men and women
      with extensive carotid wall thickening (CWT) at baseline exceeds that of those with less
      extensive baseline carotid wall thickening; the relation of carotid wall thickening to
      outcome is independent of coronary artery disease and/or coronary artery disease risk
      factors; and, 2.) carotid wall thickening progresses more rapidly in males and females with
      coronary artery disease and/or coronary artery disease risk factors than in coronary artery
      disease/risk factor free controls.

      The investigators intend to: 1) follow-up a cohort of 670 individuals with defined coronary
      anatomy, extent of carotid wall thickening, and coronary artery disease risk factors over
      5-10 years for fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events. Coronary artery disease, carotid
      wall thickening, and coronary artery disease risk factor status at accession will be related
      to outcome; and, 2.) In a separate (new) cohort of 280 volunteers with and without coronary
      artery disease they will evaluate carotid wall thickening yearly for three years, and use
      multivariable analysis to relate accession status to progression rate. Availability of a
      unique sample of patients largely already characterized for coronary status (at angiography),
      coronary artery disease risk factors, and carotid wall thickening, and development of B-mode
      methods for quantifying carotid wall thickening and biostatistical approaches for quantifying
      progression of carotid wall thickening over a short time span (three years) provide
      opportunity for this project. Recent pilot data support its feasibility.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  