
    
      Diabetes is a metabolic disease that affects the body's ability to control blood sugar
      levels. This affects the tissues of the body, particularly the walls of blood vessels. People
      with diabetes are more likely to suffer from ischaemic heart disease, stroke, kidney
      problems, blindness, foot ulcers, and peripheral nerve problems. Diabetes affects
      approximately 347 million people worldwide, and by 2030 the WHO projects that complications
      of diabetes will be the 7th leading cause of death.

      Peripheral neuropathy is a dysfunction of the nerves most commonly affecting the arms and
      legs. Diabetes is the leading cause of neuropathy in the Western world, and diabetic
      neuropathy is estimated to affect between 20-50% of diabetic people. The American Diabetes
      Association define it as the 'presence of symptoms and signs of peripheral nerve dysfunction
      in patients with diabetes after exclusion of other causes'. As regards complications of
      diabetes, peripheral neuropathy has the greatest detrimental effect on quality of life.
      Diabetic neuropathy is implicated in 50-75% of non-traumatic amputations.

      The device to be tested mimics the effect of walking by stimulating the motor nerves of the
      leg, making the foot twitch- it increases blood flow to the limb and exercises the leg
      muscles. We have seen previous clinical cases of improvement in peripheral neuropathy with
      use of the device, and wish to formalise the benefits to patients. It is hypothesised to work
      either by increasing blood flow to the limb and therefore the nerves themselves, or for
      electrical current to be having a direct effect on the peripheral nervous system itself. The
      device is easily fitted, can be self-administered by patients, and is suitable for
      out-patient therapy.

      We wish to evaluate both the short- and longer-term effects of a neuromuscular stimulator on
      diabetic peripheral neuropathy as a therapeutic intervention.
    
  