
    
      Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is the 3rd most frequent invasive mycosis in France
      with a rising incidence and 40% mortality (Bitar, 2014, Lortholary, 2011). Modern antifungals
      (AF) improved survival of IPA but lead to ecological, toxic and cost issues. In agreement
      with the " plan national de la bonne maîtrise des anti-infectieux ", optimization of AF
      duration in IPA appears therefore challenging.

      Positron emission tomography using 2-deoxy-2-[fluorine-18] fluoro- D-glucose integrated with
      computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) was reported to allow shortened AF duration (Hot, 2011,
      Chamilos, 2008) and is currently evaluated during chronic disseminated candidiasis {CANHPARI
      trial, PHRC 2012, NCT01916057}. The investigators raise the hypothesis that normalization of
      the functional imaging 18F-FDG-PET/CT during IPA could occur earlier than that of
      conventional imaging. However, due to the current lack of data, an intervention trial
      evaluating an early AF withdrawal based on 18F-FDG-PET/CT appears premature. In order to
      optimize IPA treatment duration, a two-step evaluation project has been designed. The first
      step consists in OPTIFIL prospective project. It will evaluate the therapeutic response
      through a systematic 18F-FDG-PET/CT at week 6 (crucial time point (Segal) used in recent IPA
      trials (Marr, 2015, Maertens, 2016). The latter response will be correlated with the kinetics
      of selected biomarkers including antigens (galactomannan, β-D glucans), circulating
      Aspergillus DNA and anti-Aspergillus host response markers in addition to the conventional
      imaging tools obtained at weeks 6 and 12. OPTIFIL project results will serve establishing a
      decision algorithm used during the second step intervention trial evaluating the accuracy of
      IPA AF interruption.

      Pilot prospective multicenter study of therapeutic follow-up of IPA in patients with
      hematological malignancy.

      Patients will have an inclusion visit (D0) and 8 or 9 follow up visits: D3, W1, W2, W4, W6,
      End of Treatment, W24 and W48.

      Each visit will include physical examination.

      Lung CT scan, 18F-FDG-PET/CT, samplings of blood will be performed at different visits in
      respective centers

      β-D-Glucan, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus spp. quantitative PCRs and host biomarkers
      such as Aspergillus Elispot will be performed and centralized

      Response evaluation will be assessed by an independent committee.

      CT response will be evaluated by a blinded radiologist. PET/CT response will be evaluated by
      2 blinded nuclear medicine physicians.
    
  