
    
      This study evaluated the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of a combination of drugs to
      treat HCV in adults who were coinfected with HIV and HCV. The three drugs were
      paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir (PTV/r/OBT), dasabuvir (DSV), and ribavirin (RBV). In
      version 1 of the study, RBV was given to all participants. After revision in version 2, RBV
      was given only to participants with HCV genotype 1a; participants with HCV genotype 1b did
      not receive RBV.

      This study enrolled HCV genotype 1a or 1b and HIV-1 coinfected participants (HCV
      treatment-naïve or HCV treatment-experienced) who were on a concurrent integrase inhibitor
      (INI)-based (raltegravir [RAL] or dolutegravir [DTG]) or protease inhibitor (PI)-based
      (darunavir [DRV] or atazanavir [ATV]) ART regimen. (The ART regimens were not provided by the
      study.) The participants were assigned to one of four cohorts (Cohorts A, B, C, and D).
      Participants in Cohorts A and B were on INI-based ART; participants in Cohorts C and D, on
      PI-based ART. For each group, the study proceeded in two steps: Step 1: on-HCV treatment and
      Step 2: post-HCV treatment follow-up. Participants in Cohorts A and C received the HCV drugs
      for 24 weeks; participants in Cohorts B and D, for 12 weeks. The target sample size goal was
      a total of 100 participants, with 25 participants per cohort.

      Total study duration was up to 48 weeks. During Step 1 (on-HCV treatment), all participants
      had study visits at Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12. Participants in Cohorts A and C had
      additional Step 1 study visits at Weeks 16, 20, and 24.

      All participants had Step 2 (post-treatment follow-up) study visits 4, 12, and 24 weeks after
      registration to Step 2. Participants in Cohorts B and D had an additional Step 2 visit 36
      weeks after registration to Step 2.

      All study visits included a brief physical exam and blood collection. Select study visits
      included pregnancy testing for participants able to become pregnant, an electrocardiogram
      (EKG), an IFN gamma-induced protein 10 (IP-10) test, and collection of plasma samples.

      Participants were able to coenroll in one of two optional substudies. In one substudy,
      participants attended two study visits at entry/Day 0 and Week 4 for 12-hour intensive
      pharmacokinetic (PK) sampling. In another substudy, participants underwent liver biopsies at
      two time points and PK sampling.

      Study accrual was terminated early and participants who enrolled continued on study until
      completion.
    
  