
    
      In this study, investigators will enroll 10 subjects with relapsed/refractory cHL who have
      previously been treated with anti-PD-1 therapy, have received a CD30 CAR-T cell therapy and
      have evidence of progression. Subjects will be offered anti-PD-1 therapy (nivolumab or
      pembrolizumab, at the discretion of treating oncologist), as per standard of care in r/r HL.
      Peripheral blood samples will be collected from subjects after consent has been obtained at
      the time of progression following CD30 CAR-T cell therapy as well as at Day 21 and Day 42 of
      anti-PD-1 therapy. Investigators will also have access to peripheral blood samples prior to
      CD30 CAR-T cell therapy, acquired during a prior clinical study. Peripheral blood samples
      will be immunophenotyped by mass cytometry and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing will be
      pursued to establish expansion of clinically relevant T-cell clones.

      The primary objective of this study is to estimate the objective response rate (ORR) of
      anti-PD-1 therapy after progression on CD30 CAR-T cell therapy in r/r cHL. The secondary
      objectives will be to measure the change in T-cell receptor clonality during treatment with
      anti-PD-1 therapy after progression after CD30 CAR-T therapy, the change in peripheral blood
      immunophenotype during treatment with anti-PD-1 therapy after progression on CD30 CAR-T cell
      therapy and progression free survival (PFS) of anti-PD-1 therapy after progression on CD30
      CAR-T cell therapy.

      Preliminary data from subjects treated with anti-PD-1 therapy after progression following
      CD30 CAR-T cell therapy has suggested surprisingly robust clinical responses to anti-PD-1
      therapy. Therefore, this pilot study is an important advancement in our understanding of both
      immunomodulation after CD30 CAR-T cell therapy as well as clinical response to anti-PD-1
      therapy. This study will serve as a baseline for clinical response and immunomodulation for
      future clinical trials evaluating the combination of anti-PD-1 therapy and CD30 CAR-T cell
      therapy.
    
  