
    
      Since the identification of the first case of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) CoV-2
      infection in December 2019 in Wuhan, China, the global number of confirmed COVID-19 cases is
      roughly 5 000 000, with 216 involved countries. Increasing evidence shows that SARS-CoV-2 may
      be associated with neurological manifestations, with up to 36% of patients showing
      neurological symptoms related to the neurovirulence of the SARS-CoV-2.

      It has been reported that roughly 5% of COVID-19 infected patients may present acute ischemic
      stroke (AIS), and these patients may have an unfavorable clinical evolution due to the
      systemic involvement of the infective disease. In addition, these patients are quite young:
      the mean age of COVID-19 patients having AIS is lower (56 years), compared to general
      population of AIS patients (mean age=73 years). Moreover, most of these patients require an
      intensive care units (ICU) management. Stroke mechanisms may be multiple and can include
      hypercoagulability from critical illness, cardioembolism from virus-related cardiac injury,
      and severe inflammation. Indeed, the dysfunction of endothelial cells induced by infection
      may promote an increased thrombin generation and fibrinolysis; moreover, the hypoxia found in
      severe COVID-19 patients can be a trigger for thrombosis, increasing blood viscosity, and
      inducing hypoxia-inducible transcription factors.

      Outcomes related to the treatment of COVID-19 patients harboring large vessel occlusion and
      requiring MT is substantially unknown, but it is likely that the combined morbidity and
      mortality rate of the two pathologies is high. Accordingly, patient's selection,
      treatment-management, and results should be urgently elucidated.

      Involving 4 different countries (France, Italy, Spain, and US), this multicentric cohort
      study aims to analyze the largest possible number of COVID-19 infected patients treated with
      MT for AIS, with the intention to provide treatment-results and neurological outcomes,
      elucidating the best patient-selection and treatment-management.
    
  