
    
      Invasive fungal infections are the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in immune
      compromised children. Aspergillus species are reported to be the most common molds that cause
      invasive infections among pediatric patients both in the United States and in Europe.

      Voriconazole is recommended as the first line therapy for invasive Aspergillosis. The major
      proportion of the drug undergoes hepatic metabolism via cytochrome enzymes. The hepatic
      cytochrome enzyme that mainly involves in the metabolism of voriconazole is CYP2C19, which is
      known to be highly polymorphic. So far, more than 30 variant alleles have been defined in the
      gene that codes CYP2C19 enzyme.

      Polymorphisms in CYP2C19 gene are associated with alterations in voriconazole metabolism. It
      is postulated that only 35-50% of the populations has normal metabolic activity for this
      drug. The carriers of defective alleles (*2/*2, *2/*3, *3/*3) in CYP2C19 gene have slower
      metabolic activity for voriconazole, while the carriers of *17 allele have increased enzyme
      activity and higher metabolic capacity for the drug.

      Voriconazole has a narrow therapeutic window. When the therapy is initiated with standard
      doses, interpersonal differences in CYP2C19 activity make it difficult to remain in the
      optimal therapeutic range. Furthermore, it is reported that voriconazole concentrations in
      pediatric patients can exhibit up to 3-fold variation among individuals and it is extremely
      hard to reach and remain therapeutic concentration in younger children. As low serum
      concentrations cause decreased efficacy, supratherapeutic concentrations may cause
      voriconazole toxicity which also leads to significant morbidity, mortality and high treatment
      costs.

      To ensure desired efficacy and safety of voriconazole treatment, therapeutic drug monitoring
      (TDM) is recommended, but unfortunately, it is not a part of routine clinical care in many
      hospitals, due to frequent blood sampling and analysis requirements and the high analysis
      costs. On the other hand, starting the therapy with standard doses and adjusting it with
      subsequent TDMs may cause delay in selecting optimal voriconazole dose and providing
      effective treatment.

      It is reported that, pediatric patients those are initiated voriconazole therapy with
      pharmacogenetic-guided dose selection reaches targeted serum voriconazole concentration
      4-fold faster than the patients those are given standard doses and undergoes subsequent dose
      adjustments according to TDM results. Thus, CYP2C19 genotyping is essential in reaching the
      optimal voriconazole concentration in shorter times. Genotype-guided first dose selection
      would make it easier to reach the targeted serum voriconazole concentration, minimize
      frequent TDM requirement, prevent the treatment failure and lead to better clinical outcomes.
      On the other hand, pharmacogenetic analysis results can also be used for adjusting dose of
      other drugs that is metabolized by the same enzyme.

      We could only located one conference proceeding reporting the effect of CYP2C19 polymorphisms
      on safety of voriconazole use in 6 patients in Turkish population. Current literature is
      limited and the guidelines does not make a clear recommendation about the
      pharmacogenetic-guided dose selections. Thus, to build safe pharmacogenetic- guided dose
      selection algorithms, more data in that field is required.

      This study is designed to prospectively determine the influence of CYP2C19 polymorphisms on
      frequency and severity of voriconazole related adverse event reactions during the study
      follow up period and on the efficacy of voriconazole treatment/ prophylaxis. Samples for
      pharmacogenetic analysis will be stored for further studies depending on participant's and
      the parents' discreation.

      METHOD This is a multi centre, observational cohort study.

      Study population:

      Patients aged between ≥2 years and <18 years hospitalized in pediatric hematology clinics in
      research centers (Dokuz Eylul University Hospital, Ege University Hospital, Izmir University
      of Health Sciences Tepecik Training and Research Hospital) due to a hematological malignancy
      (acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia) and receiving voriconazole as part of
      invasive fungal infection prophylaxis or treatment.

      Data and sample collection 1.1.1.Data collection: At baseline, demographics and clinical
      information will be recorded from all patients directly and complemented from their medical
      records. All patients will be followed up by the research team daily for the first 7 days
      following voriconazole initiation, and then on days 14, 30 and 60. All follow up will be
      initially via assessment of medical records, with additional data input from the patient
      directly. The medical records include: the electronic hospital record system (PROBEL),
      paper-based patient records and other patient follow-up- documents.

      During routine clinical care, ADRs are monitored daily by a pediatric hematology fellow
      and/or pediatrician. On days one to seven following voriconazole initiation, the
      investigators will record these clinical evaluations daily; they will also capture these data
      on days 14 and 30.

      For participants that had either started voriconazole active treatment before they were
      recruited, or were recruited during the maintenance phase of their voriconazole regimen, the
      research team will assess their medicals records retrospectively between the point of
      recruitment and day one of their active voriconazole treatment to detect ADRs.

      On days 30 and 60, patient survival will be recorded by review of patient records only.

      Treatment response (efficacy) will be determined based on the EORTC/MSG consensus criteria.
      These data will be obtained at all follow up points (from day one to seven, and days 14, 30
      and 60).

      1.1.2.Sample collection: 1.1.2.1.Samples fo PGx analysis: All pediatric patients with a
      hematologic malignancy (acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia) hospitalized
      aforementioned study centers and their parents will be informed of the study. Those agree to
      participate in will donate 2 mL blood sample collected into an EDTA
      (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid) tube on day one whilst blood samples are being taken from
      the patient for daily routine clinical purposes (without requiring any other needle
      insertion). Samples for PGx analysis will be coded and stored securely in Dokuz Eylul
      University Hospital, Department of Medical Pharmacology. The samples will be stored -80
      celcius degree until used up. PGx analysis will be performed in the Department of Medical
      Genetics at Dokuz Eylul University Hospital at the end of the study. Participants and
      physicians will not be informed of the participant's genotype during the study period. The
      participant's clinical care will not be affected in any way by taking part in the study.

      1.1.2.2.Samples for voriconazole concentration determination: The patients those start using
      voriconazole as part of invasive fungal infection prophylaxis or treatment will The second 2
      mL blood sample will be collected into a red cap tube on the fifth day (9th dose) of
      treatment before the morning voriconazole dose, again whilst blood is being collected as part
      of routine clinical care (without requiring any other needle insertion) to determine the
      trough voriconazole concentration at steady state. This blood sample will be centrifuged and
      the serum stored in the Department of Medical Pharmacology at the Dokuz Eylul University
      Faculty of Medicine. When follow up is completed for a given patient, this serum sample will
      be transferred to an accredited laboratory in Istanbul, Turkey, with maintenance and
      assurance of the cold chain during sample transportation to guarantee sample integrity.
    
  