
    
      Imiquimod is one of the target topical drugs for treating HSIL. It is a Toll-like receptor 7
      agonist that acts locally so that it induces cellular response, which can aid in the
      regression of HPV-associated lesions. Imiquimod is currently used for treating genital warts.
      In vitro studies have shown promising effects in the treatment of several diseases, such as
      endometrial, cervical and prostate cancer, endometriosis, melanoma, and cervical and vulvar
      intraepithelial lesions. Clinical studies are however lacking. With this in mind, the aim of
      our study was to evaluate whether topical treatment of HSIL with imiquimod is comparable to
      standard treatment with LLETZ. As mentioned in the Brief summary, we have set different
      outcome measures in the experimental and control arm. The different outcome measures were
      based on moderate accuracy of PAP smear, therefore in order to minimize potential progression
      of cervical disease to cancer and to avoid LLETZ and possible overtreatment and to assess as
      accurately as possible the potential residual disease, colposcopy with biopsies will be
      performed 4 weeks after treatment with imiquimod is completed (20th week after treatment
      initiation). Follow up after LLETZ will performed using cytology (PAP smear), which is in
      concordance with our national guidelines. Biopsies will be performed in case of clinically
      visible lesions. Secondary outcomes of the study are the incidence and severity of the side
      effects in both groups, which will be evaluated during and after treatment using the 5th
      version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) guidelines. Other
      secondary outcomes, namely the need for treatment with LLETZ two years after primary
      treatment with imiquimod in the experimental arm or re-treatment with LLETZ two years after
      primary treatment with LLETZ in the control arm, respectively, and the modulatory effect of
      imiquimod on immunoregulatory molecules are expected to be available in three years' time
      after treatment is completed in all patients in both arms.
    
  