
    
      Rosiglitazone probe:

      Rosiglitazone: time point - at least 20 hours before the initiation of chemotherapy, orally
      administrate 2mg rosiglitazone.

      Only before the first cycle chemotherapy.

      Chemotherapy regimen:

      Paclitaxel: 175mg/m2, d1; Intravenous drip injection with 500ml N.S Carboplatin: AUC=5, d1;
      Intravenous drip injection with 500ml G.S Paclitaxel injection at first, followed with
      Carboplatin injection. 21 days per cycle; 6 cycles in total.

      Blood samples collection design:

        1. Rosiglitazone blood sample:

           Only one blood sample before 1st cycle:

           - Sample collected 3 hours after orally administration of rosiglitazone, with EDTA blood
           tube, at least 4ml;

        2. Paclitaxel blood samples:

      Two blood samples per cycle:

        -  Sample collected before PTX, with EDTA blood tube, at least 2ml;

        -  Sample collected 24 hours after the initiation of PTX, with EDTA blood tube, at least
           2ml;

      Primary Objective:

      Object response rate (ORR): assess the ORR of paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy according
      to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, and analyze the relationship
      of paclitaxel TC>0.05 and ORR.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Pharmacokinetic parameters: detect the blood concentration of paclitaxel 24 hours after the
      initiation, and the blood concentration of rosiglitazone 3 hours after orally administration
      of rosiglitazone. Calculate paclitaxel TC>0.05 and analyze the correlation of rosiglitazone
      concentration and paclitaxel TC>0.05.

      Toxicities rate: assess the toxicities rate and severity of paclitaxel/carboplatin
      chemotherapy according to Common Terminology Criteria For Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03, and
      analyze the relationship of paclitaxel TC>0.05 and toxicities.

      Survival Effectiveness: assess the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)
      of paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy, analyze the relationship of paclitaxel TC>0.05 and
      survival Effectiveness.

      A single arm, phase II, monocentric, clinical experience trial. The eligible patients sign a
      informed consent form, and receive a 4 - 6 cycles of paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy.
      Objective response rate is evaluated by imaging examination (CT or MR scan) every 2 cycles.
      Toxicities are evaluated by patients' diary for toxicity reports and physician's evaluation
      at day 10 and day 21 at every cycle. Blood samples are collected every cycle. And survival
      information is collected by clinic and telephone follow-up.

      Response follow-up: An imaging examination should be performed in 4weeks before treatment
      initiation, and patients are going to receive (CT or MR scan) every 2 cycles during the
      treatment, the methods should be identical with baseline.

      Toxicities follow-up: record the toxicities incident and grades from the first cycle to last
      cycle until the toxicities relieve or stabilize.

      Survival follow-up: after treatment discontinuation, PFS is recorded by imaging examination
      every 2 cycles (8 weeks) until tumor progression, other anti-cancer treatment start, trial
      ends or death. OS is recorded by clinic follow-up or telephone follow-up until death.
    
  