
    
      Colonoscopy bowel preparation quality is a major concern since inadequate bowel preparation
      can reach levels as high as 30% which lead to several guidelines in this area, with the
      recent recommendation of at least 90% of good bowel preparations for all colonoscopies. In
      fact colonic mucosal visualization can be limited by residual stool, bubbles, bile and other
      debris increasing the risk of missing lesions.

      Around 30 to 40% of the exams can have bubbles increasing the risk of missing lesions and in
      the other hand increasing the time of the exam, generating more fatigue in the endoscopist
      and increasing the costs.

      The influence of colon bubbles in bowel preparation and strategies to solve them, for example
      with the use of simethicone in the bowel preparation, were addresses in recent studies,
      summarized in a 2018 meta-analysis recommending the use of simethicone in the bowel
      preparation scheme.

      Current recommendations advise the use of validated scales to evaluate bowel preparation
      quality, but the three major validated scales, Boston, Ottawa and Aronchick, does not address
      the problem of graduation of colonic bubbles and possible actions to undertake regarding the
      severity of the bubbles concentration. The advent of multiple randomized trials addressing
      the use of simethicone in the bowel preparation to reduce or eliminate bubble formation lead
      to attempts to design scales to graduate the concentration of bubbles in the colon.

      To date suggested scales are heterogeneous regarding the graduation (3 to 4 levels), defining
      criteria for each level with some based on percentage of colonic circumference obscured by
      bubbles to the amount of bubbles that could lead to miss a polyp of 5 or 10 millimetres.Two
      recently published studies on the influence of simethicone on bowel preparation tried to
      validate a colonic bubble scale, based on previous suggested and non-validated scales,
      although with only fair to moderate inter-observer variability.

      Therefore, the main goal of this project is to build and validate a comprehensive scale to
      graduate bubbles in the colon, assessing the inter- and intra-observer reliability of the
      scale. As a secondary objective, to determine the clinical attitude more frequent for each
      grade of the bubbles scale, among experts and residents.

      Aims: Build and validate a new colonic bubble score (Colon Endoscopic Bubble Scale - CEBuS).
    
  