
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Pregnancy is an ideal time to help underserved young women to stop smoking cigarettes and
      remain abstinent for life. The field has made great progress in assisting women to quit
      during this time. Unfortunately, maintenance of this highly significant behavior change is
      dismal. Up to 75% of those who quit for pregnancy end up returning to smoking after delivery
      of the newborn. For underserved women, pregnancy is one of the few times that they have an
      extended contact with the health care system. Therefore, there is an opportunity to help
      these women quit smoking for the health of their fetus in addition to their own health. To
      date, there has been insufficient research on how best to maintain abstinence during the
      critical postpartum period, during which a unique constellation of risk factors (including
      sleep deprivation, variations in negative mood, and increased stress) heighten the
      probability of relapse. The potential payoff is enormous. The literature, while not
      extensive, provides sufficient guidance and justification for the specific approach and
      intervention components the study has chosen.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will develop and field test a maintenance of smoking abstinence program to be
      designed for a predominately low-income, high-risk population of women from a wide variety of
      ethnic and racial backgrounds who have quit smoking because of (or during) their pregnancy.
      The study will compare biologically confirmed postpartum smoking relapse rates of women who
      receive an educational intervention during pregnancy combined with sustained telephone
      counseling after that intervention, with women who receive only an educational intervention.
      Participants will begin at 28 weeks prenatal and will be followed through 1, 3, 6, and 12
      months postpartum.

      The specific aims of the current maintenance study are: 1) to compare biochemically confirmed
      smoking abstinence rates of women who quit smoking during their pregnancy and who receive an
      intervention based on telephone counseling using motivational interviewing versus quitters
      who receive usual care, maintenance of abstinence will be assessed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months
      postpartum; and 2) to collect both qualitative and quantitative data to better understand
      short term and long term maintenance mediators and moderators of abstinence postpartum for
      women of low socioeconomic status (SES) who quit smoking during pregnancy.
    
  