
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, multi-center clinical trial to evaluate the
      effectiveness of an ECM scaffold graft to augment repair of a large/massive rotator cuff
      tear. The study will involve 70 patients. 35 patients will be randomly assigned to each arm
      of the study.

      Despite advances in surgical technology, repairs of large (3-5 cm) and massive (>5 cm)
      rotator cuff tears (RCT) fail between 20%-90% of the time [1]. Due to their size and
      increased structural involvement, large or massive RCT present a substantial challenge to
      orthopaedic surgeons. [16] The repairs tend to fail at the suture-tendon junction, which is
      due to several factors, including tension at the repair and quality of the tendon [1-2,5].
      Full thickness tears are uncommon in younger patients, especially those less than forty years
      old and are usually traumatic in etiology. Younger patients also typically fair better
      following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with fewer failures and more successful return to
      pre-injury level of function [16]. One strategy to augment repair of large to massive rotator
      cuff tears has been the development of biological scaffold materials, which are composed of
      extracellular matrix (ECM). The ECM composing the scaffolds are made from a number of
      tissues, including, but not limited to, small intestinal submucosa (SIS), dermis, and
      pericardium [3]. Studies to date include both prospective and retrospective in animal and
      human models, and include Restore, a porcine-derived SIS by DePuy Orthopaedics, GraftJacket,
      a human-derived, non-cross-linked dermis graft by Wright Medical Technology, and Zimmer
      Collagen Repair, a cross-linked porcine derived dermal graft made by Zimmer. Restore studies
      have shown no benefit and some even an increase in repair failure with recommendations not to
      use to augment repair. GraftJacket studies have shown a reduction in graft failure; however,
      several of the Restore and GraftJacket studies are limited by a lack of a control cohort. The
      Zimmer graft studies have conflicting results with both an improvement and no improvement in
      failure rates of repair. The prior studies listed are all in vivo; however, the majority are
      not randomized trials and thus do not have a control with which to compare data. In addition,
      some trials include open repairs. A lack of prospective, randomized, controlled, in vivo
      trials exist that evaluate the ability of the ECM scaffold graft augmentation in large to
      massive arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs to decrease the failure rate.
    
  