
    
      Prompt, sustained and complete reperfusion of the myocardium supplied by the infarct related
      artery (IRA) remains the cornerstone of therapy for the treatment of ST segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI). Although reperfusion can be achieved using fibrinolytic
      agents, it is generally accepted that primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) is
      preferable, with the caveat that it be performed promptly by experienced personnel.

      It has been observed that up to 74% of patients with STEMI have evidence of multi-vessel
      disease (MVD) during angiography. The presence of MVD is independently associated with worse
      clinical outcomes and the presence of MVD at the time of STEMI is predictive of the need for
      future revascularization within 1 year, with over half of these repeat procedures driven by
      the development of unstable coronary syndromes 8. However, retrospective analyses have
      determined that immediate intervention upon non-culprit vessels (NCV) in addition to the IRA
      is associated with worse clinical outcomes compared to a strategy of intervening upon the IRA
      alone. Furthermore, small studies have shown no increase in mortality associated with a
      strategy with delayed (7 day) intervention of NCV compared to a strategy of intervening on
      the IRA alone. Accordingly, it is considered inappropriate to intervene upon non-culprit
      arteries in the absence of demonstrable ischemia following successful revascularization of
      the IRA in the setting of STEMI 11 and the 2007 ACC/AHA STEMI guidelines give a Class IIb
      recommendation for delayed intervention upon a hemodynamically significant NCV >24 hours
      after the index STEMI.

      However, the guidelines do not provide guidance regarding how to define hemodynamic
      significance of the NCV, nor do they speak to the exact timing of when NCV revascularization
      should be performed after the initial 24 hours. Indeed, this ambiguity is reflected in local
      practice within the Vancouver Coastal Health Authority (R. Boone, personal communication),
      with some interventional cardiologists performing NCV revascularization during the index
      hospitalization prior to patient discharge, while others bring patients back within 6-8 weeks
      of the index STEMI for a "staged", elective revascularization of the NCV. Finally, other
      cardiologists will defer NCV revascularization entirely in the absence of recurrent ischemia.

      There remains significant doubt as to the most appropriate treatment strategy for the STEMI
      patient who is found to have MVD. Unfortunately, this clinical dilemma is made more difficult
      by the observation that the angiographic and clinical assessment of the NCV remains imprecise
      in the STEMI setting. It remains unclear whether or not traditional angiographic assessment
      of the NCV is reliable over time following an index myocardial infarction, or if it can be
      used to reliably guide decision making for revascularization of NCV in the setting of STEMI.
      In one study, only 10% of lesions judged by visual assessment of the coronary angiogram to
      require NCV PCI following STEMI, were noted to be angiographically significant by
      quantitative coronary angiography at the time of the index angiogram 12. Finally, prior
      studies have demonstrated that the severity of non culprit lesions were found to be
      significantly exaggerated using traditional angiography at the time of the index MI. A study
      of 548 patients with acute MI and MVD revealed that 21% of NCV lesions initially thought to
      be >50% at the time of the index MI were found to be <50% at the time of subsequent
      angiography. Accordingly, there is significant interest in finding alternate means of
      assessing clinically and angiographically significant lesions in the setting of both stable
      and unstable coronary syndromes.

      Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is a simple, reliable and reproducible physiological index of
      lesion severity. It is defined as the ratio between coronary artery pressure distal to a
      stenosis and aortic root pressure, measured following maximal dilation of the distal coronary
      resistance vessels. FFR is a reliable index of maximal achievable coronary flow. An FFR of
      <0.8 identifies ischemia-causing coronary stenoses with >90% accuracy. Conversely, lesions
      deemed nonsignificant by FFR can be safely treated medically with an annual rate of death or
      myocardial infarction of <1%. Recently, an FFR guided strategy for elective PCI was found to
      be superior to a strategy of coronary intervention guided by angiography alone. FFR has also
      been found to be a reliable modality for the hemodynamic assessment of coronary lesions in
      the setting of acute myocardial infarction, with a similar correlation between FFR and
      percent diameter stenosis of coronary vessels in the acute infarct setting compared to FFR
      amongst matched controls undergoing elective PCI. Additionally, FFR correlates well with the
      identification of residual reversible perfusion abnormalities shortly following an index
      myocardial infarction (MI). However, it remains unknown if an abnormal FFR of a NCV remains
      stable following an acute STEMI.

      We are proposing a study to determine the precision and stability of FFR as a measure of
      lesion severity in NCV in patients undergoing clinically indicated revascularization of the
      culprit vessel in the setting of STEMI. Our hypothesis is that FFR will remain stable over
      time within myocardium that is not subtended by the infarct related artery. We believe FFR
      can potentially serve as a reliable and safe angiographic tool to guide delayed
      revascularization decisions for non-culprit vessels amongst STEMI patients with MVD.

      STUDY SCHEMA Following successful revascularization of the IRA, patients deemed to be
      appropriate for a delayed revascularization procedure on a NCV (ie not during the index
      hospitalization) will undergo FFR of the NCV during the index catheterization. Consent for
      the FFR will be obtained prior to successful revascularization of the IRA. Patients with NCV
      stenoses who are brought back for planned elective revascularization of the NCV lesion(s),
      according to usual clinical practice following revascularization of the culprit lesion, will
      undergo repeat FFR on the NCV prior to planned revascularization. Patients who are deemed
      appropriate to undergo intervention on the NCV during the index hospitalization for clinical
      reasons will not be eligible for inclusion in this analysis.

      ENDPOINTS The primary endpoint of this study will be the comparison of initial and repeat FFR
      of a NCV amongst STEMI patients with MVD deemed appropriate for delayed revascularization of
      the NCV. This study will not stipulate the timing of NCV revascularization; this decision
      will be made by the treating interventional cardiologist. However it is expected that most
      patients will undergo NCV revascularization within 4 to 8 weeks following the index hospital
      stay. Patients who require in-hospital revascularization of the NCV during the index
      hospitalization will not be enrolled into this study. Secondary endpoints of the trial will
      be the comparison of baseline and repeat FFR with digital subtraction quantitative
      angiography of the NCV. Tertiary endpoints will be the evaluation of major adverse cardiac
      events amongst enrolled patients through to the repeat procedure.

      CLINICAL IMPACT We believe that the results of this proposed study could result in
      significant changes in the management of STEMI. A potential finding that FFR is a durable
      method of assessing the severity of the NCV in the setting of STEMI could lead to a shift
      towards the use of this technology to guide decision making for revascularization in acute
      coronary syndromes, similar to the paradigm shift seen in elective PCI following the
      publication of the FAME trial. Furthermore, our study will expand upon our understanding of
      the angiographic behaviour of nonculprit vessels in the setting of STEMI, which may serve to
      change future recommendations regarding revascularization decisions amongst patients with MVD
      who present with acute myocardial infarction
    
  