
    
      Hundred (100) patients with primary postpartum hemorrhage during caesarean section due to
      atonic uterus will be recruited for this study.and randomized to either B lynch or Bakeri
      Ballon

      B-Lynch:

      A 70 mm round bodied hand needle on which a No. 2 absorbable suture is mounted is used to
      puncture the uterus 3 cm from the right lower edge of the uterine incision and 3 cm from the
      right lateral border. The mounted No. 2 absorbable suture is threaded through the uterine
      cavity to emerge at the upper incision margin 3 cm above and approximately 4 cm from the
      lateral border (because the uterus widens from below upwards). The absorbable suture now
      visible is passed over to compress the uterine fundus approximately 34 cm from the right
      cornual border. The absorbable suture is fed posteriorly and vertically to enter the
      posterior wall of the uterine cavity at the same level as the upper anterior entry point. The
      absorbable suture is pulled under moderate tension assisted by manual compression exerted by
      the first assistant. The length of the absorbable suture is passed back posteriorly through
      the same surface marking as for the right side, the suture lying horizontally. The absorbable
      suture is fed through posteriorly and vertically over the fundus to lie anteriorly and
      Research Template 7 Final Version: 1/6/2018 vertically compressing the fundus on the left
      side as occurred on the right. The needle is passed in the same fashion on the left side
      through the uterine cavity and out approximately 3 cm anteriorly and below the lower incision
      margin on the left side. The two lengths of absorbable suture are pulled taught assisted by
      bi-manual compression to minimize trauma and to achieve or aid compression. During such
      compression the vagina is checked that the bleeding is controlled. As good hemostasis is
      secured and whilst the uterus is compressed by an experienced assistant the principal surgeon
      throws a knot (double throw) followed by two or three further throws to secure tension. The
      lower transverse uterine incision is now closed in the normal way, in two layers, with or
      without closure of the lower uterine segment peritoneum. BALLOON INSERTION Insert the balloon
      portion of the catheter in the uterus; making certain that the entire balloon is inserted
      past the cervical canal and internal ostium. NOTE: Avoid excessive force when inserting the
      balloon into the uterus. Place a Foley catheter in patient bladder to collect and monitor
      urine output. To ensure maintenance of correct placement and maximize tamponade effect, the
      vaginal canal may be packed with iodine or antibiotic soaked vaginal gauze at this time.
    
  