
    
      Renal transplantation is the most desirable and cost effective treatment for end stage renal
      disease, but 20-30% of allografts fail in living recipients by 10 years, and prolonging graft
      health is one of the major unmet needs for transplant patients. Although graft health is
      extended by preemptive treatments that prevent irreversible damage, intervention is
      inadequately motivated by current transplant monitoring methods. Noninvasive methods,
      including changes in serial serum creatinine levels, lack sensitivity and specificity. In the
      absence of reliable noninvasive biomarkers, invasive biopsy remains the standard for
      assessing transplant health, but surveillance or "protocol" biopsies are associated with
      morbidity and cost and are therefore controversial in stable, unsensitized patients. The lack
      of a demonstrated, noninvasive biomarker for allograft health - one that identifies early
      graft degeneration with sufficient sensitivity and specificity to motivate appropriate biopsy
      and enable timely intervention - represents a major gap in renal transplant management.

      To fill this gap, the proposed re-search aims to demonstrate Viscoelastic Response (VisR)
      ultrasound, a novel acoustic radiation force (ARF)-based technology that noninvasively
      interrogates the viscoelastic properties of tissue, for monitoring renal allograft health.
      The investigators hypothesize that in vivo VisR ultrasound delineates renal allograft
      dysfunction earlier and with greater sensitivity and specificity than serum creatinine
      concentration in renal allograft recipients.

      To test this hypothesis, the investigators will determine which VisR outcome metrics detect
      renal allograft dysfunction clinically by performing serial VisR imaging in living donor (LD)
      and deceased donor (DD) transplant recipients. Imaging results will be compared to biopsy
      findings to determine VisR's ability to detect dysfunction. The investigators will also
      compare serial VisR and serum creatinine outcomes in terms of ability to detect renal
      allograft dysfunction and the timeliness of detection.
    
  