
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Children with asthma are particularly vulnerable to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS).
      However, despite this special vulnerability to ETS, children with asthma are at least as
      likely to live in smoking households, as are healthy children. Controversy exists, however,
      about whether or not the smoking members of households with children with asthma use specific
      strategies to reduce the harmful effects of their smoking on their children more than the
      smoking members of households of healthy children.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The case-control study examines whether or not primary school-aged children with asthma from
      low-income households have lower household ETS exposure than matched control children.
      Household ETS exposure will be measured by both objective monitoring, specifically passive
      nicotine dosimeters and child cotinine assays (the primary hypothesis), and maternal-report
      (the secondary hypothesis). Ninety children with physician diagnosed asthma and smoking
      mothers will be matched by age, gender, race/ethnicity, and other relevant variables to 90
      healthy children. All children will be recruited from Metro Denver clinics providing services
      to low-income, underserved populations. The sample will contain equal numbers of African
      Americans, Hispanics, and Whites. Recruitment will target low-income populations due to their
      increased prevalence of, and associated morbidity from both asthma and tobacco smoking.
      Specific household smoking behaviors, as reported by mothers, will be examined for
      association with household nicotine and child cotinine levels. Finally, a set of carefully
      chosen measures will be examined in tertiary, exploratory analyses to help understand,
      clarify, and contextualize the observed results.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  