
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a satisfactory treatment option for patients with advanced
      knee diseases that are intractable with other modalities in terms of pain relief, functional
      restoration, and deformity correction. Unfortunately, however, many patients have to go
      through a recovery period of several months during which they experience considerable pain
      and suffer from incompletely restored functions. In recent years, to improve the quality of
      life during early recovery period after TKA, great efforts have been made in multiple areas
      including the use of minimally invasive surgical technique, improved pain management
      protocols, and postoperative rehabilitation protocols. Nonetheless, this almost inevitable
      presence of painful and disabling recovery period is a major concern to patients scheduled
      for or considering TKA as a treatment option. Furthermore, this issue can become a more
      serious obstacle to very elderly patients who have to balance the benefits of remaining years
      with improved functions from replaced knees and the burden of recovery duration after TKA.

      In theory, the use of a better fitting prosthesis with sound kinematic performance can
      shorten the duration of recovery period and improve the quality of life by reducing pain and
      facilitating functional recovery. Better fitting prostheses allegedly less involve prosthesis
      overhang at femoral condylar level, which can cause impingement symptoms and at anterior
      flange area, which can cause patellofemoral symptoms. Prosthesis providing better kinematic
      performance such as natural motion and joint stability throughout motion arc can reduce pain
      and discomfort in early recovery period and shorten the duration of recovery period.

      Recently, E.Motion-PS-Pro (B.Braun-Aesculap, Tuttlingen, Germany), a new mobile bearing knee
      system with a unique ball and socket post-cam mechanism was developed. This new prosthesis
      was designed to achieve better prosthesis fitting, to minimize bone loss from box
      preparations for post-cam mechanism, to improve joint stability throughout motion arc,
      particularly in high flexion, and to reduce the risk for wear and fracture at the post by
      increasing contact area. If the intended design rationales work out well, this prosthesis
      shall reduce soft tissue impingement and provide better kinematic performances, which reduces
      pain and facilitates functional restoration.

      Therefore, the current investigators aim to determine (1) whether the use of E.Motion-PS-Pro
      improves prosthesis fitness for the femur and tibia in terms of under- or over-hang incidence
      compared to an established successful prosthesis, Genesis II (Smith & Nephew, Memphis,
      U.S.A.), (2) whether patients with this new prosthesis experience less pain and faster wound
      healing in early recovery phase, (3) whether patients with E.Motion-Pro reach functional
      plateaus faster than patients with Genesis II and the functional plateaus of patients with
      E.Motion-Pro are higher than those of patients with Genesis II. The investigators hypothesize
      that (1) E.Motion-Pro reduces the incidence of prosthesis under- or over-hang, (2) patients
      with E.Motion-Pro experience less pain and faster wound healing in early recovery phase, and
      (3) patients with E.Motion-Pro reach functional plateau faster and the functional outcomes at
      1 year are better in patients with E.Motion-Pro than those with Genesis II.
    
  