
    
      Arginine is a naturally occurring amino acid that is also available in pill form. Arginine
      pills have been shown to aid in liver detoxification and fat breakdown in the liver. Numerous
      studies have examined the effects of arginine on the liver. However, few have determined the
      optimal concentration of arginine that would best prevent injury to the liver This study will
      provide participants with three concentration levels of arginine to determine which is most
      effective in reducing liver injury in alcoholic hepatitis patients.

      This study will last 31 days. Participants will be admitted to the General Clinical Research
      Center for 27 days. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of four groups.
      Participants in Groups 1, 2, and 3 will have 1%, 2%, or 6% arginine added to their diet in
      the form of gel capsules. Participants in Group 4 will receive placebo capsules. Participants
      will be given 24 capsules of different dietary supplements, including the arginine
      supplements, every day during their hospital stay.

      Participants who are not able to ingest at least 18 capsules per day over 3 days or who are
      not able to eat the majority of their solid or liquid diet while hospitalized will have a
      naso-gastric soft feeding tube inserted for food and supplements to be administered. A liver
      biopsy will be performed on Days 3 and 26. The biopsies will involve insertion of a catheter
      in a neck vein and a small sample of liver tissue will be removed. On Days 2 and 25,
      participants will undergo blood and urine collection. Participants will also be infused with
      nonradioactive leucine to determine the levels of albumin, a protein that is reduced in
      diseased livers. If participants develop fluid in the abdomen (a condition known as ascites),
      a small sample of fluid will be extracted from the abdomen twice a day on Days 2, 17, and 25.
      On Day 31, participants will return to the research center for additional blood and urine
      collection.
    
  