
    
      In this protocol, atraumatic tooth extraction was carried out using periotomes (Stoma, Storz
      am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany) under local anaesthesia (ARTINIBSA 4% 1:100.000.
      Inibsa Dental S.L.U. Barcelona, SPAIN). After that, the socket was thoroughly curetted and
      debrided and repeatedly irrigated with 100 ml of anti-anaerobic infusion solution of 500 mg
      Metronidazole (Minapharm pharmaceuticals, Egypt). The root was then trimmed to half-length,
      its surface cleansed with an ultrasonic cleaner , and reinserted into the socket with its
      crown bonded to adjacent teeth . After six days, the root was removed and VST protocol was
      implemented.

      Vestibular socket therapy (VST) included the following steps. a-traumatic tooth extraction,
      the socket curetted and rinsed with normal saline thoroughly (Figure 2 a,b). One-cm long
      vestibular access incision was made using a 15c blade (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH,
      Emmingen-Liptingen Germany) 3-4 mm apical to the mucogingival junction at the related socket
      (. A subperiosteal tunnel was created connecting the socket orifice and the vestibular access
      incision using periotomes and micro periosteal elevators (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH,
      Emmingen-Liptingen Germany) . A prefabricated CAD CAM surgical guide was used to deliver the
      implant fixture (Biohorizons, Birmingham, Al, USA) to its pre-planned location 3-4 mm apical
      to socket base with adequate primary stability achieved using a torque wrench reaching 30 Ncm
      torque (Figure 2 g). A flexible cortical membrane shield that is made of cortical bone of
      heterologous origin of 0.6 mm thickness (OsteoBiol® Lamina , Tecnoss®, Torino, Italy) was
      hydrated and then trimmed and introduced from the vestibular access incision reaching 1 mm
      below the socket orifice through the tunnel then stabilized using a membrane tack or a micro
      screw to the alveolar bone apical to the base of the socket (AutoTac System Kit, Biohorizons
      Implant Systems, Birmingham , Alabama Inc, USA) . The socket gap between the implant and the
      shield was then packed thoroughly with particulate bone graft (75% autogenous bone chips and
      25% deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) of equine origin, fully enzyme deantigenised
      (Bio-Gen Mix, Bioteck, Vicenza -Italy).

      For patients exhibiting thin soft tissue phenotype (assessed using the probe transparency
      method) a subepithelial connective tissue graft was harvested using a single incision
      technique (Hürzeler MB & Weng D 1999) from the palate which and secured to the inner surface
      of the soft tissue tunnel wall with sutures. Finally, the vestibular incision was secured
      with 6/0 nylon sutures (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany) . A
      chairside-fabricated anatomical healing abutment was used to seal the socket orifice .
      restorative phase then took place 45 days post-surgery till the final restoration finally
      cemented at 2 months post-surgery and followed up for 2 years using CBCT.
    
  