
    
      DESIGN: This pilot trial has two phases. Phase 1 is a prospective open study that involves
      recruiting a cohort of patients with major depressive disorder (DSM-IV criteria) referred for
      ECT. Patients subsequently identified as being responders will be invited to participate in
      Phase 2, which is a two-group parallel-design randomised controlled pilot trial. Consented
      ECT-responders will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to a four-week course of either
      once-weekly ketamine or midazolam infusions, continuing regular care. Participants will be
      followed-up over six-months following ECT to identify if and when relapse occurs.

      RANDOMISATION AND BLINDING: In Phase 2, ECT responders will be randomised after baseline data
      collection. Patients and raters will be blind to treatment allocation. The anaesthetist
      administering ketamine/midazolam infusions will not be blinded but will not be involved in
      assessments or data analysis. Computerised random allocation, using randomly permuted blocks,
      will be done independently.

      PARTICIPANTS:

      Inclusion criteria: Patients ≥18 years with unipolar major depressive disorder (DSM-IV), a
      24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD-24) score of ≥21, and referred for ECT
      will be invited to participate in the open Phase 1. Patients will have a physical
      examination, routine haematology and biochemistry investigations, and an ECG to screen for
      any medical conditions that might affect ability to be treated with ECT or ketamine. For the
      randomised Phase 2, patients must have (i) received a substantial course of ECT in Phase 1
      (i.e. at least five sessions), (ii) achieved at least response criteria (i.e. ≥60% decrease
      from baseline HRSD-24 score and score ≤16 on two consecutive weekly ratings), (iii) have a
      nominated adult who can stay with them for 24-hours on out-patient treatment days, (iv) have
      a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of ≥24, and (v) be able to provide informed
      consent. Patients will continue on regular psychotropic and other medications as prescribed
      by their consultant psychiatrist. This reflects the conditions under which adjunctive
      ketamine would be used in routine clinical practice, thereby enhancing the generalisability
      and external validity of a future definitive trial.

      Exclusion criteria are: any condition rendering patients medically unfit for general
      anaesthesia, ECT or ketamine; active suicidal intention; dementia; lifetime history of
      bipolar disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, or other Axis 1 diagnosis; ECT in the
      previous six-months; alcohol/substance abuse in previous six-months; pregnancy;
      inability/refusal to consent.

      Patients will be given verbal and full written information and be asked to provide written
      informed consent.

      INTERVENTIONS: Please see description

      OUTCOMES Process outcomes

      The focus of a pilot trial's outcomes is on trial process with assessment of the primary
      clinical outcome being secondary because the pilot itself is not designed to measure
      efficacy. Process outcomes that will inform a future definitive ketamine relapse prevention
      trial include information on the following:

        -  recruitment methods and rate

        -  willingness of participants to be randomised

        -  willingness of participants to complete assessments

        -  randomisation

        -  success of blinding

        -  ability to administer a course of ketamine infusions

        -  medical safety and acceptability of ketamine infusions in an ECT responder population

        -  rates of adverse dissociative and psychiatric events

        -  adherence to allocated treatment

        -  adherence to follow-up

        -  reasons for drop-out from treatment

        -  reasons for drop-out from follow-up

        -  a 95% confidence interval for the difference between the ketamine and midazolam groups
           in six-month relapse rates to help with power calculations for a future definitive trial

      Clinical outcomes:

      The following will be used to obtain baseline, intra-treatment, end-of-treatment and
      follow-up data. Most are standard measures used by ourselves and others in depression, ECT or
      ketamine studies. Raters will be trained on all measures before recruitment begins.

      (i) Diagnosis and treatment history: Diagnosis of major depressive disorder will be confirmed
      using the mood episodes module of the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I
      Disorders (SCID). The Columbia Antidepressant Treatment History Form (ATHF) will be used to
      obtain index episode treatment details and provide measures of treatment-resistance.
      Handedness will be recorded with the Edinburgh Handedness Questionnaire. The National Adult
      Reading Test (NART) will measure premorbid ability.

      Additional baseline data from patient interview and case-note review will include age, sex,
      weight, height, occupation, educational attainment, duration of index depressive episode,
      number of previous depressive episodes, previous ECT, history of medical illness and surgical
      treatments, personal and family history of alcohol/substance dependency, presence of
      psychotic symptoms (detected by SCID), and current medications and other therapies. Changes
      in medications during Phases 1 and 2 will be documented at follow-up interviews.

      (ii) Depression outcomes: The primary clinical outcome measure is the relapse rate at six
      months as measured using the objectively-rated 24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression
      (HRSD-24). To enter Phase 1 patients must score ≥21. Response to ECT is defined as achieving
      ≥60% decrease from baseline HRSD-24 and score ≤16 on two consecutive weekly ratings.
      Remission criteria are ≥60% decrease in HRSD from baseline and score ≤10 on two consecutive
      weekly ratings. Criteria for relapse are ≥10 point increase in HRSD-24 compared to baseline
      Phase 2 score plus HRSD ≥16; in addition, increase in the HRSD should be maintained one week
      later (if indicated, additional follow-ups will be arranged). Hospital admission, further
      ECT, and deliberate self-harm/suicide also constitute relapse. Timing of these events will be
      recorded.

      Patients must achieve at least response to participate in the Phase 2 pilot trial. Baseline
      and weekly intra-treatment course HRSD-24 scores will be obtained during the treatment
      periods of Phases 1 and 2. During the infusion sessions in Phase 2 HRSD-24 scores will be
      obtained 60 minutes before the infusion begins and at +120 and +240 minutes afterwards.
      Baseline scores on sleep and appetite items will be maintained for repeated measures within
      one day. The +240 HRSD-24 scores will serve as the weekly post-ECT scores up to
      follow-up-week 4. Depression measures will be repeated at weeks 6, 8, 12, 20 and 26 during
      the six-month follow-up. Subjective mood ratings will be measured at the above timepoints
      using the Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms, self-report version (QIDS-SR16).

      (iii) Cognitive outcomes: Cognitive testing can be challenging for severely depressed
      patients. It is vital that patients be encouraged to remain in the trial throughout the whole
      study period and a great deal of tact is required of raters. Priority will be given to
      obtaining scores on the HRSD-24. In a recent meta-analysis we identified that ECT has the
      most pronounced subacute (i.e. 0-3 days post course) adverse effects upon verbal memory
      (delayed word list recall) and frontal executive function. Subanaesthetic doses of ketamine
      can cause problems with orientation, concentration, working and episodic memory but these
      resolve within two hours of beginning an infusion. There are no published data on effects of
      ketamine on cognition in ECT responders. We will use the following battery in Phase 1 (pre
      and post ECT course; the latter will serve as baseline for Phase 2) and Phase 2 (one day
      after the first and fourth infusions and at six-months). Parallel versions will be used to
      reduce practice effects.

        1. Global cognition will be assessed with the revised Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination
           (ACE-R; three parallel versions) which also generates Mini-Mental State Examination
           (MMSE) and verbal fluency scores. The ACE-R provides a total score (maximum=100) plus
           subscale scores for different aspects of cognition and has been used to study cognition
           in depression and by ourselves during ECT.

        2. Forward and Backward Digit Spans - immediate short-term memory, attention and working
           memory

        3. Trail Making Test (Part A) - motor and psychomotor speed

        4. Frontal-executive function will be rated by Trail Making Test (Part B) plus letter and
           category verbal fluencies.

        5. Anterograde verbal memory will be tested using the Free and Cued Selective Reminding
           Test variant (immediate and delayed recall) of the Buschke Selective Reminding Test.

        6. To measure retrograde amnesia for autobiographical information we will use the Kopelman
           Autobiographical Memory Interview (K-AMI), The K-AMI will be administered pre and post
           ECT, after the fourth ketamine infusion, and at six months.

      (iv) Ketamine psychotomimetic effects and adverse events: Acute psychotomimetic effects of
      ketamine are usually short-lived and restricted to the infusion period, resolving within one
      hour. They include dissociative and psychiatric symptoms. In line with previous ketamine
      trials we will measure dissociative effects with the Clinician-Administered Dissociative
      States Scale (CADSS), psychotomimetic effects with the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS;
      four-item positive symptom subscale), and mood elevation with the Young Mania Rating Scale
      (YMRS; mood item). These effects will be measured before, during (+35-40 mins) and after
      (+240 mins) the ketamine infusions. The Patient-Rated Inventory of Side Effects will be used
      to document other general adverse events by patients at the same time points.

      All adverse medical, psychotomimetic and general events will be reported to the Trial
      Steering and Data Monitoring Committees.

      STATISTICAL METHODS A formal sample size calculation is not appropriate for this pilot trial.
      Pilot trial data will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis for all patients who
      completed at least one infusion. Data analyses will be performed blinded to allocation.
    
  