
    
      The climacteric period is marked by the decline of estrogens and androgens which represents
      negative effect on the urogenital system and may present, as a consequence, pelvic floor
      muscles (PFM) dysfunction and urinary incontinence (UI). The pelvic floor muscles training
      (PFMT) and hormone therapy (HT) could result in a significant increase in muscle mass with
      functional improvement and consequent decrease in complaints of urine loss. The aim of this
      study is to evaluate the effect of PFMT on muscle function, in the presence of UI, severity
      and impact on quality of life in postmenopausal women with or without HT.

      The variable sexual function was abandoned due to the fact that the majority of the women do
      not presented active sexual life, which is a criteria to answer the questionnaire Index of
      Female Sexual Function (IFSF), or did not agree to answer the questionnaire. The anxiety
      scale was also abandoned because it was a tool to assess sexual function in a broader way.

      This is a randomized controlled trial. Postmenopausal women will be divided into 4 groups:

        -  Group 1- without exercise and without HT

        -  Group 2 - with exercise and without HT

        -  Group 3 - without exercise and with HT

        -  Group 4 - with exercise and HT

      Women will be evaluated at baseline and up to 12 weeks. The evaluations of the PFM function
      will be accomplished through the use of vaginal palpation using the Modified Oxford Scale
      (MOS) and perineometry. The International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire- Short
      Form (ICIQ - SF) will be used to assess reports of UI, quality of life will be evaluated by
      the SF36 (Medical Outcomes Study 36 - Item Short - Form Health Survey).

      The electromyography was not performed because during the collection of data from the pilot
      sample there was an excess of outcome measures which made the patients' adhesion unfeasible.
    
  