
    
      Emergency department (ED) visits have increased by 25% over the past decade. 85% of these
      patients are discharged, and the standard of care is to provide each patient/caregiver with
      written instructions that highlight how to care for a particular illness at home and signs to
      return to the hospital. Compliance with such ED discharge instructions is limited, leading to
      suboptimal medical care and unnecessary return visits to the ED. Inadequate health literacy,
      language disparities, and poor comprehension of written discharge information contribute to
      this problem. This health gap is more prevalent in children of young parents, low-income
      families, and minority populations where a disproportionate number of patients visit the ED
      for non-emergent care, often because of a lack of health education. The ED environment is
      chaotic and distracting and suboptimal to educate patients. Such education is best
      accomplished where aftercare occurs-in the home, but many patients lack direction and
      motivation to seek reliable sources of focused health education.

      healthEworks LLC has developed Video Prescriptions™ - concise 3-5 minute video modules
      specific to the most common discharge diagnoses that patients receive in the ED. Further work
      is needed to develop a professional, diagnosis-specific product. These videos will feature
      Dr. Christina Johns, an emergency physician who specializes in delivering health information
      on camera. Each video will be interactive, high definition, designed for small screen size,
      such as for a smartphone or laptop computer. Each video prescription™ will highlight the
      transition from hospital to home and focuses on what the diagnosis means, how to treat it at
      home, and which signs should prompt the patient to return to the ED or seek urgent care. A
      HIPAA-compliant tablet-based platform will link ED patients with their personalized video
      education, establishing an innovative system of post-discharge information sharing.

      The use of video prescriptions™ will improve patient health education for the 100 million
      patients who are discharged from U.S. ED's annually. This technology is particularly
      applicable for hospitals that face increasing pressures to provide performance measures for
      hospital discharge.

      Video prescriptions™ will be utilized by ED patients, regardless of socioeconomic status,
      will improve patient satisfaction and reduce unnecessary ED return visits.

        -  Specific Aim 1: Demonstrate patient utilization of video prescriptions Criteria for
           acceptance: a hyperlink click rate of greater than 70%

        -  Specific Aim 2: Demonstrate improved health outcomes. Criteria for acceptance: a
           reduction in return visits by 10%

        -  Specific Aim 3: Demonstrate quality of video content by showing improved patient
           satisfaction scores. Criteria for acceptance: improvement in patient satisfaction scores
           by 20%
    
  