
    
      This prospective observational study focuses on identifying the neural signatures
      prospectively predicting poor prognosis in MDD patients after receiving four months of
      treatment in UK primary care.

      It is expected that half of the patients will show a response to primary care treatment over
      the 16 weeks of the trial. This allows for comparison of baseline MRI scans of treatment
      responders with non-responders. The aim is to recruit at least n=12 in each group with
      complete data (responders vs non-responders), but if the groups are skewed, a continuous
      measure (i.e. the difference between final and baseline depression scores) will be used
      rather than to categorise into responders and non-responders. This sample size is considered
      sufficient for fMRI studies to run random-effect models. As there is no previous study from
      which effect sizes can be drawn, the study remains exploratory.

      As this study aims to find candidate biomarkers predicting response to antidepressant
      treatment, it is important to define "response" and "antidepressant treatment". Response to
      treatment will be defined as a reduction of depressive symptom levels of at least 50%, as
      assessed by the self-rated Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (Self-report;
      16-Item) from baseline to follow-up.

      Due to the range of different antidepressants used in the main trial (Study 1), the primary
      analysis is to compare responders versus non-responders irrespective of treatment received
      which ensures the results are of pragmatic relevance to primary care treatment (considered as
      a complex multifaceted intervention for this study). The following antidepressants are likely
      to be prescribed in the study, either recommended by the algorithm or as initiated by general
      practitioners (GPs) without computerised decision support tool advice: sertraline (≥50mg;
      SSRI), escitalopram (≥10mg; SSRI), mirtazapine (≥30mg; alpha 2 antagonist; NaSSA; dual
      serotonin and norepinephrine agent), vortioxetine (≥10mg; multimodal), citalopram (≥20mg;
      SSRI), fluoxetine (≥20mg; SSRI), paroxetine (≥20mg; SSRI), venlafaxine (≥75mg; SSRI up to 150
      mg and SNRI>150 mg), duloxetine (60mg; SNRI), therapeutic doses of tricyclics, and
      therapeutic doses of monoamine oxidase inhibitors.

      Further analysis will be aimed at comparing response to another SSRI versus no response to
      another SSRI. Here, treatment with an SSRI will be defined as treatment with any of the
      earlier listed SSRIs, as well as low dose venlafaxine (up to 150mg). This includes
      individuals who started and subsequently stopped their SSRI or did not go up to an effective
      dose because of presumable side effects (intention-to-treat analysis). However, it excludes
      individuals whose SSRI has not been changed or whose SSRI dose has not been increased for the
      study period; individuals whose SSRI remained the same, but the dose increased are included.
      Individuals who were incompliant with their prescribed SSRI medication are included as their
      incompliance might be related to experiencing a poor benefit/side effect ratio
      (intention-to-treat analysis). Individuals who had medications with additional non-SSRI
      properties are excluded from this analysis (venlafaxine > 150 mg, mirtazapine > 15 mg,
      antipsychotics, lithium, tricyclics in therapeutic dose, monoamine oxidase inhibitors in
      therapeutic dose, or vortioxetine).

      In order to investigate the general research aim, i.e. identifying the neural signatures
      prospectively predicting poor prognosis in MDD patients after receiving four months of
      treatment in UK primary care, the following specific neuroanatomical hypotheses are tested:

      i) Moral sentiment task:

      Following Lythe et al 2015, a longer version of this task predicted subsequent recurrence
      risk in remitted MDD patients. The authors found that patients with recurring MDD exhibited
      increased right superior anterior temporal cortex (RSATL) connectivity with the subgenual
      cortex (BA25), compared with MDD patients who remained in stable remission and a control
      group. In addition, the authors noted that RSATL hyper-connectivity with ventral
      putamen/claustrum, and the temporoparietal junction was distinctive of recurring MDD compared
      with stable MDD. The RSATL - temporoparietal junction hyper-connectivity did not survive a
      more stringent unpublished analysis applying a cluster-forming threshold of p=0.001
      uncorrected as is now recommended.

      Based on the inclusion criteria, it is expected that most patients in the current study will
      have recurring MDD. It is important to note that the study by Lythe et al 2015 was carried
      out in people with full remission. This suggests that their study may have been biased
      towards patients with an overall good prognosis for remission, as they will have responded to
      treatment before, and against patients with a chronic course of MDD. So, even though BA25 -
      ATL hyper-connectivity is associated with recurrence risk, it might also represent a marker
      of good prognosis for symptom remission.

      Additional unpublished data collected by the Lythe et al 2015 authors was used to explore
      characteristics between those whose remission was attributable to serotonergic medications
      (n=36) and those who achieved remission through other means (n=28, e.g. psychotherapy or
      spontaneous remission), which was determined by the PI based on their recorded treatment
      history and blinded to the imaging results. Interestingly, people with a history of achieving
      remission using alternatives to serotonergic medications showed stronger hyper-connectivity
      of the right ventral striatum - RSATL compared to the others. In contrast, there was no
      difference between the two groups with regard to subgenual frontal - RSATL connectivity for
      self- versus other-blame. Notably, the groups were well-matched on demographic and clinical
      variables, which suggests that the lower ventral striatum - RSATL connectivity cannot be
      explained by other confounders and potentially is a genuine marker for serotonergic
      responders.

      The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 allows for the subtyping of MDD patients into
      subtypes: with anxious distress, with melancholic features (its operationalisation will be
      modified by requiring a lack of mood reactivity as a necessary criterion), and with atypical
      features. It is plausible that the prognosis varies for these MDD subtypes based on
      differences with regard to which part of the self-blaming bias-related neural network is more
      relevant. For example, MDD patients with anxious distress have been shown to have more anger
      towards others (captured as moderate and severe levels on the AMDP psychopathology interview)
      and benefit less from self-blame-related subgenual (BA25) - ATL-connectivity-reducing
      neurofeedback. Therefore, it is predicted that patients with anxious MDD are less likely to
      display self-blame-selective subgenual (BA25) - ATL hyper-connectivity.

      Similarly, people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), whose condition
      involves emotional instability which is captured as "affective lability" (moderate or severe
      levels) on the AMDP psychopathology interview, are predicted to show a lower likelihood of
      response to standard treatment in primary care with serotonergic antidepressants. It is
      predicted that they are more likely to experience anger towards others (captured as moderate
      and severe levels on the AMDP) and are therefore less likely to show self-blame-selective
      subgenual (BA25) - ATL hyper-connectivity.

      Therefore, the following is hypothesised:

        1. a) Self-blame-selective BA25 (using the Lythe et al 2015 results as a cluster-based ROI)
           - ATL hyper-connectivity (using the same right superior ATL seed as in Lythe et al 2015)
           will be associated with better prognosis after receiving four months of primary care
           treatment.

           b) Moreover, a lack of self-blame-selective hyper-connectivity will be associated with
           patients with anxious distress, who have a poorer prognosis and are more frequently
           encountered in treatment-resistant and chronic MDD samples. This type of sample is
           expected to be recruited for this study, whereas they are less likely to be recruited in
           remitted MDD studies such as the one published by Lythe et al 2015.

        2. Self-blame-selective ventral striatum - ATL hyper-connectivity will be associated with
           poorer prognosis after receiving four months of primary care treatment. This is based on
           the fact that primary care mostly relies on SSRIs and SSRI response, which was
           retrospectively associated with a lack of self-blame-selective ventral striatum-ATL
           hyper-connectivity.

        3. Lower self-blame-selective ventral striatum - ATL connectivity will be associated with
           better response to serotonergic medications. This is based on the comparison of those
           whose remission was attributable to serotonergic medications and those who achieved
           remission through other means (unpublished secondary data analysis of Lythe et al 2015
           data).

      ii) Implicit facial emotions task:

      A) Following Godlewska et al 2018, the study team will probe the reproducibility of their
      findings regarding pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC) activity in response to
      implicit facial emotions as a predictor of response to treatment (six-weeks of treatment with
      escitalopram). The authors showed increased activity in the pgACC to sad versus happy faces
      in responders compared to non-responders.

      Therefore, the hypothesis is that decreased activity in the pgACC ROI (obtained from the
      authors) to implicit sad versus happy faces is prospectively associated with poor prognosis
      after receiving four months of treatment.

      B) In addition, this task allows to investigate amygdala activation as a potential predictor
      of response to treatment. Williams et al 2015 reported that responders to antidepressants
      (escitalopram (mean = 11.3 mg, sd = 6.7 mg), sertraline (mean = 59.3 mg, sd = 27.0 mg) and
      venlafaxine (mean = 92.3, sd = 32.2)) showed lower activation of the bilateral amygdala
      (Automated Anatomical Labelling (AAL) atlas ROI) for happy and left amygdala for sad faces
      compared to non-responders at baseline. Moreover, response to SSRIs was associated with lower
      activation of the amygdala for sad faces, and non-responders to venlafaxine displayed higher
      activation for sad faces. This finding is corroborated by a meta-analysis of functional
      predictors of treatment response, which linked increased activation in the right amygdala to
      an increased likelihood of poor response.

      Therefore, the hypothesis is that increased activation of the amygdala for implicit sad and
      happy faces prospectively predicts poor prognosis after receiving four months of treatment,
      and the study team predicts that this increased amygdala response is more pronounced in
      patients with anxious distress given the link between increased arousal and anxiety, as well
      as significance and arousal signals being linked to amygdala activation in response to visual
      stimuli.

      iii) Resting state fMRI:

      Following Dunlop et al 2017, the study team will probe the reproducibility of their findings
      regarding subgenual cingulate cortex (SCC) connectivity as a predictor of response to
      treatment. The authors identified resting state functional connectivity between the SCC and
      three regions as a potential predictor: the left dorsal midbrain, the ventrolateral
      prefrontal cortex (VLPFC, Brodmann Area (BA) 47) and the left ventromedial frontopolar cortex
      (VMPFC, BA10). Absent and/or negative functional connectivity with the SCC was associated
      with remission following SSRI/SNRI treatment, whereas positive functional connectivity with
      the SCC was linked with treatment failure.

      Therefore, the hypothesis is that positive functional connectivity between the SCC seed used
      by Dunlop - and the three ROIs to be obtained from the authors: VLPFC, SCC - VMPFC and SCC -
      dorsal midbrain prospectively predict poor prognosis after receiving four months of
      treatment.
    
  