
    
      Background

      Eustachian tube dysfunction (ETD) and middle ear barotrauma (MEB) are the two most common
      complications of clinical hyperbaric oxygen treatment (HBO2T) though these disorders can
      present in many other settings. There are currently two alternative systems used to grade
      otic barotrauma in patients: the Teed Score (TEED) and the O'Neill Grading System (OGS). The
      TEED is the most commonly used grading system originally described in 1944 and contains five
      grades based on a single physician examination (1). There have been modifications to the TEED
      over the years included six grades, hence the TEED as modified by Macfie and Edmonds is
      commonly known as the Modified TEED Scale (2, 3). The TEED is not specific for the evaluation
      and treatment of middle ear barotrauma in patients undergoing HBO2T, pilots or airline
      passengers, soldiers exposed to explosive ordinance, recreational scuba divers, individuals
      driving to altitude, swimming injuries due to free diving to depths without equalization,
      loud sound pressure injuries, but rather to submariners practicing submarine escape training
      (1).

      Otoscopy is commonly performed on all patients who present with these complaints and to
      hyperbaric oxygen patients prior to treatment. Though it is often again performed on patients
      presenting for follow-up and to hyperbaric patients after having completed treatment or those
      having difficulty equalizing middle ear pressure during the compression and/or decompression
      phase of the hyperbaric treatments. Although the results from these otoscopic examinations
      are used to determine the diagnosis and proper course of treatment for the ETD or MEB, the
      TEED may not correlate with the consistency of diagnosis, the clinical approach to relieving
      symptoms, or the definitive course of treatment for the otic barotrauma (2,3).

      The OGS is a simplified classification system of ETD and MEB limiting the evaluation to three
      grade levels as opposed to six levels using the modified TEED (4).

      Literature Review

      A background search using PubMed without any restrictions on study type, date, language,
      country of origin, was carried out and no validation studies of either the TEED or the OGS
      grading system could be found. No studies comparing either of the two systems for consistency
      or uniformity of diagnoses were discovered or available for retrieval.

      Specific Aims

      We attempt to determine if the OGS and TEED can be used by all physicians including those
      seeing patients for suspected barotrauma in the community setting and the medical
      professionals who routinely see patients undergoing clinical hyperbaric oxygen treatments;
      hyperbaric physicians, nurses, and technologists, in order to determine if (1) both systems
      yield consistent results regardless of the system used for grading barotrauma and (2) will
      there be consistent results among the various professionals (physicians vs nurses vs. CHT's)
      performing the otoscopic evaluation. The goal of this study is to determine if using either
      the OGS or TEED will provide consistent and uniform results in grading barotrauma.

      Study Question and Research Hypothesis

      Is there a difference in precision and accuracy when scoring and grading ETD and MEB in
      patients between clinical staff members based on the type of scoring/grading system used?

      Ho: There is no difference in precision or accuracy when grading ETD and MEB between
      examiners using either the TEED or the OGS grading systems.

      Ha: There is a difference in precision and accuracy when grading ETD and MEB between
      examiners using either the TEED or the OGS grading system.

      Ho: There is no difference in diagnostic precision and accuracy when grading ETD and MEB
      based on training level of examiners using either the TEED or the OGS grading system.

      Ha: There is no difference in diagnostic precision and accuracy when grading ETD and MEB
      based on training level of examiners using either the TEED or the OGS grading system.

      Methods

      Inclusion criteria

      All patients photographed between March of 2013 and June of 2019 that developed symptoms
      undergoing hyperbaric oxygen therapy were selected and deidentified. This involved retrieving
      all documented photographic images of ETD and MEB to score/grade the degree of otic
      barotrauma. These patients all had baseline photographs taken of the external ear canal and
      tympanic membrane as part of the pre-treatment standardized protocol in our department.
      Baseline photographs (normal) are included in the retrieved images. The photographs were
      initially screened and any images that were blurry to the degree that rendered
      scoring/grading impossible were excluded. Images considered interpretable despite blurring or
      partial obstruction due to cerumen or hair were included. This was done to maximize the use
      of photos that reflect the varying quality of images encountered in everyday clinical
      treatment conditions using otoscopy. Physicians were chosen in the pediatric and adult
      settings in a variety of fields including those in a hyperbaric clinical setting. The
      candidate physicians, hyperbaric nurses, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants were
      not limited to any specialty, however at the technician level the study was limited to those
      working in the hyperbaric medicine setting.

      Sample size

      The participants will review and independently grade a total of 120 otoscopic photos of
      tympanic membranes taken between March 2013 through June 2019. The photos include normal and
      abnormal images representing tympanic membranes with all levels of Eustachian tube
      dysfunction or middle ear barotrauma following hyperbaric pressurization that required a hold
      due to patient subjective ear symptoms.

      The photo images were taken from actual hyperbaric patients seen at our facility with the
      exception of 10 photos. The 10 photographs included from outside sources were necessary to
      ensure inclusion of all stages of otic barotrauma including severe stages.

      All participants in the study will be provided with instructions regarding the study both
      verbally and in writing. The study participants will have various levels of professional
      clinical training and will include physicians, nurses, and technologists.

      Participants will use the modified TEED placard commonly used in hyperbaric centers as a
      reference in selecting the appropriate TEED score for each of the photos. Simultaneously,
      they will utilize the OGS placard as a reference in selecting the appropriate OGS grade for
      each of the photos. The grading will be conducted by hyperbaric physicians, nurses, and
      hyperbaric technicians (CHT's).

      The TEED will be used without the benefit of a baseline photo, which was not required when
      this system was developed in 1944 and subsequently modified. The OGS system will be used
      initially without the use of a baseline photo, this is similar to the intended use of the
      TEED. The OGS system will subsequently be graded separately with the benefit of a comparison
      baseline photo in accordance with the intended use in hyperbaric treatment centers. Baseline
      photos could be obtained in other clinical settings beyond hyperbaric treatment settings.

      Data Analysis

      There will be three levels of comparison of precision and accuracy in using these two scales.
      The first comparison will evaluate the consistency displayed using each grading system (TEED
      and OGS) independently without the knowledge of the baseline status of the tympanic membrane
      prior to trauma. The second level of comparison will evaluate both grading systems for
      precision and accuracy as compared to each other. The third level of comparison will have the
      reviewers compare a baseline photo of the patient's tympanic membrane taken prior to
      hyperbaric treatment and pressurization to the post treatment traumatic photo and provide an
      OGS grade as the OGS was intended to be used in hyperbaric patients or in other settings
      where an available baseline photo may be available.

      The analysis will include the use of a kappa statistic for comparison between observed
      agreement and expected agreement for each of the scoring/grading systems comparing
      examiners/observers reviewing the images (5). The Fleiss kappa statistic will be used for
      comparison since 3 or more examiners observers will score and grade the photo images (6).

      A comparison of the kappa statistics with respect to scoring/grading system used, and level
      of training will be analyzed.

      Ethical Considerations

      The study uses de-identified archived photos of external ear canals and tympanic membranes. A
      protocol was submitted to the IRB and approved prior to the conduct of this study.

      Funding Sources

      None
    
  