
    
      The single-use Laryngeal Mask Airway SupremeTM (SLMA, Laryngeal Mask Company Limited,
      Singapore) is a new single use supraglottic airway device introduced recently that present
      combined features of the LMA ProSealTM (PLMA, Laryngeal Mask Company Limited) and the LMA
      FastrachTM (FLMA, Laryngeal Mask Company Limited). The mask has an anatomically shaped airway
      tube, elliptical in cross-section that facilitates easy insertion and minimizes accidental
      rotation. The cuff bowl is designed to prevent airway kinking and offer higher airway seal
      pressures around the laryngeal opening than the LMA ClassicTM (CLMA, Laryngeal Mask Company
      Limited) It has a drain tube that provides functional separation of the respiratory and
      digestive tracts to prevent gastric aspiration. Even though insertion of the SLMA is
      associated with a higher initial success rate, fewer airway manipulations and a safe and
      effective airway during anaesthesia, the anaesthetic techniques for its insertion were not
      standardised. Most available data on the requirements of anaesthetic drugs and co-induction
      agents used for insertion of SLMA originate from research involving other assessments of the
      SLMA such as the seal with respiratory and gastrointestinal tract.We tested for differences
      in the predicted concentration of propofol with and without remifentanil for insertion of the
      SLMA.

      Methods: 50 patients ASA class I or II aged 18-75 years undergoing ambulatory elective
      surgery will be randomized to one of two groups: those who receive propofol + saline (control
      group: n = 25) or propofol + remifentanil (propofol-remifentanil group: n=25). We will use
      target-controled infusions (Alaris®PK) for both drugs: propofol (Marsh et al.´s
      pharmacokinetic model) and remifentanil (Minto et al.´s pharmacokinetic model). The patients
      wil be premedicated with midazolam 1 mg iv before surgery. The target concentration for each
      patient was determined using the Dixon´s up-and-down method. Predetermined propofol and
      remifentanil blood and effect site concentrations were held constant for at least 10 min.
      After equilibration of plasma and effect site propofol concentrations, the SLMA will be
      inserted, and secured according to the manufacture´s recommendations, without the use of
      muscle relaxants. In control group, propofol concentrations will start at 4 μg ml-1, with 0,5
      μg ml-1 as the step size, with the coadministration of saline. In propofol-remifentanil
      group, propofol + remifentanil at a target-controlled infusion 5 ng/mL will be
      coadministered. A single measurement will be obtained from each patient. If the patient
      reacted with movement, the propofol concentration for the next patient was increased by 0.5
      μg ml-1 ±1 ; if there was no movement, it was decreased by 0.5 μg ml-1 ±1 . Movement was
      defined as bucking or gross purposeful muscular movement within 1 min of LMA insertion.
      Values of Cp 50 wil be determined by calculating the midpoint concentration after at least
      seven crossover points (movement/non movement) will be obtained in each group.
    
  