
    
      Although coronary angiography is widely used in the diagnosis and evaluation of CAD and heart
      valve diseases, it causes patients to experience intense stress, anxiety, pain and even fear
      of death. The main purpose of nurses before an interventional procedure is to increase the
      physiological and mental well-being of the patient and to help them adapt to the procedure.
      Various pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods are used to manage the psychological
      and physical problems of patients undergoing coronary angiography. Distraction is one of the
      non-pharmacological interventions commonly used during medical procedures. Virtual reality
      (VR) is a new method that can be used to distract and prepare patients for the procedure
      during medical procedures. It is thought to be more effective than traditional methods.
      Virtual reality is a computer-generated environment in which three-dimensional interaction is
      possible. It projects a wide field of view in front of the user's eye through advanced
      head-worn screens (glasses). It is an advanced technology that allows the individual to move
      into a virtual environment and focus his attention on other thoughts to less consideration
      for pain and anxiety.

      This study is a randomized controlled study to determine the effectiveness of virtual reality
      glasses on pain, anxiety and hemodynamic parameters during coronary angiography.The universe
      of the study will be the individuals who will have a coronary angiography in the Angiography
      Laboratory of the Department of Cardiology, Dr. Siyami Ersek Thoracic and Cardiovascular
      Surgery Training and Research Hospital. On the other hand, the sample of the study will
      consist of patients who meet the inclusion criteria within the time the study is planned.
      Power analysis was performed using the G * Power (v3.1.7) program to determine the number of
      samples. It was decided that there should be at least 64 people in the groups. Participants
      in the study will be randomly divided into two groups as intervention and control groups.
      Before the procedure, patients will be informed about the purpose of the study, and written
      and verbal informed consent will be obtained from the patients. Patients in both groups will
      be asked to fill in the Personal Information Form before the procedure, and their pain levels
      will be evaluated with the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), and their anxiety levels will be
      evaluated with the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory I (STAI-I). Immediately after the procedure,
      the pain levels of the patients with VAS and their anxiety levels will be evaluated with
      STAI-I. Virtual reality glasses will be worn on the intervention group just before the
      procedure starts and patients will continue to wear VR glasses until the procedure is
      completed. In patients selected as the control group, the same evaluations will be made at
      the same time interval. SPSS 22.0 (Statistical Package of Social Sciences) package program
      will be used for statistical analysis.
    
  