
    
      Design: The investigators will complete a mixed-methods prospective longitudinal study with
      pre and post intervention testing (component A; N = 8), followed by a mixed-methods
      wait-listed cross-over controlled trial with pre and post intervention testing (component B;
      N = 16). Within component A participants will complete pre-intervention assessments, complete
      7-weeks of group intervention and weekly monitoring, and complete post-intervention
      assessments and follow-up assessments 3 months later. Within component B, 8 participants will
      be randomly assigned to the early intervention group and 8 participants will be assigned to
      the wait-listed cross-over (or late) intervention group. Participants in the early and late
      groups will complete pre-intervention assessments at the same time. Participants in the early
      intervention group will then complete 7-weeks of group intervention and weekly monitoring,
      and complete post-intervention assessments immediately after the intervention and a follow-up
      assessment 3 months later. Participants in the late intervention group will complete sleep
      diary information for 7 randomly-chosen nights, a second pre-intervention assessment
      approximately 8-weeks following their initial pre-intervention assessment, complete 7-weeks
      of group intervention and weekly monitoring, and complete post-intervention assessments and
      follow-up assessments 3 months later. All interventions will occur within the CSU
      Occupational Therapy Department, all pre and post intervention assessments will be completed
      using a web-based survey.

      Participants: Active recruitment of study participants will occur through email and telephone
      contacts to veterans engaged in ongoing CSU IRB-approved studies in which they have agreed to
      being contacted regarding participation in future studies occurring within the Department of
      Occupational Therapy and the New Start for Student Veterans Program. Participants will
      receive a gift card of their choice for completing post-intervention assessments, whereas
      participants assigned to the late group of Component B will receive an additional gift card
      for completing their second pre-intervention assessment. Participants who complete the 7-
      week group intervention and first of two post-intervention assessments will also be allowed
      to keep the Fitbit wearable actigraph they have used within the study.

      Data Collection: The investigators will complete a comprehensive evaluation at each
      assessment period. Data collected will address 2 aims. Aim 1 will assess the fidelity and
      participant satisfaction of a group-delivered sleep education and sleep skills intervention
      for veterans with service-related injuries who are in college. The working hypothesis is that
      a group-delivered sleep education and sleep skills intervention will be safe, demonstrate
      adequate treatment fidelity, and participant satisfaction. Aim 2 will assess the efficacy of
      a group-delivered sleep education and sleep skills intervention for veterans with
      service-related injuries who are in college in terms of key variables of interest. The
      working hypothesis is that participation in a group-delivered sleep education and sleep
      skills intervention will result in improvements in participants' sleep quality, sleep
      duration, and mental health. Further, through the evaluation of program data including
      participants' attendance, sleep-related knowledge and behaviors, program adherence, and
      qualitative interview data we seek to understand the key processes and outcomes associated
      with intervention efficacy. Please see the Outcome Measures section of this protocol
      registration for name and purpose of outcomes.

      Intervention: All post 9/11 veteran participants will complete a 7-week group sleep education
      and sleep skills intervention within the Department of Occupational Therapy. The
      investigators will deliver a sleep education and sleep skills group-based intervention based
      upon established best-practices for improving sleep quality and sleep quantity associated
      with insomnia, specifically targeted to student veterans with service-related injuries. All
      components of the intervention will be delivered by registered and licensed occupational
      therapists practicing within the New Start for Student Veterans Program and the Department of
      Occupational Therapy, which serves college veterans with service-related injuries at CSU and
      Front Range Community College. For the duration of the study two local physicians, board
      certified in Sleep Medicine and Psychiatry respectively will be available for consultation on
      sleep issues related to veterans. The 7-week group intervention was developed to improve
      sleep quality and sleep quantity through sleep-related education and behavioral goal setting
      addressing: sleep monitoring with actigraph and sleep log, sleep education, sleep hygiene and
      development and maintenance of good sleep habits, stimulus control for sleep preparation, and
      mindfulness/ yoga for sleep preparation and daily stress reduction. Participants will also
      meet individually either in person or by telephone on a weekly basis with a registered and
      licensed occupational therapist, experienced in working with student veterans with
      service-related injuries, and knowledgeable of the sleep-related education used within the
      intervention. Individualized meetings will be used to assure: 1) understanding and adherence
      in the use of sleep monitoring actigraphy and sleep diaries, and 2) establishing and
      monitoring participants' individualized goals related to sleep skills behaviors. Participants
      will also have access to an occupational therapist from CSU's Assistive Technology and
      Resource Center, experienced in working with veterans with service-related injuries, to
      support the use of Fitbit sleep actigraph and associated mobile sleep applications to ensure
      understanding of Fitbit use, integration (sync) of Fitbit and mobile application, and
      establishment of an anonymous web-based profile for monitoring sleep-related data.

      Data Analysis: For Aim 1, the investigators will assess the intervention fidelity and
      participant satisfaction of a group delivered sleep education and sleep skills intervention,
      the investigators will report proportions of educational content and behavioral goals
      established, and proportions of participants who rate the interventions as enjoyable (1-4 on
      Likert scale). Descriptive statistics will be used to examine means and variances of key
      constructs of interest. Change in key variables over the 7-week intervention will be
      inspected via individual growth charts. Attendance, attrition, and adverse events will be
      reported as proportions. The investigators will use focus groups to formally evaluate the
      program, and to elicit suggestions for program improvement. Importantly, participants will be
      asked to describe changes that have occurred during the intervention and why they think the
      sleep education and behavioral sleep goals helped improve sleep quality, sleep quantity or
      other sleep-related variables, such as mindfulness, physical, mental, and social health
      domains. Qualitative analytic software (e.g., Atlas TI) will be used to code segments of
      qualitative data. The investigators will review the text and identify emergent themes and use
      an iterative consensus building process to generate themes and codes for participants and
      their spouses/ significant others. For Aim 2 quantitative data will be analyzed in two ways.
      First, for constructs measured at pre and post intervention only, a repeated-measures ANOVA
      will be conducted to determine if post-intervention scores differ significantly across the
      early and delayed conditions. Second, for the sleep variables, which will be collected on a
      daily basis during the intervention, a time-series approach will be used to examine within
      person change in these constructs over time. This type of analysis models the effect of an
      intervention on a meaningful outcome collected regularly over time - with measurements before
      the implementation of the intervention, during the intervention, and ideally after the
      intervention. Using time-series models, the effect of an intervention can be estimated after
      adjusting for serial dependence and any other measured shifts (e.g., day of the week, length
      of the day, mid-terms/finals, outside temperature), through the specification of linear
      models that capture increases or decreases in the mean level or slope of the time-series.
      Specifically, an Auto-regressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model will be used to
      examine intervention effects of the program for the identified outcomes.
    
  