
    
      Cognitive Testing Interviews:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire about your
      demographics (age, race, country of origin), education and family history of prostate cancer.
      This questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Then you will take part in a one on one interview with a bilingual member of the study staff.
      You will be shown draft versions of a slide show about prostate cancer screening. You will
      then be asked to describe the information in the slides in your own words. You will also be
      asked about how easy or hard the information is to understand. The interview should last
      about 1 hour.

      Length of Study:

      Answering the questionnaire and participating in the interview will take about 1 to 1½ hours
      of your time. Your participation in this study will be over when the interview is complete.

      Evaluation Focus Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 2 questionnaires about your
      demographics (age, race, country of origin), education, family history of prostate cancer,
      and knowledge of prostate cancer and its screening. These questionnaires should take about 10
      minutes to complete. After the questionnaires, you will take part in a focus group with other
      men and members of the study.

      In the focus group, a bilingual study staff member will lead the discussion by showing the
      group slides about prostate cancer screening. A doctor or healthcare professional designee
      will be available to answer questions about prostate cancer screening.

      After viewing the slides, you will complete another questionnaire about what you know about
      prostate cancer. It will also ask what you thought about the information in the slides.

      Length of Study:

      Answering the questionnaires and participating in the focus group will take about 1 to 1½
      hours of your time. Your participation in this study will be over when the focus group
      session is complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 60 participants will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 10 will be enrolled at
      MD Anderson.
    
  