
    
      Female urinary incontinence (UI) is very common and affects up to one fourth of grownup
      women. It may reduce quality of life for those affected and costs for society are high. The
      most common type of urinary incontinence is SUI, i.e leakage when coughing, sneezing or
      jumping.

      The recommended first line treatment is pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT)which leads to
      improvement or cure in two-thirds of patients. In addition, life style changes, such as
      weight loss when obese, smoking cessation and reduction of fluid intake if high is
      recommended.

      There is a need for new , flexible and easily accessible treatment programmes for female
      urinary incontinence. In our previous study, we compared two treatment programmes for SUI
      without face-to-face contact: one internet based and one sent by post, both based on three
      months of PFMT. In this randomized controlled trial of 250 women aged 18-70 years, we found
      highly significant improvements (p<0.001) with large effect sizes (>0,8)concerning primary
      outcomes (symptoms and quality of life scores) but no significant differences between groups.
      Compared with the postal group, more participants in the internet group perceived they were
      much or very much improved (40.9% vs 26.5%, p<0.01, reported reduced usage of incontinence
      aids (59.5% vs 41.4%, p=0.02) and were satisfied with the treatment programme (84.8% vs
      62.9%, p<0.001).

      The selling of smartphones is increasing rapidly. About 75% of all cellphones sold in Sweden
      today are smartphones. Two million adults in Sweden have a smartphone. Many smartphone owners
      have at least one health app on their phone. Exercise, diet, and weight apps are the most
      popular types.

      From our previous experience of an Internet-based programme, we have developed a treatment
      program designed for smartphone. The effect of the treatment programme will be evaluated
      after three months by comparing the effect in the "smartphone group" with the effect in the
      "waiting group".

      Participants are consecutively recruited through our website. They answer an online screening
      survey with automated immediated response for initial screening of eligibility criteria.
      Informed consent and leakage diary (number of episodes of urinary leakage during 48 hours)
      are sent by post. After that, they answer a web questionnaire and finally they are
      interviewed by a researcher to confirm the diagnosis SUI and to ascertain that the patient is
      well informed of the study procedure.

      Women are then randomized to either of the two groups. Women in the smartphone group get a
      smartphone application for iphone or android. Follow-up after three months with a web
      questionnaire and a leakage diary. After that the waiting group get their smartphone
      application.

      We aim to recruit 120 women aged 18 and older via our website www.tät.nu. In the power
      calculation we assume that the improvement in the symptom score (ICIQ UI SF) and the QOL
      score (ICIQ luts QOL)in the smartphone group will be similar to the improvement we found in
      the postal group in our previous study. We also assume that the waiting group will improve in
      some extent.

      To detect a difference between groups, power 80%, 2-side test and significance 0,05, group
      size as follow

      ICIQ UI SF Smartphone group improves 2.9 (SD3,1) and waiting group 1,0 (SD2,0); 30 in each
      group

      ICIQ luts QOL Smartphone group improves 4.6 (SD6,7) and waiting group 2.0(SD3.0), 35 in each
      group

      PGI (patient´s global impression of improvement). 26,5% improves much or very much
      (smartphone) and 4% (waiting group):39 in each group

      We expect a drop out rate of 33% and thus need approximately 120 persons, 60 in each group.
    
  