
    
      Phase 1 (pre-recruitment):

      Racial/ethnic panel:

      The investigators will recruit a panel of racial/ethnic minority women (African American and
      Hispanic women) who have experienced stillbirth (n=5) and discuss potential benefits and
      perceptions of yoga to inform the study. Women will be asked to complete a web-based
      eligibility and informed consent survey via Qualtrics. In addition, the investigators will
      inquire on ways to encourage enrollment of racial/ethnic minority women into the study. The
      investigators will use this information to potentially modify recruitment materials in phase
      2. If modification for recruitment materials are needed based on interviews, the
      investigators will submit the modifications to the IRB at that time. Interviews will take
      approximately 15-20 minutes and will be conducted over the phone.

      Iterative design process for yoga prescription: Before the investigators begin recruitment
      for the study the investigators will implement the following steps to determine the yoga
      prescription for the LD and MD intervention groups:

        1. Identify videos from existing Udaya library. Videos prescribed will be selected for
           qualities pertaining to selected potential mechanisms proposed in our conceptual model.
           Classes chosen will include detailed instruction and specific alignment cues to promote
           focus and attention, thus potentially reducing sensitivity to internal sensations and
           increase affect tolerance (emotional regulation) (e.g., press your hands into the mat in
           cobra pose, lift your toes during chair pose). Also slow moving classes with longer
           holds to encourage non-reactivity and awareness of negative thoughts or self-criticism.

        2. Gather a panel of women who have experienced stillbirth (n=5) and a panel of women who
           regularly do yoga (n=5) to review the videos (including, as appropriate, engaging in
           practices. Women will be asked to complete a web-based eligibility survey and informed
           consent via Qualtrics. Each woman will review ~9 yoga videos within a 6 week period
           (videos outlined in #1). Women will be asked to come into the Healthy Lifestyles
           Research Lab at Arizona State University on a weekly basis for 6 weeks (1-2x/week).
           Before and after the review, the team will actively explore if individuals feel they are
           connected to their body, feel emotionally regulated, and self-compassionate (see #3
           below). Sessions not perceived as useful for self-compassion and emotional regulation
           will be replaced for the proposed study. If no previously developed videos are
           supportive of improving self-compassion and emotional regulation, the investigators will
           produce new classes (up to six 30-min classes) in partnership with Udaya.

        3. Have participants rate their current self-compassion and emotional regulation to gather
           the pre-post mean score changes for all videos. This pre-post questionnaire will take
           roughly 5 minutes to complete. The investigators will also ask questions during
           post-intervention interviews to glean further insights about the utility of the yoga
           sessions for improving self-compassion and emotional regulation. This process will
           inform the videos to be used in the future larger trial Phase 2.

      For our purposes, all classes for the intervention will be screened for applicability by the
      yoga therapist. Participants' username and passwords will provide them access to only the
      yoga videos prescribed; participants will not have access to the complete Udaya library of
      yoga videos. Participants will be asked to complete the yoga videos in a specific order,
      which will include specialized preparatory instructions for each class to quell apprehension
      and further ensure safety.

      After this process the investigators will finalize the yoga prescription for Phase 2 and will
      submit any modifications to the IRB before recruitment begins.

      Phase 2 Enrollment: Interested participants will complete an eligibility screener on a
      Qualtrics link, or contact the research team via phone or email. Our current screener takes
      approximately 5-10 mins to complete. Research team members will follow a script to respond to
      interested participants who phone or email, and refer them to the eligibility screener.
      Eligible participants will receive an email requesting times to schedule a 15 minute intake
      call (i.e., explain the study) and an email confirmation for the appointment. Following the
      intake appointment, eligible participants will receive a Qualtrics link asking them to
      electronically sign an informed consent and participate in a baseline assessment of
      self-report measures that will take approximately 20 minutes. After this step, participants
      will be randomized to intervention or control group (See below). Ineligible participants will
      be notified by phone and offered a discounted Udaya.com membership.

      Randomization: The investigators will randomize participants into low dose intervention group
      (LD; n=30), moderate dose intervention group (MD; n=30), or stretch and tone control group
      (STC; n=30) after the informed consent and baseline questionnaires have been complete.
      Research personnel will use a computer-generated list of numbers (i.e., randomizer.org).
      Research personnel who assign participants to a group will not be the same as those who
      download or clean data. Additionally, group status will be entered separately so that
      research personnel downloading data will be blinded to treatment assignment. Women in LD and
      MD will be prescribed 60 mins or 150 mins of yoga per wk respectively, for 12 wks. The STC
      group will complete a minimum of 60 mins/wk of stretching/toning exercises to match LD
      intervention group.

      Tracking. Participation in the videos for all groups (LD, MD, STC) will be tracked (class
      taken, time of day, length of use etc.) on the Udaya.com website throughout the study. Before
      beginning the study, the research team will send each participant a daily log Qualtrics link
      to self-track: (a) completion of yoga/stretching sessions; (b) rate of perceived exertion;
      (c) assessment of mindfulness; (d) other PA participation; (e) participation in psychotherapy
      (i.e., cognitive behavioral therapy); and (f) pregnancy, mental health, and use of
      psychiatric medication (see daily/weekly log). Research personnel will contact participants
      weekly (via email/text) to remind them to participate in yoga/stretching and complete
      daily/weekly logs. Participants will be given a choice of text or email reminders. If a
      participant from the intervention or STC is not meeting their minimal dose requirement and/or
      not tracking their sessions, research personnel will reach out to the participant via
      text/email reminder.

      Control (STC). The investigators will inform the adaptation of the STC group using Consultant
      McAuley's well established, evidence-based control group originally designed for older
      adults. The investigators will modify the prescription for the control group to be more age
      and population specific for the proposed study. All videos will be produced by Udaya.com and
      taught by a trained exercise professional. The STC group will complete a minimum of 60
      mins/wk of stretching/toning exercises to match the LD intervention group. The instructor
      will ask participants to perform each isolated stretch, limbering, or toning exercise for
      20-30 seconds and repeat five times. Participants will be asked to perform slow, controlled,
      and complete movements. Women will be given 4 upper body, 4 lower body, 3 trunk/core, and 1-2
      balance exercises, with appropriate progression over 12 wks. Retention of women in the
      control group is important to the internal validity of the study. As such, the stretch,
      limbering, and toning exercises will be combined in different orders within each video to
      prevent boredom as recommended by Consultant McAuley. An important adaptation for the control
      group is the provision of modifications of each individual exercise. For each exercise, the
      instructor will demonstrate a modified version that is slightly less difficult and a more
      challenging version that adds difficulty for those who have mastered the movement
      capabilities, these modifications will allow the program to be highly adaptable for women
      with a wide range of capabilities.

      The STC videos will have discussion related to form and safety by the instructor (i.e., no
      guidance for movement with breath or mindfulness). Additionally, videos will have students in
      the background following instructor cues and demonstrating variations of exercises. There
      will be no final relaxation pose in the STC videos (i.e., the rest period during which the
      efforts of PA are soothed, the mind is most receptive to stillness, and the cultivation of
      mindfulness culminates). Usernames and passwords for women in the control group will be
      specific to accessing only the STC group videos on Udaya.com.

      Pregnancy during Intervention:

      In the case that a woman becomes pregnant during this study the investigators will ask her to
      complete the Physical Activity Readiness Medical Examination for Pregnancy (PARmed-X for
      Pregnancy), a health-screening tool for participation in prenatal exercise. The PARmed-X for
      pregnancy is completed with their primary care physician to identify any contraindications to
      exercise, and includes 29 questions pertaining to general health status, status of current
      pregnancy, physical activity habits over the last month, and absolute and relative
      contraindications.

      It has been well established that yoga is safe during pregnancy and postpartum and all
      classes prescribed will be suitable for women up to 20-wks gestation (the maximum possible
      based on our study eligibility). At any time during the study, if the participant's medical
      team advise her not to participate in yoga or other exercise, she would be immediately
      withdrawn from the study. Pregnancy status will be tracked throughout the 12-week study
      period via weekly assessment in weekly logs.

      Post-intervention:

      Post-intervention questionnaires will be administered via web-based survey (i.e., Qualtrics)
      at the end of week 12. In addition, follow-up surveys will be administered via web-based
      survey (i.e., Qualtrics) at 20-wks post baseline assessments.

      Qualitative interviews following best practices for conducting interviews will be conducted
      with 15 participants. The qualitative interviews will be used to supplement information
      gained from the satisfaction surveys and to further understand the use of non-pharmacological
      interventions such as yoga in this population. Purposive sampling strategies (i.e., maximum
      variation sampling) will be used to understand individuals' experiences and inform the future
      larger trial. The investigators will specifically select participants from the study
      (approximately 5 from each intervention group, and 5 from control group or until data
      saturation has been reached) that represent those who had high/low compliance (at least 3 of
      5 will be those who had low compliance (i.e., not reaching their prescribed minimal dose of
      yoga) and at least 3 of 5 will be racial/ethnic minorities). Qualitative interviews will be
      administered in the intervention groups at post-intervention (12 wks) and at follow-up (20
      wks) and will last approximately 15-20 minutes.
    
  