
    
      The aim of the present study is to compare the antimicrobial and immediate clinical effect of
      NaOCl 0.5% with the effect of NaOCl 3% in the endodontic treatment of teeth referred to the
      Specialist Clinic of Endodontics, Göteborg, Public dental Health, Västra Götaland. The
      efficiency of the treatment will be evaluated with sampling and cultivation methods and the
      assessment of patients' symptoms with a visual analogue scale.

      The sample size calculation was performed with a type I error of 0.05 and statistical power
      of 80 %. The investigators expected 70 % of the samples to be free from bacteria growth in
      the control group and the investigators considered clinically relevant a difference of 15 %
      between the groups in order to demonstrate significant differences attributable to the
      experimental therapy used. The investigators want our sample size to be two hundred sixty
      four patients, 132 to each group.

      A detailed explanation of the purpose of the study was given. Patients were also informed
      about the confidentiality of the data to be collected and about the voluntary participation.
      Every patient gets assigned a code that indicates which group they belong so the same
      irrigant is used in case of more than one visit.

      Root canal treatment followed the standard principles of the Specialist Clinic of
      Endodontics, Göteborg, Public dental Health, Västra Götaland but the treatments were not
      restricted to a single protocol.

      The recommended minimum or optimal apical size of canal preparation is size 25. All the
      operators are informed to perform the endodontic treatment the way operators normally do. The
      only variation during treatment was the concentration of the sodium hypochlorite solution for
      irrigation of the root canal. One group was irrigated with Sodium Hypochlorite 0.5 % (Dakin's
      solution) and the other group with Sodium Hypochlorite 3 %.

      Operators were free to choose any additional irrigant as clinically perceived necessary. The
      irrigants available at the clinic were 17% ethylene-diamine-tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) and
      iodine-potassium-iodide (IPI) 5% used as a short duration antimicrobial agent as intracanal
      medication for 10 minutes.

      Canal irrigation was carried out using 27 gauge side-cut open end needles (Monoject Luer lock
      syringe) with supplementation by ultrasonic agitation. Calcium hydroxide was the standard
      inter-appointment medicament. After sampling procedures gutta-percha and AH-plus sealer were
      used for root filling.

      The access cavity was filled with Intermediate Restorative Material (IRM) or a permanent
      filling with composite after each appointment and after finished root canal treatment.

      After bacterial sampling of the root canal, the samples were processed at the laboratory as
      outlined by Möller. Anaerobic incubation was done in a semi liquid medium (Hunton medium)
      inoculated under flow of oxygen-free gas. The mediums are checked daily for 14 days or until
      there is signs of microbial growth.

      Fischer's exact test will be used for comparisons between groups regarding growth / no
      growth. For assessments of pain on the VAS t-test and 95% confidence intervals will be used.
      All hypothesis tests will be conducted at the 0.05 level of significance.

      The outcomes will be analysed in term of positive Cultures and post operative pain. This is
      discussed further elsewhere in this application.
    
  