
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Examine the efficacy of an education intervention designed to increase the frequency
           with which health providers ask cancer patients about their use of complimentary and
           alternative medicine (CAM).

      Secondary

        -  Examine the frequency with which health providers ask about CAM use and referral for CAM
           use by health providers.

        -  Evaluate whether personal CAM use among health providers is related to the frequency of
           asking patients about CAM use.

        -  Assess the frequency and type of CAM use among patients diagnosed with cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Stratification is based on the number of health
      providers at each CCOP component site (< 3 health providers per component site vs 3 to 6
      health providers per component site vs 7 to 9 health providers per component site vs 10 or
      more health providers per component site). The CCOP component sites are randomized to 1 of 2
      intervention groups.

        -  Arm I (intervention): Health providers receive educational materials comprising a brief
           video about communicating with and providing guidance to patients regarding
           complimentary and alternative medicine (CAM) and a list of resources they can access to
           obtain information about herbs, CAM modalities, and drug/herb interactions.
           Approximately 2 weeks after the educational intervention, health providers receive a
           follow-up e-mail reminding them to ask patients about CAM use. The e-mail also includes
           a brief update regarding current research findings on CAM modalities and drug/herb
           interactions.

        -  Arm II (wait-list): Health providers are enrolled on a wait-list. After 2 months, the
           educational materials in arm I are made available to the wait-list health providers.

      Health providers in both arms complete questionnaires at baseline and at 2 months to assess
      the effectiveness of the educational intervention, personal CAM use, and level of knowledge
      about CAM and to determine if they are asking patients about CAM use. Patients of the health
      providers also complete questionnaires at the same time points to assess personal CAM use
      before and after cancer diagnosis as well as the level of their interaction with health
      providers regarding CAM use.
    
  