
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the efficacy of high dose cytarabine with mitoxantrone and amifostine
      as induction therapy for patients with previously untreated standard risk acute myelogenous
      leukemia (AML). II. Assess the effects of amifostine on the biology of AML cells in vivo in
      these patients. III. Determine whether there is a relationship between cytokine production
      before and during remission induction therapy and treatment outcome.

      OUTLINE: Prior to treatment, patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. On day -3,
      patients receive idoxuridine IV over 60 minutes followed immediately by a bone marrow
      aspirate and biopsy. Patients then receive amifostine IV over 5-7 minutes on the same day.
      Prior to chemotherapy on day 1, patient receive broxuridine IV over 60 minutes immediately
      followed by bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. Chemotherapy on day 1 consists of amifostine
      followed by cytarabine IV over 3 hours repeated every 12 hours and mitoxantrone IV over 1
      hour immediately after the second infusion of cytarabine. This course is repeated on day 5
      after another bone marrow biopsy and aspirate. Starting on day 6, patients receive amifostine
      3 times a week until day 28 or beyond. Patients who respond to treatment continue on to
      receive three courses of consolidation therapy. Consolidation courses 1 and 3 consist of
      cytarabine continuous IV on days 1-7 and idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, and 3.
      Consolidation course 2 consists of cytarabine IV over 75 minutes repeated every 12 hours for
      4 days. Twenty-four hours after each course of consolidation therapy, patients receive
      isotretinoin orally every day and interferon alfa subcutaneously every other day.
      Isotretinoin and interferon alfa therapy are stopped 4 days prior to day 1 of the next course
      of consolidation therapy. Following recovery from course 3 of consolidation therapy, patients
      continue to receive isotretinoin/interferon alfa until relapse. Patients in complete
      remission after the 3 courses of consolidation therapy receive isotretinoin/interferon alfa
      for 3 years. Patients are followed every 3 months for the first year, then every 6 months for
      the next 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 40-45 patients accrued into this study.
    
  