
    
      This study will consist of a screening visit and two 2-day intervention visits separated by
      approximately 8 weeks.

      At the screening visit, informed consent will be obtained, a standardized form will be used
      to ensure subjects meet inclusion/exclusion criteria, and baseline hemoglobin A1c will be
      obtained. On arrival, two IVs will be placed and they will be randomized to receive NAC or
      saline infusion. Baseline blood samples will be drawn for glucose, epinephrine,
      norepinephrine, cortisol, cysteine and glutathione measurements. Subjects will then be given
      25 mg IV diphenhydramine (Benadryl) followed by a 60 minute infusion of NAC (150 mg) or a
      similar volume of saline between 8 am and 9 am, followed by a four hour infusion of 50 mg of
      NAC. Thirty minutes after the start of the NAC infusion, a hyperinsulinemic (2.0 mu/kg/min)
      hypoglycemic (target = 50 mg/dl) clamp protocol will be started. During the morning study,
      blood samples will be collected every 5 minutes for monitoring of blood glucose levels and
      every 15 minutes for later measurement of serum epinephrine, norepinephrine, cortisol. Plasma
      and red blood cells samples will also be collected every 15 minutes for later measurement of
      NAC, cysteine, glutathione, and GSH/GSSG ratios (redox status). During the final 15 minutes
      of the morning clamp, subjects will be asked to quantitate their symptoms using a
      standardized method (13). At the completion of the morning clamp, glucose will be given to
      return the participant to euglycemia. 2 hours after the end of the morning clamp, a second
      hyperinsulinemic (2.0 mu/kg/min) hypoglycemic (target = 50 mg/dl) clamp protocol will be
      followed over two hours. . The afternoon clamp study will proceed as in the morning except
      that no serum or plasma will be collected except for the monitoring of glucose and collection
      of samples for subsequent measurement of NAC, cysteine, glutathione, and GSH/GSSG ratios.
      After the completion of the afternoon clamps, subjects will be returned to euglycemia and fed
      a meal. They will be discharged home.

      At 7 AM the following morning they will under a single 2 hour hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic
      stepped clamp (75, 65, 55,45 mg/dl targets) during which blood samples will be collected as
      on the morning of day 1. Symptom scores will be collected in the final 15 minutes of each
      step in the clamp.

      At the completion of the study on day 2 of Part 1, they will be scheduled to return for Part
      2 in 8 weeks. This timing is selected to ensure that female participants are studied at the
      same phase of the menstrual cycle. During Part 2 they will receive the treatment not provided
      during Part 1 in a blinded fashion. The rest of the study protocol will be the same as in
      Part 1.
    
  