
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Intestinal transplantation (ITx) offers a potential means of survival for patients with
      intestinal failure who have developed life threatening complications. Approximately 200 ITx
      procedures are performed worldwide per year, with 2200 such procedures having been performed
      in total, two thirds of which have been in children. Overall, patient and graft survival
      rates have improved significantly over the past several years due to innovations in surgical
      techniques, immunosuppression and post-transplant management. One year patient survival rates
      approach 80-90% at experienced centers. Nonetheless, acute cellular rejection (ACR) continues
      to pose major challenges in these patients.

      Currently, the gold standard for diagnosing ACR is histological examination of biopsy samples
      obtained at the time of endoscopy. Limitations include the fact that endoscopy is by
      definition invasive, costly, associated with risks of bleeding, infection, or perforation,
      and potentially inaccurate. ACR can present as a patchy process which may be missed by
      endoscopic surveillance up to 30% of the time. It also presents in a similar fashion to
      infection, leading to a diagnostic dilemma as to the optimal management of the patient. Such
      delays and inaccuracies in the diagnosis and management of ITx recipients have the potential
      to lead to patient and graft loss. New noninvasive techniques to monitor for ACR are clearly
      needed to continue to drive the field of ITx forward.

      Proteomics allows the identification of proteins as possible biomarkers. Protein profiles can
      be easily detected in body fluids, making these protein combinations potentially innovative
      biomarkers useful in diagnosis or disease monitoring. Following protein and metabolite levels
      may prove to be an accurate screening tool for patients suspected of having ACR.

      In this study, we use high-throughput proteomic analysis and candidate immunoassay protein
      detection of ostomy effluents to search in a non-invasive manner for molecular profiles of
      epithelial stress and innate immunity during ACR.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION:

      All patients are managed with tacrolimus-based triple immunosuppression. Our standard
      immunosuppression regimen includes induction with an interleukin-2 receptor antagonist such
      as daclizumab or basiliximab, versus rabbit antithymocyte globulin. Maintenance therapy
      consists of tacrolimus, corticosteroids, and mycophenolate mofetil. Target tacrolimus trough
      levels are 10-15 ng/mL. Sirolimus is used as a rescue agent and as part of a renal sparing
      regimen. ACR is diagnosed by histopathology and treated with high dose steroids. In patients
      with severe ACR, ATG is used as a rescue agent. In highly sensitized patients or patients
      suspected of antibody mediated rejection, a combination of plasmapheresis, Rituximab and IVIG
      is used.

      INTESTINAL SURVEILLANCE:

      Protocol biopsies of the transplanted intestine are obtained once weekly beginning
      postoperative day 7-14 for the first 3-4 weeks, then once every 2 weeks until 8 weeks after
      ITx. Endoscopy and biopsies are also obtained for clinical symptoms indicating abnormal
      allograft function. Multiple targeted biopsies are obtained, and paraffin-embedded sections
      stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) are graded for ACR using standard rejection criteria
      by one of three UCLA gastrointestinal pathologists. Abnormal results prompt further
      endoscopic surveillance as indicated.

      OSTOMY EFFLUENT COLLECTION AND PROTEOMIC EVALUATION:

      Ostomy effluents are collected, immediately placed on ice, and batch processed at the UCLA
      High Throughput Clinical Proteomics mass spectrometry core laboratory. All samples are
      processed and analyzed in triplicate using MALDI mass spectrometry. MALDI-MS spectra are
      converted to text files, and preprocessed using an established protocol. The preprocessed
      MALDI data are then exported from SpecAlign and further analyzed in R.

      ENZYME LINKED IMMUNOSORBENT ASSAY AND IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:

      Human HNP 1-3 is quantified in duplicate processed protein samples by an ELISA kit following
      manufacturer's instructions (Cell Sciences, Canton, MA), using an HNP1-3 standard curve
      constructed for each plate. Protein concentrations are also determined for each test sample
      (BCA, Pierce Thermo Scientific, Rockford, IL), and HNP1-3 levels normalized to total protein
      (pg/mg).

      For IHC, biopsy sections are deparaffinized, blocked for background peroxidase activity and
      goat antibody binding by standard methods, and stained with human anti-HNP 1-3 antibody
      (rabbit, 1:2000) or pre-immuned serum (rabbit, 1:2000) as negative control. The sections are
      further incubated with an anti-Rabbit IgG biotinylated secondary antibody and
      streptavidin-peroxidase conjugated tertiary antibody from the Vectastain Elite ABC kit
      (Vector Laboratories) according to the manufacturer's protocol, and developed by
      diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB) substrate solution (Pierce, Rockford, IL). For IHC
      quantitation, 10 crypts in three different fields on the biopsy slide are evaluated for
      evidence of significant defensin staining. The number of defensin positive crypts are counted
      and averaged.

      LUMINEX:

      An aliquot of processed ostomy effluent is used for Luminex evaluation, with the Bio-Rad
      human cytokine 17-plex assay according to the manufacturer's instructions (Bio-Rad, Hercules,
      CA). Data is acquired on a Bio-Plex 200 system and analyzed with associated software
      (Bio-Rad), and cytokine concentrations are normalized to protein concentration and log
      transformed.
    
  