
    
      The entry portal for Core A is designed so that physicians who contact the CLIA-certified UAB
      Medical Genomics Laboratory (MGL) requesting information about PKHD1 testing and any
      patient/parent/legally authorized representative looking for information online about any of
      the hepato-renal diseases included in this study will be directed to the UAB Hepato/Renal
      Fibrocystic Disease Translational Resource website http://www.arpkdstudies.uab.edu/.

      The Informed Consent for the Clinical Database and Information for the participant will be
      posted on the website (http://www.arpkdstudies.uab.edu/) for review by potential participants
      and follow-up discussions with the PI and/or Research Nurse Coordinator. In addition,
      materials in paper format can be sent to interested potential participants upon request.

      Two key elements will be required for patient enrollment: 1) certification that informed
      consent has been obtained, and 2) participant and physician contact information form
      completed by the participant.

      The UAB release of information form, information for the physician and instructions on how to
      enter data will be posted in the website available to the physician.

      This study does not provide free genetic testing. Clinical genetic testing is available as a
      fee-for-service.The following genetic testing may be offered to participants: exome
      sequencing, whole-genome sequencing, whole-genome mapping (e.g. Bionano technology). We will
      look for single nucleotide variants (SNVs), small deletions and insertions (INDELs) as well
      as large Structural Variants (SVs, deletions, insertions, translocations, inversions). In
      special cases (eg. presenting at an older age, mainly with liver or pancreatic disease)
      contact Dr. Guay-Woodford at lgw@uab.edu.

      High-molecular weight DNA extraction will be performed at CNMC, according to published
      protocols allowing to perform Sanger sequencing, massively parallel/next-generation
      sequencing (exome or whole genome sequencing) and/or whole-genome mapping.

      Once receipt of the requisite items is confirmed, the following actions will proceed:

        1. Each participant will be assigned a unique code identifier in the database and a
           clinician-specific web field will be opened for the participant identifier.

        2. The participant/parents will confirm the name of their clinician to the database and
           notify their physician and/or genetic counselor (clinicians) of their intent to
           participate in this study.

        3. The clinician will access the Physician Link on the website and follow the instructions
           about how to post data to the website. Once this is done, the name of the patient will
           be deleted from the online database and only the unique identifier will be used. Each
           clinician permitted to access this website will be tracked with a login procedure that
           includes a process to verify who is entering the system. Clinical data will be provided
           by the participant's physician through the web-based entry system, coded with a unique
           identifier, and entered into the secure Clinical Database as an initial visit data (F01
           or primary data form) and annual follow up (F11 or follow up form). Data entry will last
           the duration of this study. No names or initials will be collected on these data forms,
           but gender and date of birth (which will be converted to age and only the month and year
           will be kept on file) will be requested. The physician will not receive a monetary
           incentive for entering data.

        4. Blood samples for diagnostic testing (with signed clinical genetic testing consent) will
           be sent to the UAB MGL. The UAB MGL will perform standardized fee for service testing
           for PKHD1 mutations. The clinical result will be reported to the patient's
           physician/genetic counselor. As needed, genetic counseling services can be made
           available through the UAB Department of Genetics (fee for service).

        5. Blood samples for research purposes will come directly to the research lab from
           patients/families signing the study consent and agreeing to have DNA extraction/EBV
           transformation/or both. Adult and children participants need two tsp of blood and
           infants need one tsp of blood.

        6. This study does not provide free genetic testing. Clinical genetic testing is available
           as a fee-for-service. The result of the genetic testing will be entered into the
           Mutational Database if the participant or their representative provides consent to
           participate in the Database.

        7. Our center can be notified directly by a local physician authorized by the patient or
           the patient can contact our center directly to donate hepato/renal fibrocystic disease
           tissue. The research coordinator will contact the possible participant/parent/legally
           authorized representative to discuss the study and their willingness to participate in
           this research. If the study consents are signed, the research coordinator will call the
           center/pathologist, sending the sample and provide them with instructions on how to
           prepare and ship sample. On arrival to Dr. Guay-Woodford's lab, the sample will be
           de-identified and coded with the participant's unique identifier and transported to the
           UAB Tissue Collection and Banking Facility.
    
  