
    
      Currently, the only effective long term treatment for severe obesity is bariatric surgery.2
      Nearly 200,000 procedures are performed each year, with this number increasing rapidly.3
      However, the mechanisms of reduced food intake and weight loss after obesity surgery,
      particularly Rouen-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), are not well understood. This study utilizes
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and measures of appetite-related gut peptide
      levels pre and post bariatric surgery to investigate the neurological and hormonal mechanisms
      involved in initiation and termination of meals.

      The general objective is to better understand the physiological changes resulting in weight
      loss from obesity surgery, particularly Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). The main hypothesis
      is that the differential mechanisms of action in RYGB will alter the signals involved in the
      initiation and termination of meals, reflected by changes in both peptide hormone levels and
      regional brain activity in response to foods. The investigators anticipate that the trigger
      for meal initiation by potent food stimuli will be diminished following RYGB, as indicated by
      reduced brain activation in areas associated with food reward and motor planning, including
      the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). RYGB will be compared to: a. Gastric Banding (GB),
      representing the restrictive component of surgery, which itself enhances fullness, but in the
      absence of any rerouting of the gut, should result in fewer changes in gut peptide levels and
      brain activation; b. Weight Loss (WL) on a formula diet over 3 mo, which represents the
      weight loss component of surgery; and c. No Treatment (NT), a general control, with no
      gastric restriction or weight loss. These group comparisons will help parse the contributions
      of RYGB surgery to weight loss.

      The plan is to study clinically severe obese subjects (S's) pre surgery, and at 3 and 18 mo
      post surgery. The investigators will examine: 1) fMRI brain activation in response to food
      stimuli and 2) appetite-related gut peptide levels before and following a fixed meal prior to
      the fMRI. The findings should reveal potential mechanisms associated with the changes in
      appetite, eating behaviors, and body weight, both during the rapid weight loss phase at 3 mo
      post surgery as well as when weight typically stabilizes at a nadir at 18 mo post surgery.
      The investigators plan to enroll 160 patients: 40 with RYGB, 40 GB, 40 WL, and 40 NT (4-arm
      study). S's will be within the BMI range of 40-50 and matched across groups for BMI, gender
      (3:1, f:m), and BED status.
    
  