
    
      Patients having a clinically planned surgical procedure (biopsy or cytoreduction) for a
      suspected diagnosis of high grade glioma will be approached for participation in this study.
      Tumor tissue obtained from surgery will be used for histological diagnosis and clinical
      molecular profiling, and excess tumor tissue will be collected for potential correlative
      studies. A small sample of blood and CSF for research will also be collected.

      Once a diagnosis of high grade glioma is confirmed, the patient will be allocated to one of
      the study arms. Treatment will be started approximately 7-42 days following surgery once the
      patient has recovered from surgery. Routine clinical evaluations will be performed prior to
      treatment initiation and throughout treatment as clinically indicated. Radiographic brain
      imaging will be performed approximately 21-42 after treatment initiation and then routinely
      for medical management. Tumor response will be assessed according to immunotherapy Response
      Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (iRANO) Working Group criteria.

      Treatment may continue until the patient experiences unacceptable toxicity or clear disease
      progression. The determination of whether to stop treatment due to disease progression will
      be based on the investigator's evaluation of the patient's clinical and radiographic
      condition, taking into consideration the interpretation of localized inflammatory responses
      that can mimic radiographic features of tumor progress. Patients discontinuing treatment will
      have further medical management as directed by their treating physician.

      As part of follow-up, if the patient undergoes a surgery, results of clinical molecular
      profiling will be collected, and excess resected tumor tissue will be collected if available
      along with blood and CSF for correlative studies. A record of any additional anti-cancer
      treatments and survival status will be made every three to six months.
    
  