
    
      Pregnant Women Who Had Only Prenatal Genetic Screening Tests In intervention group, pregnant
      women, who were in 8-11th gestational weeks, before prenatal genetic counseling, answered the
      questions in "Descriptive Features Data Collection Form", "Decisional Conflict Scale", "The
      State-Trait Anxiety Inventory scale", "Information Evaluation Form about Prenatal Screening
      Tests ","Decision Satisfaction Scale", "Attitudes towards the tests Scale". Later, individual
      interviews were made with pregnant women education was given with slide show about prenatal
      diagnosis and screening tests to pregnant women. In addition a training brochure which was
      prepared by the researcher was given to the pregnant women. It took about 20 minutes for the
      data collection forms to be answered and counseling was took about 25 minutes. After
      counseling, pregnant women were interviewed again at 14th week. The pregnant women were asked
      whether they had a screening test and the results were recorded. Then pregnant women were
      answered "Decisional Conflict Scale", "The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory scale", "Information
      Evaluation Form about Prenatal Screening Tests ","Decision Satisfaction Scale", "Attitudes
      towards the tests Scale" again. At the following antenatal visits (16-20th weeks), the
      pregnant women were asked whether they had triple, quadruple or NIPT and the test results
      were recorded in the data collection form. At the end of the 20th week, the data collection
      process of pregnant women who did not have any problems related to fetus and who were
      recommended to continue routine follow-up was terminated. In control group pregnant women
      answered same data collection forms in same weeks, but counseling was not given to this
      group. For this group routine clinical procedure was performed.

      Pregnant Women Who Had Also Prenatal Genetic Diagnostic Tests Prenatal genetic diagnostic
      tests were recommended to pregnant women who had high risk results according to prenatal
      screening test. Pregnant women with high risk and diagnostic test were referred to genetic
      consultation in both intervention and control groups. After genetic consultation, pregnant
      women were answered "Decisional Conflict Scale", "The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory scale",
      "Information Evaluation Form about Prenatal Diagnostic Tests", "Decision Satisfaction Scale",
      "Attitudes towards the tests Scale". Then specific counseling was given to invasive test
      recommended by the doctor. The pregnant woman was asked if she would like to have a
      diagnostic test and if she didn't want to, the reason was recorded in the data collection
      form.

      If the pregnant woman decided to have a diagnostic test, "The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory
      scale" was applied again after the procedure. Then pregnant women were interviewed again
      after about three weeks and their results were evaluated and they answered "Decisional
      Conflict Scale", "Information Evaluation Form about Prenatal Diagnostic Tests", "Decision
      Satisfaction Scale", "Attitudes towards the tests Scale". Their decision about to continue or
      terminate pregnancy was recorded in the data collection form. In control group pregnant women
      answered same data collection forms in same weeks, but counseling was not given to this
      group. For this group routine clinical procedure was performed.
    
  