
    
      Eight participants will be recruited onto the study via the Human Nutrition Unit (HNU)
      Volunteer Database, advertising fliers and social media. Potential participants will be
      invited to IFR for a talk about the study, followed by health screening if they wish to
      participate. Written, informed consent will be taken by a member of the research team prior
      to undertaking any study related procedures.

      Each participant will undergo 2 study days (min.7 days apart) and they will eat 2 types of
      porridge in a random order. Allocation of the order of the porridge meals will be done before
      the participants are recruited onto the study, using an online randomizer. On one occasion
      participants will consume porridge made from milled oats and on the other occasion porridge
      made from flaked oats. Participants will undergo 9 MRI scans of the stomach over a 3h post
      ingestion period, and after each scan a 4 ml blood sample will be collected via an
      intravenous cannula. Feelings of satiety will be assessed using a short VAS questionnaire at
      9 intervals during the study day.

      Study day participants will not be able to eat any food after 10.00pm on the evening prior to
      each study day, but they will be allowed water until they go to bed. Participants will be
      asked to record what they have eaten on the evening prior to study day 1, and they will be
      asked to eat the same foods on the evening before the second study day. Participants must not
      consume any breakfast on the morning of the study day, but they can drink up until 7 am. The
      study day will start at 9 am at the Radiology Department at the Norfolk and Norwich
      University Hospital. After cannulation and blood sampling, initial baseline MRI scans and VAS
      questionnaires, the participants will eat the allocated porridge (264 g) and drink the water
      provided (175 ml). They will then undergo 8 more MRI scans, have blood taken 8 more times and
      complete 8 satiety questionnaires at specific time points.

      After completion of all MRI scans, blood sampling and satiety questionnaires, participants
      will be provided with a 500 ml bottle of water and a packed lunch.
    
  