
    
      Purpose Of exploring the biomechanical effect of knee extension constraint rehabilitation on
      rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Methods: Recruit 60
      patients after ACL reconstruction. Divide them into three groups by random block method: Knee
      extension constraint rehabilitation group (wearing a brace with limitation of knee
      extension), Placebo group (wearing a brace without limitation of knee extension), and Control
      group (no brace is worn). The three groups of patients received the same rehabilitation
      training from 1 to 12 weeks after surgery, starting from week 13 and intervening on the first
      day of each week (wearing braces). Five tests were performed at the end of the 12th, 24th,
      36th, and 48th weeks after surgery. Vicon system and force platform system will be
      synchronized used to test walking, jogging, side-cutting, and jumping; The Isokinetic
      dynamometer system will be used to test muscle strength. Outcome evaluation indicators and
      statistical methods: (1) Mixed design two-way analysis of variances will be used for the
      following indicators: approach run velocity and jump height; knee flexion angle at initial
      foot contact with the ground; knee extension moment at the time of peak impact poster ground
      reaction force, study group will be considered as an independent variable while testing time
      as the variable for repeated measurements. (2) The knee flexion, valgus-varus, and
      internal-external rotation angles, and extension, valgus-varus, and internal-external
      rotation moments of each leg during support phase of each movement will be expressed as
      functions of normalized movement time and leg (involved or uninvolved) using regression
      analysis with dummy variable. A dummy variable will be used to represent involved and
      uninvolved legs. A forward elimination procedure will be used to determine the best
      regression equations. The regression procedure will be stopped when the contributions of
      powers of n+1 and n+2 have no significant contribution to the overall regression. The
      contribution of the dummy variable in the regression will be an indication of asymmetry of
      the movements of involved and uninvolved legs. The effect of study group on movement
      asymmetry will be determined by comparing the contribution of dummy variables to the overall
      regression among study groups using a one-way ANOVA. The effects of study group and testing
      time on the ACL injury risk index will be determined for each knee in each movement using
      two-way ANOVA with mixed model. Study group will be considered as an independent variable
      while testing time as a repeated measure variable.
    
  