
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the 6-month progression status of older patients with unresectable or
           metastatic non-small cell lung cancer treated with gefitinib alone or with carboplatin
           and paclitaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether serum-secreted or soluble epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
           concentrations predict response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the presence of social support for these patients with toxicity and efficacy
           of these regimens.

        -  Determine whether social support for these patients differs according to gender.

        -  Determine the reasons an oncologist would choose a chemotherapy vs a nonchemotherapy
           regimen for these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  Correlate EGFR signaling pathway markers, RNA expression profile, gene polymorphisms of
           prespecified germline and tumor genes, and plasma and urine proteomic patterns with
           response rate and time to progression of patients receiving treatment in group I.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment groups as determined by their treating physician.

        -  Group I: Patients receive oral gefitinib on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Group II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
           on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of chemotherapy and in
           the absence of disease progression, patients receive oral gefitinib as in group I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and after the completion of course 2.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 107 patients (51 for group I and 56 for group II) will be
      accrued for this study within 1.7 years.
    
  