
    
      Patients eligible for enrollment include:

        -  Age 18-65 years

        -  Symptomatic IC for at least six months

        -  Urinary frequency of at least eleven voids in a 24 hour period

        -  A self-rated global discomfort score of 4 or greater on a 0-10 scale

      Patients may not be enrolled who have a history of chronic bladder disease or pelvic disease
      including cancer, calculi, infection or complications of nervous system disease or diabetes.
      They must be on no blood thinning agents or have had any recent medication changes or bladder
      procedures.

      After screening physical examination and history-taking, patients will be asked to fill out
      standard symptom questionnaires. They will be given a bladder diary to fill out for the 24
      hours prior to their first acupuncture treatment which will be scheduled within a week.

      Patients will be asked to return from once- to twice-weekly for a total of twelve treatments.
      Patients will complete a bladder diary before each treatment and a questionnaire form before
      every other visit. The same questionnaire will be used at the exit interview after the last
      treatment, and a final time four weeks after the last treatment. This is because we are
      interested in the duration of potential benefit from acupuncture treatment.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. All acupuncture will be performed
      through plastic shields so that the patient does not know which group he or she has been
      assigned to. In the first type of acupuncture, retractable needles are used such that the
      patient feels a pin sensation but there is no penetration of the epidermis. In the second
      type, non-retractable needles penetrate the acupuncture points into deeper tissue. It is not
      known whether deeper penetration is required for acupuncture to work, or if acupuncture is of
      benefit at all for this condition.
    
  