
    
      This is a randomized, open-label clinical trial of Rotarix and trivalent VP8 subunit vaccine
      given alone or in combined schedules to 720 infants in Zambia at 6, 10 and 14 weeks followed
      by challenge at 18 weeks used to assess mucosal immunity.

      Potential participants will be identified through antenatal and child health monitoring
      clinics in selected facilities in Lusaka Zambia. Interested parents will be invited to the
      clinical research site for informed consent procedures and assessment of eligibility.
      Children meeting the eligibility criteria with written informed consent for participation
      will be randomized to one of the four available study arms using simple randomization in
      block sizes of 8. Blood, stool, and saliva samples will be collected prior to completing
      vaccination according to randomization arm. All parents/guardians will be provided with post
      immunisation diary cards to document any reactions following vaccination. Trained study staff
      will contact parents and guardians of enrolled participants weekly to enquire on the child's
      health and assist with documentation of solicited reactions following vaccinations.

      Enrolled children will be followed up for at least five months following enrollment. Follow
      up vaccinations will be provided each month until all children have completed all assigned
      study vaccinations. Upon completion of study vaccination, participants will be challenged
      with oral rotavirus vaccine, Rotarix TM to assess mucosal immunity.

      Primary outcome:

      The primary objective of the study will be to detect a reduction in the proportion of
      children shedding vaccine rotavirus in stool at any timepoint 5-9 days after challenge, among
      children immunized with P2-VP8 subunit vaccine alone or in combination with Rotarix, compared
      with infants receiving Rotarix alone. The primary outcomes will be prevalence of rotavirus
      (Rotarix) shedding at any timepoint in samples collected 5,7 and 9 days after challenge.

      Secondary outcomes:

      i.) Seroconversion following vaccination: Detection of an increase in seroconversion in
      either of the combined vaccination arms compared with Rotarix alone.

      ii.) Immune boosting. We will compare the number of gut-homing (alpha 4 beta 7+)
      Immunoglobulin A (IgA) and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) rotavirus VP8-specific Antibody secreting
      cells (ASCs) 7 days after the third clinic visit in 50 infants from each study arm (i.e.
      after the first VP8 vaccine booster dose, after the third VP8 vaccine dose (alone or in
      combination with Rotarix), or after no vaccine (control) in the Rotarix only arm).
    
  