
    
      All patients will be subjected to the following parameters:

        1. Thorough history taking and full clinical examination.

        2. Chest X-ray (postro-anterior and lateral views) before and after the procedure.

        3. Recent Computed Tomography (CT chest) with contrast.

        4. Laboratory studies:

             -  Complete liver functions.

             -  Blood urea and serum creatinine.

             -  Complete blood picture (including platelet count).

             -  Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR).

             -  Fasting and postprandial blood sugar.

        5. Preoperative evaluation: Pulmonary function tests (PFT), Electrocardiogram (ECG),
           arterial blood gases (ABG) and coagulation profile (including bleeding & clotting times,
           prothrombin time& activity and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)) and oral
           anticoagulants should be stopped before the procedure for at least 48 hours.

        6. Color doppler ultrasound in suspected vascular lesions.

        7. Clinical and radiological follow up of patients over 1 week after the procedure to
           detect the occurrence of any complications.

        8. The biopsy samples will be examined histopathologically. EBUS-guided TBNA examinations
           will be performed in all cases at the pulmonary department of Tanta University
           Educational Hospital as an outpatient procedure in a dedicated bronchoscopy suit with
           Pantex EBUS probe and Hitachi ultrasound a 7.5 MHz, BF-UC160F (Olympus Optical Co.,
           Tokyo, Japan, approved by FDA) convex probe bronchoscope and EU C2000 processor
           (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) by oral route and in the supine position under local anesthesia
           with lidocaine and conscious sedation with intravenous midazolam.

      Lymph nodes will be identified according to the Mountain's regional lymph node classification
      system (5). The lymph node stations of 2, 4, 7, 10 and 11 will be evaluated systematically.
      After the appearance of target lymph nodes, the diameter, shape, edge definition, internal
      echo distribution, and location of the lymph nodes will be recorded in conventional B mode by
      ultrasound.

      Elastography will be performed on all lymph nodes that will be candidates for EBUS TBNA. The
      scan range will include the entire lymph node and the surrounding normal tissue.
      Elastographic and B mode images will be simultaneously displayed side by side on the monitor.
      Elastographic patterns will be described according to the dominant colors and their
      distribution within the target lymph node. The strain ratio can be only measured when good
      contact and appropriate compression of the transducer will be achieved, as indicated by the
      elastography image on the ultrasound processor. The largest possible area of the node will be
      outlined from the superimposed elastography image; the same procedure will be performed on a
      similar-sized area that is surrounded by apparently normal tissue. The ultrasound processor
      measured the strain of each area as a quantitative figure, and the strain ratio between the
      two areas will be calculated. The strain ratio will be recorded a minimum of 3 times prior to
      EBUS-TBNA. The means of these recordings will also be calculated. (4) After elastography,
      EBUS TBNA will be performed with a Cook 22 gauge needle (c976006, Cook Ireland Limited
      Liability Company, Ireland). The number of passes per patient will be recorded. N3 nodes will
      be sampled first and then N2 nodes to avoid contamination in lung cancer patients.
      Histological and cytological specimens will be collected and sent to the laboratory for
      subsequent analysis by pathologist who will be blinded to the elastography values.

      Aspiration specimen will be considered "insufficient" if there will not be an adequate number
      of lymphocytes on the smear. A definitive diagnosis of malignancy from the EBUS TBNA
      specimens will be considered a positive result. No clear evidence of malignancy or inadequate
      specimen by EBUS TBNA will be deemed a negative result.

      For the patients whose results are negative for malignancy, more invasive procedures such as
      mediastinoscopy will be done to confirm the diagnosis or radiologic follow-up on the outcome
      of the LNs for at least 6 months. On follow-up, LNs that persisted in size, diminished, or
      resolved will be considered benign. A diagnosis of tuberculosis or sarcoidosis will be made
      based on cytopathology that showed the presence of caseating or noncaseating granuloma, in
      addition to clinical, radiological, and microbiological findings.
    
  