
    
      This study will evaluate the impact InheRET™, an online family history gathering and risk
      assessment reporting tool, has on facilitating National Comprehensive Cancer Network(NCCN)
      guideline compliant referrals for cancer genetic counseling/genetic evaluation by decreasing
      and/or removing the barriers of 1) time-consuming in-clinic 3-generation family history
      collection, and 2) interpretation of the family and personal history in light of current NCCN
      guidelines.

      This is a prospective study with a pre/post intervention analysis. The prior 6-months'
      genetic counseling referrals to Michigan Medicine will be collected for each site to serve as
      baseline data and compared to the intervention data to measure the difference made by InheRET
      utilization. Primary care sites are selected to offer the broadest range of patient
      populations to ensure the InheRET tool works well in diverse groups accessing varied clinical
      settings. The Cancer Genetics and MM Breast and Ovarian Cancer Risk Evaluation Clinics will
      allow us to measure the appropriateness of referrals and the impact of InheRET on genetic
      counseling workflows as patients from the primary care sites are referred for counseling from
      throughout the tri-state catchment areas and beyond. Similarly, investigators will review
      electronic health records for appropriateness of referrals to other counseling clinics at
      Michigan Medicine.

      This will be accomplished by implementing InheRET in a variety of clinical settings to
      measure its acceptance by providers and patients as well as any changes made in referral
      patterns as a result of its use, compared to patterns of referral before it is implemented.
      Patients completing the InheRET online tool form will be followed longitudinally by surveys
      to discover their risk management actions (i.e. genetic counseling appointment, genetic
      testing, screenings, prophylaxis) and the reasons for or against undertaking such actions.
      Providers will also be surveyed to determine the impact InheRET has made to their workflow,
      the acceptability of this tool by their practice, and the usefulness of InheRET's features to
      accomplish its goals. This study has a goal enrollment of 2109 patients in Phase I (already
      enrolled) and at least 1023 patient subjects in Phase II (anticipated) to use the InheRET
      program for the purpose of this study and will also enroll six to twelve (6-12) physicians to
      obtain reflection on experience using InheRET for the purpose of this study.
    
  