
    
      This will be a historical prospective comparative effectiveness clinical trial where the
      investigators plan to leverage their experience in extracting data from the EMR as well as
      creating robust CDS pathways in order to create and implement a pathway to promote use of
      best respiratory care in patients receiving general anesthesia who are at increased risk for
      postoperative respiratory dysfunction. The overall study will consist of two parts:

        1. Retrospective data analysis: The investigators will utilize the Perioperative Data
           Warehouse, a custom-built data warehouse, to study the effect of the introduction of
           sugammadex, a direct reversal agent for rocuronium, into clinical practice on time to
           "fitness for discharge" from the recovery room, as noted by the time the
           anesthesiologist places the discharge order, before and after intervention and
           postoperative respiratory dysfunction (as defined as duration of oxygen saturation below
           90% in the PACU).

        2. Creation and implementation of a pathway to prevent postoperative respiratory
           dysfunction: The investigators will design and implement a perioperative decision
           support system which will identify high-risk patients and provide best practice
           recommendations via electronic clinical decision support reminders.

      Creation and implementation of a pathway to prevent postoperative respiratory dysfunction:

      In order to improve outcomes for high-risk patients who receive general anesthesia and
      paralysis the investigators will design and implement a perioperative decision support system
      which will identify high-risk patients and provide best practice recommendations via
      electronic clinical decision support reminders. While the exact parameters of the pathway
      will be designed based upon feedback from a group of quality leaders in the department, in
      general the pathway will function as follows:

      When the anesthesiologist completes the preoperative evaluation for a patient who is flagged
      as having either respiratory disease or OSA and will receive general anesthesia, the
      anesthesiologist will receive an alert reminding them of the best practice guidelines for
      pulmonary management in high-risk patients. As part of the study roll-out the investigators
      will present these guidelines with their quality committee, but anticipate that they will
      suggest 1) use of sugammadex to reverse neuromuscular blockade if rocuronium was used 2) use
      of objective train of four monitoring throughout the case and to confirm reversal 3) use of a
      tidal volume of 6-8 cc/kg 4) use of at least 5 cmH2O of PEEP.

      The investigators anticipate running the prospective portion of the study for a one year data
      collection period. Specifically, they will allow a one month "wash out" period for pathway go
      live, followed by one year of data collection during which the pathway is live.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Pathway Design

      The design of the pathway will undergo a well-established process that is designed to ensure
      buy-in and support from a large variety of providers within the Department of Anesthesiology
      and Perioperative Medicine at UCLA. The investigators will create a core group of individuals
      who represent key stakeholders in quality, informatics, and clinical decision making
      throughout our department. This group will be in charge of reviewing the existing literature
      and creating the pathway guidelines and associated decision support. The decision support
      will consist of preoperative alerts for high risk patients, intraoperative reminders for
      events such as ventilator settings and reversal as well as postoperative feedback on
      performance of identified best practices and outcomes. This pathway will include the
      recommendation of the use of sugammadex to reverse neuromuscular blockade and use of
      objective train of four (TOF) monitoring in high-risk individuals.

      This core group will then present the recommended pathway for approval to our quarterly
      Quality Council and then broader Faculty Meetings for approval. The investigators estimate
      that the total time for pathway design and creation will be approximately 6 months.

      Pathway Implementation

      After approval, the investigators will work with the EMR build team in order to ensure the
      necessary modification to the EMR. After the modifications are complete, the investigators
      will establish a "go-live" date. After an initial period during which the investigators will
      accommodate feedback and ensure that the modifications were made successfully, no further
      modifications to the respiratory pathway will be made. The investigators plan to keep this
      pathway in place for at least one year (the study period).

      Data Collection and Analysis

      As noted above, the team has the ability to automatically collect the data from the EMR for
      analysis purposes. After the one year implementation period investigators will extract the
      data elements noted above for the study period as well as an equivalent period prior to
      pathway implementation. The data will be analyzed for the overall application of best
      practices before and after as well as a change in primary and secondary outcomes.
    
  