
    
      The loss of arm and hand function after cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) limits independence
      and increases the cost of care. As a result, Veterans with tetraplegia prioritize restoration
      of hand and arm function over all other rehabilitation goals. Similar to SCI, stroke of
      supraspinal areas involved in motor control results in acute movement deficits in more than
      85% of survivors. Despite advances in treatment and rehabilitation, 50% of stroke survivors
      have persistent hand impairment. The loss of hand function and dexterity limits the ability
      to perform many activities of daily living, and thus limits independence. Since motor
      deficits are often permanent after SCI and stroke, new strategies are needed to restore
      dexterous hand function.

      Advances in functional imaging have enabled the measurement of finger-related activation
      patterns in somatosensory cortex, but little is known about how these representational
      patterns are impacted when hand function is lost. Prior studies of gross movements have
      reported reorganization of cortical activity after injury. The investigators aim to improve
      dexterous hand function by increasing our understanding of finger-related cortical
      reorganization after lesions to the spinal or supraspinal structures. This understanding
      could allow discrimination between adaptive and maladaptive patterns underlying hand function
      and guide restorative therapies. Additionally, imaging biomarkers of injury often track with
      functional recovery.

      The aim is to improve dexterous hand function by increasing our understanding of
      finger-related cortical reorganization after lesions to the spinal or supraspinal structures.
      This understanding could allow discrimination between adaptive and maladaptive patterns
      underlying hand function and guide restorative therapies. Additionally, imaging biomarkers of
      injury often track with functional recovery.
    
  