
    
      This study's population includes patients with severe obesity (BMI >35kg/m2 or >32.5. kg/m2
      if patient of South Asian, Caribbean or Black ethnicity) and non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease (NAFLD) who are eligible for bariatric/metabolic surgery and are on the waiting list
      for either Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) or sleeve gastrectomy (SG) at King's College
      Hospital. Patients who meet study criteria will be assigned to the study groups as described
      below:

        1. Surgery Group: Fourteen patients who meet study criteria will be assigned to the study
           group and will undergo surgery; 7 RYGB and 7 SG, as planned for their standard care.

        2. Lifestyle Intervention Group: Fourteen patients matched to the surgery group for age,
           gender, BMI, diabetes status, and NAFLD score will undergo additional lifestyle
           interventions, dietary counselling (either a meal replacement diet or a low calorie
           diet) by a dietician aimed at inducing at least a 5-7% weight reduction, prior to their
           surgery (while on the waiting list for surgery).

      Each participant in both the surgery and lifestyle intervention group will then attend the
      baseline visit.

      At the baseline visit the participant will undergo a metabolic lab panel from bloods already
      provided to the clinic. This visit will also involve the clinical team performing an
      ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the liver. The fine needle aspiration will
      involve inserting a small needle through the skin to take a small sample of cells from the
      liver. It will be carried out in the Institute of Liver Studies at King's College Hospital.
      The clinical research team will also access the participants medical record to collect data
      from your medical history including weight, height, body mass index (BMI) and previous
      FibroScan®. Additionally, a saliva swab, urine and stool sample will be collected.

      A subgroup of patients (6 participants in the Lifestyle Intervention Group, 6 undergoing
      RYGB, 6 undergoing SG) will undergo a mixed meal test (MMT) to investigate changes in
      meal-response of circulating cardiometabolic markers, bile acids and gut hormone as well as
      calculated insulin sensitivity/secretion. The surgery group patients will undergo surgery as
      per standard practice and will be reviewed in the bariatric clinic 4-6 weeks' post surgery-
      this will be at 5-7% weight loss (WL). At the 5-7% WL visit the patient will undergo a
      metabolic lab panel, a liver FNA, will have their weight and height recorded and BMI
      calculated. A new FibroScan will be performed.

      Additionally, a saliva swab, urine and stool sample will be collected. The 12 patients ( 6
      RYGB, 6 SG) in the surgery group who were included in the previous MMT will undergo a second
      MMT to investigate the change in meal-response of circulating cardio-metabolic markers, bile
      acids, gut hormones, insulin sensitivity/secretion post-surgery.

      The lifestyle intervention group participants will attend a one-to-one dietary consultation
      with a registered dietician to select a diet plan: either a low-calorie diet or meal
      replacement diet to induce 5-7% WL. Information booklets that will aid dieting will be
      provided to the participant. The participant will then be expected to follow the dietary
      advice in order to achieve a 5-7% WL. The clinical research team will provide additional
      phone call consultations at 2-, 4-, 8-, 12-, 14-, 16-, 18-, 20-, 22-, 24-weeks post-lifestyle
      intervention to assess weight change, diet adherence and motivation. Once the participant has
      a 5-7% WL they will attend the bariatric clinic for their 5-7% WL visit. At the 5-7% WL visit
      the patient will undergo a metabolic lab panel, a liver FNA, will have their weight and
      height recorded and BMI calculated. A new FibroScan will be performed. Additionally, a saliva
      swab, urine and stool sample will be collected. The 6 patients in the lifestyle intervention
      group who were included in the previous MMT will undergo a second MMT to investigate the
      change in meal-response of circulating cardio-metabolic markers, bile acids, gut hormones,
      insulin sensitivity/secretion post-lifestyle intervention.

      The outcome measures above will be measured at two time-points; baseline and after 5-7%
      weight loss in both groups. The study design allows to control for weight loss (through an
      equivalent weight loss of 5-7% between the two groups) and to understand the effects
      bariatric/metabolic surgery versus lifestyle intervention (diet and exercise), by mechanisms
      independent of weight-loss, on markers of NASH and cardiovascular risk, therefore allowing to
      identify weight-independent effects of bariatric/metabolic surgery, if they exist. Based on
      published data it is predicted that it will take 3-6 months for patients to achieve 5-7%
      weight loss (WL) from the lifestyle intervention used in this study and 4-6 weeks after
      surgery.

      Adipose and liver tissue from intraoperative biopsies and gastric and intestinal tissue from
      surgical waste will be collected and stored for future ethically approved research.
    
  