
    
      Drug resistant organisms and bacterial biofilm pose an increasing threat to the health of
      millions of individuals world-wide. These organisms are being identified with an alarming
      prevalence among persons with chronic wounds. The presence of necrotic tissue has been
      associated with the deterioration of open wounds and serves as a breeding ground and nutrient
      source for bacteria. The removal of necrotic tissue is widely accepted as required for
      optimal wound healing.

      The primary purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of larval debridement therapy
      (LDT) with bagged, sterilized, live, medicinal blow fly (Lucilia sericata) larvae (or "
      BioBags") versus bedside sharp debridement in removing harmful bacteria, biofilm and necrotic
      tissue from chronic wounds to promote wound healing. Characteristics associated with chronic
      wound environments will be evaluated through analysis of samples of tissue taken from wound
      beds before and after both types of debridement. One hundred and forty patients ≥ 21 years of
      age (and their caregivers and wound providers)with an open, full thickness wound which is
      healing by secondary intention (of greater than 8 weeks duration and requires debridement)
      will be invited to participate. This recruitment number accounts for estimated 10% attrition
      rate, so final sample number is anticipated to be 296 or 128 Veteran subjects (64 in each
      arm) and 128 caregivers, and 6 providers (and total of 34 subjects which may be lost to
      follow up). Samples of wound bed tissue and slough tissue (if present) will be collected on
      Days 0, 4 and 8 or prior to and after each larval debridement intervention or sharp
      debridement (control). Photos will be taken of the wound bed on Days 0, 4 and 8 or just prior
      to and after each debridement method. A randomized sampling procedure will place individuals
      into one of two groups: The intervention group will receive larval debridement therapy once
      every 4 days for 2 applications (with saline moistened gauze as cover dressing changed daily)
      and the control group will receive sharp debridement therapy every 7 days for 2 debridements
      (with wound gel dressing changed daily).
    
  