
    
      STUDY PROCEDURES

        1. Screening and Recruitment - A list of potential CHCs will be compiled by province-level
           officials, and those meeting eligibility criteria will be invited to take part. CHCs
           will be randomly allocated to intervention or routine care arms using a
           computer-generated random allocation procedure.

           If baseline variability in antibiotic prescribing practices is identified from reviewing
           retrospective routine records, high and low prescription centres will be stratified.

           In the intervention CHCs, patients with ARIs will be provided leaflets with information
           about CRP testing, antibiotics and AMR. Healthcare workers will then decide whether to
           use a CRP test as part of routine care of patients with ARI. Patients' autonomy will be
           respected and as with any medical procedure this test can be declined. In the control
           CHCs patients will be provided with an information leaflet regarding the need for
           rational use of antibiotics in ARIs but with no mention of CRP testing.

        2. Clinical assessment - All patients will have a medical history taken and will be
           examined as per normal practice. In the control arm, local guidelines and WHO IMCI
           recommendations will guide treatment. In the intervention arm, doctors can choose to use
           CRP test results in addition to existing guidelines.

        3. General training and education - Healthcare worker training - Before the study sites
           (CHCs) are randomized, an overview of the study will be presented to all local
           healthcare workers and provide education about the role of antibiotics, antimicrobial
           resistance and identification of clinical signs of severity as well as good clinical
           practice (GCP) for research.

           Patient education - Educational materials will be developed for patients and care-givers
           regarding antibiotic use and AMR. These will be available to patients presenting with
           ARIs in both arms, with additional information regarding the CRP tests added to the
           intervention group leaflets.

        4. Intervention - CRP test - The ACTIM CRP Rapid Test (Medix, Biochemica) will be made
           available to the healthcare workers at the CHCs for use in patients in the target
           population.

           Printed guidance will be issued for the performance and interpretation of the CRP test
           results in terms of antibiotic guided treatment. The treating healthcare worker will
           decide based on their clinical evaluation whether or not to comply with this guideline.
           This guidance will also be discussed during the training sessions.

           As the purpose of the study is to establish whether antibiotic prescription rates can be
           reduced by using CRP POC test results, the healthcare workers are recommended to use the
           CRP tests in all patients meeting the target population. The CRP cut-offs below are
           recommended in the absence of warning signs of severity:

           CRP level < 10 mg/L: no antibiotics are recommended CRP level from 10mg/L to 40 mg/L:
           antibiotics are unlikely to be needed but should be considered in cases of high clinical
           concern CRP level > 40 mg/L: antibiotics are recommended. Based on the previous clinical
           trial of CRP testing in ARI in Vietnam in similar CHCs, it's anticipated approximately
           75% of patients to have CRP levels below 10mg/L, 20% between 10-40mg/L and 5% above 40
           mg/L6.

           Healthcare worker training - Additional training will be provided to healthcare workers
           in the intervention arm. Findings from previous CRP studies have been used to inform the
           training and guidance for the healthcare workers.

           Face-to-face training will be provided on how the test could be used to inform their
           prescribing behaviour and a practical session on CRP testing. Content will include which
           patients should be offered CRP tests; CRP cut-off values; safety nets and caution in
           result interpretation (including danger signs from IMCI13 and IMAI14 guidelines and
           patients with co-morbidities). Healthcare workers will be advised that the CRP cut offs
           are guidelines and that antibiotics can be prescribed or withheld according to their
           clinical judgement. If the healthcare worker feels the patient requires referral to a
           higher level facility this should be done without delay and that the CRP tests should
           not be used in these cases. The training will be provided by the study team in the local
           language.

           The CHCs and healthcare workers will be given a telephone number to contact should any
           queries arise during the study. Laminated posters and desk reminders with the CRP
           cut-off values will be given to the intervention sites.In addition to general
           information about rational antibiotic use contained in the patient leaflet, patients in
           the intervention arm will have an extra section explaining the role of CRP testing to
           guide antibiotic prescriptions.

           Patient education - Patients with ARIs in all CHCs will be provided with an information
           leaflet regarding rational use of antibiotics in ARI and the implications of overuse of
           antibiotics for the development of AMR. An additional section for the intervention arm
           will explain the role of CRP testing to guide antibiotic prescriptions.

        5. Clinical/laboratory/other procedures - CRP tests will be available for healthcare
           workers to use in ARI patients consulting at intervention CHCs. If patient agree to take
           the test, a finger prick blood sample will be taken by the CHC staff and placed on a
           semi-quantitative lateral flow CRP test-kit (Actim® CRP, Medix Biochemica, Finland).
           Results will be available within 5-10 minutes. Other than the finger prick sample for
           the CRP test no samples will be taken or stored. CRP test kits and other consumables
           will be re-stocked on a monthly basis provided and checked to confirm they are properly
           used for study the study purposes only.

        6. Withdrawal of participants from the study - Healthcare workers will be free to refrain
           from using the tests and they are not obliged to follow the guidelines in their
           antibiotic prescribing. Healthcare workers will also be free to decline the interviews
           on the usability and acceptability of the tests. Patients' autonomy will be respected
           and they will be free to decline the CRP test.

        7. Minimization of Error and Bias - To reduce bias within healthcare providers, cluster
           randomisation will be used so that the same doctors will not see patients in both the
           intervention and control groups. The study will be conducted for 1 year to allow for
           seasonal variation. To measure outcomes, electronic patient record data captured
           routinely in health station log books will be used. This information is a requirement
           for national health insurance reimbursements, and will be captured in the same way in
           each arm. Health-workers in both arms will receive data quality training at the start of
           the study period.

        8. Serious adverse events monitoring - As the research poses no more than minimal risks to
           participants, a data and safety monitory board (DSMB) will not be required. Based on
           previous studies it's anticipated that no serious adverse events associated with the CRP
           tests and patients will not be followed up. However, data on admissions for ARI at
           hospitals serving this catchment population will be retrospectively requested. Health
           insurance numbers will be used to link with primary healthcare records, in order to
           identify any study patients who were subsequently hospitalised. This will be done at the
           end of the study.
    
  