
    
      This is a single center 4-arm randomized pilot study to assess if the rate of completion of
      Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) is increased by the addition of financial incentives.
      Potentially eligible subjects will be identified via a data abstraction by Penn Data Store.
      We will conduct Electronic Medical Record (EMR) reviews on randomly select patients from the
      data abstraction using PennChart to confirm eligibility until 1,080 patients are identified.
      We will then randomize these 1,080 patients to one of four arms during the intervention
      phase.

        -  Arm 1: mailed FIT kit (usual care)

        -  Arm 2: mailed FIT kit + a gift card included in mailing (unconditional fixed incentive)

        -  Arm 3: mailed FIT kit + guarantee of receiving a gift card if kit is returned within two
           months (conditional fixed incentive)

        -  Arm 4: mailed FIT kit + entry in a 1/10 chance lottery to receive a gift card if kit is
           returned within two months (conditional lottery incentive) All 1,080 subjects will
           receive the mailed FIT kit. Subjects whose FIT results are not recorded in PennChart
           will receive a follow-up phone call via Interactive Voice Response (IVR) three weeks
           after the kit was mailed to the subject. Subjects whose FIT results are not recorded in
           PennChart will receive a follow-up mailed reminder six weeks after the kit was mailed to
           the subject. Subjects will receive follow-up regardless of the arm to which they are
           randomized.

      A random sub-sample of 200 subjects will be called at least twelve weeks after the kit was
      mailed to the subject to complete a questionnaire. Verbal consent will be obtained from this
      sub-sample. This phone call will occur after the intervention and follow-up phases are
      completed. Analysis will occur after the sub-sample questionnaire phase is completed.
    
  