
    
      Economic evaluation The total economic benefit of the intervention was calculated as the sum
      of the cost savings and the cost avoidance associated with the intervention.

      Cost savings Cost savings based on the intervention were the reduced cost of therapy
      associated with treatment changes due to the intervention. Cost savings were therefore
      calculated as (the reduced cost of therapy in the intervention arm) minus (the reduced cost
      of therapy in the control arm).

      Cost avoidance Cost avoidance was the cost avoided by eliminating the occurrence of ADEs as a
      consequence of the pharmacist interventions.

        -  Based on the method of Nesbit et al., utilizing an expert panel of four specialist
           clinical pharmacists, the likelihood of an ADE in the absence of the intervention was
           set. The intervention with the potential to prevent an ADE was assessed for cost
           avoidance.

        -  The cost of an ADE was calculated on the assumption that an ADE in an outpatient will
           lead to a single admission to an internal medicine ward via an emergency department
           visit.

        -  For each intervention with the potential to prevent an ADE, cost avoidance was
           calculated by multiplying the probability of an ADE in the absence of the intervention
           (calculated via the Nesbit method) by the average cost of an ADE. The overall cost
           avoidance was the sum of avoided cost with all interventions for TRPs.

      Cost-benefit analysis The net benefit was calculated as (cost saving) + (cost avoidance). It
      was assumed that no intervention would increase the probability of a preventable ADE.

        -  Calculating monthly cost savings and avoidance was based on a capacity on the part of
           the pharmacist to perform three HMMRs in a day, for an underestimated average of 21
           working days a month, summing to a total of 63 patients per month. The need for a
           monthly outcome cost stems from the fact that outpatient pharmacists are paid monthly in
           Jordan. The assumption of three HMMRs per day is based on the expectation that a single
           home visit will last a maximum of 1 hour, as discussed earlier, and that up to 2 to 3
           hours are needed to identify TRPs, write the physician letter, contact the physician,
           and implement the recommendations.

        -  The cost of the intervention was calculated as (the salary of a regular outpatient
           pharmacist) + (any increased cost of therapy in the intervention arm, measured as -ve
           cost saving). Here, the increased cost of therapy with intervention is referred to as
           '-ve cost saving' in contrast to +ve cost saving, which indicates the reduction in the
           cost of therapy because of treatment changes in the intervention group, as discussed
           above.

        -  The benefit-to-cost ratio was the (sum of cost savings and cost avoidance) divided by
           (cost of the intervention). The net benefit of the intervention was the (sum of cost
           savings and cost avoidance) minus (cost of the intervention).

      Only direct medical costs were considered in calculations, and all costs were adjusted based
      on the Jordanian consumer price index to the financial year 2017/18.
    
  