
    
      PICC infection is of particular concern in the NICU because of the need for long term
      intravenous access in many very-low and the majority of extremely-low birthweight infants,
      the very populations at highest risk for infection in the first place. Central lines are a
      mainstay of treatment in these babies because of the need for extended parenteral nutrition,
      which itself has been associated with blood stream infection, not to mention the increased
      use of anti-infectives, added hospitalization costs, longer length of stay, and negative
      impact upon nutrition delivery when infectious complications occur.

      Existing infection control practices differ by unit and region, and include hand washing,
      sterile precautions at insertion and dressing changes, elimination of mandatory scheduled
      dressing changes, minimizing port access to the extent permitted by clinical care,
      prophylactic antibiotics, and closed medication systems. Success is variable: there is no
      standard highly effective, safe approach to infection control, and central line infection
      remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the NICU.

      A standard practice to maintain central line patency when it is not in use is to lock it with
      a syringe containing a heparinized solution. Locks containing antibiotics have been used to
      prevent infection of central lines and to treat already-infected lines, but this approach
      confers risk of development of organisms resistant to treatment. External
      chlorhexidine-impregnated dressings have been used but can harm premature skin and do not
      achieve sterilization of the lumen or hub, where most infections originate.

      Medical grade ethyl alcohol (ethanol) is a widely used compound with uses as a disinfectant,
      preservative, antidote to ingested ethylene glycol (anti-freeze), and anti-microbial. The FDA
      lists no specific approval or indication though it's use is widely recognized. Multiple
      studies have been conducted in sheep, children and adults, using 0.5-2 mL 70% ethanol locks
      to successfully prevent and/or treat catheter related infection without development of
      resistant organisms, adverse side effects to patients, or disruptions in catheter integrity.
      Though the ethanol lock approach has not yet been applied to premature neonates, safe and
      successful precedent in humans as young as 3 months is established; ours is the first trial
      of ethanol locking in a NICU setting.
    
  