
    
      Problem in context. In an environment of increased competition for governmental funding,
      Medicaid programs in every state are bracing for decreased resources being available for the
      care of their enrollees. A possible result of less funding is reduced quality of healthcare.
      In response to this threat, The Center for Health Care Strategies, Inc, (CHCS) a non-profit
      organization dedicated to improving the quality of publicly financed health care, issued an
      RFP for participation in a multisite project to expand or enhance existing efforts to improve
      the way care for Medicaid enrollees with multiple chronic conditions is delivered,
      integrated, measured and financed.

      Present knowledge. While there is strong documentation of improved population health status
      with care management, the evidence for the immediate economic effects of care management
      initiatives is mixed for commercial and absent for Medicaid populations. CHCS is presently
      conducting a multisite study (in which we participate) of whether or not a business case
      (return on investment) can be made for quality improvement initiatives in a Medicaid
      population.

      Research question. What is the effect of increased coordination of care on medical costs,
      treatment utilization and selected clinical indicators among a Medicaid population with
      chronic medical conditions and substance abuse problems? We shall address this question by
      conducting a demonstration project consisting of the provision of integrated care management
      (somatic and behavioral) to Medicaid enrollees living on the Eastern Shore of Maryland and
      who have both chronic medical conditions and problems with substance abuse. A specific
      component of the study will be the participation of Maryland's Mental Health Administration
      (MHA) and MAPS, the administrator of psychiatric services for the Medicaid enrollees in
      Maryland. We shall compare the results of the integrated care management for the study sample
      on the Eastern Shore with a control group from the counties of western Maryland.

      The primary goal of the project will be to improve the coordination of medical, substance
      abuse and mental health services for a group of Medicaid beneficiaries with chronic medical
      conditions. We hypothesize that the recipients of integrated care management (on the Eastern
      Shore) will have lower total medical costs (pharmacy, inpatient and outpatient), higher
      utilization of mental health and substance abuse services and lower use of emergency
      department services than those who received customary care (in western Maryland).

      The secondary goal of this project will be to assist in the further development and piloting
      of information systems within MHA that will facilitate sharing of clinical information
      necessary for the coordination of behavioral (mental health and substance abuse) and medical
      care management between a Medicaid MCO (JHHC's PPMCO) and the mental health carve-out ASO,
      MAPS-MD. The outcome measurement for the secondary objective will be the extent to which an
      information system for coordination of care and population based queries has been established
      within MHA and is, with proper oversight by MHA, accessible to responsible entities.

      Significance. The project targets a vulnerable population within Medicaid enrollees that are
      challenged when accessing care and are responsible for high total medical costs. The results
      of the project should be helpful to other the MCOs in Maryland's Health Partners, as well as
      to states with similar Medicaid systems as they seek to provide integrated healthcare
      services to their populations.
    
  