
    
      Reliable quality data are an important basis for attempts to improve quality and safety of
      patient care. For anesthetic practice in Switzerland, an "Absolute Minimal Data Set" (AMDS)
      of preoperative patient characteristics and intra- and postoperative quality indicators is
      provided by the Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (IUMSP, University of Lausanne)
      in cooperation with the Swiss Society of Anaesthesiology and Reanimation (SGAR-SSAR). Data
      are electronically forwarded by the participating institutions to IUMSP, whereas primary
      collection can be achieved by traditional paper records or electronic records as part of
      anesthesia information management systems (AIMS).

      In the investigator's institution, physician and nurse anesthetists are supposed to use a
      window in the electronic anesthesia record for this purpose. This form should be completed at
      the end of each case. If an event according to the AMDS definitions occurs at least once
      during anesthesia, the respective box (e.g., "intraoperative hypotension") should be ticked
      in the form. The anesthesia record cannot be closed unless the quality form is filled, which
      can notably be done even in advance "on the quick" by ticking "no events". Considering the
      numerous duties of anesthesia staff at the end of a case, the investigators questioned the
      reliability of data generated during this busy phase.

      A pilot study of 50 consecutive unselected cases of the year 2010 revealed a low rate of
      reporting (10.8%) of selected perioperative events related to anesthesia (specifically:
      hypotensive, hypertensive, bradycardic, tachycardic, and hypoxemic episodes). Consequently,
      the current extensive study with more representative sample size was initiated. To gain
      insight into possible causes (among others: time pressure, unclear definitions, fear of
      litigation), interviews with anesthesia staff are performed and will hopefully provide a
      basis for possible improvements. For the time being and considering the common nature of
      possible causes, the investigators suspect that their results may not be specific for their
      institution. The incidence of perioperative events may be grossly underestimated if the
      process of data collection is not properly designed and monitored.
    
  