
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of the 7-month social marketing
      intervention - Healthy Me, Healthy We (previously called Our Year of Healthy Living) - in
      improving preschool children's (3-4 years) diet and physical activity behaviors. The study
      will use a two-arm, cluster randomized controlled design and a sample of 90 child care
      centers and 810 children (9 parent-child dyads/center).

      For this study, the investigators will recruit 90 child care centers from a mix of
      urban/suburban and rural areas. Potential child care centers in these counties will be
      identified using an online database of licensed child care facilities maintained by the North
      Carolina (NC) Division of Child Development and Early Education. State and local community
      partners will be engaged to help inform centers in targeted counties about the study. Direct
      recruitment of centers will employ a variety of strategies (e.g., mail, email, telephone,
      in-person contacts). Once a center expresses interest, the investigators will work with the
      center director to recruit nine parent-child dyads and five teachers from the 3- and 4-year
      old classrooms.

      Outcome Measures:

      A series of measurements will be collected on participating children, parents, and child care
      providers at two time points - baseline and follow-up. Primary outcomes measures will assess
      child physical activity and diet quality. Secondary outcomes measures will assess child
      weight, center and home environment. These measures will be collected in large part during
      two-day on-site visits to the child care center, and supplemented with self-administered
      surveys. Center visits will be conducted by data collectors who have undergone extensive
      training and certification on all measurement procedures and are blinded to study-arm
      assignment. Identical data collection protocols will be used at baseline and follow-up.

      Children's physical activity will be measured using accelerometers. A data collector will fit
      each participating child with an accelerometer on a belt during the morning of the first day
      of the center visit. The child will wear the accelerometer for seven full days - both at
      child care and at home. Once data are downloaded, age-appropriate cut-points will be applied
      in order to calculate daily minutes of non-sedentary physical activity.

      Children's dietary intakes will be measured using a combination of direct observation and
      food diaries. The Dietary Observation for Child Care (DOCC), (Ward et al. 2008) will be used
      to assess foods consumed by children while at child care. Each data collector can assess up
      to three children at a time; therefore, a team of three data collectors will be assigned to
      each center to allow observation of the nine participating children. They will observe
      intakes on two consecutive weekdays, recording all foods and beverages consumed by the
      children during breakfast/morning snack, lunch, and afternoon snack. Food diaries completed
      by parents will be used to assess children's dietary intake outside of child care. Parents
      will complete diary records on two weekdays (coinciding with the center visit) and one
      weekend day. The diary will prompt parents to record foods consumed, portion size, location,
      and time for each meal or snack. Follow-up phone calls will be conducted as needed to fill in
      any missing details. The combined DOCC and diary data will be analyzed with the Nutrition
      Data System for Research (NDSR) software in order to calculate children's daily intake of
      food groups, calories, and nutrients. Healthy Eating Index-2005 (HEI-2010) scores will be
      calculated for each child from these data.

      Children's height and weight measurements will be collected by trained data collectors during
      the center site visit. This data (along with parent-reported child age and sex) will be used
      to calculate children's BMI, BMI percentile, and BMI z-score using standards and reference
      data provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC 2010).

      The food and physical activity environments of homes and child care centers will be assessed
      using the Home Self-administered Tool for Environmental assessment of Activity and Diet
      (HomeSTEAD) (Hales 2014) and the Environment and Policy Assessment and Observation (EPAO)
      (Ward 2008). HomeSTEAD is a self-administered survey that assesses characteristics of the
      home environment that influence children's diet and physical activity behaviors. The EPAO is
      an observation protocol that will provide similar data about the food and physical activity
      environments at child care centers. EPAO observations will be completed during the center
      visit by trained and certified data collectors. Data from HomeSTEAD and EPAO will be used to
      calculate scores for home and center nutrition and physical activity environments.

      Parents and child care providers will also be asked to complete brief demographic surveys and
      health behavior screeners. Demographic surveys will assess standard characteristics like
      gender, age, race/ethnicity, marital status, household income, and employment. Center
      directors will also complete a demographic survey about the centers' current star rating,
      acceptance of child care subsidies, participation in the federally-funded Child and Adult
      Care Food Program (CACFP), and numbers, ages, and race/ethnicity of children enrolled. Given
      that the intervention targets parents' and child care providers' own health behaviors, the
      investigators will also collect self-reported data about provider and parent diet (fruit,
      vegetable, sweetened beverage intake), physical activity (frequency, and amounts of time
      spent in physical activities), and health status (weight and height), using several health
      behavior screeners.

      Once all baseline measures are collected, centers will be randomly assigned (1:1) into the
      intervention or control arm. Centers in the intervention arm will immediately start
      implementation of Healthy Me, Healthy We. Centers in the control arm will receive the same
      intervention a year later (delayed).

      Program Details/Intervention:

      The program will be implemented center-wide (available to all 3-4 year old children and
      parents/families in each child care center in the intervention arm, regardless of
      participation in measurements). The campaign will begin in October and end in April of the
      same school year. At the start of the program center directors will notify parents about the
      program and hold a kick-off event. Following kick-off, the center will implement four units
      using materials provided by our research team. Each unit will last about six weeks, include a
      nutrition and physical activity theme, and incorporate visual cues, educational materials,
      and activities to deliver targeted messages.

      Campaign components target both the child care center and home, two important spheres of
      influence that shape young children's diet and physical activity behaviors (Skouteris et al.
      2011; Larsen et al. 2011). Engaging both spheres in a coordinated effort helps ensure that
      children receive consistent health messages. Messages will address the promotion and support
      of children's healthy diet and physical activity behaviors, while also encouraging child care
      staff and parents to adopt similar health behaviors. The messages within each unit will be
      informed by our conceptual model and address the following constructs: knowledge of current
      recommendations for children and adults, strategies for shaping the physical and social
      environment to promote good eating and physical activity habits, strategies for overcoming
      common barriers to healthy eating physical activity, and targets for making gradual behavior
      changes.

      There are three key components to the program. First, is the commitment by the provider, the
      parent and the child, called the "Healthy We Promise." The provider, the parent and the child
      will each be asked to promise to take a "just try it" approach to healthy food and physical
      activity. Each family will receive a copy to sign and keep at home and each provider will be
      given a Healthy We Promise Poster to have children sign and display in their classroom.

      The second component is classroom activities. A Unit Poster and Activity Cue Cards will be
      provided to facilitate these activities. The Unit Poster will be displayed in the classroom
      as a visual reminder to children about the overall goals of the current unit. Activity Cue
      Cards (about 12-16 cards) that match the Unit Poster will be given to providers. Each week,
      providers will select two cards and lead the classroom activities described.

      The third component helps connect the classroom and home. A Healthy We Family Guide and
      Activity Tracker will go home with each child during the first week of each unit. The Family
      Guide has several components 1) introduction to the unit theme, 2) a Unit Guide tailored for
      at-home opportunities, 3) at-home versions of activities being completed in the classroom, 4)
      two to three recipes to try at home, and 5) expert tips about health and wellness. The
      Activity Tracker is designed to be placed on display at the child's home to allow for
      tracking of completed take-home activities. Throughout the unit, "Our Turn Tokens" are sent
      home whenever the provider completes an Activity Cue Card in the classroom. The Our Turn
      Token is intended to trigger parents to try the at-home version of the classroom activity.

      At the end of the school year, each center will host a fun-festive gathering to celebrate all
      that providers, parents, and children have accomplished over the year. The event will include
      healthy food and fun, active games for the entire family.

      Analysis:

      Intervention impact on children's physical activity (i.e. minutes of non-sedentary physical
      activity) and diet quality (i.e. HEI score) will be assessed by comparing differences in mean
      changes from pre- to post-intervention between intervention and control arms using two-sided
      t-tests adjusted for clustering.

      Our primary analyses will involve testing of each of these hypotheses under the
      intent-to-treat (ITT) principle (see section on missing data below) using Generalized Linear
      Mixed Models (GLMM) that will account for the correlation induced by the clustering of
      parents and children within childcare centers. Each GLMM (see below) will include a random
      intercept for childcare centers (b0) and fixed effects for the baseline value of the primary
      outcome (β1) and the intervention (β2) to test if the differences in mean changes in primary
      outcomes is zero, where β0 is the fixed intercept, and e is error.

      Change in Primary Outcome9m = β 0 + β1 Primary Outcomebaseline + β2 Intervention + b0 + e

      To further explore the effect of the intervention, the investigators will fit GLMMs that: 1)
      adjust for baseline covariates of interest, considered a priori, relevant to change in
      minutes of non-sedentary activity and HEI score; 2) adjust for baseline variables distributed
      differently between intervention groups; 3) test interaction terms between treatment group
      and other covariates; and 4) examine completers only.

      Similar analyses will be used to examine change in child BMI, healthy weight attainment and
      maintenance, and change in scores on HomeSTEAD and EPAO. Demographic and health behavior data
      about the child care centers, providers, parents, and children will be analyzed
      descriptively, using frequencies, percentages, means, and standard deviations. In addition,
      the investigators will include this data as covariates in the GLMM models.

      In alignment with RE-AIM (Reach Effectiveness Adoption Implementation Maintenance) (Glasgow
      et al. 1999), our process evaluation plan will include assessment of reach, effectiveness,
      adoption, implementation, and maintenance. These process measures will allow a fuller
      understanding of study results, how the program can be improved, and the potential for
      dissemination and sustainability.
    
  