
    
      Generalized Anxiety-the display of excessive anxiety or worry for months-is associated with
      several anxiety-related symptoms including restlessness, feeling wound-up or on edge, being
      easily fatigued, difficulty concentrating, having the mind go blank, irritability, muscle
      tension, difficulty controlling worry, and sleep abnormalities [The National Institute].
      Panic attacks-sudden periods of intense fear-include symptoms of palpitations, pounding
      heart, accelerated heart rate, sweating, trembling, shaking, sensations of shortness of
      breath, smothering, choking, and feelings of impending doom. Panic attacks are symptoms of
      Panic Disorder-an anxiety disorder with reoccurring and unforeseen episodes of panic attacks
      [The National Institute].

      Typically, treatment consists of a combination of psychotherapy, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
      (CBT), support groups, stress-management techniques, and anti-anxiety and/or anti-depressant
      medications. The caveat with these treatment options is that only anti-anxiety or
      anti-depressant medications are available as an early intervention option, especially in the
      ED. The use of anti-anxiety and anti-depressant medications in the treatment of Generalized
      Anxiety, panic attacks, and Panic Disorder in the ED provides challenges on multiple levels.
      For instance, some anti-depressants now carry a "black box warning" from the U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration making these drugs high risk with potentially serious health
      consequences. Therefore, the limited treatments options for the symptoms of Generalized
      Anxiety, panic attacks, and Panic Disorder in the ED raises the need for alternative, early
      intervention treatments.

      This research study aims to use the CalmiGo handheld device in the ED to aide in the short
      term and long term care of patients presenting with anxiety and panic attack symptoms. The
      standard of care for treating anxiety and panic attack symptoms in the ED consists of CBT,
      anti-anxiety medications such as benzodiazepines, and referring patients for a psychiatry
      consult, if appropriate. Compared to current treatment options in the ED, CalmiGo is a
      relatively less expensive, longer acting, drug-free device that addresses many distress
      related symptoms of anxiety through a combination of exhalation prolongation, aromatherapy,
      and grounding techniques [CalmiGo]. This study does not aim to eliminate the need for
      medication or other combination therapies; however, CalmiGo can provide an alternative
      treatment option that can alleviate clinical presentations of anxiety and panic symptoms and
      can be used as an early intervention treatment option.

      This study will be conducted through the administration of validated surveys, teaching the
      participating subject how to use the CalmiGo device, and letting patients use the CalmiGo
      device on their own.

      Two screening tools that have been clinically shown to be effective forms of assessing
      Generalized Anxiety, panic attacks, and Panic Disorder will be used to assess patients'
      anxiety and panic attack symptoms: the Generalized Anxiety Disorder subscale (GAD-7) and the
      Panic Symptom Scale (PSS). The GAD-7 uses a 7-item anxiety scale as a quick and easy tool to
      identify patients with anxiety and to monitor treatment response [Spitzer], [Ebell]. Whereas
      the GAD-7 is self-reporting, the PSS is an interview-based scale to determine the severity of
      13 different panic symptoms as outlined by the DSM-IV [Locke], [Fleet]. The two of these
      screening tools are able to provide a thorough evaluation of patient's anxiety and panic
      attack symptoms.

      Two other surveys will be conducted in order to gain demographic information including past
      medical history (Patient Demographic Survey) and a survey asking about the patient's
      experience with the CalmiGo device (CalmiGo questionnaire). These surveys have been designed
      by the study team.

      To identify potentially eligible patients, investigators will screen the arrival board in the
      ED for specific chief complaints including anxiety, panic, non-cardiac chest pain (NCCP),
      unexplained chest pain (UCP), shortness of breath (SOB), and/or palpitations. Investigators
      will open the patient's electronic medical record to determine if patients are presenting to
      the ED with anxiety or panic attack symptoms, and investigators will ensure that the patient
      doesn't meet any exclusion criteria. Investigators will confirm with the patient's provider
      that the patient is experiencing anxiety and panic attack symptoms before approaching the
      patient about this study.

      Investigators will approach the patient and obtain informed consent before enrolling the
      patient into the study.

      First, the investigator will have the patient complete the GAD-7 and PSS surveys.

      Following these surveys, the investigator will begin the CalmiGo device demonstration. The
      investigator will explain how the device works, what comes in the CalmiGo package, and will
      show the patient how to use CalmiGo by turning the device on and explaining the different
      commands of the device.

      Then, the patient will use CalmiGo once for 3 minutes with the investigator is in the room to
      make sure that the patient understands how to use the device. The investigator will leave the
      patient for 20 minutes to let them use the CalmiGo device on their own. In these 20 minutes,
      the patient will be instructed to use CalmiGo for at least 2 additional times for 3 minutes
      each time. Once the investigator returns, the investigator will interview the patient with
      the PSS interviewed survey, the Patient Demographic Survey, and the CalmiGo questionnaire.

      The investigator will input the data from the surveys completed during enrollment into
      REDCap, a HIPAA compliant database. The completed paper version of the surveys will be stored
      in a binder in a labeled locked cabinet at Lenox Hill Hospital.

      Subjects will leave with a CalmiGo device along with user guides, a copy of their consent
      form and an additional aromatherapy element from the CalmiGo device.

      Lastly, investigators will complete the Data Abstraction sheet after patients have been
      enrolled in the ED, completed all surveys and used the CalmiGo handheld device. Patients'
      medical charts will be accessed and reviewed to document the metrics on the Data Abstraction
      sheet, which will be completed on REDCap; there will be no paper documentation of the sheet.
      Abstracted information will include the patients' treatment in the ED, ED diagnosis, and ED
      disposition.
    
  