
    
      The natural history of interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy (IF/TA) is a common mechanism of
      disease progression of transplanted kidneys. The process has been well studied through
      protocol biopsies. The early phase is characterized by fibrogenesis and the emergence of
      tubulo-interstitial damage due to immunologic phenomena; the late phase is characterized by
      the worsening of parenchymal lesions and the occurrence of glomerular sclerosis leading to
      graft loss.

      Today, non-invasive markers of these pathological changes are missing and the protocol
      biopsies are still the only reliable tool for the diagnosis of IF/TA.

      Elasticity imaging has already been proven in the management of chronic liver diseases with
      Fibroscan. In the field of renal diseases, several studies have been carried out in
      ultrasound elastography on renal grafts but the renal elastography is more difficult due to
      the complexity of the kidney (deep organ, two compartments, high vascularity). All these
      parameters have an influence on the elasticity measures.

      The elastography imaging is also performed in MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging): The Magnetic
      Resonance Elastography (MRE). MRE is less subject to variations in depth, to the experience
      of the operator and to allow an overall evaluation of the graft.

      The potentially eligible patients will be recruited by the nephrologist during a consultation
      in which renal biopsy is scheduled (as part of current practice). Patients meeting the
      inclusion criteria and having no exclusion criteria will be offered to participate in this
      study. If accepted, the only examination specific to this research, the MRE, will be
      scheduled to be performed the same day as the renal biopsy.

      This MRE is painless, non-irradiating, and does not require the injection of contrast medium.

      The participation of the patient ends when he leaves the hospital after the biopsy procedure.
    
  