
    
      Patients suffering metastasized gastrointestinal cancer often receive ineffective treatments
      for prolonged periods of time as therapy non-response, which is hard to detect, cannot be
      determined earlier than nine weeks following start of therapy. Current therapy evaluation
      strategies primarily focus on morphological changes via RECIST criteria. However,
      morphological changes are subjected to prior physiological and metabolic alterations.
      Therefore, the NICI project's ambition is to lay the foundations of a new area of research:
      the study of human biology using non-invasive chemistry imaging. For this, NICI aims to unite
      two areas of research: metabolomics and magnetic resonance (MR). Metabolomics studies body
      functions through the measurements of metabolites; MR imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS)
      can provide 3D images of the body and measure metabolite and lipid content respectively.
      Previous studies show that phospholipid metabolites in particular the cell membrane
      precursors i.e. phosphomonoesters (PME), and the cell membrane degradation products i.e.
      phosphodiesters (PDE) are valuable biomarkers in therapy assessment. With this NICI approach,
      the consortium aims at reducing the nine weeks period before therapy efficacy evaluation to
      three weeks or less. By validating the powerful new MRS(I)-visible biomarkers in a patient
      cohort, a non-invasive technology can be developed for dynamically mapping biochemical
      processes in the whole human body and pave the way for individualized medicine.

      Primary objective

      • In this study the investigators will investigate whether biochemical imaging of change (Δ,
      figure 1) in the metabolic phospholipid ratios of PME and PDE between baseline and after 2
      weeks of therapy are predictive for RECIST progression in gastrointestinal cancer patients
      after the first 9 week treatment period.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  In this study the investigators will investigate whether biochemical imaging of change
           (Δ, figure 1) in the metabolic phospholipid ratios of PME and PDE between baseline and
           after 2 weeks of therapy are predictive for progression free survival (PFS) and overall
           survival (OS) in gastrointestinal cancer patients..

        -  Investigate whether biochemical imaging of the metabolic phospholipid ratios of PME and
           PDE at baseline of therapy are predictive for RECIST progression after the first 9-week
           treatment period, and for PFS and OS in gastrointestinal cancer patients.

        -  Investigate whether biochemical imaging of change (δ, figure 1) in the metabolic
           phospholipid ratios of PME and PDE after a 9-week treatment period are predictive for
           RECIST progression following that treatment period, and for PFS and OS in
           gastrointestinal cancer patients.

        -  Exploratory multi variable analysis for the development of a prediction model to predict
           resistance to treatment within 3 weeks after the start of chemotherapy with the use of
           all chemistry imaging data including all MR detectable nuclei and clinical parameters.

      Study population: The aim of this study is to include a total of 150 patients with metastatic
      gastrointestinal cancer before start of palliative chemotherapy containing fluoropyrimidine
      with or without platinum. Of each of the following tumour types approximately 50 patients
      will be included: colon-, pancreatic and gastro-oesophageal cancer.

      Intervention: Participants will undergo multiple 7T MR imaging sessions which include
      advanced 31P MRSI techniques, before start of palliative chemotherapy and during treatment
      until progression of disease or until week 54.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Study parameters include; metabolic ratios of the
      phospholipids PME and PDE from the area under the curve (AUC) of the corresponding spectral
      peaks, size measurements from CT and MRI scans, coded radiology reports, clinical patient
      data, e.g. chemotherapy details extracted from clinical notes which are coded before storage
      to preserve anonymity. Main endpoint is defined by the RECIST progression criteria after
      every nine weeks for which chemical imaging its predictive value is investigated in the
      primary objective.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients will be asked for eight extra hospital visits to undergo 7T MRI of approximately one
      hour per session (8x 1 hour). MRI is a safe non-invasive technique without use of ionizing
      radiation and so far, extensive research has not shown any side-effects of the high magnetic
      field used in 7T MRI, resulting in low inherent risks for the participants. Patients' therapy
      is not delayed by participation in this study and patients with MRI contraindications are
      excluded from participation (Refer to 3.3 Exclusion Criteria).
    
  