
    
      In women with infertility due to anovulation, the main purpose of ovulation induction (OI)
      consists in inducing the mono or bifollicular and the subsequent ovulation in order to
      achieve pregnancy. The availability of recombinant gonadotropins obtained using genetically
      engineered techniques has meant a decisive and clear pharmacological advancement. Use of
      recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (r-hFSH) offers a greater effectiveness
      (greater number of follicles/ ovocytes and a higher pregnancy rate) and efficiency (fewer
      number of blisters, fewer stimulation days; fewer number of cancellations and complications)
      in programmed coitus and artificial insemination like in-vitro fertilisation (IVF)/intra
      cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) techniques. Further advances in obtaining better products
      for ovarian stimulation has led to production of a recombinant FSH (follitropin alpha) filled
      by mass preparation. This hormone becomes the most consistent and precise gonadotropin due to
      improvements in its quantification process.

      Today, despite having accurate and modern tools for ovulation induction, in daily practice,
      doctors continue to "fight" against two old problems of assisted reproduction: multiple
      pregnancies and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). Application of assisted
      reproduction techniques (ARTs) and the use of medication that induce ovulation, risk
      producing gestations and multiple births with a higher frequency than those observed in
      spontaneous gestations. One of the facts that result in the appearance of such problems is
      the high incidence of polycystic ovarian syndrome among the population of women who are
      infertile due to anovulation. These subjects are especially sensitive to ovarian stimulation,
      which leads to multiple follicular development, a higher risk of hyperstimulation and higher
      rates of multiple pregnancies.

      Therefore, it seems clear that the search for developing mono or bifollicular cycles is
      important in ovarian induction cycles, for the purpose of preventing the above mentioned
      multiple pregnancy problems and the risk of OHSS. The intent of this study was to figure out
      the real mono-bifollicular development rate that is obtained under normal care conditions
      following OI treatment with follitropin alpha filled by mass prescribed in accordance with
      standard practice. Therefore, a measure of the efficiency of the product for achieving the
      development of one or two follicles. Data was collected from 56 centres of the Autonomous
      Communities that accepted this observational study, until achieving a total of 410 ovulation
      induction cycles.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To find the real proportion of cycles with mono-bifollicular development during the
           provision of care involving OI with follitropin alpha filled by mass

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate if the use of follitropin alpha filled by mass has other clinical benefits
           such as a reduction in the number of cancelled cycles, of the dosage and time required
           and adverse effects
    
  