
    
      Background:

      Almost half of all patients with heart failure (HF) have preserved systolic function (PSHF)
      or heart failure with normal ejection fraction (HFNEF). Some of these have valvular
      abnormalities such as severe mitral or aortic regurgitation, severe anaemia, thyrotoxicosis
      or rarer tropical causes for heart failure. However, the majority of those with PSHF often
      have echocardiographic evidence of impaired diastolic function i.e. impaired relaxation and
      increased stiffness. This diastolic dysfunction may be related to age, hypertension or
      ischaemia. There is little evidence for any effective therapy in this large HF population
      despite randomised trials comparing placebo to ACE inhibitors i.e. perindopril in PEP-HF or
      angiotensin receptor blockers i.e. candesartan in the CHARM Preserved trial. There are also
      ongoing studies of aldosterone antagonists in diastolic heart failure i.e. eplerenone vs
      placebo in TOPCAT which continues to recruit.

      In the absence of a strong evidence base, many physicians treat these patients with drugs
      that slow the heart rate, namely the calcium channel blocker verapamil and beta blockers.
      This has the effect of prolonging diastole or filling time and theoretically improving stroke
      volume thus reducing left ventricular end diastolic pressures (LVEDP) with resultant drop in
      wall stress and therefore less stimulus for myocardial fibrosis which exacerbates diastolic
      dysfunction by impeding compliance.

      Hypothesis:

      An alternative mechanism for slowing the heart rate is with ivabradine, a novel If channel
      blocker which acts purely on the sino atrial node with a mean heart rate lowering of 10 bpm
      in angina patients. This may result in improved diastolic filling which could be demonstrate
      by echocardiography, lower pulmonary capillary wedge pressures, which could be determined by
      measuring the E:E' ratio using tissue Doppler techniques, improving effort tolerance,
      estimated by assessing change in distance walked over 6 minutes and both a physician
      assessment using NYHA score as well as a patient Global Assessment and possibly better
      quality of life, determined by the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaires.

      Other theoretical improvements could be in the degree of stiffness or fibrosis due to reduced
      LV wall stress secondary to the longer filling time. This could be assessed using surrogates
      of wall strain such as brain natruretic peptide (BNP), wall stress as measured by strain rate
      imaging on echocardiography.
    
  