
    
      Objectives

      Noninvasive stimulation of the central and peripheral nervous system, including transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS), transcranial direct and alternating current stimulation (tDCS and
      tACS, respectively) and cutaneous/peripheral nerve stimulation (C/PNS) alone or paired with
      TMS (paired associative stimulation, PAS), has been increasingly used in the investigation of
      cortical plasticity and as a possible adjuvant strategy in neurorehabilitation. It has been
      shown that TMS, tDCS, tACS and C/PNS can modulate motor function in healthy volunteers, as
      well as in patients with neurological disorders such as stroke. One fundamental problem is
      that the optimal parameters of stimulation to modulate motor function by all of these
      techniques are not known. The purpose of this protocol has been to explore within safe
      guidelines, the effects of different stimulation parameters on motor cortical function, on
      oscillatory brain dynamics measured with magnetoencephalography (MEG) and
      electroencephalography (EEG), on eye movements, and on fMRI activation. In addition, this
      protocol was used to train new fellows coming to NINDS Human Cortical Physiology Section
      (HCPS) in the use of TMS, tDCS, tACS and C/PNS techniques.

      We expected that information emerging from these studies would allow us to

      1) optimize experimental protocols or stimulation parameters to collect pilot data in healthy
      volunteers for future patient-oriented hypothesis-driven protocols, 2) to collect pilot data
      for power analysis for future patient-oriented hypothesis driven protocols, and 3) to train
      new fellows in the use of these different methods.

      As instructed, we had stopped recruitment under this protocol at the time we were informed by
      the NIH IRB that they determined this to be a thematic protocol (August 6, 2019). The four
      specific aims addressed under this protocol are:

        1. Aim 1. To identify resting behavioral and physiological substrates for neuromodulation
           of motor behavior

        2. Aim 2. To identify task-dependent behavioral and physiological substrates for
           neuromodulation of motor behavior

        3. Aim 3. To understand variability, rigor or/and reproducibility of brain stimulation
           effects.

      As instructed, the purpose of this amendment is to request authorization to proceed with data
      analysis and publication. No new experiments will be carried out under this protocol.

      Study Population

      Up to 1500 healthy volunteers, age 18 and older.

      Design

      No new experiments will be carried out under this protocol. Previously, healthy volunteers
      receive one or more of the following types of stimulation alone or in combination: (1)
      single- and paired-pulse TMS with inter-stimulus intervals of greater than 1s and up to 20s
      and intensities of up to 100% of stimulator output; (2) 1 Hz TMS for up to 30mins and up to
      115% of resting motor threshold (RMT) intensity; (3) tDCS applied at an intensity of up to 4
      mA for a duration of up to 60mins, as long the total charge does not exceed 7.2 C; (4) tACS
      applied at a peak-to-peak intensity of up to 4 mA for a duration of up to 60 minutes, as long
      the total charge does not exceed 7.2 C; (5) C/PNS applied alone with intensities below 130%
      of the peripherally-elicited-motor-threshold for up to 2 hours, or intensities up to 300% of
      sensory threshold when C/PNS is paired with TMS. All of these parameters of stimulation and
      procedures have safely been used as previously reported in the literature. Sham stimulations
      were delivered for each modality as scientifically needed. Some sessions included recording
      of behavior or brain activity (such as behavioral testing, MRI, and MEG) if brain stimulation
      targets were unknown. This information was used to inform the design of brain stimulation
      protocols.

      Each subject was able to participate in up to one experimental session per day, and up to 20
      total sessions over a twenty year period under this protocol. A single session lasted no
      longer than 8 hours. Appropriate rest breaks and meal breaks occured during long sessions.
      CTDB was used to track the number of sessions per subject to ensure they did not exceed 20
      sessions. Protocol AIs are were responsible for entering the subjects/sessions into CTDB.

      We previously tested the effects of different forms of stimulation on motor cortical
      excitability, cognitive and motor behavioral tasks, and brain state measures derived from
      neuroimaging data (i.e. - MRI, fMRI, MEG and EEG). Stimulation was applied before, after, or
      during physiological (i.e. motor evoked potentials, M-wave, F-wave, or H-Reflexes),
      neuroimaging or behavioral measures.

      Outcome Measures

      No new outcome measures are proposed. Changes in motor cortical excitability were previously
      measured as the change in the average peak-to-peak amplitude of a motor

      evoked potential (MEP) as measured with EMG. Neuroimaging measures included

      changes in oscillatory brain activity power as measured with EEG or MEG, changes in

      BOLD fMRI activation or changes in functional connectivity (i.e. - covarying fluctuations

      in BOLD or spectral power across the brain). Behavioral outcome measures focused on

      changes in performance as a function of learning, or as a function of applied brain

      stimulation.
    
  