
    
      Cytokinins are plant growth factors that regulate plant growth and differentiation. PRK 124
      (N-furfuryl-9-(2-tetrahydropyranyl) adenine)(Pyratine 6™) is a cytokinin that has been shown
      to have modulatory, anti-ROS (reactive oxygen species), and antisenescence effects on the
      growth of human skin cells.

      Recent clinical studies showed that PRK 124 (0.1%) treatment in 40 subjects for 12 weeks
      improved the appearance of photodamaged facial skin by decreasing fine wrinkles, roughness
      and mottled hyperpigmentation. Treatment with PRK 124 lotion furthermore decreased skin
      transepidermal water loss and also increased skin moisture content. The topical PRK 124
      lotion was well tolerated by the subjects with no significant increase in erythema or
      irritation. Treatment with PRK 124 was shown to decrease both acne and erythema observed at
      baseline.

      Rosacea is a common, chronic dermatosis that is characterized by papules and pustules,
      persistent erythema and telangiectasia. The objective of this study is to compare the
      long-term efficacy and tolerance of PRK 124 (0.125%) moisturizing lotion applied twice daily
      for 48 weeks for improving the clinical signs and symptoms of inflammatory acne rosacea as
      well as cutaneous signs of skin photodamage.

      Study Design:

      Twenty four volunteers with mild-to-moderate facial rosacea will participate in this single
      center, open-label study designed to evaluate the subject=s tolerance and effectiveness of
      PRK 124 (0.125%) moisturizing lotion applied twice daily for 48 weeks, for improving the
      signs and symptoms of acne rosacea. Subjects will apply the test lotion twice daily, once in
      morning and again in the evening before bedtime. Subjects will be assessed at baseline and at
      4, 8 and 12 weeks after treatment for improvement in the clinical signs and symptoms of acne
      rosacea and effect of treatments on transepidermal water loss (TEWL). In addition, the
      subject's tolerance will be assessed at each follow-up visit (weeks 4, 8, and 12). Facial
      photographs will be obtained at baseline and at 4, 8 and 12 weeks. Subjects will then be
      given the opportunity to continue treatment for 36 additional weeks. Subjects must have
      normal clinical laboratory tests, and if female, a negative urine pregnancy test at 12 weeks
      to continue the 36 weeks treatment. Clinical laboratory tests and urine pregnancy test will
      be repeated at week 48 or early study completion. Clinical assessments will be done at weeks
      24, 36 and 48 during the last 36 weeks. Additional objective measures of skin moisture
      content and skin erythema using a chromameter will be done at week 12 and at follow-up visits
      (weeks 24, 36 and 48). Telephone follow-up will be done at weeks 16, 20, 28, 32 and 40 to
      assess subject tolerance and compliance.

      Primary Study Variables:

      The primary study variables are:

      Observations by Investigator:

        -  Inflammatory lesion count

        -  Erythema and telangiectasia severity

        -  Global assessment of severity

        -  Overall improvement over baseline

        -  Photodamage (fine wrinkles, texture, mottled hyperpigmentation)

        -  Transepidermal water loss (TEWL)

        -  Skin moisture content

        -  Skin erythema as measured by a chromameter

      Subject self assessment:

        -  Signs & symptoms (burning/stinging, erythema/telangiectasia, papules/pustules)

        -  Overall improvement over baseline

        -  Photodamage (fine wrinkles, texture, mottled hyperpigmentation)

        -  Cosmetic acceptability

      The local skin tolerance of the treatments will be assessed by the Investigator and by the
      subject.
    
  