
    
      This is a prospective cohort study on a subsample of children born prematurely (before 33
      weeks of gestation (SA) otherwise included in the national cohort EPIPAGE 2 and included in
      epirmex and who enjoys a spectrosocpie. This research project proposed in the framework of
      the AORC as ancillary study EPIPAGE 2 -EPIRMEX therefore focuses on spectroIRM voluntarily at
      the age of term (39-41 SA), and more specifically the emergence executive functions to 5
      years EPIRMEX main objective of the study. the application of our project to this tender is
      requested by the PACA region due to the high rate spectroIRM performed by our area (about
      75%) and strong involvement of Dr. C. Gire in EPIPAGE 2 and EPIRMEX. However, only
      neuropsychological assessments FE 5 years testing sub-cities will be funded EPIPAGE 2. The
      specific aspect of our study is not funded EPIPAGE 2.

      The children received conventional MRI at the age of term (39-41 SA), supplemented by
      specific sequences for single voxel analysis in microstructural analysis (white matter, basal
      ganglia and brainstem), short echo and echo time consuming. The study of the spectra will be
      done quantitatively by CEMEREM laboratory - UMR 6612 CNRS / Université de la Méditerranée /
      Division of Medical Imaging (Pr Guye).

      The relevance of the project was its ability to include quality as 550 MRI were performed,
      including 120 MRI spectrometer can be analyzed.

      These children were assessed within 2 EPIPAGE the corrected age of 2 years, 3 years (EPIRMEX)
      and 5 years (2 + EPIPAGE EPIRMEX). The balance sheet under 5 years in EPIRMEX is evaluating a
      comprehensive intellectual efficiency WPPSI III, some elements of the NEPSY and the figure of
      REY.

      So magnetic resonance spectroscopy may provide additional diagnostic value to cranial
      ultrasound and MRI in infants.

      The main objective is to assess the relation between the cerebral MRS at term-equivalent age
      of very preterm infants and the executive functions at the age of 5 years corrected.
    
  