
    
      Black men suffer disproportionately higher rates of nearly all disease categories, including
      cancer --the leading cause of death in North Carolina. An estimated 50% of cancer is
      preventable with lifestyle modifications such as increasing physical activity (PA),
      eliminating tobacco use/exposure and maintaining a healthy weight. Evidence suggests that
      physical activity can reduce risk to several types of cancer. Innovative ways to reach Black
      men with effective health promotion interventions are needed. Barbershops represent one place
      where Black men can be reached, but have not been utilized as settings for intervening to
      promote physical activity. An experienced, interdisciplinary, partnership between community
      members (barbershop owners, barbers and their customers) and researchers from UNC Chapel
      Hill/Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Gillings School of Global Public Health,
      and North Carolina Central University are conducting a two-phase outreach study to bridge
      this gap. Phase 1 is a series of inter-related formative research studies (in-depth
      interviews with barbers/owners; observations in shops; focus groups with customers) leading
      to the development of a theory and evidence-guided, multi-level physical activity
      intervention (FITShop) designed to increase PA among Black men in barbershops. Using Phase 1
      results, Phase 2 is a two-arm, group randomized, initial efficacy trial of the FITShop
      intervention in 14 Black barbershops with 40 customers per shop (n=560 total). Customers in
      Arm 1 (7 shops, 280 customers) will receive the FITShop intervention which includes barber
      training, PA contest in the shop, use of pedometers, community connections and personal
      feedback plus recommendations for PA. Customers in Arm 2 (7 shops, 280 customers) will
      receive a Financial Empowerment (FE) attention-control intervention that mimics exposure
      amount without influencing the primary outcome. Consistent with community-based participatory
      research principles, an Advisory Board will guide all aspects of the study planning,
      development, implementation and analysis of results. The primary outcome (physical activity)
      will be measured via accelerometer using a 7-day protocol and with self-report questionnaires
      at baseline and 6 months using a previously tested protocol with Black men recruited from
      barbershops. All primary/secondary outcomes will be measured on all customers at an
      assessment event/via questionnaire prior to randomization (and at 6 mo) using standardized,
      previously tested protocols. Process evaluation will assess dose of intervention delivered,
      received, fidelity, as well as reach, adoption and representativeness at the customer, barber
      and barbershop levels. Since barbershops are located in all communities, if effective, this
      intervention has promise for dissemination & sustainability.
    
  