
    
      Live donor kidney transplantation (LDKT) represents an optimal therapy for many patients.
      However, African Americans have been persistently and significantly less likely to receive
      LDKT when compared to Whites. The process of seeking and establishing a live donor for LDKT
      requires potential donors overcome several potential obstacles to LKDT. As a critical first
      step to seeking LDKT, patients must engage their physicians and their family members or
      friends (who provide support for patients' health decisions and could also be potential
      donors) in discussions about LDKT to determine whether LDKT is a viable and/or desirable
      treatment option. LDKT discussions with physicians help patients and family members
      understand the risks and benefits of LDKT to both the potential recipient and any potential
      donors. Families' LDKT discussions help them establish whether it is possible to identify
      willing and medically eligible live donors, and they help families discuss the potential
      psychological, physical, and financial strains of LDKT on patients and families. Once
      discussions have occurred, potential donors must confront logistical (e.g., childcare or
      travel to transplant centers) and financial (e.g., unpaid time away from work) challenges
      associated with LDKT. Studies have shown that even when African American patients desire
      LDKT, rates of LDKT discussions are suboptimal. Further, African American potential live
      kidney donors are less likely than their White counterparts to complete the donor evaluation
      process, and they may be more sensitive than Whites to logistical and financial barriers to
      LDKT. Innovative strategies to overcome interpersonal, logistical and financial barriers to
      LDKT are sorely needed for African Americans, particularly those who may be highly motivated
      to seek this therapy. Transplant social workers routinely perform psychosocial evaluations on
      potential LDKT recipients and donors and are well suited to support families' navigation of
      LDKT discussions. Transplant social workers are also well versed in the financial aspects of
      LDKT (e.g., insurance coverage rules) and frequently provide financial guidance to potential
      LDKT recipients and donors. We will study innovative transplant social worker led
      interventions designed to help African American potential LDKT recipients and their families
      overcome interpersonal, logistical and financial barriers to LDKT. African Americans on the
      deceased kidney donor waiting list will be randomly assigned to (1) receive their usual care
      on the transplant list or (2) to one of two social worker led interventions-one which helps
      patients and families discuss LDKT with each other and with patients' physicians, and one
      which provides families with financial support to overcome logistical and financial barriers
      to LDKT. As a primary outcome, we will measure whether the interventions activate live kidney
      donation on African American potential recipients' behalves.
    
  