
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has become the standard functional neurosurgery treatment for
      drug resistant Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. It has also demonstrated its efficacy to
      treat various movement disorders as well as neurological and psychiatric disorders. The
      subthalamic nucleus (STN), the globus pallidus internal (GPi) or the ventral intermediate
      nucleus of the thalamus (VIM) are the major targets of DBS.

      Access to pathological brain tissue in living PD patients or other neurological diseases is a
      key issue for the discovery of new therapeutic targets and the development of potential
      curative therapies. In this context, DBS offers a unique access to the pathological brain. In
      the standard surgical procedure, to prepare the way for the final electrode, the surgeon uses
      a dilator that is lowered gently through the cerebral parenchyma up to the target. It has
      been shown that during this step, brain tissue fragments adhere to the extremity of the
      dilator. However, the major drawback of the standard dilator lies in the fact that its end is
      in contact with several brain regions before reaching the targeted nucleus. Therefore, it is
      difficult to guarantee the origin of the collected tissue micro-fragments. In order to
      optimize the specificity of the harvested imprints, the investgator will use a dedicated CE
      marked medical device that consists of a guide tube and a stylet instead of the dilator used
      in DBS surgical procedure. The objective of this study is to validate brain tissue imprints
      collection in PD, ET, DYS, OCD and TS.

      The BTI will be specifically collected from the targeted implantation site corresponding to
      the STN, the GPi and the VIM. Moreover, the tip of the electrode (and therefore the BTI)
      often reaches the substantia negra pars compacta (SNpc) because of its proximity with the
      STN. The ability to perform BTI in the SNpc is of highly interest since it is the structure
      containing the neurons that degenerate gradually and massively throughout the pathological
      process of Parkinson's disease.
    
  