
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in a roll of dice) to 1 of 2 groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is
      better, the same, or worse than the other group. You will have a 1 out of 3 chance of being
      in Group 1 and a 2 out of 3 chance of being in Group 2.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will take placebo pills.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will take metformin pills.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You should take the pills 2 times a day at about the same time every day, preferably with
      food (for example, with breakfast and dinner).

      You will start taking the pills about 12 days before your paclitaxel treatment starts. This
      is called the "adaptation period." It is meant to allow your body to get used to the study
      pills. The study staff will check you for allergic reactions or other negative reactions to
      the pills during this period. If you are not tolerating the pills, you will be taken off
      study.

      About every 3 weeks while you are receiving paclitaxel, you should bring the study
      drug/placebo container (along with any leftover pills) to the clinic. The study staff will
      count the number of pills you have taken.

      Study Visits:

      Every week during the study, either during your clinic visit or by phone, the study staff
      will ask you about any side effects you may be having, if you have taken the study
      drug/placebo, and how many pills you have taken so far. The calls should take about 10-15
      minutes.

      About 2 weeks before you start paclitaxel:

        -  You will complete questionnaires about numbness and other symptoms. It should take about
           15 minutes to complete these questionnaires.

        -  You will complete 3 sensory and fine-motor tests. These tests will show researchers how
           sensitive you are to touching things such as small bumps and how well you are able to
           pick up small objects. It should take about 15 minutes to complete these tests.

        -  If possible, blood (about 8 teaspoons) will also be drawn to test for markers of
           inflammation. Markers of inflammation are biomarkers found in the blood and may be
           related to the symptoms you have. These blood samples during the study will only be
           collected if they can be drawn during a routine blood draw you are already having.

      At 1-2 days before you start paclitaxel:

        -  You will complete the questionnaires about numbness and other symptoms.

        -  You will complete the sensory and fine-motor tests.

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of inflammation, if a
           routine blood sample is also being drawn on that day.

      Every week while you are receiving paclitaxel, you will complete a questionnaire in the
      clinic or by phone about any symptoms you may be having, and how the symptoms may be
      affecting your daily activities. This questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      About every 3 weeks while you are receiving paclitaxel, at your clinic visits:

        -  You will complete the questionnaires about numbness.

        -  You will also complete the sensory and fine-motor dexterity tests.

      At about Weeks 6 and 12 while you are receiving paclitaxel, at your clinic visits, blood
      (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of inflammation, if a routine blood
      sample is also being drawn on that day.

      At about Week 12 while you are receiving paclitaxel, at your clinic visit, you will complete
      a questionnaire about how satisfied you are with the study drug/placebo. Completing the
      questionnaire should take about 5 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You may take the study drug/placebo for up to 12 weeks. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug/placebo if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if
      you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation in the study will be over after the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      About 4 weeks after you finish receiving the study drug/placebo:

        -  You will complete the questionnaires about numbness and other symptoms.

        -  You will complete the sensory and fine-motor tests.

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of inflammation, if a
           routine blood sample is also being drawn on that day.

      This is an investigational study. Metformin is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of a type of diabetes. Its use in this study is investigational. The study
      doctor can explain how the study drug is designed to work.

      Up to 42 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at the Harris Health
      System.
    
  