
    
      Background

      Acute gastrointestinal bleeding is a common medical emergency worldwide. In Hong Kong it
      accounts for about 5% of all admissions through the Accident and Emergency Department1. The
      most common cause is bleeding from a peptic ulcer.

      Ulcers bleed when an artery at the base of the ulcer is eroded, Bleeding from such an eroded
      artery may be intermittent, as the artery may be plugged by a thrombus. Dislodgement of the
      clot results in rebleeding. Rebleeding has long been recognized as one of the worse
      prognosticators for ulcer bleeding and is associated with a 6-10 fold increase in mortality.
      Rebleeding is associated with a major bleed manifested by hematemesis and hypotension,
      indicating that a large size vessel has been eroded. Such vessels, and the clot plugging
      them, may be visible endoscopically and have been named "stigmata of recent haemorrhage".
      Such stigmata are associated with a higher risk of rebleeding. High-risk stigmata, such as
      active bleeding, a protuberant "visible vessel", or an adherent clot, are now used to select
      patients who are liable to rebleed for endoscopic therapy. In recent years, with advances in
      endoscopic technology and expertise, therapeutic endoscopy has taken over as the first line
      therapy for bleeding5. Techniques such as injection therapy, thermal coagulation and clip
      application have been shown to be highly effective in controlling bleeding7.

      Rebleeding after endoscopic therapy

      Rebleeding is the most important prognostic factor in patients with ulcer haemorrhage. It
      carries a 10-fold increase in mortality. Rebleeding can be predicted by hematemesis and shock
      on admission. Before the era of therapeutic endoscopy traditional dogma recommends early
      surgery to preempt another catastrophic bleed in these patients. With the advent of effective
      endoscopic haemostasis the place of early surgery is less clear. Indeed a trial at our center
      indicates that repeat endoscopic therapy can salvage 75% of rebleeding patients without
      compromising patient safety10.

      Scheduled repeat endoscopy at 24 hour intervals have been used to detect and retreat any
      remaining stigmata11. Such a policy also subjects many patients to unnecessary endoscopy and
      treatment but has not been shown to improve outcome. Re-endoscopy at 24-hour intervals misses
      rebleeding that occurs in the interim, but repeated endoscopy at closer intervals is
      impractical. Some authors has suggested combining clinical endoscopic data in a scoring
      system to select patients for repeat endoscopic re-treatment, and demonstrated improved
      outcome in a small series. Others have used Doppler signals in arteries in the ulcer base to
      predict failures of endoscopic treatment.

      Recognition of rebleeding - Use of wireless endoscopy

      Clinical rebleeding is usually defined as vomiting of red blood, hemodynamic instability or
      drop in the hemoglobin level after initial stabilization. These clinical features appear only
      after a significant amount of blood has been lost. There is, at present, no reliable method
      of detecting rebleeding in a timely fashion. If there is a reliable early warning system,
      analogous to ECG monitoring for arrhythmia in patients who has had a myocardial infarction,
      we may be able to intervene in time to preempt the harmful effects of further major blood
      loss in a patient who has already bled from the ulcer.

      Endoscopy using a pill sized (11mm x 26mm, weight ~ 4 grams) capsule endoscope was first
      reported by Iddan. The capsule can be swallowed and transmit images from various part of the
      gastrointestinal tract as the capsule traverses the gastrointestinal tract. The main
      indication at present is the visualization of the small intestine, especially for locating
      sources of bleeding that are beyond the range of gastroscopy and colonoscopy. The battery of
      the capsule lasts for up to 8 hours.

      We aimed to use the capsule endoscope to monitor the bleeding peptic ulcer after therapeutic
      endoscopy in order to detect rebleeding before clinical manifestation.
    
  