
    
      The study population is a dynamic/open cohort consists of all patients MHMRS diagnosed and
      supported in one of the six Centers of Reference for Metabolical disease or one of the three
      Centers of Competence for Hereditary Metabolic Diseases or in the Center of Réference for
      Hereditary liver Metabolism Diseases since 2000. For each patient, the date of entry into the
      cohort is the diagnostic date of MHMRS. The study includes all prevalent and incident cases .

      The evaluations include all data collected by querying patients and their families and
      medical data collected by the medical team.

      The data collected concern in one hand explanatory variables characterizing the state of
      health and quality of life of patients, on the other variables describing the factors
      considered as potential determinants, namely:

        -  Socio -demographic and socio-economic on the patient and family.

        -  Clinical and therapeutic relative to the patient : age at the time of diagnosis, illness
           and consequences, type of treatment and diet.

        -  On possible alterations of physical health: overall assessment of the importance of
           using health professionals and specific description of the various physical health
           problems.

        -  Psycho- behavioral and cognitive.

        -  Quality of life of patients and their family.

        -  On the patient's relationship with the care system (access to care and satisfaction).

      The frequency of evaluations is 2 years. The evaluation will be at a consultation in the
      usual medical monitoring way up conducted in these children, allowing to collect clinical
      information directly nearby medical teams that support them.

      The various measurement tools used are:

        -  STAI-C and STAI-Y

        -  BRIEFCOPE and KIDCOPE

        -  GOODMAN questionnaire

        -  FAS questionnaire

        -  WECHSLER scale

        -  VSPA, VSPA-e and VSPA-p

        -  QUALIN

        -  WHOQOL-BREF

      The project is under the authority of a Steering Committee comprising representatives of all
      the partners in the project teams. The project is supervised by the Scientific Council of the
      SFEIM (Société Francaise pour les Erreurs Inées du Métabolisme) and the G2M (Groupement des
      centres de référence et de compétence des Maladies héréditaires du Métabolisme) which is
      consulted on the scientific guidance of the project.

      At the end of a study report will be prepared. It will detail all the decisions inherent in
      the conduct of the project and the results obtained. This report will be sent to the Ministry
      of Health under the cover of the Delegation for Clinical Research. The report will form the
      basis of the adjacent communications will be co-signed by the members of the Steering
      Committee and will reference the origin of the aid received.
    
  