
    
      In pediatric resuscitation, the use of a percutaneous central venous catheter is essential.
      It allows to administer strong osmolarity intravenous drugs or prolonged duration treatment
      and to carry out blood samples.

      In the course of the placement of a central venous catheter, there is a risk of occurrence of
      early thrombosis between 20 and 45%, appearing mainly in the 4 first days. The occurrence is
      explained by the Virchow triad: endothelial lesion (linked to the central venous catheter),
      venous stasis, hypercoagulability. Ultrasonography is an imaging test that can be performed
      at the bedside, allowing the non-invasive collection of diagnostic elements of thrombosis
      (visible thrombus, non-compressibility of the vein, abolition of venous flow). Performing
      ultrasound for thrombosis screening is essential because of a very low clinical expression of
      thrombosis, while the consequences are potentially severe, including infection, embolism,
      venous insufficiency and loss of venous access for children who will need several central
      venous catheters during their lifetime.

      Despite the knowledge of certain risk factors (i.e. assisted ventilation, history of cancer,
      transfusions,...), there is actually no consensus for the systematic screening of venous
      thromboses on central venous catheters. Systematic thromboprophylaxis is not recommended for
      central venous catheters (grade 1B). Concerning the curative treatment of central venous
      catheter thrombosis, unfractionated heparin or low molecular weight heparin (grade 1B) is
      recommended. If the central venous catheter is no longer needed for the care, it can be
      removed after 3 to 5 days of anticoagulants (grade 2C). It can also be kept under cover of
      anticoagulant treatment if its use is essential (grade 2C).

      The objective of this study is to prospectively describe the incidence of early venous
      thrombosis secondary to the placement of a percutaneous central venous catheter, in a
      pediatric intensive care unit, by the systematic ultrasound screening.
    
  