
    
      INTRODUCTION The ethnic groups of the Pacific Region are predominantly Pacific Islander and
      Asian.

      Pacific Islanders (PacIsl) are among the world's most obese populations while Asians,
      although of relatively low body mass index (BMI), carry much of their body fat in the upper
      body and exhibit greater health risk at the same BMI. Childhood offers an opportunity to
      develop and support health-promoting behaviors. This project will extend and apply the
      nationally recommended DASH eating pattern 115, developed for White, African American and
      Hispanic adults, to children and to the growing population of Asians and PacIsl. We will
      incorporate culturally-preferred foods, recipes, and physical activities that meet DASH and
      other national guidelines, with adaptations for children. We will develop the Pacific Kids
      DASH for Health (PacDASH) intervention in Hawaii, where the majority is of Asian and PacIsl
      ancestry.

      Linking food and health systems is critical to prevent obesity. The PacDASH intervention will
      include a food and physical activity (PA) prescription delivered by a physician at a
      community-based health center (HC), in partnership with farmers' markets (FM) that are based
      at the HC, and complemented with a toolbox of related activities. The intervention approach
      supports child food behaviors and social and environmental cues, which are important to
      making healthy food and PA choices. Linking physicians and health with farmers and food at a
      convenient HC FM will support increased intake of nutrient-rich, less energy dense foods
      among children of understudied ethnic groups who are at high risk for obesity.

      Project Goal Our goal is to develop and evaluate the effectiveness of a community-based
      intervention that links food and health, and targets children of the Pacific Region who are
      overweight, in order to slow and prevent further weight gain (for children to "grow into
      their weight").

      Specific Objectives

        1. To develop and evaluate the impact of the PacDASH intervention on preventing weight gain
           and improving blood pressure in children of the Pacific Region.

             1. To further develop and test the Pacific Tracker (PacTrac) dietary assessment and
                education tool by incorporating updated MyPyramid 112 reference data and
                educational output, and

             2. To enhance PacTrac with an expert system (ES) of behaviorally-tailored messages and
                output.

             3. To evaluate the effect of the PacDASH intervention on nutrition and physical
                activity behavior of children.

        2. To describe environmental, social, economic and cultural factors associated with body
           size and composition of children of the Pacific Region, for whom there are few national
           data.

             1. To examine body size and composition of children of the Pacific Region according to
                several measures.

             2. To examine the influence of individual PacIsl ethnic groups on body size and
                composition.
    
  