
    
      Bronchiolitis is common infection in the small airways of the lungs in the pediatric
      population. It typically affects children under the age of two years during the fall and
      winter months.Infants with this condition often have a significant amount of nasal drainage
      and congestion. Infants are known to be obligate nasal breathers. When the nasal secretions
      block the nasal airway, then breathing, sleeping, and eating/drinking all become very
      difficult. For this reason it is very important to have a good method of suctioning out the
      nose and clearing out the secretions. Historically a baby's nose was suctioned with a bulb
      syringe. These are still commonly used and are given out in the hospital setting, although
      there are many other types of devices that have been developed recently that are used for
      suctioning. One of these devices that has become very common among parents now is called the
      NoseFrida. It is important to evaluate this device and its efficacy compared to the bulb
      syringe.

      Parents/guardians of eligible caregivers will be approached for informed consent. Those who
      consent will then be supplied with a suction device to be used once their child is discharged
      home: either a NoseFrida device or a bulb syringe. The device supplied will be dependent on
      the week of enrollment in the study (the investigators will rotate supplying NoseFrida to all
      patients one week, and bulb syringe to all patients the next week in order to attain similar
      size cohorts). Education will be given to caregivers on how to use their respective suction
      device. Along with the device, a form (Home monitoring form) will be supplied that will
      outline what should be monitored while using the device. At 7 days after discharge from the
      Emergency Center, caregivers will complete a survey asking questions about their baby's
      condition over the past week.
    
  