
    
      Lung transplantation (LT) is an increasingly used treatment for end-stage respiratory
      disease. However, it is expensive, with hospital costs alone estimated at
      >US$500,000/transplant. Fungal infection and chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD) are
      the major complications of LT. They pose the greatest threat to long-term survival and are
      reported to occur in 12-50% of LT recipients and cause death in 21.7-82% of these.

      Fungal infections occur in 3 major forms in LT recipients, namely colonisation,
      trachea-bronchial disease and invasive (or end-organ) disease. Whilst invasive fungal disease
      (IFD) is associated with the highest mortality, colonisation poses the greatest clinical
      challenge. It is the most common manifestation, can progress to IFD and can precipitate CLAD.
      Antifungal prophylaxis is used to minimise the risks associated with colonisation.

      Two main antifungal prophylaxis strategies are used. Universal prophylaxis (UP) is defined as
      the administration of antifungal agents to all patients post-LT. Most centres use UP. A
      systematic review and meta-analysis showed neither Aspergillus colonisation nor invasive
      aspergillosis (IA) (the commonest fungal infection in LT recipients) were reduced by UP. Yet
      it caused side-effects in 29.6%.

      The pre-emptive strategy is defined as the administration of antifungal agents when a fungal
      pathogen (including in donor specimens) is detected or there is serological evidence of a
      fungal pathogen in the absence of IFD from a post-LT surveillance bronchoscopy or other
      clinical investigations (i.e. colonisation).Observational data suggest that a pre-emptive
      strategy has similar IA incidence rates but fewer adverse drug reactions (ADR) than UP
      (16.1%). It has been estimated that a pre-emptive strategy can reduce antifungal drug use by
      43%.

      No direct comparison of the efficacy, safety and cost of the two strategies has been
      performed to date. Thus, a randomised controlled trial (RCT) is needed to determine the
      optimal strategy to reduce the impact of fungal infection in LT recipients. However, before
      we embark on a definitive phase III RCT powered for clinical outcomes we will perform a pilot
      feasibility RCT to generate data and answer practical questions to better inform the design
      of the definitive phase III RCT powered for clinical outcomes.
    
  