
    
      Development of new cost effective mobile devices and wireless technology has great potential
      in supervision of critically ill patients in wards as well as ambulant. Through continuous
      wireless monitoring in both the hospital and the patients home, detection of heart
      arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation (AF) will be possible.

      AF is the cause of a sizeable amount of strokes (15% of all, and more than 35% of the
      population over 80 years of age), which can be prevented through anticoagulation treatment if
      provided in time. Thus, many patients are referred to cardiologic ambulatory to be examined
      for AF, and are subjected to heart monitoring with a so-called Holter or event monitor. This
      entails the patient be equipped with several electrodes on the chest, to which leads are
      attached and connected to a sizable and bulky box. The patient carries this box around
      hanging from the shoulder, belt or something similar for one or several days. It is then
      required of the patient to come back and deliver the device, after which the data must be
      read and analysed, in order to work out a further plan for the patient. During admission, a
      similar system can be attached for continuous heart monitoring.

      Cortrium (http://cortrium.com) has developed a wireless technology, where a small C3 monitor
      is attached to the chest with standard electrodes and the leads are built into the actual
      monitor. The quality of the signal has been tested on healthy adults, but is yet to be tested
      on patients suffering from arrhythmias

      The purpose of this study is to validate the quality of the ECG-signal acquired with the
      Cortrium C3 monitor. The intention is to evaluate whether the diagnosis of atrial
      fibrillation based on the ECG signal from the C3 monitor concurs with the current monitoring
      methods used in clinical practice.

      The measurements are performed on patients under investigation for AF at cardiology
      ambulatory Y at Frederiksberg-Bispebjerg Hospital and Aleris-Hamlet Hospital, Copenhagen. The
      patients are outfitted with a C3 monitor simultaneous with the use of the conventional
      ambulatory apparatus. This is a "Holter monitor" (Rozinn station RZ152+12 and RZ153+ from
      ScottCare Holter for Windows 2010 (CE0120) and "EventCare SA version" (CE0120), both bought
      via SEMCA Ap, Skævinge, Denmark.

      Recordings with the usual apparatus are analysed in the usual fashion in the cardiology
      ambulatory. A copy of the recordings is registered anonymously and paired with the
      simultaneous recordings from the C3. The diagnosis is made by two observers, blinded to both
      patient identity and data source. Thus, data will not be personally identifiable. Validation
      is performed in collaboration with the department of cardiology.

      Statistics:

      With simultaneous supervision of 77 patients with increased incidence of AF it will be
      possible to determine whether the C3 is capable of detecting AF in at least 95% of the cases
      which Holter detects. Since the incidence of AF Is lower in the total patient group referred
      to Holter monitoring, we plan to include 150 patients to acquire the usable number of
      examinations.

      Economic Conditions Helen Dominguez is the unfunded, and the responsible consultant of the
      study. Opeon Aps delivers C3 monitors for this clinical trial as well as brochure guides for
      patients and health care personnel. There are no economic benefits connected with the present
      clinical trial.

      Publication of Results:

      Opeon ApS (owner of Cortrium) is responsible for processing the material for publication of
      results in an international peer-reviewed journal as well as in the Danish popular scientific
      press related to new Medical equipment. Positive, negative and inconclusive results will be
      published.

      Recruitment of Participants:

      Patients who have planned ambulatory arrhythmia recording for diagnosis of intermittent AF
      will be asked by telephone to consider participating in the study.

      After reading the participant information flyer, the subjects are invited to in-depth verbal
      information in the ambulatory. If the subjects accept to participate and provide a signed
      informed consent, they outfitted with a C3 monitor along with the standard Holter apparatus.

      The study only includes subjects scheduled for Holter monitoring referred for atrial
      fibrillation examination, quantification of paroxysms, or heart rate during paroxysms.

      Ethical Considerations:

      Ethical Considerations: If the patient agrees to take part in the study, the main
      disadvantages are that it entails attachment of another three electrodes for the C3 monitor,
      increasing the risk of skin irritation, and receiving additional instructions for two
      devices. Since ECG recordings are non-invasive, and the C3 recordings do not result in
      further ambulatory visits than otherwise planned, we estimated that the strain on the
      patients is very limited.

      The use of C3 for estimation of AF in future patients will decrease the trouble of loose
      leads. For this reason, using the C3 will also simplify the work of the healthcare personnel
      during the attachment procedure. Overall it may lead to an increase in quality as well as
      increase the capacity for examining cardiac arrhythmia in the cardiology ambulatory.
    
  