
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Taiwan. Traditionally, open thoracotomy
      has been the standard approach for lung cancer surgery, including lobectomy and
      pneumonectomy. With the advance of thoracoscopic technique, thoracoscopic lobectomy has
      emerged as a reasonable option for the management of early-stage non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC), and is supported by evidence-based treatment guidelines. Advantages of thoracoscopic
      lobectomy compared with thoracotomy include less postoperative pain, shorter hospitalization,
      and decreased postoperative pulmonary complications.

      Traditionally, general anesthesia (GA) with one-lung ventilation using double-lumen
      endotracheal intubation has been considered mandatory in both open and thoracoscopic surgery.
      However, adverse effects of GA may occur after the operation, including ventilator-induced
      lung injury, impaired cardiac performance, postoperative nausea and vomiting, and residual
      neuromuscular blockade.

      In order to reduce the adverse effects of GA, nonintubated anesthesia has been recently
      employed to perform thoracic surgery procedures including coronary artery bypass, management
      of pneumothorax, resection of pulmonary nodules and solitary metastases, lung volume
      reduction (LVR), and even transsternal thymectomy. The results achieved in these early series
      have been encouraging. In Taiwan, nonintubated thoracic surgery has also been performed at
      Taipei Veteran General Hospital in a high risk patient with satisfactory results.

      The role of nonintubated anesthesia in thoracoscopic lobectomy is rarely investigated. There
      is a report showed that lobectomy using nonintubated anesthesia is safe and feasible,
      although only 3 cases were reported [13]. In our hospital, we also performed 6 thoracoscopic
      lobectomy using nonintubated anesthesia between August and October, 2009 with satisfactory
      results. Until now, the safety and effects of nonintubated anesthesia in thoracoscopic
      lobectomy has been unclear and comparison between nonintubated and intubated general
      anesthesia has never been reported. We hypothesize that nonintubated thoracoscopic lobectomy
      will be associated with a comparable oncological results, lower cardiopulmonary
      complications, and shorter intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stays. To this end, we will
      compare safety and results of thoracoscopic lobectomy using nonintubated anesthesia versus
      intubated general anesthesia for lung cancer patients.

      This study will be performed at National Taiwan University Hospital. A total of 100 patients
      will be included (50 patients in each arm).
    
  