
    
      Over the past decade, umbilical cord blood transplantation has been shown to be a viable
      alternative donor stem cell source for hematopoietic cell transplantation in subjects with
      catastrophic diseases treatable with transplantation therapy. UCB cells can cross partially
      mismatched HLA barriers without intolerable acute or chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease(GVHD).
      Thus, many subjects lacking a sufficiently matched, living related or unrelated bone marrow
      or adult stem cell donor, can use partially HLA-matched UCB cells for stem cell rescue after
      myeloablative irradiation and/or chemotherapy. UCB Cell dose, expressed per kilogram of
      recipient body weight, is the best predictor of outcomes after UCB transplantation. Cell dose
      thresholds strongly correlating with outcomes have been identified.

      In subjects receiving lower cell doses, while durable engraftment will ultimately occur,
      there are significant delays in myeloid and platelet engraftment which, at best, result in
      longer hospitalization and significant increases in resource utilization and in the worst
      cases, result in increased early deaths from infection and regimen-related toxicity.

      In infants and children weighing <40kg, it is possible to find a sufficiently matched UCB
      unit that will deliver a dose of cells critical for successful engraftment (defined as 5 x
      10^7 nucleated cells/kg) within a reasonable time frame in >90% of subjects. In teenagers and
      adults weighing >40kg, this is not always possible. Because UCB units contain a relatively
      fixed number of total nucleated cells, units delivering optimal cell dosing for subjects
      weighing >70kg will only be identified <10% of the time. Attempts to increase the dose of
      cells available for UCBT have included ex vivo expansion and combined unit transplantation.
      While expansion of UCB cells ex vivo is possible, infusion of these expanded cells have not
      resulted in shortening of engraftment times. Likewise, combinations of up to 5 UCB units for
      a single myeloablative transplant have not shortened time to neutrophil or platelet
      engraftment.

      In this study, we take an alternative approach to facilitating early myeloid engraftment in
      subjects undergoing UCB transplantation therapy. In subjects who cannot only identify a donor
      delivering a cell dose >2 x 10^7 nucleated cells/kg, we will augment the UCBT with a lower
      dose of haplo-identical, T-cell depleted stem cells from a related adult donor to facilitate
      early, short-term engraftment with the primary goal of minimizing early infections and other
      non-relapse mortality while the UCB cells engraft as the durable and permanent graft. As the
      immunocompetent UCB cells engraft, we expect that they will reject the immunologically
      incompetent haplo-identical adult stem cells. Thus, after approximately 100-180 days post
      transplant, the subject should convert to 100% donor chimerism with the UCB donor graft.

      In this study, we will investigate the use of unrelated UCB obtained from the umbilical cord
      blood banks supplements with related, haplo-identical, T-cell depleted stem cells in subjects
      with high risk refractory malignancies, myelodysplasia or severe aplastic anemia amenable to
      stem cell transplantation therapy but lacking conventional related or unrelated donors.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To determine the safety of co-transplantation of unrelated umbilical cord blood
           supplemented with related, haplo-identical, T-cell depleted stem cells in subjects with
           high risk malignancies.

        2. To describe the rates of neutrophil and platelet engraftment and immune reconstitution
           in these subjects.

        3. To determine whether short and long term lymphohematopoietic engraftment is derived from
           one or both donor sources.

      The primary endpoint of the study is number of days to ANC of 500/uL

      The secondary endpoints of the study are:

        1. 180 day survival

        2. Non-relapse mortality in the first 180 days post transplant

        3. Number of days to untransfused platelet count of 50K/uL

        4. Incidence of primary and secondary graft failure

        5. Incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)

        6. Pace and quality of immune reconstitution

        7. Rates of leukemic relapse

        8. Donor chimerism
    
  