
    
      There will be about 400 patients enrolled in this intervention study and there will be about
      300 family caregivers enrolled as well. This study will consist of two study groups as
      previously described. The effects of the early involvement of the palliative care team will
      be compared to the usual approach of receiving care mostly from the cancer treatment team.
      The stratification factors include tumor type (lung vs. esophageal/gastric vs.
      hepatic/biliary/pancreatic) and family care giver participation (yes vs. no). Patients will
      be on this study for as long as they receive care. Institutions must have an outpatient
      palliative care clinic that meets the study site requirements as defined in the protocol. The
      outpatient clinic leadership must include a physician and/or advanced practice nurses board
      certified in palliative care. The primary and secondary endpoints are described below.

      Primary Endpoint:

      To determine the efficacy of early integrated palliative care on patient reported quality of
      life at 12 weeks using the FACT in patients with newly diagnosed incurable lung or
      non-colorectal gastrointestinal cancer

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  To determine the efficacy of early integrated palliative care on other patient reported
           outcomes in patients with newly diagnosed incurable lung or non-colorectal
           gastrointestinal cancer, by assessing the endpoints defined in the protocol

        -  To determine the efficacy of early integrated palliative care on family caregiver
           reported outcomes in those newly diagnosed incurable lung or non-colorectal
           gastrointestinal cancer, by assessing the endpoints defined in the protocol

        -  To assess the impact of early integrated palliative care on the quality of end-of-life
           care and resource utilization in patients with newly diagnosed incurable lung or
           non-colorectal gastrointestinal cancer by assessing the endpoints defined in the
           protocol

        -  To determine concordance between patient and family caregiver report of prognosis/
           curability
    
  