
    
      The VITamin D and OmegA-3 Trial (VITAL; NCT01169259) is a randomized clinical trial of
      vitamin D (in the form of D3 [cholecalciferol]) and marine omega-3 fatty acid
      (eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA] + docosahexaenoic acid [DHA]) supplements in the primary
      prevention of cancer and cardiovascular disease.

      Eligible participants will be assigned by chance (like a coin toss) to one of four groups:
      (1) daily vitamin D3 and omega-3; (2) daily vitamin D3 and omega-3 placebo; (3) daily vitamin
      D and omega-3; or (4) daily vitamin D placebo and omega-3 placebo. Participants have an equal
      chance of being assigned to any of these four groups and a 3 out of 4 chance of getting at
      least one active agent.

      Participants in all group will take two pills each day--one softgel that contains either
      vitamin D3 or vitamin D placebo and one capsule that contains either omega-3 or omega-3
      placebo. Participants will receive their study pills in convenient calendar packages via U.S.
      mail.

      Participants will also fill out a short (15-20 minute) questionnaire each year. The
      questionnaire asks about health; lifestyle habits such as physical exercise, diet, and
      smoking; use of medications and dietary supplements; family history of illness, and new
      medical diagnoses. Occasionally participants may receive a phone call from study staff to
      collect information or to clarify responses on the questions.

      If a participant reports a new medical diagnosis of anemia on the short questionnaires, he or
      she will be invited to participate in this sub-study. If the participant consents, his or her
      medical record will be reviewed to confirm the diagnosis of anemia. We expect roughly 1,100
      individuals to develop anemia while on the study.

      Of the expected 20,000 participants in the VITAL trial, approximately 1,000 participants will
      be seen in Boston and given the opportunity to participate in optional research blood draws.
      This sub-study expects to receive approximately 10mL of the samples collected from 900 of
      these participants. This portion of blood will be used to evaluate the amount of different
      proteins in both anemic and non-anemic individuals. Blood samples will be collected at
      baseline and two years later.
    
  