
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of twice daily (BID) oral (PO)
      ropidoxuridine (IPdR) when administered with capecitabine (825 mg/m^2 BID) and radiation
      therapy (RT) (50.4 Gy in 28 fractions).

      II. To determine the toxicities Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version (v) 5 of the combined modality therapy, IPdR + capecitabine + RT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BID IPdR when combined with capecitabine.

      II. To evaluate iododeoxyuridine (IUdR) incorporation in circulating granulocytes and
      correlate these levels with IPdR plasma PK and clinical/laboratory toxicities.

      III. To assess IUdR incorporation in tumor cells obtained from the surgical resection
      specimen and correlate IUdR incorporation in tumor cells with IPdR PK.

      IV. To assess IUdR incorporation in tumor cells obtained from the surgical resection specimen
      and correlate IUdR incorporation in tumor cells with tumor response as measured by
      pathological complete response (pCR) rate and neoadjuvant rectal (NAR) score.

      V. To determine the pCR rate of IPdR + capecitabine + RT at the IPdR MTD as a measure of
      anti-tumor activity.

      VI. To determine the NAR score of IPdR + capecitabine + RT at the IPdR MTD.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase IA, dose-escalation study of ropidoxuridine followed by a phase IB
      study.

      Patients receive ropidoxuridine PO BID over 7 days per week and capecitabine PO BID over 6
      days per week for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo radiation therapy over 1 fraction per day
      for 5 days per week (Monday-Friday) during weeks 1-5 and for 3 days during week 6 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 8-12 weeks after
      completion of treatment with ropidoxuridine, capecitabine, and radiation therapy, patients
      undergo standard of care surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 and 8-12 weeks following
      chemoradiation therapy.
    
  