
    
      The PHC Evaluation Trial uses a randomized trial to test if a brief web-based counseling
      intervention can improve clinical outcomes among people living with HIV. The study will also
      assess implementation processes, collect data to determine cost effectiveness, and document
      the standard of care in each clinic. The study will take place in four locations including
      Atlanta VA Medical Center (Atlanta, GA), Hillsborough County Health Department (Tampa, FL),
      Rutgers Infectious Disease Practice (Newark, NJ) and Crescent Care (New Orleans, LA). The
      objectives of the PHC Evaluation Trial are four-fold: Objective 1) Implement a randomized
      trial to test if the PHC intervention improves clinical health outcomes, specifically viral
      load suppression and retention in care. While PHC is designed to improve antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) initiation, ART adherence and retention in care as well as reduce unprotected
      sex and promote safe injection practices, the primary outcome on which the trial is powered
      is viral suppression; Objective 2) Conduct an implementation evaluation to determine
      effective implementation strategies and integration of PHC into HIV primary care clinics;
      Objective 3) Collect and document data on the cost of the PHC intervention implementation;
      Objective 4) Document the standard of care at each participating site. PHC is a web-based
      intervention that delivers tailored evidence-based prevention messages to HIV positive
      patients through a series of brief interactive videos designed to simulate a conversation
      with an HIV primary care provider. Web-based interventions have been shown to be effective in
      improving adherence and reducing sexual risk. Eligible patients, who use the intervention,
      are given a tablet with a privacy screen, a set of headphones, a unique login ID and will be
      prompted to create their own private password. Once logged in, the intervention guides a
      patient through tailored messaging from a video doctor on patient-selected topics including
      treatment initiation or adherence, retention in care, sexual risk reduction, pregnancy, and
      intravenous drug use. Throughout the intervention patients answer tailoring questions about
      themselves and based on their answers, are given tailored messages from their chosen video
      doctor. PHC is designed to facilitate patient-provider communication on these topics. In the
      intervention, patients can select which questions they have for their doctor on the topics
      covered and which health promotion strategies they want to practice before their next visit.
      The questions and chosen health promotion strategies ("tips") automatically populate to a
      handout which is given to the patient after logging off. Patients also have access to another
      module that provides other information about HIV management, how to prevent transmission, and
      living a healthy lifestyle while being HIV positive. The intervention will be considered
      implemented with fidelity if a patient completes the intervention in the clinic before or
      after seeing their primary care provider, or before or after a blood draw or ancillary
      appointment in advance of their appointment with their clinical provider. A patient may also
      begin the intervention in the clinic and complete it after the appointment or at home within
      21 days. Evaluation of the intervention will include comparisons of the intervention and
      control arms on the primary outcome using data abstracted via electronic medical records,
      with the 12- month viral load value considered the primary outcome measure.
    
  