
    
      Sarcomas are mesenchymal malignancies that arise in the connective tissue throughout the body
      and afflict approximately 11,000 people in the United States yearly. Sarcomas are
      heterogeneous with well over 50 subtypes described. The peak incidence is subtype-specific
      with certain sarcomas seen in children and young adults while other subtypes peak in late
      middle-age, causing significant morbidity and mortality in young patients and productive
      adults.

      The precise etiology for most sarcomas remains unknown. External radiation therapy is an
      established risk factor. Other risk factors include occupational exposures to certain
      chemicals, lymphedema, and hereditary conditions such as neurofibromatosis and Li-Fraumeni
      syndrome. Many sarcomas are associated with specific somatic genetic alterations. For
      example, some specific subtypes are associated with gene translocations causing aberrant
      fusion proteins including Ewing sarcoma (EWS-FLI-1), synovial sarcoma (SSX-SYT), alveolar
      rhabdomyosarcoma (PAX3-FHKR), and myxoid liposarcomas (TLS-CHOP). These singular molecular
      alterations imply that some sarcomas are cytogenetically simple and may be more appropriate
      substrates for therapy targeted to a single molecular pathway.

      Sarcomas are commonly present as an asymptomatic mass or with local symptoms in an extremity
      or the retroperitoneum. Although tumor size, location, and histologic subtype have been
      implicated as prognostic factors in sarcomas, histologic grade remains the most important
      factor. Tumor grade is based on the degree of cellularity, differentiation, pleomorphism,
      necrosis, and the number of mitoses. Approximately 50-60% of patients with high grade soft
      tissue sarcoma will eventually have metastatic disease, as compared to 5-10% of patients with
      low grade disease.

      Sarcomas spread hematogenously with the most common site of spread being the lung, followed
      by liver, bone, and brain. About 50% of patients with sarcoma eventually expire due to
      locally advanced or metastatic disease with a median survival of 8-12 months.
    
  