
    
      This is a single center, double blinded, controlled and randomized 8-week home use clinical
      trial.

      Subjects will be randomly and evenly divided into 3 groups (40subjects/group) with different
      facial care regimens during the 8-week home use study.

      Group 1: NTG Hydro Boost Gelee Milk Cleanser + NTG Hydro Boost Kiwi Water Gel Group 2: NTG
      Hydro Boost Gelee Milk Cleanser + NTG Hydro Boost Water Gel Group 3: NTG Hydro Boost Gelee
      Milk Cleanser + NTG Hydro Boost Extra Dry Emulsion There will be a 3-day wash-in period after
      subject's enrollment. During the period, no product will be allowed to be applied on the face
      and upper chest but only water washes twice per day in the morning and evening for 3 days
      before baseline (BL) measurement.

      After baseline (BL) measurement, the product regimens will be applied on face at site under
      site instruction according to the randomization. Measurements will be taken at 2-4 hours and
      8 hours after product regimens' application. Upper chest area will be measured as no
      treatment control.

      A set of product regimen includes a facial cleanser and a facial cream will be distributed to
      each subject according to grouping and applied on the face at home for 8 weeks. Both cleanser
      and cream products will be applied twice a day in the morning and evening on the whole face.
      For the upper chest area, use water wash only twice per day in the morning and evening, no
      any other product is allowed.

      The usage of assigned product regimens will be discontinued after 8-week home use, no any
      other product is allowed but only water wash twice per day in the morning and evening on both
      face and upper chest for 3 days (regression period).

      Subjects will not be allowed to use sunscreen, makeup and any other cosmetic products on face
      and upper chest during the study period.

      Subjects will visit the site at Screening (-3D), Baseline (BL), 1-week (1W), 4-week (4W),
      8-week (8W) and 8-week+3-days (+3D) for measurements.
    
  