
    
      In this retrospective, single-center, case-control study the investigators will seek to
      compare the diagnostic accuracy of various ECG criteria to identify acute coronary occlusion
      (ACO). The investigators will scan the charts of the patients presenting to emergency
      department with a clinical picture suggestive of acute coronary syndrome in the specified
      time period. Patients without any admission ECG will be excluded. Patients who had a final
      diagnosis of myocardial infarction (MI) with or without subsequent coronary intervention will
      be enrolled. These patients will be classified as ST-segment elevation (STEMI) group or
      non-ST-segment elevation (NSTEMI) group according to their final diagnosis. Patient who had
      been excluded for acute coronary syndrome with serial unchanging ECGs AND negative serial
      troponins will constitute a third group. Allocation to each group will be continued until the
      patient number in each group reaches up to 1000 patients. The dead or alive status of all
      included patients will be checked from the electronic national database.

      All ECGs will be reviewed by two cardiologists blinded to the angiographic and clinical
      outcomes. The presence of predefined ECG findings of ACO (including, but not limited to,
      current established STEMI criteria) will be recorded. The coronary angiograms of the first
      two groups will be reviewed for ACO by independent investigators who are blinded to ECG
      parameters. The diagnosis of acute coronary occlusion will be dependent upon angiographic
      occlusion and rising cardiac biomarker levels. Because in some cases of ACO, the artery may
      spontaneously open by the time of the angiogram, the investigators will need to have
      surrogate endpoints: this will be culprit lesion OR acute occlusion on the angiogram AND a
      sufficiently elevated peak troponin, i.e., peak troponin I > 1.0 ng/mL with a 20% change
      within first 24 hours OR peak troponin T > 5.0 ng/mL, which have been shown to be highly
      correlated with ACO OR cardiac arrest in a clinical scenario compatible with ACO before blood
      could be withdrawn for troponin essay.

      The sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of all these predefined ECG criteria
      will be sought. Also, sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of current established
      STEMI criteria will be defined. Both short- and long-term mortality of the patients with a
      diagnosis of STEMI with ACO, STEMI without ACO, NSTEMI with ACO, NSTEMI without ACO and chest
      pain without acute coronary syndrome will be compared.
    
  