
    
      Aseptic Loosening remains a leading cause for revision following TKA. Cemented TKAs have
      shown high failure rates in obese and younger populations. There is renewed interest in
      biologic fixation of total knee components with a more active and younger patient population,
      as well as long term alternatives in obese patients receiving TKA.

      Questions remain whether cemented or cementless long term fixation is superior in total knee
      arthroplasty in these populations.

      Potential benefits of cementless fixation include preservation of bone, decreased operative
      times, and elimination of complications specific to cemented components. Older cementless TKA
      designs had higher failure rates due to poor fixation methods, patch porous coating on the
      implant, poor tibial locking mechanisms and the use of conventional polyethylene. The
      combination of these factors led to unacceptable failure rates in these devices. Newer
      designs have looked to improve these flaws with advances in the biologic interface, use of
      highly porous metals, improved locking mechanisms, and cross-linked polyethylene.

      Recently, cementless implants with these improved design features have shown improved long
      term outcomes of cementless components versus their cemented predecessors. The combination of
      these improved long term outcomes in younger, more active population warrant further
      investigation of cementless components in TKA. There is a need for more durable, long term
      fixation in all implants treating obese, as well as young active patients.

      The investigators are evaluating an implant (Depuy Attune TKA) that was recently released to
      market with a cementless design that is yet to have long term comparative data between this
      cementless design or cemented options. The investigators are conducting a study to compare
      the results of this cementless design to the cemented design of the same implant.
    
  