
    
      Surgical treatment of CTS is most often performed under hospital conditions, with the use of
      anesthesia. The anesthetic technique of choice varies among surgeons. In the last decade some
      studies have described the performance of this surgery using local anesthesia with adrenaline
      without the necessity of sedation or the use of pneumatic garrote, having good effectiveness
      and substantial reduction of costs for the procedure with this anesthetic method. However,
      when we evaluated the level and strength of the evidence from these studies, we notice that
      there is a need for studies with an appropriate design and methodology to evaluate the actual
      effectiveness of this kind of anesthesia for the surgical treatment of CTS.

      Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of open surgery for CTS in a randomized trial
      comparing two anesthesia methods: intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier) and local anesthesia
      with adrenaline without limb garroting (Lalondi).

      Methods: This study was developed in the Group of Hand Surgery and Upper Limb; Department of
      Orthopedics and Traumatology, Federal University of São Paulo, UNIFESP / EPM with
      co-participation of the Hand Surgery and Microsurgery Department of the Medical Residency
      Service in Hand Surgery of Hospital Alvorada. This study will be a Randomized Clinical Trial.
      The previous calculation of the sample resulted in the need for total inclusion of 35
      patients in each group, total of 70 patients, considering a loss of 10% during follow-up we
      will include 78 patients. The following primary outcomes will be assessed: Pain through
      visual analogue scale (VAS), that, will be measured in the pre-operative, transoperatory,
      immediate postoperative, 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 8 hours, 12 hours after surgery. Costs:
      Costs related to anesthetic and surgical procedures will be recorded. The secondary outcomes
      will be: Use of Analgesics, Anxiety and Depression through the HADS (Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale) scale. Quality of life through the Boston Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
      Questionnaire (BCTQ). Remission of paresthesia after surgical intervention, complications and
      failures.
    
  