
    
      The study will be a 12 week randomised controlled trial, so that the researchers can isolate
      the independent variable of home-based combined exercise to ensure that factor is affecting
      the patient's measurements. Participants will be recruited from a DESMOND day through the
      medical team informing them of the study via a Participant Information Sheet. Once recruited
      and informed consent is obtained, the participants will be assigned an ID number so that they
      can remain anonymous, and then will be randomly allocated into either the exercise or control
      group. Ideally 9 participants will be recruited into each group.

      All participants will be invited into the Spinnaker Physiology Laboratory at Portsmouth
      University at a specified date. They will have their health and fitness data collected and
      complete a 7-day physical activity recall questionnaire, SF-36 Form and Self-Efficacy
      Questionnaire before and after the intervention period to measure any change in their PA
      levels, self-perceived health status and self-efficacy towards exercise. They will be
      provided with a 7 day food diary to complete.

      A control group is included so that the researchers can rule out other factors that may
      affect glycaemic control and anthropometric measurements. The control group will be given a
      Physical Activity Advice sheets as this mimics what they would normally have access to
      through DESMOND. The control group will receive a Physical Activity advice sheet and the
      researchers will talk through the advice sheet with the participants. If the control group
      were to have no intervention, this would be less than they normally have access to as part of
      their normal diabetes treatment.

      The exercise group will be given the therabands and pedometer, a Physical Activity Log,
      Pedometer log, theraband protocol and Physical Activity Advice sheet, which will all be
      explained to the participant. All theraband exercises will be performed so that the
      researchers can ensure the participant has a good technique. The exercise intervention
      resistance segment will involve the exercise group performing 7 theraband exercises on three
      days per week on non-consecutive days. For the aerobic exercise, the participants will be
      asked to use the provided pedometer to record the number of steps they complete on day 1 of
      the intervention (assuming that on this day, they complete their normal daily activities that
      they would do most days of the week). They then are asked to add 2,000 steps onto their daily
      steps; this amount will then become their daily step goal. Once they have reached this goal
      on 4 out of 5 days, they are asked to increase their step goal by 500.

      The participants will be invited back after 12 weeks to repeat the pre-study measures to
      assess any changes.
    
  