
    
      Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) is a major complication of cirrhosis; it is characterized by
      functional renal failure and poor prognosis. Arterial dilation is a key pathogenic event of
      HRS, leading to reduction of the effective blood volume, homeostatic activation of vasoactive
      systems and renal vasoconstriction with decrease in renal blood flow. The clinical signs of
      HRS vary depending on the clinical pattern. HRS type 1 is characterized by a rapidly
      progressive renal failure; HRS type 2 by a moderate and more stable renal failure. HRS type 1
      has a very poor short term prognosis, with a median survival of only about 2 weeks; patients
      with HRS type 2 have a median survival of about 6 months. The management of HRS still
      constitutes a major challenge. Liver transplantation is the ideal treatment, but it has
      important inherent drawbacks, such as the organ shortage and the time needed to perform the
      transplant, that is too long to consent the survival of these patients. The management of HRS
      has focused on improving renal function, thus extending patients survival and allowing the
      performance of the liver transplant. In the last years, remarkable results have been obtained
      using vasoconstrictor drugs. By improving the effective blood volume, vasoconstrictors induce
      the suppression of homeostatic vasoactive systems and increase renal blood flow and
      glomerular filtration rate.Among vasoconstrictors, terlipressin, a V1 vasopressin agonist,
      has currently the best efficacy pedigree. However, it is expensive and is not available in
      many countries, including North America. More recently, it was suggested that
      alpha-adrenergic drugs such noradrenalin and midodrine may be also effective in HRS.
      Noradrenalin would have the potential advantage of wider availability and of lower cost. The
      current prospective randomized study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of
      noradrenalin vs terlipressin in patients with HRS.
    
  