
    
      Background

      High-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell support is the current standard procedure in
      the first-line treatment in younger patients with myeloma fit for intensive treatment.
      Current practice in Switzerland for stem cell mobilization is the combination of chemotherapy
      and G-CSF stimulation in myeloma patients fit for high-dose chemotherapy with melphalan and
      autologous stem cell transplant. For mobilization chemotherapy, a single dose of vinorelbine
      is commonly used, producing mild myelosuppression. G-CSF is started at day 4 on a daily
      basis, allowing stem cell apheresis usually at day 8. In a subsequent study, we evaluated the
      use of pegylated G-CSF given as a single injection at day 4 together with vinorelbine. We
      found this regimen equally feasible, reliable and allowing collection of stem cells in an
      equally high percentage. In the current proposal, we suggest to continue this line of
      research investigating the mobilization using chemotherapy with vinorelbine. We propose to
      study the feasibility of this mobilization chemotherapy in the absence of growth factors,
      thus without G-CSF, in combination with Plerixafor.

      Objective

      Primary objective: To assess the feasibility of collection of > 6 million CD34+ peripheral
      blood stem cells/kg body weight in 2 days.

      Secondary objectives: Assessment of safety of plerixafor during mobilization and collection
      of peripheral blood stem cells; feasibility of intravenous plerixafor application and stem
      cell apheresis in a one-day procedure on an ambulatory basis; evaluation of engraftment of
      peripheral blood stem cells mobilized by vinorelbine and plerixafor; evaluation of the costs
      for mobilization with plerixafor.

      Methods

      Chemotherapy with vinorelbine is given at a standard dose at day 1, on an ambulatory basis.

      In part A (10 patients), G-CSF is given s.c., divided in two daily doses starting at day 4
      until collection of stem cells. Plerixafor is given as an i.v. application on day 8 in the
      dose of 240 microg/kg b.w. Stem cell collection is initiated 4 hours later at day 8, if at
      least 20 x 103 of CD34+ cells / ml peripheral blood are detected. In case of insufficient
      collection, the procedure is repeated at day 9, including repetition of plerixafor
      application.

      Part B (30 patients): If the combination of plerixafor and vinorelbine is found feasible and
      in the absence of unexpected toxicity, additional 30 patients will be studied in part B of
      this study. No G-CSF will be administered in part B, otherwise the treatment plan is as it is
      in part A.

      High dose Melphalan will be used as conditioning regimen. After transplantation, G-CSF will
      be given to subjects starting at day +5 after PBPC reinfusion.
    
  