
    
      Participants will be identified and recruited at the HNU and RIHN. Participants will be
      informed about the study aims and procedures and will be pre-screened on the basis of
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. If eligible, they will sign the informed consent and enter the
      study with visit 0 where a clinical and biochemical evaluation of the health status will be
      performed. If subjects are still eligible for the study according to all the exclusion
      criteria, they will be included into the trial and randomised to receive the active
      supplementation or placebo at visit 1 (day 5). Volunteers will be invited to commence the
      study in batches of 5 people.

      Following 5 days of maintenance diet (their usual diet), on visit 1 (day 5) volunteers would
      bring their fresh faecal sample to HNU, blood sample and blood pressure measurement will be
      taken during their visit. The placebo or fibre supplements will be given to them, enough for
      the next 5 days. On visit 2 (day 10), volunteers would come to HNU to deliver their faecal
      sample and the next 5 days' worth of placebo or fibre supplements will be provided.
      Volunteers will return to HNU for visit 3 (day 15) to deliver their faecal sample, blood
      sample and blood pressure measurement will be taken on site. There will be a wash out period
      of 5 days with no study product provided to the volunteers. On visit 4 (day 20), the study
      intervention would then cross-over and the volunteers will deliver their faecal sample to
      HNU. Blood sample and blood pressure measurement will be taken and the volunteers will be
      given the next set of products, enough for the next 5 days. On visit 5 (day 25), volunteers
      would come to HNU to deliver their faecal sample and the next 5 days' worth of placebo or
      fibre supplement will be given to them. At the end of the second intervention (day 30),
      volunteers will come in for visit 6 to deliver their faecal sample and have blood sample and
      blood pressure measurement taken.

      The study will end with 5 days of wash out period, where volunteers consume their own usual
      diet. Volunteers would come to HNU for a final visit 7 (day 35), faecal sample will be
      collected at the end of the wash out period.
    
  