
    
      1. Contact Information: A licensed treating physician may submit questions or requests on
           behalf of a patient regarding expanded access to tozuleristide to be evaluated in
           accordance with Blaze Bioscience company policies. Physician Expanded Access Requests
           should be submitted in writing to expandedaccess@blazebioscience.com and include
           "Expanded Access Request" in the subject.

        2. Request Procedures:

             1. General Criteria: Blaze Bioscience will evaluate and respond to each Expanded
                Access Request individually and on a case-by-case basis. Criteria Blaze Bioscience
                will use in its evaluation of whether to grant Expanded Access Request include:

                  1. Adequate supply of the investigational drug tozuleristide must be available
                     above and beyond the supply needed for Blaze Bioscience clinical trials;

                  2. There is sufficient clinical data to identify an appropriate dose of the
                     investigational drug;

                  3. There is a good understanding of the patient's clinical situation and
                     investigational drug proposed use for surgery including the proposed
                     fluorescence detection device;

                  4. All available therapeutic approaches for the patient's disease have been
                     exhausted by the patient and their physicians;

                  5. The investigational drug is considered an "eligible investigational drug"
                     under Section 561(B)(2) of the FDCA at the time of the Expanded Access
                     Request;

                  6. Providing the investigational drug is compliant with all applicable rules and
                     laws;

                  7. Appropriate Institutional Review Board/Ethics Committee and FDA authorization
                     requested expanded access has been obtained;

                  8. Treating physician understands and is willing to be responsible for ensuring
                     that the patient informed consent requirements are met; and

                  9. Treating physician understands and is willing to be the holder of a treatment
                     IND with FDA.

             2. Timing of acknowledgement: Blaze Bioscience endeavors to acknowledge requests
                within ten (10) business days of receipt of an Expanded Access Request.

             3. Clinical trials: Blaze Bioscience lists its active clinical trials on
                clinicaltrials.gov. Before granting an Expanded Access Request for tozuleristide,
                written confirmation by the treating physician that the patient is not eligible for
                an active Company clinical trial is needed prior to consideration of the Expanded
                Access Request.
    
  