
    
      Stroke is a common cerebrovascular disease of the central nervous system leading to serious
      medical complication. It results in a high mortality rate and increased disability rate.
      Stroke survivors may have long-lasting consequences, including motor dysfunction, sensibility
      dysfunction, and cognitive impairment]. Cognition is a key component of rehabilitation and
      recovery; therefore it is associated with poor engagement in rehabilitee and outcomes
      including increased mortality. As vascular dementia (VaD) is considered the
      second-most-common type of dementing illness, accounting for a significant proportion of
      total dementia case, vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is a broader dimensional term,
      ranging from mild cognitive impairment without incapacity on activity of daily living to VaD,
      referred to as significant cognitive impairment and decline in function status.

      Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese medical technique in which fine, stainless steel needles
      are inserted into certain anatomical locations of the body surface to elicit neurohormonal
      responses of the body system via nerve stimulation. Acupuncture are reported to be probably
      effective in improving cognitive function in vascular dementia animal models via multiple
      mechanisms such as anti-apoptosis, antioxidative stress reaction, and metabolism enhancing of
      glucose and oxygen.

      Motor features may not parallel to the cognitive changes, it will serve as the disease
      progression marker. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-part III scores and NIH
      Stroke Scale (NIHSS) will be used.

        1. At Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, all the patients (n=80) will be included and
           receive a Standardized Acupuncture intervention; 40 will be treated with regular
           medication; 40 will be treated with acupuncture and regular medication.

        2. For acupressure program, all participants are treated in supine position, and a
           certified TCM physician applied firm pressure (3 to 5 kg of pressure) with fingertips in
           a circular motion at a speed of 2 circles per second for a duration of one minute per
           acupoint. The complete process lasts for 8 minutes.

      Cognitive function, Motor function, Mood and Sleep will be evaluated at baseline and
      follow-up period of time at 3 month, 6 month, and 12 month.
    
  