
    
      Patients and Methods Study design This study is a randomized trial of additional minocycline
      pleurodesis after VATS for primary spontaneous pneumothorax. It was begun in June 2001 in
      Thoracic Surgical Division, National Taiwan University Hospital. After VATS for primary
      spontaneous pneumothorax, eligible patients were randomly assigned to additional minocycline
      pleurodesis or observation. The primary end point was rate of ipsilateral recurrence after
      the operation. Secondary end points included safety, early postoperative results, and
      long-term effects of minocycline pleurodesis. Consents were obtained from patients after
      thorough explanation. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of National
      Taiwan University Hospital.

      Eligibility criteria All patients requiring VATS caused by ipsilateral recurrence, continuous
      air leaks for > 3 days, contralateral recurrence, presence of hemopneumothorax, or
      uncomplicated first episode with professions at risk were eligible for this study. The
      exclusion criteria were: greater than 50 years of age, underlying pulmonary disease, previous
      ipsilateral thoracic operation, allergy to tetracycline or minocycline, and unwillingness to
      randomization.

      Operative technique of VATS After confirmation of patient eligibility, either conventional or
      needlescopic VATS was performed for these patients by his or her own choice. The cost of the
      operation and cosmetic results were the main points considered by the patients as they made
      their choices. The cost of needlescopic VATS is higher than that of conventional VATS because
      our National Health Insurance will cover only a part of the disposable equipment. Our
      previous study showed that the short-term results and recurrence rates of both techniques
      were comparable, although needlescopic VATS provides better cosmetic results and less
      residual chest pain.19 Conventional VATS was performed in a standard fashion under general
      anesthesia using intubation with a double-lumen endotracheal tube. The patients were placed
      in a lateral decubitus position, and the ipsilateral lung was deflated. A 10-mm, 30-degree
      telescope (Karl Storz, Tuttlingen, Germany) was first inserted to examine the pleural cavity.
      Two 15-mm skin incisions were made at the third or fourth intercostal space, anterior and
      posterior axillary line. Light pleural adhesions were freed using electrocautery. When blebs
      were identified, they were grasped with the ring forceps and excised with a 45-mm endoscopic
      stapler. Blind apical stapling was done at the most suspicious area if no bleb could be
      identified. The entire parietal surface was abraded by inserting the dissector with a strip
      of diathermy scratch pad through the port sites. After postoperative lung reinflation, normal
      saline solution was instilled to check for air leaks. A chest tube (28F) was placed in the
      apex through one of the insertion wounds. The surgical specimens were routinely sent for
      pathological examination.

      The anesthesia, preparation, and operative procedures of the needlescopic VATS were almost
      identical to the conventional VATS. However, two sets of independent video-thoracoscopic
      equipment and monitors, one for needlescopic videothoracoscopy and the other for 10-mm
      videothoracoscopy, were used simultaneously and placed near the patient's head. Basically, we
      used the 10-mm videothoracoscopy for most of the surgical steps. A needlescope was indicated
      only when we need the chest tube wound to insert the endoscopic stapler and ring forceps, to
      extract the specimen, or to perform pleural abrasion.19

      Postoperative care and minocycline pleurodesis The patients were extubated in the operating
      theater and observed for 1 to 2 hours in the recovery room. Postoperative analgesics include
      routine oral, non-steroid analgesics and acetaminophen. Intensity of postoperative pain was
      evaluated by a visual analogue scale (VAS; zero represented no pain and 10 represented
      intractable pain) on the first, second, and third postoperative days. Intramuscular
      meperidine hydrochloride (Demerol®, 50mg/ampule) was administered every 4 to 6 hours
      according to the patient's request if the pain became intolerable, could not be relieved by
      oral analgesics, and visual analogue scale was greater than 7. Chest radiography was
      performed immediate postoperatively or the next morning. The chest tube was connected to a
      low-pressure suction system of around -10 to -20 cmH2O if the lung was not fully expanded.

      Randomization and treatment regimen Patients were randomized to additional minocycline
      pleurodesis (minocycline group) or observation (observation group) when the lung was
      expanded. Randomization was accomplished according to the chart number, which was randomly
      assigned before any kind of workup and management. When the chart number was even, the
      patient was allocated in the minocycline group. When the chart number was odd, the patient
      was allocated in the observation group. In the minocycline group, 20 mL of 2% lidocaine
      hydrochloride (400mg) followed by a solution of 20 mL of normal saline containing 300 or 400
      mg (7mg/kg) of minocycline (Mirocin®, Taiwan Panbiotic Laboratories, Kaohsiung, Taiwan) was
      instilled into the pleural cavity through the thoracostomy tube. The rubber tube connecting
      the chest tube and chest bottle was raised 40 to 60 cm above the patient to trap the
      minocycline but allow air to pass under pressure. Patients were repositioned every 30 minutes
      so that the minocycline could contact all pleural surfaces. Side effects and complaints of
      the patient were recorded. The rubber tube was lowered 6 to 8 hours later.

      To optimize the effects of pleural symphysis, minocycline was administered after full
      expansion of the lung, which was usually accomplished on the first postoperative day.
      However, in those patients who had persistent air leaks and could not fully inflate their
      lung, minocycline was still used after 3 to 5 days of waiting. In the observation group,
      nothing was instilled. A blinded study conducted by saline instillation was not suitable in
      our experiment because the pain associated with minocycline injection would unmask the
      blinding; and use of saline injection would place the patient at an unnecessary risk of
      contamination of the pleural space. When prolonged air leaks developed in the observation
      group, patients can still undergo minocycline instillation although the analysis was based on
      an intent-to-treat method. The tube was removed in both groups when the lung was fully
      expanded and no air leaks were noted in a 24-hour period.

      All complications after the operation were recorded. Prolonged air leaks were defined when
      air leaks last for longer than 5 days. Pleural detachment was defined when a pneumothorax
      developed right after removal of the chest tube.

      Follow-up After discharge from the hospital, patients were followed at the outpatient clinics
      at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months where chest radiography was performed. Follow-ups
      were then conducted every 6 months by a registered nurse who was blinded to the group
      allocation by telephone conversation, according to a standard questionnaire that included
      when the patient returned to work or school, whether a recurrence occurred, when it happened,
      and how it was treated. Residual postoperative chest pain was evaluated on a pain score from
      0 to 5, where 0 is pain free; 1 is occasional discomfort; 2 is occasional use of analgesics;
      3 is using nonopiate analgesics; 4 is regular pain using opiates; 5 is severe and intractable
      pain. All patients were followed for at least 12 months. Patients can come back to the clinic
      or visit emergency department whenever they have chest pain, dyspnea, or any signs related to
      the recurrence of pneumothorax.

      Postoperative pulmonary function analysis Postoperative pulmonary function tests were
      performed for patients able to attend a hospital outpatient appointment at least 6 months
      after surgery. Forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1.0)
      were measured using a spirometer of Microspiro HI-298 (Chest Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) with
      the patients seated. A minimum of three acceptable forced expiratory maneuvers were performed
      and the best one was selected for analysis.

      Data collection and statistical analysis The clinical data, operative findings, operation
      time, durations of postoperative chest drainage, length of hospital stay, complications,
      requested doses of meperidine, and data of VAS were collected.

      A sample size of 446 patients (223 in each group) was originally assumed to reach clinical
      significance (at the .05 level with a power of 0.8) if minocycline reduced the recurrence
      rate from 9.8% to 2.9%.18 A planned interim analysis was conducted in March 2005 after
      enrollment of 200 patients with at least 12 months of follow-up. Statistical analysis was
      performed on an intent-to-treat basis rather than in an actual treatment basis. This study
      was terminated earlier than expected because the interim analysis showed a significant
      reduced rate of recurrence in patients receiving minocycline pleurodesis.

      Continuous variables such as age or weight were expressed as the mean + standard deviation
      and analyzed by the two sample t-test. Categorical variables such as gender or smoking status
      were presented by frequency (%) and analyzed by the Fisher's exact test. Intensity of
      postoperative pain measured by VAS (from 0 to 10) were summarized by mean (95 percent
      confidence interval) and compared by Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Scores of residual chest pain
      were analyzed by the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Freedom from recurrence was analyzed by the
      Kaplan-Meier method, and comparisons were made by the log-rank test. To identify other
      factors associated with recurrence of pneumothorax, the Cox regression model analyses for age
      (<25 vs ≧25), sex (male vs female), smoking status (yes vs no), operation indication
      (ipsilateral recurrence vs others), operation method (needlescopic vs conventional VATS),
      number of blebs (1 or 2 vs 0 or ≧3), number of endoscopic stapler cartridge, meperidine usage
      (yes vs no), dose of requested meperidine, and the presence of complications (yes vs no) were
      performed. A p value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  