
    
      An important concept in pathologic aging is that in some individuals muscle strength and
      exercise endurance are significantly decreased through both quantitative and qualitative
      changes in muscle tissue. This process, termed sarcopenia, leads to frailty, a syndrome
      characterized by decreased mobility, weakness, and a very poor prognosis for survival,
      although the causal pathway for this association is not known. The causes of sarcopenia and
      why it affects some individuals more than others is not known. This is a complicated
      scientific question because many factors influence muscle physiology and function, including
      metabolic, hormonal, environmental, life-style, co-morbid medical problems and their
      treatments, etc. The National Institute on Aging (NIA) has a long-standing interest in
      sarcopenia and frailty and has established a number of observational studies aimed at
      understanding the cause and course of these age-related conditions. It is our goal to try to
      identify factors involved in the initiation and progression of sarcopenia and frailty, and to
      develop therapies that can reverse or slow these processes. To identify molecular and genetic
      changes that are associated with sarcopenia, it is crucial that human muscle biopsy specimens
      be available for laboratory investigations. This proposal will enable the Clinical Research
      Branch (CRB) to set up this procedure on the NIA Clinical Research Unit located on the fifth
      floor at Harbor Hospital, and to hone the practical skills that will be needed for analyzing
      muscle tissue from individuals in observational and interventional clinical trials. The goal
      will be to become facile at performing muscle biopsies, collecting, labeling and storing the
      samples, and to ensure that all equipment and expertise required to efficiently perform the
      procedure are in place. 14 healthy volunteers will be accrued to the study, however after
      this, the protocol will be kept open for the purpose of training other physicians or nurse
      practitioners in the biopsy procedure.
    
  