
    
      4.c. OBJECTIVES: The main objective of this prospective, randomized study is to evaluate
      whether the substitution of VKA therapy for low molecular weight heparin (bemiparin) in
      patients who have had an episode of gastrointestinal bleeding and have the indication for
      anticoagulant therapy, is associated with a decreased incidence of recurrent gastrointestinal
      bleeding.

      Secondary objectives consist of all of the following:

        -  Incidence of thromboembolic events

        -  Bleeding from other locations

        -  Severity of recurrent episodes of haemorrhagea

        -  Transfusion requirements

        -  Identification of risk factors associated

        -  Mortality

           5. TYPE OF TRIAL AND DESING.

      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial, in which patients with gastrointestinal
      bleeding and indication for anticoagulation will be randomized into two treatment groups:

      Group 1 (low molecular weight heparin: bemiparin), which is the study group: after passing
      the bleeding episode, will receive low molecular weight heparin (bemiparin) in anticoagulant
      dose. Check should be made by measurement of anti-factor Xa.

      Group 2 (VKA oral anticoagulation: warfarin), which is the control group will receive VKA
      anticoagulation as before they had the bleeding episode, with regular monitoring by
      measurement of prothrombin time (INR). Patients taking acenocoumarol before bleeding episode
      will be treated with warfarin and the once who were receiving warfarin will continue with the
      same treatment. Treatment control is performed by measuring the INR periodically.

      Randomization will be performed using sealed opaque envelopes that contain the treatment
      option that will be obtained through a list of random numbers generated by computer.

      6. SELECTION OF SUBJECTS 6.1 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION:

      6.1.1. Inclusion criteria: patients with anticoagulant treatment criteria (treated with
      acenocoumarol or warfarin) and high or very high risk of embolism, who have an acute
      gastrointestinal bleeding (high or low) endoscopically untreatable, secondary to multiple
      vascular lesions, diverticular origin or unclarified origin (after VGC and DC) who have no
      exclusion criteria.

      6.1.2. Exclusion criteria. Not be included patients with one or more of the following
      criteria: A) less than 18 years old. B) pregnancy. C) patient refusal to participate in the
      study. D) patients in whom the decision has been taken not to provide active treatment for
      the existence of any clinical situation considered terminal (severe associated diseases
      evolved).

      E) Contraindication LMWH (allergy, heparin induced thrombocytopenia). F) bleeding secondary
      to esophageal varices and / or gastric. G) associated bleeding peptic injury. H) bleeding
      secondary to tumors or polyps. i) Presence of portal hypertension with or without cirrhosis.
      J) bleeding due to Mallory-Weiss syndrome. K) anticoagulation for low risk embolic lesions.

      6.2 DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA AND DEFINITIONS:

        -  Acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding: presence of hematemesis and / or melena noted by
           the medical staff. Any acute gastrointestinal bleeding episode is defined as the
           presence of macroscopic signs of bleeding (hematemesis, rectal bleeding, hematochezia
           and / or melena) noted by the medical staff. Severe gastrointestinal bleeding is defined
           as one that also present hemodynamic repercusion (systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg and
           heart rate> 100 bpm) or hemoglobin (Hb) <80 g / l decrease in Hb> 20 g / l in 24 hours.

        -  Upper GI bleeding caused by peptic ulcer, in which cases urgent endoscopy identify an
           ulcer with one of the following stigmata of recent haemorrhage: 1) active arterial
           bleeding jet or oozing hemorrhage2) non-bleeding visible vessel, 3) clot attached, 4)
           indirect signs of bleeding (spots deep ulcer), and 5) ulcer without signs and evidence
           of blood remains in the gastric lumen without other potentially bleeding lesions.

        -  Variceal hemorrhage, those cases where urgent endoscopy identify varices with one of the
           following signs of bleeding: 1) active bleeding or oozing /spurting, 2) adherent clot on
           varices or platelet clot, with recent blood remnants in esophagogastric light, or 3)
           varices with red blood in esophagogastric light in the absence of other injuries in
           complete endoscopic examination.

        -  Upper GI bleeding non-variceal neither ulceral origin, those cases where urgent
           endoscopy identifies a lesion (Mallory-Weiss, Dieulafoy lesion, angiodysplasia or
           other), with active bleeding, non-bleeding visible vessel, or adherent clot.

        -  Lower gastrointestinal bleeding, those cases with evidence of bleeding (melena or
           hematochezia), in which urgent endoscopy is normal and has no history of hematemesis or
           coffee ground vomiting.

        -  Rebleeding hemorrhage cases that present 1) new hematemesis or recurrence/ persistence
           of fresh melena, associate with 2) a decrease in hemoglobin greater than 20 g / l in a
           period of less than 24 hours, or hemodynamic (TAS <100 mmHg and / or heart rate> 100
           ppm). All cases will be assessed through a new emergency endoscopy to confirm it is a
           recurrence and proceed to a second endoscopic treatment if it's necessary.

        -  Very high thromboembolic risk:

             1. Patients in the first month after they have had an episode of venous
                thromboembolism.

             2. Presence of mitral or tricuspid mechanical valve.

             3. Multiple mechanical prostheses.

        -  High risk of thromboembolism, any mechanical prosthesis (except mitral or tricuspid that
           they are very high risk), atrial fibrillation embolism, valvular atrial fibrillation,
           venous thromboembolism in the first three months or thrombophilia, atrial fibrillation
           at high risk (index CHA2DS2- VASC ≥ 4, see table in appendix).

        -  Low thromboembolic risk: atrial fibrillation (CHA2DS2-VASC index <4), venous
           thromboembolism more than 6 months.

        -  Mortality: Any death that occurs during the course of the study. We considered
           attributable to bleeding all deaths within 30 days after clinical onset of bleeding,
           whatever the immediate cause of death.

           7. DESCRIPTION OF TREATMENT. Initially, hemodynamic stabilization shall be of all
           patients according to clinical practice.

      During the bleeding episode prophylactic dose heparin will be administered by continuous
      infusion (120 mg / d 1-2mg/kg/d), starting at 6 hours after the administration of vitamin K.
      After 48 hours without clinical signs of hemorrhagic activity (with no macroscopic blood
      remnants) will start the treatment of choice (at thehospital). Patients randomized to VKA
      receive will warfarin. Patients receiving acenocoumarol will take warfarin. Patients
      randomized to receive LMWH will receive bemiparina (Hibor) to maintain an a-Xa levels between
      0.4-1.0 U / ml.

      8. ASSAY DEVELOPMENT AND EVALUATION OF RESPONSE. 8.A. Parameters to evaluate: The following
      primary and secondary parameters were evaluated:

        1. Primary variables: incidence of upper or lower gastrointestinal bleeding in the
           follow-up period in both groups. Acute gastrointestinal bleeding it will be recorded,
           when they occur, at any time during the monitoring period. Is defined as any acute
           gastrointestinal bleeding episode in which medical care personnel finds the presence of
           macroscopic signs of bleeding (hematemesis, rectal bleeding, hematochezia and / or
           melena). Serious Gastrointestinal bleeding is defined as one that also present
           hemodynamic repercussion (systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg and heart rate> 100 bpm) or
           hemoglobin (Hb) <80 g / l decrease in Hb> 20 g / l in 24 hours.

        2. Secondary variables:

      2.1-Mortality: We included all deaths in this period whatever the reason immediately. Shall
      specify the date of death to calculate the actuarial probability curves. This will be
      considered as time 0, the entry in the first hospital where the patient go, or the first
      bleeding sign if the patient were hospitalized.

      where and when they were admitted first symptom of bleeding. 2.2-Severity of rebleeding (TA,
      FC, low Hb, transfusion requirements). 2.3- Association with NSAIDs, aspirin or other
      antiplatelet agents. 2.5 -treatment complications. It will collect any adverse events
      observed during follow-up, either initially or not attributable to treatment. Notification of
      serious adverse events and unexpected will be modeled and general instructions contained in
      Royal Decree 223/2004 of 6 February laying down the requirements for conducting clinical drug
      trials 2.6-Time of hospitalization during follow-up. 2.7-Number of hospitalizations during
      follow-up. 2.8-In case of rebleeding, is reported: initial anticoagulation level, endoscopic
      findings, endoscopic treatment, etc.

      8.B.Study development:

        -  Initially there will be an evaluation of all patients with anticoagulation criteria
           (treated with acenocoumarol or warfarin) that present and upper or lower
           gastrointestinal bleeding. All patients were submit to an initial clinical evaluation
           including history and physical examination and request a blood test (with blood count,
           biochemistry and coagulation), ECG, chest radiography and abdominal ultrasonography.
           Anticoagulation be corrected by the administration of vitamin K (10 mg) and analytical
           control are performed at 6 hours to check the reversal of the anticoagulation.

        -  Then it will be a diagnosis or therapeutic endoscopy as early as possible (at least
           partial correction of anticoagulation, INR <1.6). All patients will be practised VGC
           (also in patients with suspected lower gastrointestinal bleeding, to rule out completely
           high origin). In patients with lower gastrointestinal bleeding (normal VGC), after
           conducting VGC will be VCC. In cases where the source of bleeding is not clarified with
           gastroscopy and colonoscopy, capsule endoscopy was carried out, and according to its
           results shall be practised an enteroscopy (forward/backward or both). Furthermore it
           will practised an endoscopy, only if the clinical situation of each case requires. In
           both groups, all suspected rebleeding be evaluated by endoscopy.

        -  As mentioned in point 7, during the bleeding episode will be administered to all
           patients prophylactic dose heparin and after 48 hours without clinical signs of
           hemorrhagic activity it will be divided the participation in the study and proceed to
           randomization for treatment LMWH vs. warfarin.

        -  Once the acute episode is resolved, outpatient will be visited at 30th day and then
           every 3 months (complete blood counts).

        -  Controls of anticoagulant therapy using anti-Xa or INR it will be held every four weeks,
           except in the cases that need to change the dose, in which cases the controls will be
           more frequent.
    
  