
    
      Periodontal disease including chronic periodontitis results from interaction between
      pathogens and the host inﬂammatory response. This interaction triggers a complex process of
      inﬂammatory events, which in turn promote connective tissue destruction and alveolar bone
      remodeling. Periodontitis is described as a multifactorial irreversible and cumulative
      condition, initiated and propagated by bacteria and host factors.

      Vitamin D and calcium are fundamental for bone mineralization and for the prevention of
      osteoporosis Severe vitamin D deficiency lead to mineralization defects but chronically low
      intake of vitamin D and calcium leads to bade calcium balance and bone loss, and it is
      reasonable to expect this effect to occur in alveolar bone as it does in other bones of the
      body. A study has showed a positive association between low bone mass or osteoporosis and
      alveolar bone loss and tooth loss.

      Vitamin D serum concentrations might affect periodontal disease both through an effect on
      bone mineral density (BMD) and through immunomodulatory effects. Vitamin D is well
      established as being essential for bone growth and preservation. A potential
      anti-inflammatory effect of vitamin D is supported by an increasing amount of literature. The
      active metabolite of 25-hydroxyvitamin D, 1,25dihydroxyvitamin D, has been found to inhibit
      cytokine production and cell proliferation.

      Low serum levels of vitamin D have been linked with a loss of periodontal attachment. Data
      from over 11,000 subjects were analyzed for serum vitamin D levels and attachment loss. In
      subjects less than 50 years of age, there was no signiﬁcant association reported between
      vitamin D levels and attachment loss. In patients 50 years or older, serum vitamin D levels
      were inversely associated with attachment loss for men and women. It was concluded that the
      increased risk for periodontal disease might be attributable to low levels of vitamin D,
      which would reduce bone mineral density, or to an immunomodulatory eﬀect.

      In van der Putten et al study, based on the literature available to date, the association of
      vitamin D, and calcium deﬁciencies with periodontal disease in elderly people is essentially
      still unknown and not well researched. To produce conclusive evidence on the subject of this
      systematic literature review, longitudinal cohort studies and follow-up randomized controlled
      trials are needed

      The aim of this study is to explore chronic periodontitis status and serum vitamin D and
      calcium concentrations in Syrian males and compare these figures with matched healthy
      volunteers with no periodontitis.
    
  