
    
      Intellectual disability and neurobehavioural comorbidities affect at least 50% of the
      individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which, although a rare genetic disease,
      is the most common form of muscular dystrophy in childhood. Several studies have documented
      that 25% of the DMD population has intellectual disability with recent studies suggesting
      that autism and clinically relevant hyperactivity affects 20% and 25% of DMD boys
      respectively. A milder allelic variant, named Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD), has similar
      prevalence in the population and is also associated with variable degrees of central nervous
      system (CNS) comorbidities, which however have been less well defined.

      The investigators will address these deficiencies in a large multicentre study funded by the
      European Commission (EU H2020) involving 6 countries (Denmark余 The Netherlands余 France余
      Spain余 Italy and UK) with the largest European neuromuscular centres and advocacy groups. The
      aim will be to study the neurobehavioural aspects of DMD and BMD as well as their correlation
      to the genotype. This study will involve male participants with DMD aged 5-17 years and with
      BMD aged 5-50 years. It will comprise of online questionnaires that will be completed either
      by a parent of a participant <17 years or an adult participant. The questionnaires take
      approximately 70 minutes to complete, however this can be done in multiple sittings.
      Currently there is a lack of information to assist the prognosis of CNS comorbidities, as
      existing databases and registries typically focus on the motor milestones and physical
      disability of these patients. There is therefore, an urgent need to present the course and
      outcomes in DMD and BMD patients with a wide range of DMD mutations, to provide information
      at the point of diagnosis and onwards for families, clinicians and service providers. It will
      also assist in paving the way to greater biological understanding and personalization of
      interventions.
    
  