
    
      -  We will be treating patients with Stage 2 (interconnected sinus tracts and nodules)
           hidradenitis suppurativa who have somewhat active involvement (including drainage) in
           the axillae. We will only be treating ONE axilla per patient.

        -  After patients are screened and deemed appropriate candidates, they will be randomized
           to a treatment group: CO2 laser excision or surgical deroofing.

        -  For each patient, there will be a single intervention (either CO2 laser excision or
           surgical deroofing), after which there will be 5 planned follow-up appointment at
           following intervals: 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months. This will take place
           over course of 6 months for each patient.

        -  During the study, subjects will be asked to provide information on quality of life
           measures, and filling out questionnaires (DLQI and Skindex29) at each visit.

        -  Inclusion criteria:

             1. Be at least 13 years old and have a diagnosis of hidradenitis affecting the
                underarms.

             2. Agree to follow and undergo all study-related procedures, and follow-up over six
                month period.

        -  Exclusion criteria:

             1. Patients who have already undergone surgical excision to affected area.

             2. Patients who are pregnant or breast feeding will not be able to take part in the
                study due to the unknown effects of CO2 laser in pregnant females, as well as risk
                of lidocaine use during pregnancy and breastfeeding

             3. Patients with a history of allergy to lidocaine or topical anesthetics will not be
                able to take part in this study.

             4. Patients with a history of vitiligo as the CO2 laser may cause new spots of
                depigmentation.

             5. Patients with a pacemaker/defibrillator in place.
    
  