
    
      The ability to communicate verbally is considered the most important prognostic indicator for
      children with ASD. If a child has not developed speech by age 5, it is generally considered
      unlikely that he or she will do so. Although a small number of cases of speech development in
      older children with ASD have been reported, the type and intensity of treatments used varied
      widely, suggesting little consensus regarding the likely mechanisms involved. A few
      preliminary studies have tested the efficacy of interventions that employed techniques such
      as orienting cues, behavioral strategies, and prompts for facilitating speech acquisition in
      minimally verbal children, though almost all tested their approaches in children under the
      age of 5 who would be classified as preverbal rather than minimally verbal.

      Principal Investigator Gottfried Schlaug, MD, PhD oversees all aspects of study treatments
      for the interventional arm of this Autism Center of Excellence directed by Helen
      Tager-Flusberg of Boston University. The Intervention study's main objective is to compare
      the effectiveness of one novel treatment for minimally verbal children with autism spectrum
      disorders (ASD), Auditory-Motor Mapping Training (AMMT) to a control intervention termed
      Speech Repetition Therapy (SRT), both of which were developed and piloted in Dr. Schlaug's
      laboratory. The aim of the present study is to test whether one of those treatments is more
      effective than the other in a group of 5;5 to 12;0 year olds.

      Participants will be screened and undergo several tests at Boston University's (BU) Autism
      Center of Excellence. Those found eligible for the intervention "Testing a novel speech
      intervention in minimally verbal children with ASD" will be enrolled and undergo testing at
      BU, participate in MRI scanning at Massachusetts General Hospital's (MGH) Martinos Imaging
      Center, and will then be randomly assigned to either the AMMT or SRT group for treatment at
      BIDMC. Before the intervention begins, participants will have up to 5 Baseline testing
      sessions (approx. 45-60 min./session) to (1) determine their ability to repeat a set of
      high-frequency 2-syllable words/phrases (e.g., Hello and All done), and (2) obtain an
      inventory of speech sounds that they are able to produce prior to treatment.

      The intervention consists of 25 one-on-one therapy sessions during which children will be
      working toward producing (or approximating) a set of high-frequency 2-syllable words/phrases
      (e.g., "More, please", "Mommy", "All done", etc.). Progress will be monitored several times
      during the treatment phase as well as immediately after the 25 sessions and 4-weeks later.
      The total time commitment for the Intervention portion of the study will be approximately 6-8
      weeks (i.e., approx. 1 week (±) for Baseline testing; approx. 5 weeks (5 sessions/week) for
      treatment; and approx. 1 week (±) for several mid- and post-treatment testing sessions). Upon
      completion of the intervention at BIDMC, participants will undergo post-treatment testing at
      BU and follow-up MRI at MGH's Martinos Imaging Center.

      Results of this study will not only help determine if one of the two interventions is
      effective by comparing post-treatment assessments to baseline assessments but will also
      compare the experimental treatment (AMMT) versus the control treatment (SRT) to examine
      whether or not one is more effective than the other.
    
  