
    
      RATIONALE However essential the transferred information at discharge might be, it can only
      have a positive effect on the patient if he or she recalls its content after discharge.
      Little is known about patients' ability to subsequently recall instructions received during
      hospital discharge (Sanderson, Thompson, Brown, Tucker, & Bittner, 2009). Using telephone
      interviews to gauge the ability to recall discharge instructions, Sanderson et al. (2009)
      found that many patients were unable to even name their diagnosis or list risk factors as
      contributing causes. Examining elderly patients' comprehension of discharge instructions, a
      further study found that 21% did not understand their diagnosis, and 56% failed to comprehend
      their return instructions (Hastings et al., 2011). A study of Chau et al. (2011) showed that
      even immune-compromised patient's knowledge of oral drugs at discharge was merely moderate.
      Finally, Isaacman et al. (1992) observed that less than half of the important discharge
      information, including medication details and indicators of worsening of the patient's
      clinical status, was recalled during an exit interview. These few available findings suggest
      that there is ample room for discharge communication to be optimized and for finding and
      testing techniques to do so.

      As psychological theory and associated empirical findings suggest that information
      structuring can be a powerful tool in improving memory recall and understanding, the question
      has been raised whether structuring the information conveyed during the discharge
      communication could also improve patients' memory of the respective content. Few researchers
      (Doak, Doak, Friedell, & Meade, 1998; Ley, 1979) have suggested that structuring
      communications in a clinical setting could improve patients' recall. They argue that
      structured information would be easier to recall than nonstructured information; however,
      these authors did not provide strong evidence to support this hypothesis. Furthermore,
      structured approaches and tools may provide support for physicians in increasing
      communication competences and potential solutions to improve the quality of communication and
      prevent subsequent patient harm. To date, only a few attempts have been made to investigate
      whether conveying information in a structured way results in better outcomes, measured in
      terms of learning and recall. The power of information structuring and associated chunking
      mechanisms has primarily been studied in the laboratory; no previous studies have
      investigated its role in improving discharge information delivery. Could information
      structuring also improve patients' recall and understanding of discharge information? If so,
      how should physicians best structure information at discharge to achieve these goals? How do
      possible effects on patients' recall translate to better adherence to recommendations?
      Studying these questions experimentally in the Emergency Department (ED) would be demanding
      and potentially stressful for ED patients. In a first step, we therefore decided to take
      advantage of students as proxy patients. Various previous studies have used proxies (mostly
      health care professionals or family caregivers) to evaluate certain patient outcomes (such as
      health-related quality of life (Pickard & Knight, 2005), functional ability (Loewenstein et
      al., 2001), or symptoms(Nekolaichuk et al., 1999)). To our knowledge no previous study has
      used students as proxies to gauge the recall performance of patients.

      Prior knowledge facilitates the processing of new incoming information by providing a
      structure into which new information can be integrated (Brod, Werkle-Bergner, & Shing, 2013);
      therefore, structured incoming information should not be recalled better than nonstructured
      information by individuals who can build upon prior knowledge. If there is, by contrast, no
      internal structure because of absent prior knowledge, externally imposed structure could
      yield similar benefits. Thus, the extent to which the possible superiority of a structured
      presentation of ED discharge information over a nonstructured presentation relates to
      relevant prior medical knowledge was the secondary goal of this study. Or, in other words,
      could the availability of relevant prior knowledge enable the receiver of information to
      store it efficiently, even when its presentation lacks structure? To answer this question, we
      recruited, besides the first-year psychology students, two additional independent
      populations, namely first-year medical students and third-year medical students.
      Specifically, the three participant groups differed notably in their knowledge of cardiac
      pain (first-year psychology students < first-year medical students < third-year medical
      students).

      TRIAL OBJECTIBVES Primary objective First, assuming that externally imposed structure yields
      benefits in terms of memory performance if internal structure is unavailable, the goal of
      this study is to investigate whether first-year psychology students, i.e. students with
      little to no prior medical knowledge, who serve as surrogate patients, recall more
      information when it is presented in a structured way as compared to a nonstructured
      presentation. Second, assuming that structure should benefit mostly those individuals who
      cannot make use of previous knowledge to build memory chunks and to better control the
      experimental setup between the two parameters "structure" and "prior medical knowledge", we
      set out to oppose various degrees of relevant prior medical knowledge to structured and
      nonstructured content presentation, respectively.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To compare differences between the structured and nonstructured conditions in terms of
           participants' ratings of the comprehensibility of the physician, the structure of the
           dialogue, and their willingness to recommend the physician to friends and relatives.

        2. To establish whether the effect of information structuring on the number of recalled
           items is independent from the influence from the students' current mood and level of
           attention.

      TRIAL ENDPOINTS Primary endpoint Number of items recalled, separately for the structured and
      the nonstructured condition as well as for the three participating groups Secondary endpoints
      Visual analog scale (VAS) measures of participants' current mood, level of attention (to test
      for moderating effects of the students' status), and ratings of the comprehensibility of the
      physician, the structure of the dialogue, willingness to recommend the physician to friends
      and relatives.

      TRIAL DESIGN AND METHODS Trial design Prospective cross-sectional multicenter trial
      Participating sites University of Mannheim, Germany University of Basel, Switzerland Study
      schedule Participants We will recruit students during regular lectures at the University of
      Basel, Switzerland, and Mannheim, Germany. Psychology students will receive course credit for
      participation. Participants being younger than 18 years will not be included because of
      limited ability to give informed consent.

      Study Procedure The study will be conducted in each two quiet auditoriums of the Universities
      of Basel (for first-year psychology students and third year medical students), and Mannheim
      (for first year medical students). We will randomly divide participants into the structured
      and the nonstructured condition, respectively. At the outset, after giving informed consent,
      participants of both conditions will be instructed that they are about to watch a video of a
      physician-patient interaction, requesting them to take the perspective of the patient. After
      that, a video displaying an experienced emergency physician who orally presents structured
      content to a patient will be shown to one group. A second video displaying the same emergency
      physician, presenting the same content, but in a nonstructured manner, will be shown to the
      other group. We will then confront the students with a blank piece of paper, and we will ask
      them to mark everything occurring to them concerning the communication (immediate recall).
      Informed students will observe their peers in order to inhibit taking notes. After that,
      students of both conditions will be confronted with a multiple choice test that was
      constructed in order to measure students' medical knowledge, and five VASs in order to assess
      the secondary endpoints. Information about demographic variables will be collected in
      conclusion.

      Data Analysis Primary endpoint is the recall performance of the participants expressed as the
      number of items remembered from the discharge communication. In a primary, un-adjusted
      analysis, the difference in recall performance between the two groups receiving structured
      and nonstructured discharge information, and the three groups with different levels of
      medical knowledge, as well as their interaction, will be analyzed using an analysis of
      variance (ANOVA). In addition, an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), which adjusts for the two
      VAS measures concerning students' status, will be performed. Non-parametric Mann-Whitney
      tests will be performed to probe for inter- and intragroup differences in medical knowledge
      of first-year psychology students, first-year medical students, and third-year medical
      students. A t-test analysis will be used to compare differences between the structured and
      non-structured conditions in terms of participants' VAS ratings of the comprehensibility of
      the physician, the structure of the dialogue, and willingness to recommend the physician to
      friends and relatives. All tests will be performed using a significance level α = 0.05.
    
  