
    
      Colonoscopy is a primary screening and follow-up tool to detect colorectal cancer, a third
      leading cause of cancer death in Taiwan. Most colorectal cancers (CRCs) arise from
      preexisting adenomas, and the adenoma-carcinoma sequence offers an opportunity for the
      screening and prevention of CRCs. The removal of adenomatous polyps can lower the incidence
      of CRCs and result in reduced motality from CRCs. The adenoma detection rate, the proportion
      of screening colonoscopies performed by a endoscopist that detect at least one colorectal
      adenoma or adenocarcinoma, has been recommended as a quality indicator. The adenoma detection
      rate was inversely associated with the risks of interval colorectal cancer, advanced-stage
      interval cancer, and fatal interval cancer. However, adenoma detection rates vary widely
      among endoscopists in both academic and community settings. Polyp miss rates as high as 20%
      have been reported for high definition resolution colonoscopy. An improvement in adenoma
      detection rate at screening colonoscopy, translates into reduced risks of interval colorectal
      cancer and colorectal cancer death. Computer-aided detection of polyps might assist
      endoscopists to reduce the miss rate and enhance screening performance during colonoscopy.
      Computer-aided diagnosis and computer-aided detection are computerized systems that learn and
      inference in medical fields. Computer-aided diagnosis has been developed in colon polyp
      classification.

      Computer-assisted image analysis has the potential to further aid adenoma detection but has
      remained underdeveloped. A notable benefit of such a system is that no alteration of the
      colonoscope or procedure is necessary. Machine learning with a deep neural network has been
      successfully applied to many areas of science and technology, such as object recognition and
      detection of computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing. We developed
      an artificial intelligent computer system (PX-1) with a deep neural network to analyze
      real-time video signals from the endoscopy station. This randomised controlled trial compared
      ADR between computer-assisted colonoscopy and standard colonoscopy.
    
  