
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the impact of atezolizumab-based combination therapy on the composition and
      function of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of atezolizumab-based combination therapy in
      localized prostate cancer (PC).

      II. To determine the clinical efficacy of atezolizumab-based combination therapy in localized
      PC.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize changes in the frequency and number of circulating immune cells following
      atezolizumab-based combination therapy in localized PC.

      II. To determine the impact of atezolizumab-based combination therapy on the composition and
      phenotype of the tumor microenvironment.

      III. To determine the impact of atezolizumab-based combination therapy on the circulating and
      intratumoral T cell repertoire.

      IV. To explore the role of novel imaging modalities to understand the immunologic and
      clinical impact to immunotherapeutic approaches in localized PC.

      V. To characterize changes in the gut microbiome associated with each therapeutic
      combination.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned sequentially to 1 of 2 groups.

      COHORT A: Patients receive one cycle of atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on
      day 1 of a 14 day cycle prior to radical prostatectomy (RP).

      COHORT B: Patients will receive 1 cycle of neoadjuvant atezolizumab and tocilizumab prior to
      RP; atezolizumab will be administered in an identical fashion as Cohort A. Tocilizumab will
      be administered at a dose of 6 mg/kg.

      Two more groups consisting of treatment with atezolizumab in combination with other drugs may
      be added in the future.

      RP will occur 21 days (+/- 7 days) following treatments on Cycle 1 Day 1. No further study
      therapy will be administered following RP

      Following RP, subjects will be followed at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months (from
      date of RP), or until disease progression, whichever occurs sooner
    
  