
    
      1. Background Lumbar spine surgery can be performed using different anaesthetic techniques
           such as general endotracheal anaesthesia (GA) or spinal-based regional anaesthesia (RA).
           In a recent review several studies showed a decreased postoperative pain score in the RA
           groups (1). But only few randomized control trials (RCT) have been performed comparing
           these two anaesthetic techniques and have shown partly conflicting results (2-5).

           Each anaesthetic agent or regimen has a particular side effect profile (e.g. opioids -
           nausea, vomiting, pruritus, sedation; local anaesthetics - motor weakness) which may
           affect quality of recovery in different ways. Although there are few data examining the
           correlation between side effects from different analgesic regimens and quality of
           recovery per se, some data suggest different analgesic regimens will result in different
           side effects and consequently different levels of quality of recovery.

           Although inconsistent data exist covering surgery time, anaesthesia time, postoperative
           anaesthetic care unit (PACU) time and postoperative analgesic dose requirements (6-8).

           But there are some hinds that RA leads to better results concerning postoperative
           mortality and morbidity in opposite to general anaesthesia (9-10). Also RA showed better
           results concerning economic aspects (11,12).

           No clinical trials have sufficient subject numbers to determine definitively the effects
           of anaesthetic techniques on minor or major benefits concerning clinical outcome. There
           is insufficient evidence to confirm or deny the ability of these two anaesthetic
           techniques to affect major postoperative mortality or morbidity and there is currently
           no sufficient evidence that RA or GA have any clinically significant beneficial effect
           on postoperative outcome. Further there are still insufficient data to determine if the
           type of anaesthetic technique, degree of analgesia and the presence of side effects may
           influence quality of life, quality of recovery, patient and surgeon's satisfaction and
           length of hospitalisation.

           There are few data examining the correlation between side effects from different
           anaesthetic regimens and quality of recovery per se, some data suggest different
           analgesic regimens may result in different side effects and consequently different
           levels of quality of recovery.

           Although there are data suggesting that improved postoperative analgesia leads to better
           patient outcomes, there is insufficient evidence to support subsequent improvements
           inpatient-centered outcomes such as quality of life and quality of recovery. So the
           correlation between RA and different outcome parameters are very complex and up to now
           there is no clear evidence for any recommendation concerning the use of RA or GA in
           generally (13).

        2. Study Objective Lumbar spine surgery can be performed using different anaesthetic
           techniques such as general endotracheal anaesthesia (GA) or spinal-based regional
           anaesthesia (RA). The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of two different
           anaesthetic techniques and their impact on clinical outcome.

           Further this study is developed to combine validated patient-reported instruments with
           the assessment of the effect of different anaesthetic techniques on patient-reported
           outcomes in the peri-and postoperative period.

        3. Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that for patients undergoing lumbar spine
           surgery, the performing of a RA shows significant benefits in comparison with patients
           receiving GA. It concerns the postoperative pain score, the degree of PONV, the PACU and
           anaesthesia time and the patient's and surgeons's satisfaction.
    
  