
    
      This study will be a single center, double blind observational study.

      Measurements of presepsin blood level will be performed in all patients with interstitial
      Sars-Cov-2 pneumonia admitted to ICU, at the time of the start of invasive mechanical
      ventilation and every 48 hours for the first 30 days of ICU stay. Surveillance respiratory
      samples (endotracheal aspiration) will be performed according to clinical practice (at ICU
      admission and every Mondays and Thursdays in all patients undergoing invasive mechanical
      ventilation).

      In all patients admitted to ICU with invasive mechanically ventilation, a bronchoalveolar
      lavage with rapid microbiological method (film array for the research of the main respiratory
      pathogens) will be performed, according to common clinical practice.

      VAP diagnosis will be made based upon the evidence of new lung infiltrates (chest radiography
      or chest computed tomography) in association with the presence of a pathogen isolated in the
      non-invasive respiratory sample with semi-quantitative method, according to IDSA and American
      Thoracic Society guidelines, as well as the presence of other sign of infection (fever,
      leukocytosis, worsening of oxygenation).

      The attending physician in charge of the patient enrolled, clinically making the diagnosis of
      VAP will be blinded of presepsin levels. As a consequence, during the study period, no
      variation of the clinical practice applied will be performed, and no influence on the care
      provided to patients included will be determined by the measurement of plasma presepsin.

      In the current study, we aim to answer to the following questions:

        -  Does a high level of plasma presepsin in patients with a Sars Cov 2 interstitial
           pneumonia at the time of ICU admission predict the presence of a bacterial respiratory
           co-infection?

        -  Do presepsin levels early predict the occurrence of VAP in patients with COVID-19
           disease?

        -  Does such variation become evident at the time of VAC, therefore anticipating the
           diagnosis of IVAC? The latter issue might be particularly important in order to commence
           antibiotic therapy earlier than the diagnosis of IVAC.
    
  