
    
      British Columbia is a province which contains four metropolitan areas, each of which contains
      at least one tertiary care centre that provides Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO)
      and cardiovascular surgery services, in addition to critical cardiology services and a
      coronary catheterization laboratory. Pre-hospital medical care in all areas is provided by
      British Columbia Emergency Health Services (BCEHS), which uses a tiered system of basic life
      support and advanced life support (ALS) paramedics (90% of cases have ALS involvement) in
      coordination with fire department first responders. Medical providers in the study footprint
      have extensive experience with interventional trials enrolling patients with out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest, through participation in the Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium.

      Through collaboration of clinicians from all areas and with BCEHS, this study will examine
      the benefit of a regional ECPR protocol established in one of the metropolitan areas (the
      "ECPR Protocol Region"), in comparison to the other areas (the "Usual Care Region"). The
      primary aim is to determine the benefit of incorporating ECPR services into a regional
      medical system of care for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. All patients with out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest treated by emergency medical services (EMS) in both regions will be
      prospectively evaluated for study eligibility.

      Secondary aims include:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of ECPR therapy for those with refractory cardiac arrest
           after 45 minutes of attempted resuscitation.

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of a regional ECPR protocol, in comparison to historical
           controls.

        3. To evaluate the long-term (5-year) outcomes of patients treated with ECPR.

        4. To evaluate the quantity of successful organ procurement from those treated with ECPR.

        5. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a regional ECPR protocol.

      This study is a parallel group design with group allocation based on region of treatment. The
      investigators will compare the outcomes of ECPR-eligible patients in the intervention region,
      in comparison to patients meeting the same criteria in a comparable setting (the control
      regions group). Medical care in the control regions will be unaltered by this study.

      Group outcomes will be compared. The association of treatment group and outcomes will also be
      assessed using a logistic regression analysis, while adjusting for other important
      prognosticators in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (including initial cardiac rhythm, time to
      emergency medical services [EMS] arrival, bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation [CPR],
      EMS-witnessed arrest, and age).
    
  