
    
      The following research questions are to be investigated:

        1. Do particular developments in syntax such as recursion comprehension affect particular
           kinds of thinking such as second-order Theory of Mind reasoning in autistic children?
           More concretely: Does children's ability to comprehend the linguistic structure
           involving or consisting of recursive structures predict performance on second-order
           false-belief tests, beyond development in general language abilities?

        2. Does knowledge of dialogue particles predict performance on second-order false-belief
           tests, beyond development in language abilities and working memory? In order to
           investigate these questions, a between-subjects empirical design includes data
           collection and data analysis in two steps: one measuring the strength of correlations
           between variables, the other establishing causality effect via training.

      The study is divided into four stages: pilot, pre-testing, intervention, post-testing.

        1. The central goal of the pilot testing is to ensure reliability of tasks in Danish:
           vocabulary familiarity and how children understand what they are asked about.
           Second-order false-belief tasks and recursion tasks will be given to children in the
           pilot stage.

        2. Pre-testing stage is the stage where all the variables are measured (dependent,
           independent and confounding). Selection of pretests reflects considerations about
           confounding variables and inclusion criteria.

           Confounding variables include: verbal comprehension (from Wechsler Intelligence Scale
           for Children IV), working memory (from Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children IV),
           comprehension of grammar and syntactic structures (from Clinical Evaluation of Language
           Fundamentals-4), pragmatic profile (from Clinical Evaluation of Language
           Fundamentals-4).

           Independent variables include above-mentioned linguistic tests. Dependent variable is
           second-order false-belief tests.

        3. At the intervention stage training of recursion comprehension for a randomized half of
           sample size will be provided as four individual sessions,15 minutes each. Training of
           recursion comprehension will include cooperative dialogue and feedback on the sentences
           and small dialogues analogous to the tasks in the pretests.

        4. After the training is completed, all the sample subjects will be given second-order
           false-belief and recursion tasks again at the post-testing stage.

      The goal is to recruit 60 subjects in total. For the training part 30 subjects will be
      assigned by randomization to the intervention group and 30 subjects- to the control group.
      The recruiting process and participation will not require disclosure of any personal data.
      Parental informed, written consent for their children to take part in the study is a
      prerequisite for every child's participation. Parents will also receive debriefing
      information in written form upon the completion of the empirical part of the study.

      Participants are ensured of full anonymity. All data will be anonymized by using subject's
      identification, and not names. All personal record of any kind, including video and tape
      recordings of testing, will be kept according to the Danish Privacy Law regulations.

      Every child will be tested individually by a trained psychologist in a quiet comfortable room
      away from the classroom. In case testing procedure will be in any way unpleasant or
      excessively demanding for some participants, the session will be cancelled, finished earlier
      or the number of tasks will be revised.
    
  