
    
      Janssen Research & Development is developing ExPEC10V, a 10-valent conjugate vaccine
      comprising the 10 most predominant O-polysaccharides of ExPEC.

      Invasive ExPEC Disease (IED) is defined as an acute illness consistent with bacterial
      infection that is microbiologically confirmed either by the isolation and identification of
      E. coli from blood or other normally sterile body sites, or by the isolation and
      identification of E. coli from urine in a patient with signs and symptoms of invasive disease
      (presence of systemic inflammatory response syndrome [SIRS], sepsis or septic shock) and no
      other identifiable source of infection.

      ExPEC is the most common cause of infection in humans resulting from gram-negative bacteria.
      ExPEC comprises a pathogenic group of E. coli strains, possessing the ability to colonize and
      infect normally sterile body sites and to cause Invasive ExPEC Disease (IED).

      ExPEC causes the vast majority of urinary tract infections (UTIs), is the second most
      frequent cause of neonatal bacteremia and meningitis, and is a leading cause of adult IED, in
      particular bacteremia and sepsis.

      Although IED affects all age categories, adults aged 60 years or older have an increased risk
      of developing IED, including bacteremia and sepsis. The incidence of community-acquired ExPEC
      bacteremia increases with age, occurring at a rate of 150/100,000 person-years in the United
      States (US) adults aged 65 years and older, and 452/100,000 person-years in adults aged 85
      years and older. Similar trends have been observed in Europe. In the US, it is estimated that
      up to 40,000 patients die annually due to IED, in particular from E. coli sepsis. Overall
      case-fatality rates for ExPEC bacteremia range from 13% to 19% but may be much higher (up to
      60%) in the elderly with healthcare-associated infections.

      The increase in multidrug resistance (ie, resistance to two or more antibiotic classes) among
      ExPEC strains, such as E. coli sequence type 131:O25B, represents a major challenge for
      prevention and management of ExPEC infections. Global morbidity, hospitalization and
      mortality rates due to ExPEC infections are substantial and increasing due to aging
      populations and increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistant ExPEC strains, and associated
      with increasing healthcare costs in both Europe and the US.

      This hospital-based prospective epidemiological study will assess the O-serotype and
      O-genotype distribution in E. coli isolates causing IED overall and by subgroup based on risk
      factors. Detailed demographic and clinical data, including information on hospital routes,
      from patients with IED will be collected in this study to further characterize the clinical
      setting in this patient population. This study will also provide data to compare the clinical
      criteria of IED used by the study site with the proposed Phase 3 clinical case definition for
      IED in adults aged 60 years or older for future clinical studies in this patient population.
      No study drug will be administered in this non interventional study.
    
  