
    
      The cholinergic system has been shown to be the primary neurotransmitter system responsible
      for cognitive symptoms in dementia. While therapeutic benefits are clear in dementia, what
      remains uncertain is the role that the cholinergic system in general and the nicotinic system
      specifically plays in cognition in healthy non-demented older adults (referred to as normal
      cognitive aging in this application). This is critical because the expansion of the healthy
      aging population will nonetheless show declines in cognition that fall short of dementia but
      still impact functional abilities and independence. Understanding the effects of age-related
      functional changes on the nicotinic system will elucidate one neurochemical mechanism
      underlying age-related changes in cognition and will provide information about how nicotinic
      dysfunction affects cognition in healthy older adults. Prior research has shown that the
      nicotinic system has a roll in attention and memory in healthy adults. More recently, with
      the increased use of brain functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in combination with
      psychopharmacological manipulations, data patterns have emerged that further define the role
      of the nicotinic system in cognition, aging, and dementia.

      The investigators propose that nicotinic system changes are responsible for age differences
      in working memory task performance and brain activation. The investigators can observe the
      functioning of the nicotinic system by examining brain activation patterns in response to
      nicotinic blockade and stimulation. Increased dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)
      activation has been shown for older adults compared to younger adults and is hypothesized to
      be a compensation response for the aging process. The investigators propose that temporary
      antagonism of the nicotinic system will also produce increased DLPFC activation. However, the
      relationship between this increased activation and performance will be in different
      directions for older and younger adults. In older adults, the increased activation will be
      positively correlated with performance because it is a compensatory response. In younger
      adults, the increased activation will be negatively correlated with performance because it is
      a non-adaptive response to the temporary nicotinic antagonism. Nicotinic stimulation in older
      adults will reveal decreased DLPFC activation that will be negatively correlated with
      performance and this represents the "younger" pattern of the performance and activation
      relationship. The younger adults will have a similar pattern of activation and performance as
      the older adults after nicotinic stimulation because they are already performing optimally
      and will not receive any further enhancement. These data will further the understanding of a
      neurochemical mechanism involved in normal aging and how brain activation patterns relate to
      receptor function.
    
  