
    
      Study Design and Feasibility: A prospective multi-institutional non-randomized single arm
      design will be utilized. Seventy subjects with cervical ASIA A-B (International Standards for
      Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury) SCI and hand function impairment that fit
      the International Classification for Surgery of the Hand 0-4 will be identified. Only
      patients with stable ASIA scores and no evidence of functional improvement in motor or
      sensory examination for at least 3 months will be recruited. All patients will undergo
      Electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies (NCS) to verify intact innervation
      (normal compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs)) to the paralyzed target muscles below the
      level of injury. Functional electrical stimulation (FES) will be used to verify loss of lower
      motor neuron function in key muscle groups in the zone of injury and help differentiate those
      muscle with intact connections to preserve anterior horn cells. Only those patients with
      clinically normal, Medical Research Council (MRC) muscle grade 5/5 donor (axonal donor)
      function will be enrolled.

      Outcome Measures Primary Outcome Measures: Pre- and Post-operative upper motor strength.
      (Manual motor testing & Hand Held Dynamometry) Secondary Outcome Measures: Disabilities of
      the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH), Michigan Hand Questionnaire (MHQ), Spinal Cord Injury
      Quality of Life (SCIQOL), GRASSP test (pre-operative, post-operatively - 6 months, 12 months,
      and 24 months, 36 months and 48 months), rates of intraoperative and post-operative
      complications, and rates of reoperation.

      Rehabilitation and hand therapy are critical components of motor re-education following nerve
      transfers. Cortical plasticity and motor remapping occurs following nerve transfers allowing
      independent functional control of the recipient muscles. All patients will begin
      rehabilitation and hand therapy beginning 2 weeks after surgery. They undergo one hour of
      hand therapy and occupational therapy for motor re-education once to twice a week for 48
      months following surgery. Rehabilitation will be phased to early and late - added exercises
      focusing on co-contraction, repetition, and range of motion will be included as home therapy.
    
  