
    
      1.1 Adult degenerative scoliosis. Scoliosis is a 3D spine deformity including frontal curves,
      vertebral rotations, and sagittal changes.1 A curve >10o after 18 years of age is called
      Adult Scoliosis (AS) and is the most common adult spinal deformity.2 Degenerative AS arises
      from asymmetric disc and facet degeneration or due to leg length discrepancy, hip pathology,
      and osteoporosis.3 Most AS curves are lumbar or thoracolumbar.4 The prevalence of
      degenerative AS is higher than adolescent scoliosis, but estimates range widely at 2.4% -
      68%56. The prevalence of curves >20째 is 24%.7

      AS causes pain, curve progression, radiculopathy, or cosmetic deformity affecting quality of
      life and physical function8-10. Pain affects 90% of patients with AS9. Adults with
      degenerative scoliosis present more pain than with idiopathic scoliosis.3 Severe
      radiculopathy (47%), claudication (9%), weakness (8%), myelopathy, and bowel/bladder
      dysfunction(1%) are also more common in adults with scoliosis.11 Sagittal imbalance in AS is
      strongly correlated with disability and low quality of life.12 Curve progression is common in
      AS at 2-6o/yr.13 It is thus relevant to offer treatments to prevent curve progression and the
      signs and symptoms above.

      1.2 What treatment is available? There is an important lack of evidence about non-operative
      treatments for AS despite the recommendation of non-operative treatments are the first line
      for treating AS.8,14,15 This suggestion arise mostly because of the high complications rates
      with surgery and poor bone quality8. However, exercise has generally not been offered in
      studies comparing non-operative to operative care.8,14,15 The main goal of rehabilitation in
      AS is to decrease pain, improve function and slow disease progression to avoid surgery.16,17
      Our review on exercises for AS18 found only one study with high risk of bias showing that 20
      weeks of scoliosis specific exercises compared to general physiotherapy led to significantly
      more improved pain (by 3.2/10 pts), SRS-22 quality of life (by 0.7/5 for function, 0.9 pain,
      0.5 self-image, 0.7 mental health and 1.0 for satisfaction with care), and Oswestry
      disability (by 12%). Only adults with idiopathic scoliosis were included in this study19 and
      exercises have not yet been tested in adults with degenerative scoliosis.

      1.3 Rationale for Schroth treatment: Our award winning work with adolescent idiopathic
      scoliosis suggests that pain, self-image and back muscle endurance improvements, as well as,
      reduced curve progression result from short exercise programs.20-22 Schroth is a 3D
      autocorrection exercise aiming to correct posture.23 Schroth exercises are not yet routinely
      used for adults in Edmonton, but surgeons and patients have expressed interest for evidence
      on exercise. Patients routinely seek treatment options for smaller curvatures and inquire
      about less invasive treatments than surgery.

      1.4 Schroth treatment: Posture corrections are achieved with the use of pressure, mirror and
      therapist verbal and tactile feedback.24,25 Schroth exercises aim to improve the ability to
      maintain correct posture through endurance and strength training.22 Schroth exercises include
      de-rotation, side shifting, and stretching to establish vertebral alignment, torsion
      respiratory exercises, and strengthening for postural muscles.26

      2. Specific Aims: To conduct a pilot study for an RCT on the effect of Schroth exercises in
      adults with degenerative scoliosis compared to observation. Specific goals of the pilot are
      to: 2.1) Determine the recruitment and eligibility rate of patients for the RCT; 2.2)
      Demonstrate the feasibility of the assessment and treatment protocol by showing a high
      percent compliance with program attendance and home exercises and low study dropout rate; and
      2.3) Estimate the effect size and variability for all outcomes to determine the sample size
      for the proposed RCT.

      3. Methods and Materials

      3.1 Subjects: Adults over 50 years old with degenerative scoliosis (n=20) with pain (>2/10)
      will be recruited from referrals to Dr. Eric Huang and James Mahood and using community ads.
      Other inclusion criteria are: (1) curves 15째-45째. Curves over 50째 are surgical candidates,
      and will be excluded. Patients who have had cortisone or anesthetic injections within the
      last 3 months, surgery or presenting contra-indications to exercises (fractures, cancer,
      severe cardio-vascular co-morbidities, or osteopenia) will be excluded.

      3.2 Procedures: Patients will be invited to participate at the Drs' clinics. Participants
      will be randomized to the observation (control) group or the Schroth exercise treatment group
      using REDCAP. All outcomes will be measured at baseline and at a 3-month follow-up. Longer
      term effects will be assessed 3 months after the exercise program. The primary outcome is
      pain at 3 months controlling for medication use.27 Secondary outcomes include: spine curve
      angles, vertebral rotation, SRS-22 questionnaire (self-image, mental health, function, and
      pain and total scores), posture (Surface Topography), Global Rating of Change (GRC), Oswestry
      Disability index, and muscle endurance (Sorensen test). At baseline, a physical exam will
      ensure participants can exercise safely. The control group will be under observation for 3
      months. The Schroth group will participate in weekly supervised sessions and a daily home
      program for 3 months. After 3 months, controls will undergo the same exercise protocol. This
      will allow examining exercise effects using these patients as their own controls and improve
      willingness for randomization.

      3.3.1 Schroth exercises treatment: During the first 2 weeks, participants will attend 5 1-hr
      long individual sessions to learn Schroth exercises and the home program, and to confirm
      independent adequate performance with a checklist.28 A 30-min. daily home program of 3 to 4
      exercises will be prescribed and progressed by the certified Schroth therapist throughout the
      project using an algorithm26. Compliance will be monitored weekly using a logbook. Patients
      will attend weekly 1-hr long group therapist-led exercise classes for 3 months. Classes
      increase compliance and sense of social support.29,30 At each group class, adequate exercise
      performance will be assessed using the checklist.28 An algorithm guides the prescription of
      exercises intensity and progression from static to dynamic depending on the participant's
      ability.28 Prescription begins with Sitting on a Ball. If performed adequately, a more
      challenging exercise is attempted. If performance is not adequate, an easier exercise is
      attempted. The 3 most challenging exercises performed adequately as per the checklist will be
      prescribed with a detailed handout.28

      3.3.2 Control intervention: Observation without treatment or with previously prescribed pain
      medication is the current standard for adults with degenerative scoliosis not planning
      surgery.

      3.4 Co-interventions, contamination monitoring: Pain medication use will be monitored by a
      single score using the validated Medication Quantification Scale.27 Participants will be
      asked to refrain from using co-interventions. Co-intervention use will be monitored as well
      as any contamination where controls may attempt Schroth treatment.

      3.5 Assessment: Evaluators will be blinded to group allocation and patients reminded not to
      divulge.

      3.5.1 Self-Report Questionnaires: Demographic/History- Socio-demographics, medical history,
      symptoms and modifying factors will be self-reported at baseline only to describe
      participants.

      Numeric Pain Rating and diagram- (Primary outcome). A scale from 0 to 10 (worst imaginable
      pain) will assess current, best, worst pain intensity in the last 24 hours, with documented
      reliability and validity.31 A body pain diagram will categorize the location of symptoms with
      high reliability.32

      The Scoliosis Research Society (SRS-22r) is a quality of life questionnaire with 22 questions
      assessing 5 domains: function, pain, self-image, mental health (5 questions each), and
      satisfaction (2 questions).33 Scores correspond to the average of the items. The SRS-22 has
      adequate test-retest reliability, and validity with good correlations with SF-36, SF-12, and
      Oswestry scores.34

      The Oswestry disability questionnaire assesses back related disability (/100 important
      disability) using 10 questions. The Oswestry is recommended in the core set in spinal
      research and presents adequate reliability, validity and responsiveness.35,36

      Global Rating of Change- A 15-point global rating scale,35,37 will only be used at each
      follow-up. The scale ranges from -7 (very great deal worse) to +7 (very great deal better).

      3.5.2 Physical Exam: A physiotherapist blind to group assignment, will determine curve type28
      and assess the range of motion for lower extremities, leg length (supine) and asymmetry in
      the forward bend test (with scoliometer).38,39 Lumbar and thoracic spinal range-of-motion
      will be recorded using double inclinometers: flexion, extension and side flexions. The
      Sorensen's test will assess back extensor endurance as the time the torso is maintained
      horizontal against gravity.40

      3.5.3 3D ultrasound imaging- Standing 3D Ultrasound scans of the spine will be obtained
      without radiation exposure in a positioning frame. An experienced evaluator will extract
      curve angle, and apical vertebra rotations from de-identified images with high reliability
      and interchangeability with radiographs measurements has been shown.41-44

      3.5.4 Full-torso surface topography (ST) - Four Minolta 910 Laser Scanners and a positioning
      frame will be used to record full-torso ST scans. The operator will acquire scans blind to
      treatment groupings. The operator will position the subjects, mark reference points, and
      scan. ST parameters will be extracted in Matlab by digitizing 15 reference points on
      de-identified scans. The parameters quantifying the external trunk deformity are: cosmetic
      score composed of a weighted average of the shoulder angle, scapula angle and waist
      asymmetry, the trunk twist, and kyphotic and lumbar indices and angles from the sagittal
      view.45,46 We found parameters have adequate discriminative validity and sensitivity to
      change.47 Asymmetry maps will also be monitored.48-50

      3.6. Analyses: Objective 1: Recruitment rates will be calculated as the percent of patients
      enrolled out of all patients invited. Eligibility rate corresponds to the percentage of
      patients meeting the selection criteria out of all patients assessed at clinics. Objective 2:
      Compliance will be calculated as the percentage of visits attended and percent prescribed
      home exercises reported performed. Drop-out rate will be calculated as the percentage of
      enrolled patients not completing the study. Objective 3: Cohen's D effect sizes and sample
      size needed will be estimated for all outcomes51,52 targeting a power of 0.80 with alpha of
      0.05 using the observed change and variability from intention-to-treat analyses. Where
      available MCID will inform sample size estimation.

      4. Significance: Adult degenerative scoliosis is a chronic and often painful condition, with
      a profound effect on patients.3,53 The Schroth exercise method is less invasive than current
      treatments (injections, surgery). Our review suggest that exercises can be effective to limit
      pain, disability and other deficits.18 RCTs on Schroth exercises for AS are needed.
      Clinicians and patients from the scoliosis clinic demand research in this area.
    
  