
    
      Persons with serious mental illness (SMI) are at increased risk for HIV/AIDS. The relative
      risk of HIV/AIDS is at least five times greater in SMI as the general Medicaid population in
      Philadelphia and over seven times for those also treated for substance abuse. We will
      implement a prevention program for persons with SMI who also abuse substances over five years
      at a local Community Mental Health Center. Preventing AIDS Through Health (PATH) is a
      translation of two HIV prevention programs proven effective in the general population and
      among substance users. Both are highly structured, manualized interventions. PATH uses mental
      health case managers to draw on features of both interventions depending on individual
      consumer risk profiles. These case managers have special expertise in providing services to
      this population and we believe that this expertise, prior relationships with these persons,
      and an ability to regularly reinforce the intervention will result in significantly reduced
      risk. There are two sets of research participants - the persons with SMI as well as the case
      managers themselves. Informed consent will be obtained from both sets of participants.

      It is estimated that approximately 300 individuals with mental illnesses will participate;
      with 150 assigned to the control group and 150 assigned to the treatment group. There will be
      approximately 32 participating case managers whose caseloads will be randomized to treatment.

      Blood testing will identify those who are HIV positive at baseline. Breathalyzer and urine
      testing will supplement clinical interviews and other measures to identify substance abuse
      co-morbidity. Using a longitudinal experimental and control group design, we will randomly
      assign case managers to deliver the intervention to consenting participants in their
      caseloads who meet inclusion criteria. Independent interviews will be conducted with case
      managers before the intervention, and again at 3,6,and 12-months post intervention and focus
      on changes in risk behaviors, fidelity of translation of the intervention, cost and outcomes.
      Breathalyzer and urine tests at 12-months will supplement self-reports of use of alcohol,
      cocaine, marijuana, benzodiazepines, and opiates.

      This is minimal risk research. The potential exists for great benefits to the mental health
      system at large. Potential risks are quite reasonable given the safeguards proposed and the
      valuable information to be yielded on the development of responsive interventions and
      practices to improve care for urban SMI who are at risk for HIV infection. The potential
      risks for participants in the study are not expected to be greater than those obtained during
      the performance of routine psychological or physical examinations or tests. All instruments
      used in primary data collection are those that are frequently used in similar research with
      similar populations and have not been associated with any adverse events. The questions that
      will be asked of the research participant pose no more risk than those they would respond to
      in the course of treatment. That is, the questions are similar to those that mental health
      professionals ask in the course of treatment.
    
  