
    
      Abstract:

      This project will explore the biochemical mechanisms associated with acute pain produced by
      bone marrow aspiration in 36 healthy subjects by : 1) Evaluation of any strong relationships
      of NO metabolism (as measured by plasma nitrite, nitrosated proteins, cyclic GMP, plasma
      hemoglobin, reticulocytes, as well as markers of inflammation) with the levels of acute pain
      in healthy subjects and; 2) Identification of differentially expressed genes and proteins as
      markers for the nature and severity of pain from bone marrow aspiration. Elucidation of these
      relationships may identify novel targets for intervention leading to attenuation of pain,
      improved treatment and less impact on quality of life (QOL) and may identify potential
      mechanisms for the role of NO in other inflammatory or pain syndromes.

      Objectives:

      The first objective of the study is to characterize genetic expression during acute pain and
      pain free phases pre and post bone marrow aspiration (BMA). The second objective is to
      measure at multiple time points levels of exhaled Nitric Oxide (eNO) and other biomarkers in
      subjects during pre- and post BMA. The third objective is to evaluate acute and experimental
      pain perception in these subjects.

      Population:

      This study will recruit healthy subjects (N=36) who have agreed to donate bone marrow.

      Design:

      This is a prospective, exploratory study of sensory and affective pain in healthy volunteers.
      Participants will undergo evaluations (eNO, blood collection, and quantitative sensory
      testing) during a clinic visit to undergo bone marrow aspiration.

      Importance:

      The purpose of this study is to improve the understanding of the biochemical and molecular
      genetic mechanisms associated with acute pain in a healthy population by characterizing the
      leukocyte transcriptome of pain pre- and post BMA. It is hypothesized that analysis of the
      transcriptome will result in a panel of biomarkers that correlate with acute pain in a
      healthy population. The successful elucidation of these relationships may identify novel
      targets for intervention leading to attenuation of pain, improved treatment and less impact
      on quality of life and functional status.
    
  