
    
      he study was planned to evaluate the effect of local cold application on headache severity in
      individuals who received intravenous nitroglycerin treatment, which mostly causes headache
      due to its vasoditator effect.

      Inclusion criteria;

        -  The patient's volunteerism to participate in the research,

        -  Over the age of 18,

        -  Being conscious,

        -  Any analgesic, NSAID, triptan etc. Not taking antimigren drugs or opioids,

        -  No cold allergies. Exclusion Criteria;

        -  Difficulty in communicating (speaking, perception, language, comprehension problems),

        -  Vision and / or hearing loss,

        -  Having a cold allergy.

        -  Blood pressure above 150/90 mm / Hg.

      Purpose and Type of Research:

      This research was planned as a randomized controlled experimental study to determine the
      effect of the use of cold application bandages, which allows cold application to the
      frontotemporal and occipital areas of the patients at the same time, on the severity of
      headache and to compare these effects.

      Place and Time of the Study It will be carried out in Ordu State Hospital Coronary Intensive
      Care Unit between 15 December 2020 - 15 December November 2021.

      Research Population and Sample The universe of the study is planned to be composed of all
      patients who were hospitalized in Ordu State Hospital Coronary Intensive Care Unit between
      December 2020 and December 2021 and received intravenous nitroglycerine treatment.

      The sample of the study will be the patients who meet the sample selection criteria and are
      willing to participate in the study. The research sample will consist of experimental and
      control groups.

      Experiment: Patients in this group will be applied with a cold application bandage.

      Control: No application will be made to patients in this group. Routine patient care will be
      provided. After the patients who develop pain are recorded, the application will be made with
      a cold application bandage.

      There is no previous study with a similar design for the experimentally designed study.
      Therefore, the power analysis was made based on a medium effect size. Groups will be assigned
      using http://stattrek.com/statistics/random-number-generator.aspx for the randomization of
      patients in the sample group.

      Data Collection Method

        -  Individuals who meet the criteria for inclusion in the sampling will be informed about
           the purpose, content and method of the research, and after the randomization process,
           experimental and control groups will be formed by obtaining the necessary written
           permission from those who agree to participate in the study.

        -  The research will consist of 2 groups as Experiment (Cold application bandage users) and
           Control group.

        -  Data will be collected by the researcher.

        -  Within the scope of the research, the patients in the experimental group who used the
           cold application bandage will be informed about the use of the bandage.

        -  Patient Information Form, Patient Follow-up Form and Visual Pain Perception Scale will
           be used to evaluate the sociodemographic, disease, treatment and pain level of all
           patients participating in the study prior to nitroglycerin infusion.

        -  A cold application bandage will be attached to the experimental group and local cold
           application will be applied to the patient for the first 20 minutes of the
           nitroglycerine infusion. After 20 minutes, the bandage will be removed from the patient
           and the cold application will be terminated. The patient will be followed during the
           cold application, and the questions of the patient will be answered after the procedure.
           Immediately after the cold application, the patient's headache will be evaluated in
           detail using the Visual Pain Perception Scale and the Patient Follow-up Form.

        -  Patients in the control group who develop headaches will be evaluated in detail using
           the Visual Pain Perception Scale and the Patient Follow-up Form, a cold application
           bandage will be worn and local cold application will be performed for 20 minutes.
           Immediately after the cold application, it will be evaluated in detail again using the
           Visual Pain Perception Scale and Patient Monitoring Form. In this way, the preventive
           and therapeutic effect of local cold application will be evaluated in patients receiving
           intravenous nitroglycerin treatment.

        -  Groups will be compared according to the data obtained.
    
  