
    
      Background of the Project including Preliminary Observations Hypertensive disorders of
      pregnancy, including preeclampsia, complicate up to 10% of pregnancies worldwide,
      constituting one of the greatest causes of fetal growth restriction, preterm birth, low birth
      weight, perinatal mortality, and maternal morbidity and mortality.

      Odegard et al. found that hypertension in pregnancy, particularly severe and early-onset
      preeclampsia were associated with significant fetal growth restriction. They showed that
      preeclampsia was associated with a 5% (95% CI 3%, 6%) reduction in birth weight. In severe
      preeclampsia, the reduction was 12% (95% CI 9%, 15%), and in early-onset disease, birth
      weight was 23% (95% CI 18%, 29%) lower than expected. The risk of small-for-gestational-age
      (SGA) birth was four times higher (relative risk = 4.2; 95% CI 2.2, 8.0) in infants born
      after preeclampsia.

      Pre-eclampsia is also responsible for preterm birth, either spontaneous or through iatrogenic
      delivery. Lancet Pre-eclampsia series estimated that severe pre-eclampsia increased the risk
      of preterm delivery by 15-67%, and fetal growth restriction by 10-25%.

      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are the most common causes of maternal mortality in
      Europe and are responsible for one-tenth of the maternal deaths in Asia and Africa.
      Prevalence of preeclampsia, the vilest form of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, is 12% in
      Bangladesh. Hypertension in pregnancy or its complications can happen any time during
      pregnancy, delivery or postnatal period.

      Definition and classification of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy Hypertensive disorders
      of pregnancy are diagnosed by systolic blood pressure (BP) of 140 mmHg or greater and/or
      diastolic BP of 90 mmHg or greater on at least two occasions more than 4 h apart while
      resting. Preexisting hypertension may not be evident in the first and second trimesters owing
      to the physiologic reduction in BP, thus causing confusion with gestational hypertension.
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy or their complications usually manifest after 20 weeks of
      pregnancy.

      The revised International Society for the Study of Hypertension in Pregnancy (ISSHP)
      classification (2013) for hypertensive disorders in pregnancy is as follows:

        1. Chronic hypertension

        2. Gestational hypertension

        3. Pre-eclampsia - de novo or superimposed on chronic hypertension

        4. White coat hypertension

      Chronic hypertension Chronic hypertension refers to high blood pressure predating the
      pregnancy. In practice we rely upon the first trimester blood pressure (measured before 20
      weeks of gestation) to define normal or high blood pressure in these women. Most cases of
      chronic hypertension will be due to essential hypertension, usually accompanied by a family
      history of hypertension and often by overweight or obesity. Other secondary causes of
      hypertension are less common and in this age group are usually underlying primary renal
      parenchymal disorders (such as reflux nephropathy or glomerulonephritis) and less commonly,
      fibromuscular hyperplasia of the renal arteries or primary hyperaldosteronism.

      Gestational hypertension Gestational hypertension is defined as the de novo development of
      high blood pressure after 20 weeks gestation, without any of the abnormalities that define
      preeclampsia. This condition is usually benign. However, it can progress to pre-eclampsia in
      about 25% of cases, more so when the hypertension presents before 32 weeks.

      Preeclampsia

      The revised ISSHP definition of pre-eclampsia (2014) is:

      Hypertension developing after 20 weeks gestation and the coexistence of one or more of the
      following new onset conditions:

        1. Proteinuria

        2. Other maternal organ dysfunction:

             -  renal insufficiency (creatinine >90 µmol/L)

             -  liver involvement (elevated transaminases and/or severe right upper quadrant or
                epigastric pain)

             -  neurological complications (examples include eclampsia, altered mental status,
                blindness, stroke, or more commonly hyperreflexia when accompanied by clonus,
                severe headaches when accompanied by hyperreflexia, persistent visual scotomata)

             -  haematological complications (thrombocytopenia, DIC, haemolysis)

        3. Uteroplacental dysfunction • foetal growth restriction

      White-coat hypertension In the general population, up to one in four patients with elevated
      clinic or office blood pressure have white coat hypertension. This diagnosis can be
      eliminated partly by having clinic or office blood pressures recorded by a nurse, rather than
      a doctor, preferably using repeated blood pressure readings. Ideally, the diagnosis is
      confirmed by demonstrating normal BP using 24 h ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) in the first
      half of pregnancy. There are limited studies on the outcome of these pregnancies but it
      appears that up to half will develop true gestational hypertension or pre-eclampsia.
      Increased surveillance is required throughout pregnancy to detect the emergence of
      pre-eclampsia. Maternal blood pressure should be checked regularly, preferably weekly.

      Aetiology and Risk Factors Chronic hypertension occurs in around 20% of women of childbearing
      age, with the exact prevalence dependent on age, ethnicity, and comorbidities such as
      diabetes and obesity. The pathophysiologic mechanisms of gestational hypertension are
      unknown, but are probably the same as those of essential hypertension in the nonpregnant
      individual, because gestational hypertension increases future post-pregnancy hypertension
      risk. Gestational hypertension and preeclampsia are separate disease processes with different
      mechanisms. Evidence supporting this theory includes the differential risk factors, specific
      histologic changes in the placenta and kidneys associated with preeclampsia only,
      antiangiogenic peptides of placental origin, the levels of which are elevated in preeclampsia
      but not in gestational hypertension, and a far lower circulating volume in women with
      preeclampsia compared with women with gestational hypertension. Table 1 summarizes the risk
      factors associated with preeclampsia.

      Risk factors for preeclampsia

        1. Maternal Advanced age (older than 40 years)

        2. Black race

        3. Interpregnancy interval less than 2 years, or more than 10 years

        4. Mother born small for gestational age

        5. Nulliparity

        6. Preeclampsia or gestational hypertension in a prior pregnancy

        7. Chronic hypertension

        8. Hyperlipidemia

        9. Obesity (BMI ≥35 kg/m2) and insulin resistance

       10. Pregestational diabetes mellitus

       11. Chronic kidney disease

       12. Pre-existing thrombophilia

       13. Systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome

       14. History of migraine

       15. Use of SSRIs beyond the first trimester

       16. Maternal infections

       17. No baseline use of oral contraceptives

       18. Polycystic ovarian syndrome

       19. Women who have donated a kidney

       20. Paternal First pregnancy with partner

       21. Limited paternal sperm exposure (<6 months) prior to the pregnancy

       22. Partner who fathered a preeclamptic pregnancy in another woman

       23. Fetal Multifetal gestation

       24. In vitro fertilization

       25. Hydropic degeneration of placenta

       26. Others Pregnancies after donor insemination, oocyte donation, embryo donation

       27. Family history of preeclampsia

       28. Family history of coronary heart disease

      Pathogenesis of Preeclampsia Although the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia remains largely
      unknown, the leading hypotheses strongly rely on disturbed placental function in early
      pregnancy. However, preeclampsia, including preeclampsia with severe systemic organ
      involvement and seizures, can first develop in the postpartum period.

      Consequences of preeclampsia

      Preeclampsia is a major obstetric problem leading to substantial maternal and perinatal
      morbidity and mortality worldwide, especially in developing countries. Maternal and perinatal
      outcomes in preeclampsia depend on one or more of the following: gestational age at time of
      disease onset, severity of disease, quality of management, and presence or absence of
      pre-existing medical disorders. Maternal and fetal complications in severe preeclampsia are
      as follows:

      Maternal complications

        -  Abruptio placentae

        -  Disseminated coagulopathy/HELLP syndrome

        -  Pulmonary edema/aspiration

        -  Acute renal failure

        -  Eclampsia

        -  Liver failure or hemorrhage

        -  Stroke

        -  Death

        -  Long-term cardiovascular morbidity

      Neonatal complications

        -  Preterm delivery

        -  Fetal growth restriction

        -  Hypoxia-neurologic injury

        -  Stillbirth

        -  Neonatal death

        -  Prematurity-associated complications from early delivery

        -  Long-term cardiovascular morbidity associated with low birthweight

      Continuous blood pressure monitoring (CBPM) Hypertension in pregnancy leads to preterm birth,
      stillbirths, neonatal mortality and maternal death. Therefore, monitoring of blood pressure
      during and after pregnancy is one of the most important components of antenatal and postnatal
      care. In conventional antenatal or postnatal care, a single BP measurement at home/clinic is
      considered to define normal or high blood pressure. But the single measurements at the
      office/clinics may not reflect the true BP. They may be elevated when the true BP is normal
      (white coat hypertension) or they may be normal when the true BP is elevated. It becomes more
      important to have accurate BP measurement when mothers are at risk of gestational
      hypertension or preeclampsia for early diagnosis to monitor responsiveness to drugs.
      Therefore, in order to ensure an accurate diagnosis at the earliest, repeated measurement of
      BP should be taken. One of the ways of taking multiple measurements is 24 hours ambulatory
      blood pressure monitoring (ABPM).

      24 hours of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) 24-hours-Ambulatory blood pressure
      monitoring (ABPM), which can more precisely characterize changes in BP throughout daily
      activities, has been found to be superior to clinic BP monitoring in predicting
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. This method nullifies the chance of observer bias and
      provides a large number of data by performing multiple measurements throughout the day.
      Ambulatory BP readings may be useful in differentiating primary from secondary hypertension.
      It is also an important tool to identify white coat hypertension.

      ABPM in pregnancy Blood pressure has a property of circadian variation and over the period
      variation. So in the beginning of pregnancy, BP reduces and in the second trimester (mostly
      after 20 weeks) it increases again. Elevation of BP is the hallmark for the diagnosis of
      gestational hypertension and preeclampsia. But conventional practice for measuring BP during
      the antenatal or postnatal visit at the clinic or home by health workers does not give proper
      predictive value for hypertensive crisis due to its isolated measurements. Recent studies
      have found that BP drops during the night in preeclamptic patients.

      However, ABPM is not a conventional practice in measurement of BP over a conventional method.
      BP measurement in pregnancy has relied mostly on a few measurements taken by the physician or
      health workers. The reason behind this trend is mostly the high cost of ABPM. Additionally,
      it is not available in all the places in the world. Even after getting this at a high price,
      ABPM cannot be used for several days due to weight and discomfort in using it day and night.
      Finally, there are no unanimous guidelines that suggest a particular time of using it during
      pregnancy. Some of the studies used it in the first trimester and a few tried in the second
      trimester. One of them investigated after every 4 weeks to monitor the BP in the aim of
      predicting the hypertensive crisis in compare to traditional BP measurements.

      Continuous blood pressure monitoring (CBPM) with wrist devices Efforts have been made to
      establish accurate methods for continuously monitoring blood pressure based on other
      physiological parameters. Blood pressure is often estimated by means of linear models, in
      which the variables are the extracted parameters from ECG and PPG, representing the response
      of the cardiovascular system. Among them mostly used parameters are Pulse transmit time (PTT)
      along with pulse amplitude, heart rate and pulse width (PW). PW is more sensitive to changes
      in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) than other indices of pulse wave. The SVR is determined
      by changes in artery diameter or changes in blood viscosity. Changes in PW provide valuable
      evidence with respect to changes in pulse wave velocity (PWV) too.

      Several models have been developed to estimate SBP and DBP, and studies have identified PW as
      a better estimator than PTT. Additionally, to estimate BP using PW does not require ECG
      recording which is mandatory for PTT. The correlation is also higher between measured and
      estimated BP using PW.

      Justification of the study In 2012, an estimated 23.3 million infants were born small for
      gestational age in low and middle-income countries. The incidence of fetal growth restriction
      in Bangladesh, manifested by SGA births, is among the highest in the world. The prevalence of
      SGA in Bangladesh has been estimated to be about 30.5%. The rate of preterm birth is high as
      well, which is at 14.1%. Reducing the burden of SGA births and malnutrition in children under
      five years in Bangladesh and other LMICs is now one of the major concerns of the governments
      and many international agencies. However, the most tractable pathways for effective
      interventions to promote healthy fetal growth remain unclear.

      According to the Bangladesh Maternal Mortality Survey (BMMS) 2010, maternal mortality
      declined from 322 in 2001 to 194 in 2010, a decline of about 40 percent. The average rate of
      decline was about 3.3 percent per year. Although Bangladesh did a laudable job in reducing
      maternal mortality up until 2010, the MMR has stalled thereafter. The MMR estimate from the
      BMMS 2016 is 196 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, almost identical to the estimate of
      BMMS 2010.

      Hypertensive disorders in pregnancy and their complications are the second most important
      causes of maternal death. In conventional practice, pregnant women are checked for high BP or
      its complications during antenatal visits. Antenatal care (ANC) visit rate has increased
      considerably in Bangladesh. In 2014, 78% of the expectant mothers received at least one ANC
      visit and about 31% received 4 or more whereas, in 2000, it was 34% and 10.5% respectively.
      However, this improvement in maternal health-seeking behavior has not translated into a
      further reduction of maternal deaths. Increasing facility delivery is important but not
      sufficient to lower MMR. Quality of care is fundamental to improve maternal health outcomes.
      Several studies in other countries have highlighted the importance of the quality of care in
      translating the use of maternal health services into improved health outcomes. The quality of
      health care is generally poor in Bangladesh.

      The cause-specific mortality ratio due to eclampsia increased from 39 per 100,000 live births
      in 2010 to 46 per 100,000 live births in 2016. There has been little progress in
      interventions to address this issue.

      As blood pressure has a property of circadian variation and over the period variation, and
      current practice of measuring blood pressure, which is subject to interpersonal and
      digit/number bias, results in misdiagnosis of hypertension in pregnancy.

      A better way of diagnosing hypertension in women can be by taking multiple measurements
      through continues monitoring of blood pressure. ABPM could be an option, but it is also
      subject to discomfort and limitation of only 24 to 48 hours of continuous monitoring. A novel
      way of continuous monitoring of blood pressure is by using ECG and PPG measuring both PW and
      PTT. Salu Health Gauge is a device that uses PW and PPT to measure blood pressure and can
      store and give a picture of blood pressure variability over the time for a very long period.

      Other methods such as uterine artery Doppler artery ultrasonography, maternal blood
      concentrations of angiogenic factors and metabolomics are also available to predict and
      monitor hypertension in pregnancy. However, these tools are further expensive and
      inconvenient for resource-poor settings like Bangladesh. A self-used wearable device would be
      a better choice for monitoring among women at risk of hypertension in pregnancy.

      Although there are randomized controlled trials (RCT) of efforts directed at preventing
      development of hypertension in pregnancy or reducing its complications, there have been no
      published RCTs of the intervention focusing on regular monitoring of weight gain and blood
      pressure among pregnant women who are at risk of developing hypertension in pregnancy or its
      complications to ensure early diagnosis, and thereby optimizing the gestational weight gain,
      birth weight and other perinatal outcomes through prompt referral and management.

      To undertake an RCT of an intervention to optimize adverse consequences in hypertension in
      pregnancy raises important practical concerns including commitment of the enrolled women, the
      need to make a decision regarding participation due to longer duration of intervention and
      adherence to protocol. The investigators aim to perform this study to address whether an RCT
      of the intervention in individual patients is an appropriate trial design, and is feasible
      with regard to i) maternal recruitment and retention ii) participant acceptability, iii)
      adherence to protocol. In addition, investigators wish to estimate the incidence of
      hypertension in pregnancy and its adverse consequences in the study population.

      Specific Objective of the Validation Studies:

      1. To evaluate the accuracy of Salu Health Gauge device (wrist-worn) in measuring blood
      pressure (BP), which is useful for continuous self-monitoring of BP, in general adult
      population (including men and non-pregnant women) as well as in specific groups such as
      adolescents and pregnant women, according to the European Society of Hypertension
      International Protocol revision 2010 (ESH-IP revision 2010)

      Specific Objectives of the Pilot Trial:

      The aims of this pilot trial are to test the design and methods of a future definitive
      randomized controlled trial and examine the feasibility, acceptability and fidelity of the
      intervention focusing on regular monitoring of rate of gestational weight gain using a
      digital weighing scale and continuous self-monitoring of blood pressure using a wearable
      device (Salu Health Gauge) among pregnant women who are at risk of developing hypertension in
      pregnancy or its complications to ensure early diagnosis, and thereby optimizing the
      gestational weight gain, birth weight and other perinatal outcomes through prompt referral
      and management. The specific objectives of this pilot trial are:

        1. To obtain reliable estimates of eligibility, consenting, response and attrition rates
           and level of missing data

        2. To determine whether the eligibility criteria are too open or too restrictive by
           assessing the proportion of participants actually developing outcomes, and to explore
           the variability of the risk factors

        3. To assess the appropriateness (and factors inﬂuencing this) of the clinical outcome
           measures as methods to measure the efficacy of the intervention within a definitive
           trial, and to explore the variability of the clinical outcomes in terms of type and time
           of occurring

        4. To investigate the acceptability of the intervention in terms of compliance and
           adherence to the intervention schedule, and the contextual factors associated with
           variation

        5. To assess the feasibility and acceptability of recruitment, randomization, allocation
           concealment and outcome assessment procedures

        6. To evaluate the feasibility of regular monitoring of the rate of gestational weight gain
           using a digital weighing scale to optimize gestational weight gain, birth weight and
           other perinatal outcomes

        7. To evaluate the functionality and usability of the Salu Health Gauge device with a
           particular focus on the feasibility of storage, collection, and analysis of complete
           blood pressure profile

        8. To evaluate participant satisfaction with using the device during the prenatal period

        9. To conduct a process evaluation to assess the intervention fidelity in terms of
           adherence to the intervention manual by participants and trainers

       10. To evaluate resource use and costs associated with intervention delivery and outcome
           measurement, and to assess the feasibility of using existing health facility and other
           resources

       11. To explore the occurrence of any adverse event or unintended consequences of the
           intervention

       12. To collect and synthesize data, from which the sample size of a definitive trial could
           be estimated

       13. To measure the variances and point and interval estimates for the clinical outcomes, and
           95% confidence intervals for the diﬀerence between the arms

       14. To evaluate the appropriateness of the trial procedures, design, and duration, and to
           explore the potential effect of the intervention to determine whether this suggests a
           clinically important effect which will support the conduct of a definitive trial

      Research Design and Methods

      The study will be completed in two steps, which are described in detail as follows:

      Step 1: The Validation Studies

      The "Health Gauge" device investigators will use in our study is made by Salu Design located
      in Alberta, Canada. Salu Design has found that, in internal quality control, the "Health
      Gauge" device gives precise and accurate blood pressure (BP) measurement in adults (personal
      communication, Randy Duguay, Salu design, Alberta, Canada). However, it is important to
      ensure that the device is functioning accurately in our setting. This validation study aims
      to evaluate the accuracy of the device according to the European Society of Hypertension
      International Protocol revision 2010 (ESH-IP revision 2010). The investigators will do the
      validation of the "Health Gauge" device separately for general adult population (including
      men and non-pregnant women), and for specific groups such as adolescents and pregnant women.
      The methods and procedures for the validation studies, according to the ESH-IP revision 2010,
      are described below in brief Salu Health Gauge (wrist-worn) The Salu Health Gauge solution
      (wrist-worn) provides the world's first compact wrist-based, cuffless heart health management
      system using a unique combination of 2-contact Electrocardiography (ECG), and
      Photoplethysmography (PPG), a combination of pulse wave analysis algorithms, machine
      learning, and neural network computing techniques. The Health Gauge device can simultaneously
      capture a digitized pulsewave and electrocardiogram signal focusing on the radial artery.
      When the user touches the outer conductive pad, the solution captures full pulse and ECG
      signals within seconds, which then provides for calculated blood pressure results, pulse-wave
      velocity (PWV), and spO2 levels which will be recorded at that moment within 20 seconds. It
      creates a triangle by connecting two parts of the body (here two hands) and passed through
      the heart to assess the electric impulses exerted from the heart. The device keeps those
      measure records in its memory. These data can be synchronized with and accessed from a tablet
      computer.

      Sample size and selection of participants In accordance with the ESH-IP revision 2010, a
      total of 33 participants who fulfill the age, sex, entry BP and other requirements will be
      included in the validation study (for general adult population), such as: age ≥25 years, with
      at least 10 men and 10 women, and 10-12 participants in each of the three BP recruitment
      ranges: 90-129, 130-160, and 161-180 mmHg for systolic BP (SBP) and 40-79, 80-100, and
      101-130 mmHg for diastolic BP (DBP). According to the ESH-IP revision 2010, validation
      studies in specific groups such as pregnant women will be carried out with necessary
      modification of these requirements, and all such changes or additions will be clearly
      described during reporting. All the participants will be recruited from outpatients of Matlab
      hospital of icddr,b or as volunteers residing in Matlab near Matlab hospital. For validation
      among the adolescents and pregnant population, the same protocol with slight necessary
      modifications will be used.

      Procedures For BP measurement, the validation team will consist of three persons (two
      observers and a supervisor) having experience in BP measurements and will be trained by the
      British and Irish Hypertension Society (BIHS)'s online program.

      The gold standard instruments for BP measurement will consist of two standard mercury
      sphygmomanometers and a good quality double stethoscope. Simultaneous auscultations will be
      performed by two observers using the double stethoscope (Y tube) and then the BP will be
      measured. These two observers will be blinded to each other's readings, and the third
      observer will serve as a supervisor and check the BP readings of the other two observers. The
      supervisor will make sure that the difference between the two observers is no more than 4
      mmHg for SBP and DBP values. Otherwise, the measurement will be repeated.

      The participants will be seated in a quiet room with a comfortable room temperature. They
      will be instructed to avoid talking during the procedure. BP measurements will start after 15
      min of rest. The participants will sit with their legs uncrossed and feet flat on the floor
      in a chair with a supportive back, as well as elbow and forearm rest.

      The BP measurements will be alternated between the mercury sphygmomanometer and the Salu
      Health Gauge device. In total, nine consecutive BP measurements will be performed in each
      subject using the mercury sphygmomanometers (five times) and the tested device (four times),
      and will be recorded as follows:

        1. Entry BPA with a mercury sphygmomanometer by observers 1 and 2 (used to separate the
           patients into appropriate BP range groups)

        2. BPB by supervisor (device detection BP)

        3. BP1 by observers 1 and 2 with a mercury sphygmomanometer

        4. BP2 by the supervisor with the test device

        5. BP3 by observers 1 and 2 with a mercury sphygmomanometer

        6. BP4 by the supervisor with the test device

        7. BP5 by observers 1 and 2 with a mercury sphygmomanometer

        8. BP6 by the supervisor with the test device

        9. BP7 by observers 1 and 2 with a mercury sphygmomanometer

      Statistical analysis plan Results will be analyzed and expressed according to the ESH-IP
      revision 2010 requirements to conclude if the device passes or fails to pass the validation
      protocol. Details of the analysis procedure have been described elsewhere. In brief, the
      differences between the test devices and the control measurements will be classified
      according to whether their values are within 5, 10, or 15 mmHg. The differences will be
      calculated by subtracting the observer measurement from the test device measurement and
      classified separately for SBP and DBP. The mean of each pair of observer measurements will be
      calculated, which is denoted as observer measurement BP1, BP3, BP5, or BP7. Each device
      measurement will be flanked by two of these observer measurements, and one of them will be
      selected as the comparative measurement. From these, further measurements will be derived as
      follows: (a) the differences between BP2 and BP1, BP2, and BP3, BP4 and BP3, BP4 and BP5, BP6
      and BP5, and BP6 and BP7 will be calculated; (b) the absolute values of the differences will
      be calculated; (c) values will be paired according to the device reading; (d) if the values
      in a pair are unequal, the observer measurement corresponding to the smaller difference will
      be used; and (e) if the values in a pair are equal, the first of the two observer
      measurements will be used.

      Step 2: The Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial

      The pilot trial will commence after the Salu Health Gauge will have passed the validation
      stage. The "CONSORT 2010 statement: extension to randomized pilot and feasibility trials"
      recommendations have been followed in preparing this protocol for the pilot randomized
      controlled trial.

      Study design This study is designed as a prospective, two-arm, parallel, and open-label
      randomized controlled external pilot trial. Eligible participants (high-risk pregnant women)
      will be individually randomized 1:1 to the intervention arm who will regularly monitor their
      nutritional status (rate of gestational weight gain) using a digital weighing scale and
      continuously self-monitor their blood pressure using a wearable device (Salu Health Gauge)
      from 20 weeks of gestation up to termination of to pregnancy alongside conventional antenatal
      and postnatal care or the control arm who will receive conventional antenatal and postnatal
      care only.

      Study site The study will be conducted in rural Bangladesh at Matlab, a low-lying riverine
      area, situated 55 km southeast of the capital of Bangladesh. Since 1966, icddr,b has been
      running an internationally recognized and unique Health and Demographic Surveillance System
      (HDSS) involving all 142 villages of the Matlab Upazila, comprising a population of 230,000
      people. Registration of vital events like births, deaths, marriages, migration is updated by
      community health research workers on a bi-monthly basis. Information on reproductive health
      outcome, contraceptive use, breastfeeding, and immunization have also been collected.

      Screening and identification of potentially eligible participants In Matlab, a woman is
      diagnosed as pregnant by HDSS field staff by 12-16 weeks of gestation and is enlisted. The
      investigators will obtain this list from HDSS and conduct baseline interviews to identify the
      high-risk pregnancies.
    
  