
    
      Subtotal distal gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy offers the best chance of cure either alone
      or in conjunction with other modalities for patients with operable distal gastric cancer.
      After a subtotal gastrectomy the gastrointestinal continuity can be restored by various
      techniques. Billroth I, Billroth II and Roux-en-Y reconstruction are all acceptable procedure
      with each having its merits and demerits. The choice of reconstructive procedure varies
      depending on individual Surgeons preference and institutional practice. There is geographical
      difference in practice with majority of surgeons in the east favoring Billroth I, while in
      the west; Roux-en-Y is more commonly employed (1). Billroth I vs Roux-en-Y reconstruction has
      been extensively studied with a prospective series by Sounya Nunobe et al that reported
      superior symptomatic and functional outcomes of Roux-en-Y procedure (2). However a randomised
      trial by Makoto Ishikawa et al found limited advantages of Roux-en-Y over Billroth I
      reconstruction (3). In this study Roux-en-Y had fewer problems related to reflux of bile but
      a higher incidence of stasis in the Roux limb resulting in longer hospital stay. Another
      reason that some surgeon avoids doing Roux-en-Y is a triad of post operative symptoms
      including abdominal pain, vomiting and nausea called Roux-en-Y loop syndrome (4,5). Billroth
      II reconstruction in comparison to Roux-en-Y is a simpler operation with only one anastomosis
      and faster operating time (6). This has implications while managing gastric cancer patients
      who may be malnourished and a simpler procedure may have lesser risk of complications and
      yield better outcomes. Billroth II has been criticized for increased reflux associated
      problem like esophagitis and gastritis, also noteworthy are risk of afferent loop and dumping
      syndrome. Long term nutritional outcomes are similar for both procedures (7).
    
  