
    
      The investigators long-term goal is to improve outcomes for children with DS and their
      caregivers. Towards that goal, the investigators propose a randomized clinical trial of a
      behavioral sleep treatment designed specifically for children with DS, documenting the impact
      not only on sleep, but also on the child's daytime inhibitory control and behavior problems,
      and the caregiver's sleep and stress levels. The investigators will randomize 80 families of
      children with DS ages 6-17 to receive either a 5-session behavioral sleep treatment (BST;
      targeting sleep education, behavioral principles and visual supports) or a general-education
      control condition (CON). The BST will catered to the unique needs of children with DS,
      adapting an intervention developed by a member of the investigators research team with NIH
      support (R34 MH082882) that successfully treats behavioral sleep disturbances in children
      with autism41. Pre- and post-intervention, children will undergo comprehensive assessments of
      cognitive, behavioral, and adaptive functioning involving direct testing and input from
      parents and teachers. Child and parent sleep will be monitored via actigraphy and
      parent-completed sleep diaries, and parents will report on their stress levels and mood. As a
      critical first step towards an effective treatment, this initial efficacy study will address
      3 aims:

      Aim #1: Test the efficacy of manualized BST for improving the sleep of children with DS.

      Hypothesis 1: Sleep duration and quality will improve more in the BST condition than the CON
      condition.

      Aim #2: Test the impact of the BST on the daytime functioning of children with DS.

      Hypothesis 2: Children receiving BST will make greater gains in inhibitory control, general
      behavior problems and other measures of executive dysfunction than in the CON condition.

      Aim #3: Test whether the BST, which focuses on the child's sleep, also impacts caregivers'
      sleep and stress.

      Hypothesis 3: Parents of children receiving BST will have improved sleep duration and
      decreased stress.
    
  