
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a disabling and costly psychiatric disorder that is
      estimated to occur in 20% of individuals who are exposed to a traumatic event and is chronic
      in one third of cases. In addition to its negative impact on quality of life, there is
      substantial evidence that PTSD (even after controlling for depression and other risk factors)
      is associated with a markedly increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
      However, the mechanisms for the association between PTSD and cardiovascular disease (CVD)
      risk are not well understood. Although adverse health behaviors, including cigarette smoking,
      alcohol abuse and poor medication adherence are common in PTSD, recent prospective studies
      show that they do not account for the magnitude of CVD risk among individuals with PTSD. The
      investigators propose to test our central hypothesis by evaluating whether CBT-I results in
      improved biomarkers of CVD risk among those with PTSD. Well established biomarkers of CVD
      related morbidity and mortality will be used including measures of vascular endothelial
      function measured by brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), nighttime blood pressure
      (BP) dipping measured using 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), and
      sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity as measured by 24-hour urinary catecholamines.
      Investigators will also assess lipid profile, which along with BP is a modifiable component
      with marked impact on the atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk score. The
      primary sleep parameter of interest is objectively-measured sleep efficiency (through
      actigraphy), although self-report insomnia measures and sleep related arousal will also be
      measured. The rationale for the proposed research is that once it is established that
      insomnia is an important and modifiable symptom conveying increased CVD risk in this
      population, the development of new and innovative approaches to integrating insomnia
      treatment with PTSD-focused interventions can be developed. 150 men and women with comorbid
      PTSD and insomnia disorder will be randomly assigned with a 2:1 ratio to 8-week cognitive
      behavioral therapy-Insomnia (CBT-I) intervention or a waiting period control condition. Sleep
      quality parameters and CVD risk biomarkers will be assessed at pre-randomization baseline,
      post-intervention, and at a 6-month follow-up. The study is designed to evaluate the
      association between insomnia and CVD risk biomarkers among persons with PTSD, and determine
      whether improvements in insomnia symptoms are associated with improvements in CVD risk
      biomarkers.
    
  