
    
      Rationale:

      The aim of this study is to identify the optimal second line treatment option for patients
      with a poor prognosis metastasized Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) with respect
      to Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) rate and quality of life.

      Objective:

      The primary endpoint is CBR in mCRPC patients with poor prognostic features and previously
      treated with docetaxel, randomized between cabazitaxel (Arm A) and novel hormonal agents
      (abiraterone OR enzalutamide) as second-line therapy (Arm B).

      Study design:

      a prospective, multicenter, national, randomized, open label phase IIB study. Study
      population: Males over 18 years with mCRPC, previously treated with docetaxel and features of
      poor prognostic disease; including duration of response to androgen deprivation shorter than
      one year, liver metastases, disease progression during docetaxel treatment or within 6 months
      after docetaxel treatment completion.

      Intervention:

      Patients in Arm A will receive cabazitaxel and prednisone and patients in Arm B will receive
      abiraterone and prednisone OR enzalutamide.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint: Clinical benefit rate (CBR). Secondary
      endpoints include: formal comparison of the CBR in both study arms, Time To Symptomatic
      Progression (TTSP), Time To PSA (prostate specific antigen), Progression (TTPP), and Time To
      Radiologic Progression (TTRP), progression free survival, overall survival, safety/ toxicity
      profile and Quality of Life (QoL) and pain response.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Treatment regimens evaluated in this trial are used in common mCRPC treatment practice and
      are reimbursed. Risk of side effects or death as a result of treatment is not affected by the
      trial design. At baseline, prior to each treatment cycle and at end of treatment, patients
      are requested to visit the out-patient clinic, where a physical exam will be performed in
      combination with vena puncture for blood analysis. Radiological evaluation will be performed
      at base line, after 3 months of treatment and at end of treatment. All above mentioned
      interventions can be considered as standard practice. Patients are requested to fill out QoL
      and pain/analgesic use questionnaires at base line, prior to each cycle and at end of
      treatment.
    
  