
    
      CF is a gentic disease resulting from mutations in a 230 kb gene on chromosome 7 known as the
      cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Study subjects with CF manifest
      pathological changes in a variety or organs that express CFTR. The lungs are frequently
      affected, the sequelae being chronic infections and airway inflammation. The principal goal
      of both treatment of subjects with CF is to slow the chronic deterioration of lung function.

      Study subjects will be randomized to receive either study drug or placebo (1.5% NaCl) by
      inhalation via a PARI eFlow nebulizer. Each subject will complete 28 days of daily dosing.
      All study patients will be followed for safety, pharmacokinetics, clinical and microbiologic
      activity for 56 days post completion of study treatment. For the two lower doses (70 mg and
      140 mg): patients received drug for 28 days, followed by a 28 day safety evaluation. For 560
      mg: patients received drug for 28 days, followed by a 56 day safety evaluation. The total
      study period will be up to 84 days, with screening visit occurring within the preceding 14
      days prior to study day 1. Patients will be clinically evaluated during the first 48 hours
      post first study dose and weekly for the 28 day treatment period and during the follow up
      visits at study days 35, 42, 49, 56, 70 and 85 days to determine safety and tolerability,
      pharmacokinetics (PK) and clinical and microbiologic activity.

      Clinical laboratory parameters, audiology testing, clinical adverse events and pulmonary
      function will be evaluated for all study subjects in order to determine the qualitative and
      quantitative safety and tolerability of Arikayce™ compared to placebo. Serum, urine and
      sputum specimens will be collected at periodic intervals to assess PK. Additionally, sputum
      samples will be collected to determine changes in bacterial density. Pulmonary function
      testing and CFQ-R measurements will be assessed at selected time points throughout the study.
      An exploratory evaluation of a Cystic Fibrosis Symptom Diary (CFSD) will also be implemented.
      Arikace™,Arikayce™, Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation (LAI), and Amikacin Liposome Inhalation
      Suspension (ALIS) may be used interchangeably throughout this study and other studies
      evaluating amikacin liposomal inhalation suspension.
    
  