
    
      Participants will be classified into one of three categories (low-, standard-, or high-risk)
      based on the presenting age, leukocyte count/lymphoma staging, presence or absence of CNS-3
      status or testicular disease, immunophenotype, molecular genetics, DNA index, and early
      response to therapy.

      Treatment will consist of three main phases: Remission Induction, Consolidation, and
      Continuation. Early Intensification therapy will be given prior to Consolidation to patients
      with provisional standard-risk or high-risk ALL/LLy or any provisional low-risk patients with
      Day 15 MRD ≥1% as well as provisional low-risk LLy patients who do not obtain complete
      response at the end of Induction. Patients with mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) are
      treated by using the same treatment stratification used in ALL (B/Myeloid [B/M] MPAL is
      treated as B-ALL and T/M MPAL is treated as ETP-ALL) although analysis is performed
      separately from ALL or LLy cohorts.

      Brief outline of treatment plan:

      Patients will be assigned to treatment based on risk group: Low-Risk, Standard-Risk and
      High-Risk and cell type (T or B cell).

      Remission Induction initially consists of prednisone (28 days), vincristine (4 weekly doses),
      daunorubicin (1 to 3 weekly doses), and pegaspargase (2 doses). The second part (given over 2
      weeks and overlapping with the last week of the first part of induction) consists of
      cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, and mercaptopurine combinations. Dasatinib will be added for
      patients with Ph+ and Ph-like ABL1-class fusions and bortezomib will be given to patients
      with no targetable lesions and Day 15 or Day 22 minimal residual disease (MRD) ≥ 5% on Days
      29 and 32.

      Early Intensification will be given prior to Consolidation to patients with provisional
      standard-risk or high-risk ALL/LLy or any provisional low-risk patients with Day 15 MRD ≥1%
      as well as provisional low-risk LLy patients who do not obtain complete response at the end
      of Induction. For patients with Ph-like ALL that is targetable with JAK inhibitor and Day 15
      or Day 22 MRD level ≥5% or end of Remission Induction ≥1% as well as all patients with early
      T cell precursor (ETP) ALL, ruxolitinib will be used. This includes, but is not limited to
      CRLF2, JAK2, and EPOR rearrangements and sequence/structural changes in JAK1/2, TYK2, IL7R,
      and SH2B3. Ruxolitinib will be added in LLy patients with activation of JAK-STAT signaling
      that can be inhibited by ruxolitinib whose responses do not qualify complete response at the
      end of Remission Induction. Dasatinib will continue for patients with ABL-class fusions.
      Bortezomib will be added for patients with no targetable lesions and Day 15 or Day 22 MRD ≥
      5% or LLy patients without complete response at the End of Induction.

      Consolidation Therapy will consist of high dose methotrexate (HDMTX) (every other week for 4
      doses); daily mercaptopurine and IT chemotherapy on the same dates of HDMTX. Dasatinib will
      continue for patients with ABL-class fusions. Ruxolitinib will continue for patients with
      activation of JAK-STAT signaling that can be inhibited by ruxolitinib and Day 15 or Day 22
      MRD ≥5% or Day 42 MRD ≥1% (or for LLy patients who do not qualify complete response at the
      end of Remission Induction) and all cases with ETP ALL.

      Immunotherapy: CAR T-cell therapy will be considered for High-risk B-ALL and B-LLy patients.
      Blinatumomab will be given to patients with Standard-risk B-ALL and B-LLy with residual
      disease at the end of induction and High-risk B-ALL and B-LLy patients who are not able to
      receive CAR T-cell therapy. Blinatumomab is also given to patients with the following genetic
      subtypes (BCR-ABL1, JAK-STAT activating mutation, hypodiploid, iAMP21, MEF2D, TCF3/HLF, and
      BCL2/MYC) or with Down syndrome, regardless of MRD level and/or Total 17 risk category.

      Reintensification therapy will be offered to certain High-risk patients with persistent MRD
      after Immunotherapy (B-ALL and B-LLy) or Early Intensification (T-ALL and T-LLy), or those
      who cannot receive Immunotherapy.

      Continuation Treatment will consist of 120 weeks of risk-directed therapy. Dasatinib will
      continue in patients with ABL1-class fusion. Ruxolitinib will continue in patients with
      activation of JAK-STAT signaling that can be inhibited by ruxolitinib and Day 15 or Day 22
      MRD ≥5% or Day 42 MRD ≥1% (or for LLy patients who do not qualify complete response at the
      end of Remission Induction) and all cases with ETP ALL. T-ALL and T-LLy patients with
      leukemia/lymphoma cells in cerebrospinal fluid at diagnosis or MRD ≥0.01% at the end of
      Induction will receive nelarabine. ALL/LLy Patients with the CEP72 rs904627T/T genotype (16%
      of patients) will be randomized (unblinded design except those who evaluate neuropathies) to
      receive either 1.5 mg/m2 or 1 mg/m2 of vincristine after Continuation Week 1. Patients with
      either a CEP72 rs904627 C/T or C/C genotype (84% of patients) will be randomized to receive
      vincristine and dexamethasone pulses through Week 49 of Continuation Treatment or through
      Week 101 of Continuation Treatment.

      Patients with mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) are eligible and treatment is given by
      using the same treatment stratification used in ALL (B/Myeloid [B/M] MPAL is treated as B-ALL
      and T/M MPAL is treated as ETP ALL) although analysis is performed separately from ALL or LLy
      cohorts.
    
  