
    
      The primary outcome is Microglia Activation Reserve Index (MARI) (calculated in the parietal
      region of interest (ROIs)) in AD patients compared to elderly controls. The researchers will
      recruit up to 20 participants. The investigators will use 7 AD and 7 comparably aged
      cognitively normal successfully scanned subjects to calculate the microglial activation
      reserve index. The expectations are significant differences between the two groups suggesting
      altered reactivity of the microglia in AD. The result would be an exciting one suggesting at
      least one mechanism by which some patients with significant amyloid load have progressive
      dementia while comparable others are either cognitively normal or have stable Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI). It will also suggest avenues for intervention in amyloid positive MCIs to
      prevent progression to Alzheimer's dementia. The exploratory analysis will include:

        1. Effects of aging on MARI: The researchers will evaluate the effects of aging on MARI.
           Comparisons will be made for MARI between cognitively normal elderly and the 8 healthy
           individuals to whom the investigators applied this protocol in an earlier study. The
           reactivity of microglia is reported to change with age and so the investigators expect
           MARI to change in the cognitively normal elderly. However, the expectation is that the
           differences between the young and elderly cognitively normal subjects to be small
           relative to the comparison of AD and elderly normal controls.

        2. Effects of amyloid on MARI: The researchers will look at the relationship of regional
           and global amyloid load to MARI. The presence of a relationship suggests that one of the
           reasons for altered microglial reactivity might be interactions of microglia with
           pathologic amyloid.

        3. Effects of MARI on cognition: The researchers will explore whether MARI would correlate
           with the measure of disease stage, with higher MARIs associated with worse
           neuropsychological score and more severe disease. The researchers will look for
           correlations between MARI and the individual neuropsychological scores. This would
           determine if disease severity is correlated with microglial activation reserve.
    
  