
    
      This study will consist of a cross-sectional arm, as well as a prospective longitudinal arm,
      and will include patients who are undergoing ablative therapy at UNC. The cross-sectional arm
      will consist of patients who have undergone ablative therapy for Barrett's Esophagus (BE) and
      have had at least one clear pathology report with no evidence of Barrett's Esophagus (BE)
      since their first ablation. Concurrently enrolled will be a prospective longitudinal arm
      which will consist of patients prior to their first ablation procedure. The prospective
      cohort will be followed for 12 months or longer if Barrett's Esophagus (BE) is not yet clear
      6 months after the initial treatment.

      Sampling of the gastric cardia for clinical pathology has become common in patients who are
      receiving or have received ablation therapy based on evidence from previous research
      suggesting concern for dysplasia in the gastric cardia. In each group, research biopsies will
      be taken at the top of the gastric folds (TGF) as well as the gastric cardia (TGF+1cm) and
      distal esophagus (TGF-1).

      Clinical biopsies will consist of standard esophageal biopsies from the distal esophagus as
      well as biopsies from TGF, TGF+1cm and TGF+2 cm. Clinical biopsy specimens will be fixed and
      reviewed by a pathologist to determine the presence of any metaplastic, dysplastic, or
      neoplastic changes, as per our usual clinical practice. Research specimens will undergo
      immunohistochemical (IHC) staining for a number of biomarkers that have been found to be
      positive in patients with dysplastic BE (p16, p53, Ki67, cyclin D1, and cyclin A). 1-4
      Cross-sectional participants will receive one-time study biopsies. Prospective longitudinal
      participants will receive biopsies prior to ablation therapy and 6 and 12 months after the
      initial treatment. If Barrett's Esophagus (BE) is not yet clear at 6 months, biopsies will be
      taken at the first endoscopy after Barrett's Esophagus (BE) clearance and again at the next
      clinically scheduled follow-up visit.
    
  