
    
      Background: Interactive multimedia computer programs (IMCPs) show promise for facilitating
      informed patient decisions. However, it is unclear whether IMCPs can activate patients by
      delivering personally tailored information to bolster self-efficacy, a key mediator of health
      behavior. It is also unclear whether IMCPs might be employed to lessen disparities in care
      experienced by less educated people by tailoring self-efficacy enhancing information to
      educational level and compensating for provider biases in communication. Finally, the optimal
      way to deploy IMPCs in primary care (e.g. before versus following an office visit) remains
      unclear. Aims/Hypotheses: We will compare changes in colorectal cancer (CRC) screening
      self-efficacy, intention, uptake, and informed decision making resulting from an IMCP
      providing personally tailored information (to subject educational level and self-efficacy)
      intended to boost self-efficacy with changes resulting from a non-tailored control IMCP. We
      hypothesize both the intervention and control condition will result in increases in CRC
      screening self-efficacy, but increases will be significantly greater in the intervention
      group. We also hypothesize both the intervention and control condition will increase CRC
      screening intention, uptake, and informed decision making, but increases will be greater in
      the intervention group and will be mediated by self-efficacy enhancement. Methods: Pilot
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 2 groups, comparing a PCN office visit-linked, tailored
      (to subject self-efficacy) IMCP software program plus mailed reminders versus a non-tailored
      CRC screening IMCP software program plus mailed reminders (control). Screening methods
      targeted will be fecal occult blood testing, flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, and
      computed tomographic virtual colonoscopy. Primary outcomes will be CRC screening
      self-efficacy, intention, uptake, and informed decision making. Implications: Our pilot is
      powered to detect a significant effect on CRC screening self-efficacy but not other outcomes;
      however, by conducting it as we would a future and larger RCT, we will determine protocol
      feasibility. If our hypotheses are confirmed, it would imply cancer screening IMCPs should be
      focused on enhancing self-efficacy. Since self-efficacy is a mediator of many patient and
      health care provider behaviors, it would also imply that similar IMCPs could be developed to
      support a host of patient and professional education efforts.
    
  