
    
      The stability of maxillary advancement after Le Fort I osteotomy in retruded maxilla patients
      has been an issue that has attracted the attention of numerous researchers. That's why
      different fixation methods have been compared in vitro and in vivo.

      Prebent plates is one of the recent modifications of the plate systems used in maxillofacial
      surgery , they were created to reduce the need for bending and contouring of the titanium
      miniplates.

      Lye et al.,(the only in vivo study in English), aimed to evaluate the predictability of
      advancement surgery with the use of prebent plates in 36 patients & he proved the prebent
      plates have been proven to significantly affect the advancement & reliable.

      In a biomechanical study, prebent plates provided better results than the standard two plate
      scenario in terms of resistance to displacement, permanent deformation and load for breaking.

      Fatih Mehmet Coskunses et al., in 2015 has done in vitro study to evaluate the segmental
      displacement, and von mises stress on the titanium miniplates & the maximum principal stress
      on the bone, with the use of prebent plates and two standard L plates adapted to either the
      zygomaticomaxillary buttress or the nasal piriform following anterior advancement of 5 mm or
      10 mm by Le Fort I osteotomy.

      The results of the study were, In 5 mm maxillary advancement using prebent plates for the
      fixation of bone segments resulted in less segmental displacement than the standard two
      plate.

      Even when adapted posteriorly or anteriorly, the prebent plates were able to be more stable
      than two plates technique. Moreover, Not only the one prebent scenario had the lowest
      segmental displacements, but also the lowest maximum principal stresses on bone in the
      anteriorly adapted group.

      These results are due to the structure of the prebent plates that have two arms extending in
      opposite directions (anteriorly and posteriorly) and it is suggested that the prebent plates
      are preferable alternatives to the traditional two plate configurations in osteotomies with
      up to 5 mm advancement. The prebent plates showed similar satisfactory results with 10 mm
      advancement only when adapted anteriorly. In contrast, when adapted posteriorly, the prebent
      plates resulted in obvious failure in the 10 mm advancement model.

      Based on these data , My research will compare the postoperative stability between 2 groups
      of retruded maxilla patients having maxillary advancement up to 5 mm

        1. the 1st group will be fixed using 2 prebent plates placed at nasal piriform

        2. the 2nd group will be fixed using 4 miniplates placed at nasal piriform &
           zygmoaticomaxillay buttress.

      The aim of this study:

      To find out if the two prebent plates provides a stable postoperative maxillary advancement
      movement than the traditional four miniplates.
    
  