
    
      Background: Heart transplantation (HTx) is the most effective therapeutic option for patients
      with advanced or end-stage chronic heart failure (HF). However, the increasing number of
      patients with refractory chronic HF and the declining willingness for organ donation, have
      resulted in expanded waiting lists and prolonged waiting times for patients listed for HTx.
      Furthermore, more than 60% of patients are transplanted in high-urgency status, leaving
      little chance for patients listed for less urgent transplantation. In order to improve the
      general conditions of these latter patients during the waiting period, several
      pharmacological and mechanical bridging therapies have been developed. Anyway, limited data
      are now available regarding the use of MitraClip treatment as bridge strategy in patients
      with severe mitral regurgitation (MR) and end-stage HF waiting for HTx.

      Methods: The MitraBridge registry is an observational, multicenter, international registry
      including all consecutive patients with chronic end-stage HF [New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) III or IV and/or left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤35%] and concomitant
      moderate-severe or severe MR who were potential candidates for HTx, that were treated with
      MitraClip in the contest of a pre-specified bridge strategy.

      According to the clinical conditions present at the time of the MitraClip procedure, patients
      are classified in:

        1. patients on active HTx list (In list group, "pure bridge") with a rapidly progressive
           disease and a low likelihood to receive a donation shortly;

        2. patients waiting for clinical decision (Bridge to decision "BTD" group), also including
           unstable patients during the screening for HTx;

        3. patients who could not be listed for HTx (Not in list group, MitraClip as "bridge to
           candidacy") because of concomitant, potentially reversible, contraindications (e.g.
           severe pulmonary hypertension, elevated pulmonary-vascular-resistance).

      The registry was initiated in June 2018 without the support of any external funding and was
      designed to involve centers across the world that have experience with transcatheter
      MitraClip device (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, California).

      Study endpoints. The primary endpoint: 1-year composite adverse events rate of all-cause of
      death, urgent/unplanned HTx or LVAD implantation and first re-hospitalization for HF.

      As exploratory outcomes: individual components of the primary endpoint.

      Moreover, the investigators described the clinical status of patients at the time of last
      available follow-up, in order to report the rates of patients going for elective HTx,
      entering (or remaining) in the waiting list and having no more indication to HTx (delisting)
      because of significant echocardiographic and/or clinical improvements during the entire
      observational period.

      Mitral Valve Academic Research Consortium (MVARC) criteria are used to define procedural
      success and composite events 12.

      Follow-up data will be collected for patients at 1 month and 1-year and then according to the
      time frame elapsed from the index procedure to data lock for present analysis.

      Patients that did not implant any clip during the index procedure were not included in the
      follow-up. For patients who underwent HTx or LVAD implantation, the follow-up time was
      stopped at the date of transplant or mechanical device placement.
    
  