
    
      The project concerns a randomised controlled trial (RCT) aiming to determine whether midwives
      and physicians can perform medical treatment for incomplete abortion equally safely at
      primary care level. All patients included are women admitted due to incomplete abortion and
      will undergo clinical examinations and treatment in accordance with standard procedures
      (Bluhm et al., 2007, WHO, 2010). A total of 880 women seeking with symptoms of incomplete
      abortion will be included after giving their informed consent and randomised to diagnosis and
      care provided by either midwives or physicians. The study will be conducted at the National
      referral hospital (Mulago in Kampala). A coordinating centre will be established at the
      Mulago Hospital in Kampala in order to monitor the study. Included in the coordinating team
      physicians will be involved and have the ultimate responsibility for the medical care
      provided within the study. The coordinating physicians will evaluate and monitor the midwives
      and physicians performance to safeguard that the care provided is safe and thus do not put
      women at risk or the health care provider in any legal inconvenience. All health care
      providers at the study site included will be provided training that follows the structure of
      Ipas who have updated standardized training modules within abortion and post abortion care
      which is used internationally. Dr Charles Kiggundu, one of the principal investigators is
      currently involved in training for providers at national level in Uganda and thus has
      adequate competence and experience. The health care provider's attitude and communications
      skill is one core component in the training. The importance of the study and the study
      procedure will be another important aspect of the training in order to motivate health care
      providers involved in the care at the selected study sites.
    
  