
    
      Liver resection is an effective treatment for both benign and malignant liver diseases.
      However, post-hepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) is still a life-threatening complication of
      liver resection. The pathophysiological mechanism of PHLF has not yet been fully studied, and
      there is still a lack of effective strategies for either prevention or therapy of PHLF. The
      investigation on PHLF has important clinical significance.

      Sphingolipids are a group of bioactive lipids, including ceramides (CER), sphingomyelins
      (SM), glycosphingolipids (GSL), etc. CER are the basic structure that constitute
      sphingolipids. CER are composed of long-chain bases of sphingosine and different fatty acid
      carbon chains. CER are of various species. According to the saturation of fatty acid carbon
      chains, CER can be divided into saturated CER and unsaturated CER. CER can be divided into
      four species, including short chain (less than 6 carbon atoms), medium chain (6-12 carbon
      atoms), long chain (14-20 carbon atoms), and super long chain (more than 22 carbon atoms) .
      Pathways of CER generation include de novo synthesis, complex sphingolipid lipid degradation
      pathways, and salvage synthesis pathways. CER are degraded to produce sphingosine (SPH),
      which can be phosphorylated to produce S1P. CER and its metabolites SPH and S1P are enigmatic
      lipids that regulates cell survival, death, inflammation, tissue fibrosis, cancer metastasis,
      and cancer invasion. Hepatocytes express activities of various sphingolipid enzymes, which
      makes liver an important organ for sphingolipid metabolism. Emerging evidences have shown
      that dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolite are associated with development and progression
      of certain liver diseases. In animal studies, dysregulation of ceramides has been indicated
      in hepatocyte survival, liver injury, and liver failure. In clinical studies, dysregulation
      of specific ceramide species has been identified to be associated with decompensation of
      cirrhosis, liver fibrosis, hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma. In the light of these
      evidences, the investigators hypothesize that dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism may be
      associated with PHLF.

      The investigators have established a quantitative method to measure different types of
      sphingolipids in human plasma, tissues, and cells using liquid chromatograph/electrospray
      ionization/mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS), including C12-CER, C16-CER, C18-CER, C18:1-CER,
      C20-CER, C22-CER, C24-CER, C24:1-CER, SPH, S1P, C12-SM, C12-LacCER, C12-GluCER. In order to
      examine the correlation between sphingolipid metabolism and PHLF, the investigators will
      collect plasma of patients during peri-operation period of hepatectomy, after lipid
      extraction, the levels of sphingolipids will be measured by LC-ESI-MS/MS technology.
      Moreover, expression of sphingolipid-metabolizing enzymes in liver issues will be determined
      using high-throughput real-time quantitative PCR. The diagnostic criteria and grading of PHLF
      will be performed following criteria of International Liver Group of Liver Surgery. In the
      end, the investigators will analyze the correlation between sphingolipid metabolites and
      PHLF. This project will facilitate us to identify specific sphingolipid metabolites as
      biomarker and regulator of PHLF, and shed the light on the study of PHLF prevention and
      therapy.
    
  