
    
      Insulin resistance has been implicated as the central mechanism in the development of several
      cardiovascular risk factors including hypertension, diabetes, lipid disorders, and
      coagulation disorders. Recent evidence suggests that increased levels of a circulation fat
      (free fatty acids or FFAs) are a leading candidate causing insulin resistance. Our
      preliminary studies in indicate that, in addition to insulin resistance, the infusion of
      Intralipid and heparin to increase FFAs resulted in a significant rise in systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure, impaired endothelial (vascular) function, and increased
      inflammatory markers in obese African Americans with and without diabetes. The effects of FFA
      on insulin action are well established; however, the blood pressure and vascular effects of
      FFAs infusion in obese subjects have not been fully investigated. We hypothesize that
      observed changes in blood pressure are the result of acute endothelial dysfunction, and/or
      increased activation of the autonomic nervous system. No previous studies have attempted to
      determine a dose response effect of increasing FFA on blood pressure. In addition, it is not
      know if increased FFAs by repeated oral fat load results in similar blood pressure than
      intravenous lipid infusion. Accordingly, we propose: 1) a systematic evaluation of the
      effects of increasing FFA levels on blood pressure and endothelial (vascular) function, and
      2) determine the effects of comparable increases in FFA concentration via intravenous
      infusion of Intralipid or by repeated oral fat load on blood pressure, insulin resistance and
      endothelial dysfunction in obese subjects.

      A group of obese normotensive subjects will be admitted to the Grady Clinical Research Center
      or to the Outpatient Research Unit in the Grady Diabetes Clinic on five occasions. In four of
      these admissions, research subjects will receive an 8-hour intravenous infusion, in random
      order, of increasing Intralipid concentration (10 ml, 20 ml, 40 ml per hour) or normal saline
      (40 ml per hour). During the final admission, research subjects will receive an oral liquid
      fat diet every 2 hours for 8-hours. The effect of increased FFAs on blood pressure and
      endothelial (vascular) function via intravenous infusion and via oral fat load therapy will
      be assessed.
    
  