
    
      Diffuse midline gliomas (DMGs), constitute 10% of all pediatric central nervous system (CNS)
      tumors. Subjects with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Gliomas (DIPG) have a poor prognosis with a
      median survival that is usually reported to be 9 months, and nearly 90% of children die
      within 18 months from diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment is radiation to the primary tumor
      site. Surgical resection does not influence the outcome and is often not feasible in this
      part of the central nervous system.

      Many promising drugs for central nervous system (CNS) disorders have failed to attain
      clinical success due to an intact blood brain barrier (BBB), limiting their access from the
      systemic circulation into the brain. Systemic administration of high doses may increase
      delivery to the brain, but this approach risks significant side effects and systemic
      toxicities. Direct delivery of the drugs to the brain by injection into the parenchyma
      bypasses the BBB, however, drug distribution from the site of injection tends to be limited.

      The technique of using focused ultrasound (FUS) with microbubbles and
      neuro-navigator-controlled sonication can temporarily open up the blood brain barrier and
      allow for a greater concentration of drug to reach the tumor, thus potentially improving
      response in patients.

      With the current study, the investigators are planning to evaluate the safety and feasibility
      of using FUS and open-space neuronavigator-controlled sonication to open one, two, or three
      tumor sites. For the purpose of the study, investigators will be administrating oral
      Panobinostat in children with progressive DMG. This drug has a known toxicity profile, dose,
      and well-documented efficacy against many metastatic cancers. Successful opening and closing
      of the BBB will be confirmed with periodic magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs).
    
  