
    
      The use of tunneled cuffed catheters (TCCs) as vascular access is discouraged in the NKF DOQI
      guidelines, because of their propensity for infection, thrombosis, inadequate and/or
      irregular blood flow rates and damage to large central veins. In addition, emerging data
      suggest a link between catheter use and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Nevertheless,
      they are still frequently used in the hemodialysis population, either because of documented
      inadequate vascular access anatomy, or as a bridge to a functional permanent access.

      A large number of TCC are available, that mainly differ with respect to material type, lumen
      diameter and design, tip design, as well as presence and design of side holes. There is
      currently no proven advantage of one long-term catheter design over another.

      The design of the catheter tip may affect the propensity for thrombosis and hence
      intraluminal infection, as well the percentage of recirculation, especially when arterial and
      venous blood tubing are reversed. Commonly used catheters have a staggered tip design,
      meaning that the outflow tip extends several centimetres (typically a minimum of 2.5 cm)
      beyond the inflow tip, to prevent recirculation. Other designs are a split tip, or a
      symmetrical tip. In the latter type, used in the Palindrome® (Covidien) catheter, a spiral
      separator is incorporated allowing either lumen to be used as the arterial port.

      Many catheters have multiple side holes, to decrease shear rate and increase flow on the
      arterial side and reflecting the belief that backup inflow is necessary in the case of
      obstruction. However, side holes can also promote thrombosis and infection due to the
      irregularity of their cut surfaces. Especially the distal side holes comprise a low flow zone
      with an increased clotting risk. The Palindrome® (Covidien) catheter has laser cut side
      holes, which are thought to have a smoother surface and a lower tendency to cause thrombosis.

      Inadequate blood flow in a catheter is often mended by reversal of the inlet and outlet
      lumens. However, reversal of flow leads to a substantial increase of recirculation (from
      2%-3% to 10%), affecting the efficiency of treatment. It should therefore never be used
      except temporarily until the problem is definitively corrected. The symmetrical tip design of
      the Palindrome® (Covidien) catheter allows lumen reversal without increased recirculation.

      The present randomized controlled trial (RCT) is designed to evaluate in chronic hemodialysis
      patients the performance of two TCC with different design: the Palindrome® (Covidien), which
      is a symmetrical spiral z-tip catheter made from carbothane and the Hemoglide® (Bard), which
      has a 3 cm staggered tip and is made of polyurethane.
    
  