
    
      The study design will be an open-label, randomized, non-inferiority implementation trial with
      2 study arms. Patients will be enrolled when due their 6 month VL since initiating ART.

      Standard of Care Arm:

      Participants in the Standard-of-Care (SOC) control arm will receive the standard-of-care for
      the clinic consisting of visits with a professional clinician (Physician or Professional
      Nurse) and once stable, community pharmacy ART collection through CCMDD. Viral load
      monitoring will be lab-based. Participants will be assessed for clinical symptoms/signs of
      tuberculosis, other opportunistic infections, and ART side effects at each clinical
      encounter. Participants who have a high lab-based HIV VL (≥1,000 copies/mL) will receive
      intensive adherence counseling and be asked to return to the clinic in 2 months for repeat
      HIV VL testing. If the HIV VL remains high (≥1,000 copies/mL) after the 2 months of intensive
      adherence counseling, then the patient will be switched to a second-line ART regimen by a
      physician.

      Intervention Arm:

      Participants in the Intervention Group will receive chronic ART management from a
      Professional Nurse and/or Enrolled Nurse every 2 months, and if stable after 6 months,
      community pharmacy ART collection through CCMDD. Viral load monitoring will be POC. Enrolled
      Nurse visits will consist of a clinical symptom and ART side effect checklists, and an ART
      adherence questionnaire, which trigger up-referral to a Professional Nurse/MO where
      appropriate. Point-of-care Xpert® HIV-1 VL testing will be performed while the participant is
      in the clinic to ensure that participants receive the VL results on the same day.
      Participants who have a high HIV VL (≥1,000 copies/mL) will be referred to a Professional
      Nurse. As with the standard-of-care arm, they will receive intensive adherence counseling and
      be asked to return to the clinic in 2 months for repeat point-of-care Xpert® HIV-1 VL
      testing. Participants who continue to have a high HIV VL (≥1,000 copies/mL) after 2 months of
      intensive adherence counseling will be switched to second-line ART by a physician.

      Participants will also be followed for a 12-month study period to assess the study outcome
      measures. This study will follow all aspects of South Africa's ART guidelines, except stable
      patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive Nurse-based care and Xpert® VL
      monitoring, as a comparison to the standard of care.

      At the end of the 12-month study period, all participants will have a repeat CD4 count and
      lab-based HIV VL testing by Roche Taqman v.2.0 assay. The lab-based HIV VL testing will be
      important to use the same HIV VL assay to compare the primary outcomes measures. In addition,
      the research team will evaluate the outcome of "retention in care", which will be defined as
      collecting ART refills at the study exit visit.

      Cost-Effectiveness Component:

      The investigators will use an activity-based micro-costing approach, including time and
      motion studies, to estimate the costs incurred and averted, along with the primary study
      outcomes (viral suppression and retention in care) to estimate the cost per HIV-positive
      person virally suppressed and retained in care in the Intervention Group, as compared to the
      Standard-of-Care Group.

      Time and motion studies will determine the nurse time necessary to conduct the point-of-care
      HIV VL testing and the clinical visit with a stable HIV-infected patient. Time and motion
      studies will be conducted during study initiation and again when the intervention is running
      at full capacity. An experienced research assistant will collect data on the time required to
      complete each step of the chronic care visit (VL testing, clinical assessment, counseling)
      for both study arms. Initial results will be shared with the teams to implement strategies
      for improved efficiency. Observing multiple visits will allow estimation of the average time
      taken for each step; the time taken for research purposes (e.g. data collection) will be
      noted separately from the estimated time needed for monitoring. Multiple staff will be
      observed to capture the range of time required for a successful real-time chronic HIV care.
      Interviews with study staff will also quantify the effort required for each step of visit.
      Through time and motion studies the number of participants who could be supported by a clinic
      will be estimated. The staff time taken for the intervention captures the opportunity cost of
      the chronic care intervention, i.e. staff time that could be spent on a different program.
      The micro-costing data, time and motion studies, and clinical outcomes will be used to
      estimate the average cost per HIV-positive client achieving viral suppression and retained in
      care in the chronic care model compared to the standard of care.
    
  