
    
      Participants and Procedures. Partner Consortium. The PI has strategically chosen four types
      of partners in order to maximize the sustainability of our training. The study team's
      multidisciplinarity will increase the potential for reach across domains that are pivotal in
      changing the landscape of mental health for LGBTI in Romania. First, the team partnered with
      a multi-service provider, the Romanian Association against AIDS (ARAS), a non-governmental
      not-for-profit organization founded in 1992 to support the health of hidden and vulnerable
      groups including LGBTI. ARAS intends to expand the depth and breadth of its LGBT-competency
      in mental health. Second, the team has received the essential support of academics (Hyperion
      University and Professors Călugaru and Dumitriu), which are forefront agents for social
      change. Third, individual MHPs in private practice who are connected with key associations
      have signed on as liaisons to their affiliated organizations (e.g., Bellanima Center for
      Psychotherapy and Psychiatry) to facilitate training participation. Fourth, the team
      continues its fruitful collaboration with their technical developer, Data Center Solutions
      (DCS), who built the mobile platform on which the team delivered live therapy for DMDN,
      collected real-time mental health and behavioral data, and disseminated sexual health
      materials. DCS is an expert in health systems information technology (medical e-learning;
      patient health-promotion), and will build our mHealth training platform.

      Inclusion Criteria. 120 Romanian practicing MHPs (psychologists or psychiatrists) or MHPs in
      training will be eligible to participate.

      Recruitment. The Partner Consortium will advertise the project via web-postings, listservs
      and eblasts to their national circles. Facebook ads were the most successful source of
      recruitment for DMDN. The team will thus be able to canvas all regions of Romania. Further,
      due to the pilot work, the team is maintaining contact with close to 100 MHPs from Bucharest
      (the capital), and other cities (e.g., Sibiu, Iasi, Cluj Napoca, Timisoara). While they will
      not be eligible to participate because they had exposure to the program, they will circulate,
      as indicated by their Letters of Support, future trainings among their circles of individual
      practice and professional affiliations (e.g., Romanian Collegiate of Psychologists, the
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Association of Romania).

      Screening and Consent. Study ads will link to the Qualtrics electronic screener easily
      accessed from any mobile device. MHPs will take the 5-minute survey (Appendix 2) to determine
      eligibility, and be randomized to either the MT group or IPT group (based on age and
      geographical region). The study budgeted travel stipends for one-third of the MHPs, whom the
      team anticipate live outside Bucharest, such that travel costs will not impede their
      participation in IPT and to ensure that each group will include samples that are unbiased
      geographically. Notably, the pilot included non-Bucharest residents. Alternate training dates
      will be offered for those unable to attend the trainings. Group assignment, training dates,
      locations, and link to a Qualtrics baseline (BL) survey will be sent prior to the training.
      The BL contains the consent form with our contacts for questions. The team tested these
      procedures in the pilot, during which the PI answered study questions from MHPs via email.

      Sixty MHPs will be randomized to receive a 2-day IPT in Bucharest, and 60 MHPs will be
      randomized to the equivalent 3-day MT, on a DCS-designed platform compatible with any mobile
      device, and with document-sharing and voice-conferencing capabilities. The didactic trainings
      will be interspersed with answering MHP's questions (voice or text).

      Supervision and Consultation. After the first follow-up (4 months post training), half of the
      IPT MHPs and half of the MT MHPs (n=30 per group, total n=60) will receive 2-hour monthly
      mobile supervision using a forum format on our mobile platform for 8 months. DCS will design
      a group chat feature, similar to the one they devised for a previous pilot study. The live
      monthly supervision will occur on this platform after the 4-month and before the 12-month
      assessments. This system will provide MHPs with a fully automated and interactive mobile
      platform through which they will participate in supervision, as well as submit questions and
      receive answers for case consultation from the experts (Dr. Pachankis and DMDN intervention
      psychologists) within 48 hours. Further, MHPs will receive case studies through our mobile
      website, monthly, with response options asking them their best approach to helping the client
      (e.g., common LGBT stressor situations such as coming out, negotiating sexual safety,
      reducing isolation, or replacing health-depleting behaviors such as excessive drinking with
      healthy alternatives). Cases are fully discussed during supervision. At the end of the study,
      those who did not receive supervision will be given access to all the case studies and the
      mobile consultation site to achieve equity.

      Boosters. We will hold two 2-hour IPT and MT boosters, respectively, 6 and 12 months post
      training, and provide an overview of LGBT-affirmative therapy principles, their incorporation
      into clinical practice, clarifications, and troubleshooting. Case studies will be included
      covering common issues raised by LGBTI.

      Measures of MHP Attitudes, Knowledge, and Clinical Practice. The mixed-methods design
      involves qualitative interviews (n=10) and 30-min. self-administered internet-based
      quantitative surveys (n=120) by MHPs, the latter being administered at BL, and at 4, 8, and
      12-month follow-ups. Surveys will be identical and assess, in a mobile fashion, changes in
      MHPs' LGBT attitudes, knowledge of LGBT health needs, clinical practice skills, and LGBT
      caseload.

      Feasibility and Acceptability. Feasibility measures include data on session attendance.
      Acceptability measures include 5-min. session rating surveys (on mobile devices), and the 10
      qualitative interviews.

      Efficacy. MHPs will report their age, gender, specialization, years of clinical practice, and
      LGBT caseload. We will measure attitudes, knowledge and clinical skills; and the presence of
      explicit and implicit stigma and homophobia.
    
  