
    
      The structure of a bone and the muscles surrounding it changes in a temporally synchronized
      fashion. Skeletal muscles have positive effects on bone structure and function. It is
      well-known that exercise training of muscles improves the resistance of bone to mechanical
      loading and that physical activity is also important for treating and preventing
      osteoporosis. Resistance and impact training can induce bone formation and/or prevent bone
      resorption. Immobilization frequently leads disuse osteoporosis in patients with a bone
      fracture.

      Vibration has a strong osteogenic effect. The cyclic mechanical loading to the bone
      stimulates osteocytes. Vibration-induced bone formation is neuronally regulated. Vibration
      can also effectively enhance muscle strength and power. Previous studies have shown that
      vibration increases muscle electromyographic (EMG) activity. Based on the bone myoregulation
      reflex, bone is sensitive to mechanical stimuli and can send mechanical input signals to
      central nervous system and so can neuronally regulate the muscle activity.

      Previous studies have documented the impact of unilateral training of limb muscle on the
      untrained contralateral homologous muscle.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of vibrating the forearm bone in
      the free limb on muscle strength and bone mineral density of the forearm in patients with
      forearm/elbow fracture.

      The study will include a total of 80 patients with forearm/elbow fractures. The participants
      meeting inclusion criteria will be randomized into one of two groups: a training group (40
      cases) and a control group (40 cases). Patients in the control group will receive standard
      care for provided for fractures, including fixation and rest.

      Forearm Vibration: Training group will exercise 5 times a week for six week period using a
      forearm vibration device. The forearm vibration device consists of a joystick unit, a
      weight-pulley system and a control panel. The subject will be seated in a chair. The right
      forearm will be placed on the vibration device with the shoulder in 10 degrees abduction, the
      elbow in 90 degrees flexion and the forearm and wrist in the neutral position. The axis of
      rotation of joystick unit will be aligned with that of the wrist joint of the free arm. The
      joystick unit will be capable of performing both an angular and a sliding motion
      simultaneously. The angular motion obtained the vibration effect and the sliding motion
      obtained the compression effect. The angular motion of the joystick unit will be provided by
      an electric motor. The range of angular motion will be 6 degrees. The weight is attached to
      the joystick with a rope and pulley system to provide mechanical loading to the forearm
      (compression effect). This weight is defined as vibration load. Maximum vibration load
      tolerated will be applied during vibration. The amplitude of vibration (range of motion of
      the wrist) will be 6 degree and the frequency of the vibration will be 40 Hz. The exercise
      duration and intensity will be low at the beginning but increased systematically over the
      6-week training period. The subjects will be asked to report negative side effects or adverse
      reactions in their training diary.

      Bone Densitometry: Before trails and after six weeks, bilateral bone density of distal radius
      will be measured by DXA. The bilateral bone density will be evaluated by bone densitometer
      (Norland).

      Grip Strength Measurement: Before the start of the study, grip strength of wrist muscles in
      the free limb will be measured. After six weeks, bilateral grip strength will be measured by
      a hand dynamometer (Jamar digital plus hand dynamometer).

      Surface EMG: Surface EMG of the right and left wrist muscles will be recorded using
      disposable self-adhesive bipolar Ag/AgCl electrodes (Kendall Arbo ) placed on its belly. The
      small disc electrodes (10-mm in diameter, inter-electrode distance of 20 mm) arranged in the
      direction of the muscle fibers. All cables will be carefully taped to the skin.

      The skin overlying the muscle will be shaved, light abrasion will be applied, the skin will
      be cleaned using 70% alcohol and, conductive paste will be used to reduce electrode
      resistance before placing the electrodes.

      Motor unit potentials will be amplified and recorded on a computer for off-line analyses at a
      sampling frequency of 2k using a data acquisition and analysis system (Powerlab data
      acquisition system, ADInstruments, Australia).

      Twenty seconds of myoelectrical activity will be recorded from wrist muscles at rest. The
      mean myoelectrical activity will be calculated as the root mean squared (RMS) using the EMG
      device software, and defined as the "resting myoelectrical activity". The resting
      myoelectrical activity will be expressed as microvolt.

      Power spectral analyses will be done. They will be conducted using Hamming windowed, 2048
      point epochs, resulting in a frequency resolution of 0.98 Hz.

      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, single blind trial
    
  