
    
      Study aims

      The working hypothesis is that a disruption of gut microbiota homeostasis, either spontaneous
      or caused by the deregulation of the innate immunity machinery within the pouch mucosa,
      contributes to the onset of chronic/relapsing pouchitis. Taking into account that bacterial
      colonization of the pouch mucosa can be ideally studied since its generation, this can be
      considered as an ideal model to study the interplay between gut microbiota and innate immune
      system. Therefore, the goal of this Research Unit is to establish how dysbiosis and innate
      immunity machinery dysfunction are established and how this disfunction contributes to the
      onset and maintenance of pouchitis. To address these relevant pathophysiological issues in
      light of their therapeutic implications, we plan to perform a randomized double-blind study
      probiotics vs placebo in patients who will undergo colectomy and subsequent ileal pouch-anal
      anastomosis to enrolling the patients at the time of ileostomy colure to:

        1. evaluate composition and pathogenic properties of the microbiota that colonizes the
           pouch mucosa after ileostomy closure;

        2. determine how expression and activation status of the innate immunity system in
           different cell types and anatomical districts of pouch mucosa relate to ileostomy
           closure;

        3. follow-up the clinical outcome of anal pouches in light of microbiota-innate immune
           system interplay.

      Study design In a two year period we calculated to enrol at least 32 patients who will be
      randomized at ileostomy closure in a group receiving placebo (16 patients) and in a group
      receiving lactobacillus casei GD oral supplementation for 8 weeks (16 patients). Mucosa
      samples will be harvested at ileostomy closure and at pouch endoscopy at 8 weeks and at 12
      months.We will consider eligible candidates all patients with UC who will undergo restorative
      proctocolectomy with ileal pouch anal anastomosis and that will attend our outpatient's
      clinic for routine endoscopic and clinical follow-up. Patients with cuffitis (inflammation of
      the rectal mucosa remnant) or Crohn's disease of the pouch (with perianal fistulae or with
      inflammation of the afferent ileal limb), as well as patients who will have received
      antibiotic or probiotic therapy during the previous 30 days will be excluded from the study.
      Patients with PDAI>7 will be considered as overt pouchitis. The protocol will comply with the
      principles of the amended Declaration of Helsinki.

      Each patient will be provided with detailed information about the study aims and methodology
      and will be asked to give written, informed consent prior to enrolment. During this period
      patients will be asked to undergo pouch endoscopy with mucosal biopsies, faecal and blood
      sampling at three following time: a) before ileostomy closure, b) 2 months after ileostomy
      closure, c) 12 months after ileostomy closure (or before, in case of overt pouchitis). Based
      on clinical, endoscopic and histological criteria and PDAI we will assess the disease
      severity [5]. Based on histological and endoscopic acute inflammation as well as clinical
      symptoms, patients with a total PDAI >7 will be classified as having acute pouchitis.

      Endoscopy of the pouch will be performed without sedation. The afferent loop, the pouch will
      be carefully examined and biopsy sampling will be performed: two samples for microbiota
      characterization, two for conventional histology, four for molecular biology and
      cytofluorimetric analysis. Biopsies will be handled and stored accordingly to the different
      studies.

      Microbiota assessment:

      To characterize bacteria adherent to the pouch mucosa biopsies from the ileal pouch will be
      either immediately gently washed to remove loosely adherent microbes and then frozen in
      liquid nitrogen for subsequent DNA extraction, or placed in thioglycolate medium to preserve
      anaerobic microbes for subsequent cultures.

      Relative abundance of bacterial phyla in faecal specimens will be estimated by sequencing the
      PCR amplicons targeting 16S rRNA gene for the DNA samples extracted from each faecal
      specimen. PCR will be performed using the primer set (784F:
      5&#8242;-AGGATTAGATACCCTGGTA-3&#8242; and 1061R: 5&#8242;-CRRCACGAGCTGACGAC-3&#8242;) that
      targets the V5-V6 region of the 16S rRNA genes [38]. To amplify the targeted region, 1 μl of
      extracted DNA will serve as template in 50-μl reactions using Prime STAR HS premix (Takara
      Bio Inc., Japan). Products of the two reconditioning PCR reactions per sample will be
      combined and purified using QIAquick PCR purification columns (Qiagen). The amplified PCR
      products will be used as a template for pyrosequencing with the GS Junior platform (454 Life
      Sciences). Pyrosequencing will be performed by following the manufacturer's instruction using
      MID tags. We expect to obtain about 15,000 sequencies for each sample, on the average. The
      obtained data will be subjected to a data analysis performed by computational tools.
      Bacterial rRNA typing will be performed by BLASTN search against the comprehensive rRNA
      database "silva" release 94 [39] using a threshold of E-value <1E-40. All the bacterial
      species obtained from each faecal sample will be classified into their phylogenetic groups
      and the proportion of different phyla will be estimated. The estimation of operational
      taxonomic unit (OTU) will be performed by the program ESPRIT using default settings [40].

      For microbiological cultures biopsies immediately placed in thioglycolate medium (to protect
      anaerobic microbes from oxygen exposure) will be further manipulated in an anaerobic hood
      filled with C02:H2 (95:5) atmosphere. Biopsies will be washed in sterile dye-gassed saline
      solution supplemented with 0.016% dithioerythritol to remove the mucus and following cell
      hypotonic lysis in sterile water, seeded in proper agar plates to evaluate the superficial
      microflora. [35]. Samples will be seeded on non-selective (Brain Heart Infusion Agar, BHA)
      and selective media for Enterobacteriacae spp (MacConkey agar) and Lactobacillus spp (Rogosa
      SL agar).

      BHA and MacConkey agar plates will be cultured in anaerobic and aerobic conditions (24 and 72
      hrs, respectively), while Rogosa SL Agar plates will be only cultured in anaerobic conditions
      (72 hrs) at 37°C. Colonies will be counted, grouped on the basis of morphological appearance
      and subjected to morphological analysis by Gram staining (Biolife S.r.l.). Then microbes will
      be subjected to molecular characterization, performed by sequencing of PCR amplicons of 16S
      rRNA using an "Abi Prism TM Big Dye TM Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction Kit" [24].
      Isolates will be further characterized according to their pathogenicity potential (i.e.
      toxigenic profile and antibiotic resistance).

      Mucosal innate immune environment

      Analysis of the inflammatory network in the pouch mucosa will include

        1. quantification of cytokines [IL-1ß, IL-6, TNF- , TGF ß, IL-10 and IL-4 and chemokines
           [MCP1,] level by Bio-Plex cytokine immunoassay. One biopsy will be homogenated and the
           clear supernatant used for the contemporary quantification of multiple cytokines and
           chemokines by custom-designed assays;

        2. analysis of TLRs network (mRNA quantification and protein distribution) by quantitative
           RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively;

        3. assessment of activation status of macrophages, dendritic cells, infiltrating
           lymphocytes evaluating surface markers (i.e.) and intracellular cytokines pattern (i.e.
           TNF , IFN , IL4, IL10) by cytofluorimetric analysis. Two biopsies will be subjected to
           gentle enzymatic digestion and then stained with properly labelled antibodies directed
           against surface antigens or intracellular cytokines.

      Mucosal anti-microbial activity. To characterize the anti-bacterial peptide-network in the
      pouch mucosa responsible to shape-up the adherent microbiota we will a) determine the
      anti-microbial properties of mucosal extracts by performing in vitro anti-bacterial toxicity
      assay [37]; b) quantify epithelial and leucocytes-derived anti-microbial defensins (such as
      Def2, Def3; DEFA5; DEFA6) by quantitative RT-PCR.

      Histological evaluation:

      For routine histological examination two biopsies will be fixed in 4% PFA for 24 Hrs, then
      dehydrated and embedded in paraffin, and sections (5 μm thick) will be cut and subjected to
      standard haematoxylin/eosin (H&E) stain. To quantify inflammatory severity will be used the
      Floren et al. score [41].

      Systemic and intestinal inflammation assessment

      Systemic and local inflammatory state will be assessed at each experimental timeline by:
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count (WBC), platelets blood count
      (PLT), CRP and fecal lactoferrin, respectively. ESR will be measured by the Westergren
      method. CRP will be detected by immuno-nephelometry (normal: <6 mg/l; pathological >6mg/l).
      Total protein and albumin will be assessed with the biuret method. WBC, platelets counts and
      haemoglobinaemia will be obtained with standard full blood cell count. Fecal lactoferrin will
      be dosed by an ELISA test that uses rabbit polyclonal antibodies specific for human
      lactoferrin on frozen stool samples.

      Statistical analysis

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Windows Microsoft Excel and a Statistica 7.1
      (Statsoft, Inc.) software. Continuous data will be expressed as median (range); dichotomic
      data will be expressed as frequency and proportion. Non-parametric tests will be used.
      Correlation between bacteria strains and inflammatory parameters will be calculated with
      Spearman test to evaluate the etio-pathogenetic role of each strain. Relevant correlation
      coefficient will be not inferior to 0.50 and, setting a two-tails statistic significance
      level at 0.05 and power at 0.20, the consequent sample size will have to be at least of 29
      patients. Comparison between pouchitis and healthy pouch will be performed with Mann-Whitney
      U test. Set a level of statistical significance at 0.05 and a power at 0.20 the consequent
      sample size required for comparison will be 16 patients for each group. In conclusion at
      least 32 patients will be enrolled in this study. Statistical significance will be set at
      p<0.05.
    
  