
    
      Cardiovascular diseases and tumors seriously threaten human health. With the aging of the
      population in my country, the number of patients with two diseases has been increasing year
      by year, the difficulty of treatment has greatly increased, and the prognosis of most
      patients is poor. Therefore, it is of great clinical significance to explore safe and
      effective intervention programs to prevent cardiovascular diseases and malignant tumors in
      the elderly.

      There are many risk factors that affect the occurrence and death of cardiovascular diseases
      and malignant tumors. In addition to genetic and congenital factors, it also includes bad
      lifestyles, such as smoking, drinking, abnormal metabolism, excessive stress, etc. Many
      factors such as excessive stress and staying up late can cause abnormal circadian rhythms [5,
      6]. The regulation of circadian rhythm is likely to be a key key to the early prevention of
      cardiovascular diseases and tumors.

      Melatonin has an important role in regulating the circadian rhythm of the human body. A
      number of basic and clinical studies at home and abroad have shown that melatonin has a
      protective effect on inhibiting cardiovascular disease and tumor occurrence. The latest
      research of our research group confirmed that melatonin can reduce the level of oxidative
      stress through the retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear receptor alpha (RORα) and thereby
      inhibit pathological cardiac hypertrophy; melatonin can regulate the polarization and
      polarization of macrophages RORα receptor stabilizes vulnerable plaque in arteries and
      prevents plaque rupture.

      In China, melatonin is widely used in the market as a health product. Melatonin has a wide
      range of sources, no obvious toxic and side effects to the body, and high bioavailability,
      which suggests that it can prevent cardiovascular diseases and It has important potential in
      the occurrence of tumors. However, the protective mechanism of melatonin in cardiovascular
      diseases and tumors is still unclear, and large-scale population intervention studies are
      still lacking. The level of melatonin in the daytime changes little with age, but the peak at
      night gradually decreases with age. In people aged 60 and above, the peak of melatonin at
      night decreased significantly. We speculate that melatonin supplementation may be able to
      reduce the oxidative damage of mitochondria by maintaining the level of melatonin at night in
      the body, delay cell decay, and delay this physiological process.

      Therefore, the project team intends to combine the developed new cardiovascular disease and
      tumor risk prediction models in the Shanghai elderly cohort established in the early stage,
      and randomize groups of healthy people in the same risk stratification, according to whether
      or not to supplement melatonin. There are two cohorts: the melatonin intervention cohort and
      the parallel control cohort. By observing the efficacy indicators of cardiovascular disease
      and tumor incidence in the two groups during the follow-up period, it provides evidence-based
      medical evidence for the future clinical application of melatonin.
    
  