
    
      The surgical resection of cerebral metastases as a key element in a multimodal therapeutic
      concept of brain metastatic patients is included in the common recommendations and
      international guidelines (level I evidence). These recommendations are based on a series of
      prospective, randomized and controlled studies which addressed the impact of the surgical
      metastases resection combined with a whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) in comparison to
      WBRT alone. Achieving local tumor control is the major goal of surgery and local tumor
      control rate after surgery alone has been addressed in few studies: A prospective, randomized
      American multicenter study revealed a local recurrence rate of 46% by median follow-up of 43
      weeks for patients who underwent surgery alone without an adjuvant radiation therapy.
      Similarly, the 2-year local recurrence rate after metastases resection alone was 53.1% in a
      retrospective Korean study and 59% in the prospective, randomized and controlled EORTC
      22952-26001 study.

      In conclusion, standard surgery alone is not sufficient to achieve local control in about 50%
      of patients (evidence level I). Therefore, surgery of cerebral metastases is often followed
      by an adjuvant radiation therapy, which is an important part of a multi-modal therapy.
      Evidence for an additional adjuvant whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) after surgical
      resection was gained from a first prospective, randomized study in 1998: Patients treated by
      surgery followed by adjuvant WBRT had a significant lower local in-brain progression rate as
      compared to patients randomized to surgery alone (46% with a median follow-up of 48 weeks in
      the observation group vs. 10% with a median follow-up of 43 weeks). This result was recently
      confirmed by the EORTC 22952-26001 study: The 2-year local in-brain progression rate after
      surgical resection was reduced by a WBRT from 59% to 27%. But despite the lower local and
      also lower distant in-brain progression rate, the WBRT had no significant influence on the
      overall survival. The additional analysis of the quality of life data of the EORTC
      22952-26001 study showed, that a WBRT negatively impacts the health-related quality of life
      with a statistically relevant and clinically significant impairment of the physical
      functioning (at 8 weeks), cognitive functioning and of the global health status. In
      conclusion, WBRT after surgery of cerebral metastases significantly reduces the incidence of
      local recurrences but has no impact on the overall survival and has a significant negative
      impact on the patient´s quality of life and cognitive function. Therefore, WBRT is not
      mandatory as adjuvant concept after surgical metastases resection and does not have an
      additional oncological impact in comparison to observation.

      A local fractionated radiation therapy in analogy to the WBRT might achieve a similar local
      tumor control than observation alone but might be associated with an improved cognitive
      functioning as compared to WBRT. The purpose of this study is to determine whether a local
      fractionated radiation therapy achieves a better local tumor control after complete surgical
      metastases resection at 6 month as compared to observation alone. Further it should be
      evaluated if cognitive functioning and quality of life is similar in both groups.
    
  