
    
      CMI is a relatively rare condition mainly affecting elderly patients >60 years old. CMI is
      characterized by an insufficient blood supply to the intestines due to a narrowing (stenosis)
      of one or multiple intestinal arteries. The main symptoms associated with CMI are abdominal
      pain following mealtimes and weight loss. Diagnosis for CMI is difficult as >10% of all
      elderly patients have stenotic changes in their intestinal arteries, however only a fraction
      of these patients are symptomatic. The diagnosis of CMI is therefore mainly based on the
      clinical history and evaluation. The challenging diagnosis is most likely the main
      contributing factor to why five to 19% of patients experience no symptomatic relief following
      surgical treatment. The surgical treatment consists of either open surgical bypass or, more
      commonly, endovascular stent placement, opening the stenotic artery.

      Endovascular stent placement for patients with symptomatic CMI is a common procedure at the
      Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet, with
      approximately 60 patients undergoing the procedure annually. Patients undergo a preoperative
      CT scan including a non-contrast and arterial phase scan to evaluate the abdominal arterial
      vessels and the degree of stenosis, however the bowel wall is not routinely evaluated. This
      is mainly due to the fact that mesenteric blood flow is adequate during times of fasting,
      however insufficient blood flow may occur at times of peak demand i.e. during digestion of a
      meal.

      DECT has shown improved conspicuity for bowel ischemia using monoenergetic images and allows
      for iodine selective maps which have been used in the evaluation of pulmonary emboli.

      To our knowledge, there are no current studies that have investigated applications of DECT in
      the evaluation of CMI. We intend to investigate whether it is possible to visualize bowel
      hypoperfusion using DECT following administration of a standardized meal.
    
  