
    
      Background: Chronic pain affects 40-70% of Veterans and amounts to over $600 billion/year in
      direct medical costs and lost worker productivity. Racial disparities in pain treatment have
      been extensively documented. Minority patients, including Veterans, are more likely to be
      undertreated for pain. Minority Veterans have pain documented less frequently, undergo more
      urine drug tests, and are more likely to be referred for substance abuse evaluation than
      White Veterans. Compounding these pain care disparities, minority Veterans exhibit lower
      levels of patient activation than Whites. Patient activation-having knowledge, confidence,
      and skills to manage health-is associated with better health experiences, self-management,
      and outcomes. Low activation is frequently manifested in poorer communication among minority
      patients. Minority patients are less likely to share their concerns with providers, ask
      questions, and prepare for their clinic visits. This poor communication is associated with
      lower quality care, poorer patient-provider relationships, and treatment non-adherence. The
      poorer communication experienced by minorities is exacerbated by the documented difficulties
      in patient-provider communication about chronic pain and its treatment-particularly where
      opioids are concerned.

      Objectives: COOPERATE (Communication and Activation in Pain to Enhance Relationships and
      Treat Pain with Equity) is a pragmatic randomized controlled trial of an intervention to
      improve patient activation and communication with providers for minority Veterans with
      chronic pain. COOPERATE focuses on 2 essential skill sets necessary to facilitate effective
      patient activation: 1) goal-setting and prioritization, and 2) communication skills.
      COOPERATE is delivered over the telephone in 6 sessions (4 weekly sessions followed by 2
      booster session) over a period of 12 weeks. The primary study outcome is patient activation.

      Methods: COOPERATE is a Hybrid Type 1 study, designed to test effectiveness while also
      examining implementation facilitators and barriers. COOPERATE will enroll 250 minority
      Veterans with chronic musculoskeletal pain from primary care clinics. Veterans will be
      randomized either to the COOPERATE intervention or to an attention control arm. For Aim 1 the
      investigators will test the effects of COOPERATE at 3 (primary end point), 6, and 9 months
      (sustained effects) on patient activation (primary outcome), communication self-efficacy,
      pain intensity and interference, and psychological functioning. In Aim 2, the
      pre-implementation aim, the investigators will use qualitative methods to understand
      facilitators and barriers to implementing COOPERATE. Guided by the RE-AIM framework, the
      investigators will interview a purposefully selected subsample of intervention Veterans, and
      clinicians from primary care and the chronic pain clinic, to better prepare for COOPERATE's
      implementation. Aim 3 is an exploratory aim to determine the effects of COOPERATE on
      important relational indicators of high-quality care: working alliance (with providers), and
      perceived discrimination in healthcare.

      Innovation: COOPERATE focuses on two important, yet frequently neglected, areas for
      improvement in minority health: patient activation and communication. This is especially
      important in chronic pain care, since numerous treatment options with a wide range of risks
      and benefits exist, and since minorities are offered fewer of these pain treatment options.
      Helping minority Veterans to become more active in their care is critical for improving
      chronic pain care. This is especially important in light of VA efforts such as the Opioid
      Safety Initiative, designed to improve safety for Veterans, but which also require engaged,
      active patients as Veterans must explore alternative pain treatments with their
      providers-treatments that are feasible for Veterans' individual lifestyles and consistent
      with their symptom priorities and treatment goals.
    
  