
    
      Study Design

      This study is designed to be a prospective, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial at
      Oregon Health and Science University (OHSU) in Portland, Oregon. The investigators will
      enroll Hispanic and non-Hispanic parturients in equal numbers on the labor and delivery floor
      to receive both an educational pamphlet and video in their primary language or no educational
      intervention. All parturients will receive standard of practice consent for general/regional
      anesthesia by an anesthesiology resident or attending.

      Study Population

      A total of 176 participants will be enrolled in the study. Within the 176 participants there
      will be four groups of patients: (1) Hispanic subjects that receive additional epidural
      education [44 patients], (2) Hispanic subjects that receive standard of care [44 patients],
      (3) non-Hispanic subjects that receive additional epidural education [44 patients], and (4)
      non-Hispanic subjects that receive standard of care [44 patients].

      Over the past year 421 Hispanic and 215 non-Hispanic patients with Medicaid insurance
      delivered at OHSU. The rate-limiting step in the study will be enrolling enough non-Hispanic
      subjects on Medicaid and so study timeline calculations are based upon expected enrollment of
      those subjects. Assuming 15% of patients approached decline study participation and the
      research team misses another 35% of patients the investigators believe they can enroll the
      necessary 88 subjects in 300 days or approximately 10 months (during which time 177
      non-Hispanic Medicaid deliveries would occur).

      Patients appropriate for inclusion in the study will be identified at OHSU after they have
      been admitted to the labor and delivery unit. A cursory review of the labor and delivery unit
      census on EPIC will be used to identify qualifying patients (ASA I-III category patients of
      18 years of age on Medicaid with that are either in labor or committed to labor via
      induction). All patients who pass this initial screen with have a more thorough review of
      their record with particular attention paid to ethnicity and medical conditions that would
      affect the decision to offer neuraxial analgesia.

      Setting

      Informed consent, Initial Encounter survey, and Epidural Pre-Test Questionnaire will be
      administered in the OHSU Labor and Delivery Unit. The Epidural Post-Test Questionnaire will
      be administered in the patient's recovery room 1-2 days after giving birth.

      Recruitment Methods

      Patients that appear to meet inclusion criteria will be identified at OHSU after they have
      been admitted to the labor and delivery unit. A cursory review of EPIC on the work computers
      of the researchers or labor and delivery unit computers will be used to identify patients
      that warrant a deeper chart review (ASA I-III category patients of at least 18 years on
      Medicaid that are either in labor or committed to labor via induction). All patients that
      pass this initial screen will have a more thorough review of their medical record with
      particular attention paid to ethnicity, whether they are an MD or midwife patient, and
      medical conditions that may affect the decision to offer neuraxial anesthesia. All patients
      that pass this EPIC screen will be approached by the research team and allowed to participate
      in the study. There will be no fliers, advertisements, videos, or webpages set up to recruit
      patients. There will be no monetary awards or free services offered to study participants.

      Consent Process

      A member of the research team will perform subject recruitment and obtain written informed
      consent in the OHSU Labor and Delivery Unit in order to minimize the possibility of coercion.

      Patients will be provided the Consent and Authorization form in their preferred language
      (English or Spanish) and will have an opportunity to ask questions of the research team
      member after the study protocol is explained. An interpreter/translator will be available via
      telephone for Spanish speaking women during this time.

      Procedures

      Subject allocation will occur in the labor room after informed consent has occurred.
      Allocation will occur when the research assistant opens one of a series of sequentially
      numbered opaque envelopes containing group assignment (by a computer generated random number
      sequence [Excel, Redmond WA]. A researcher not involved in either subject enrollment or
      subject assignment will generate the random number sequence. The anesthesia and obstetric
      team caring for the subject will remain blinded on whether the subject received additional
      educational materials; however, due to the type of study it is impossible to blind the
      subject. Subjects will be allocated to either an epidural-focused educational intervention or
      no intervention by ethnicity stratified block randomization.

      Subjects that agree to participate in the study will have demographic data collected from
      EPIC (age, race, gravida, parity, gestational age, BMI, birth history) and will be given a
      subject questionnaire in their primary language that will ask about potential confounders
      that may affect epidural usage (highest education achieved, length of time the subject's
      family has lived in the U.S., past personal and family experience with epidurals, needle
      phobia, etc.). At the conclusion of the study some additional information will be taken from
      EPIC (length of labor, type of delivery, APGAR scores, and whether an epidural was used for
      labor analgesia).

      All subjects enrolled in the study will be given a survey in their primary language seeking
      to identify potential barriers to neuraxial anesthesia utilization. Included in this survey
      will be a yes/no checklist for the subject to complete that includes some previously
      published reasons that patients commonly give for not wanting neuraxial anesthesia. This
      survey will be given again in the postpartum period to all women enrolled in the study. The
      postpartum survey will serve as a post-test to evaluate the effectiveness of the educational
      intervention in those women that received additional education materials. The post-test will
      also be given to women in the control group to determine if the process of delivering a baby
      either with or without an epidural affects subject views on neuraxial anesthesia. The
      completion of the posttest will mark the end of each parturient's time of participation in
      the study.

      All women allocated to receive additional educational materials will be given a language
      appropriate pamphlet and video on neuraxial anesthesia. The video and pamphlet will be in the
      subject's primary language. After the subject watches the educational video they will be
      given an opportunity to go through the pamphlet with the research assistant and ask any
      questions they may have. For Spanish-speaking subjects this will occur through a telephone
      interpreter. The obstetric anesthesia providers and obstetricians caring for the subject will
      be absent for the educational video and post-video conversation.

      Women who elect to receive neuraxial anesthesia will be administered the procedure by an
      anesthesiology resident with supervision by an attending anesthesiologist. A lumbar epidural
      catheter will be placed and after initial bolus (spinal or epidural) all subjects will be
      started on a patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) protocol with a solution of 0.055%
      bupivacaine with 1 mcg/mL sufentanil. The initial PCEA settings for all subjects will be the
      following: maintenance infusion rate of 10 ml/hr, bolus of 5 ml, lockout of 15 minutes, with
      a maximum of 4 boluses an hour. The maintenance infusion rate, bolus volume, and lockout
      interval will be allowed to be adjusted as deemed necessary by the obstetric anesthesiology
      team. Subjects with pain refractory to the initial PCEA settings will be allowed to get
      additional epidural boluses of medication by the anesthesiology resident or attending. The
      PCEA will be continued until delivery or slightly thereafter depending upon subject need. The
      PCEA will be allowed to be turned off or down to help with stage two pushing or to avoid
      maternal hypotension. Other more rare complications involving neuraxial anesthesia will be
      dealt with according to standard of care practice.

      Data Analysis

      Sample size calculations are based upon the abstract presented at the Society for
      Maternal-Fetal Medicine. In that study, only 40% of women assigned to additional prenatal
      epidural education classes attended the prescribed intervention. With 40% attendance the
      authors of the study found a 14% difference in epidural utilization rates. Subjects in this
      study will be randomized on labor and delivery after hospital admission. The investigators
      estimate that 90% of women will get the assigned educational intervention. Assuming epidural
      education has the same effect in this study as that seen in the abstract by Kanter et al. the
      investigators expect to see a 31% increase in epidural utilization. Based upon data at OHSU
      from June 2013 to May 2014 the current epidural rate at OHSU for Hispanics is 45.3% and the
      current epidural rate for non-Hispanics is 55.8%. Assuming a 31% difference in epidural usage
      in the Hispanic population after implementation of the study protocol, with an alpha of 0.05
      and a power of 80%, 44 subjects would need to be randomized to each of four groups.

      The investigators will compare the intervention to control group within both the Hispanic and
      non-Hispanic populations on the primary outcome of neuraxial anesthesia utilization using the
      chi-squared statistic. Pre and post delivery scores from the Neuraxial Anesthesia Survey will
      be compared using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Subject characteristics between study arms
      will be compared to one another with the chi-squared statistic or Fisher's Exact Test for
      categorical outcomes and the student t test, or a non-parametric equivalent, for continuous
      variables. A p < 0.05 will be required to reject the null hypothesis that no difference
      between epidural utilization rates exists between those that received the educational
      intervention and those that did not.
    
  