
    
      Being physically active has been shown to reduce pain, improve quality of life and
      potentially reduce joint damage. However, our recent survey in British Columbia found only 1
      in 4 people with mild osteoarthritis symptoms (pain; stiffness) met the recommended level of
      physical activity. Research in people without arthritis shows that web-based tools can
      increase walking behaviour, but none of these tools are designed with the needs of people
      with arthritis in mind. Research in other chronic diseases has found that people are more
      likely to quit smoking shortly after the diagnosis of a smoking-related disease. Thus, the
      diagnosis of osteoarthritis presents an ideal 'teachable moment' to engage those who have
      been sedentary to become physically active.

      This project will address the Research Question: Can an interactive website increase physical
      activity in people with previously undiagnosed knee OA and those with a diagnosis of knee OA
      with no contraindication for being physically active? We have created a website, called OPEN
      (Osteoarthritis Physical Activity & Exercise Net), based on a well developed behavioural
      theory. A total of 252 sedentary people with knee osteoarthritis will be recruited in British
      Columbia to test the website. Half of them will be assigned to use the OPEN website for 3
      months and will receive an education pamphlet produced by The Arthritis Society; the other
      half will only receive the pamphlet. During the test period, participants will complete an
      online questionnaire at 0, 3 and 6 months to allow us to follow changes in physical activity,
      knee symptoms and outcomes related to their motivation to become physically active. In
      addition,Participants will be stratified by OA diagnosis (having previously undiagnosed OA,
      as identified by a validated questionnaire, versus having a knee OA diagnosis). participants
      from Metro Vancouver who have previously undiagnosed knee OA will complete an aerobic fitness
      test administered by a blind assessor. Changes between the two groups will be compared.

      Our project directly targets physical inactivity at a time when the joint damage tends to be
      mild, and when people are more motivated to adopt a healthy behaviour. If the OPEN is found
      to be effective in improving physical activity, it opens further opportunities to promote
      early diagnosis and to implement lifestyle interventions.
    
  