
    
      This study aims to explore if oral neuromuscular training is superior to orofacial
      sensory-vibration stimulation in patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia.

      Study design: This 2-center study is an intension-to-treat prospective randomized open-label
      trial with blinded evaluators (PROBE) design. Evaluations are made at baseline, at end of
      training, and at late follow-up after a period without training to investigate if any lasting
      positive training effect was present.

      Inclusion criteria: First-ever stroke and a pathological timed water swallow test (TWST) at
      four to five weeks after stroke onset.

      Exclusion criteria: Inability to cooperate, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG),
      neurological diseases other than stroke, known history of dysphagia, prominent horizontal
      overbite, hypersensitivity to the acrylate in the oral device.

      Study procedure: Four weeks after stroke onset, patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia and
      pathological swallowing according to the timed water swallow test (TWST) will be randomized
      1:1 into a 5-week oral neuromuscular training with an oral device in addition to orofacial
      sensory-vibration stimulation with an electrical toothbrush (intervention group) or orofacial
      sensory-vibration stimulation only (control group). The participants will be examined with a
      TWST, lip force test, and videofluoroscopy (VFS) of oropharyngeal swallowing before
      (baseline), after 5-weeks training (end-of-training) and at a 12-18 months follow-up. The
      primary endpoint is changes in TWST at the end-of-training compared with baseline, and at
      late follow-up based on intention-to-treat analyses. The secondary endpoints are the
      corresponding changes in lip force and aspiration frequency at VFS.

      Sample size: In order to detect a critical change with a power of 80 %, a sample size of 44
      patients (22 in the intervention group and 22 in the control group) that fulfilled the study
      protocol was required for a type I error of 5 %.
    
  