
    
      Cochlear implants are an established treatment for individuals with hearing loss where
      conventional hearing aids fail to provide appropriate hearing amplification and result in
      poor speech and language perception.

      Although a large proportion of patients with cochlear implants are expected to do well with
      an implant, there is still uncertainty why some individuals do poorly.

      Furthermore investigators have limited knowledge about how the brain interacts with a
      cochlear implant to process speech. Evidence suggests that the underlying central mechanisms
      responsible for processing speech using an implant are related to neuroplasticity. That is to
      say that the brain establishes new cortical networks between the vital auditory centres and
      the cochlear implant thus enabling processing of speech.

      Investigators have recently completed a study comparing the cortical changes that occur in
      subjects with bilateral cochlear implants to normal hearing controls. In this study both
      groups of patients were subjected to binaural simultaneous auditory stimuli. Analysis
      suggests that subjects with bilateral cochlear implants and postlingual hearing loss seem to
      recruit similar areas of the temporal lobes to process speech as their normal hearing
      counterparts.

      The implant recipients activations were larger and more diffuse but did not differ greatly
      from those described previously in normal hearing. This study provides a good comparison of
      hearing using bilateral cochlear implants to that of normal unaided hearing. This study
      provides a more realistic comparison of cortical activations due to hearing in cochlear
      implantees and normal hearing subjects. This is in contrast to other studies involving
      monaural stimulation of a unilateral cochlear implant to monaural stimulation of normal
      hearing subject with the contralateral normal hearing ear blocked off. Investigators are only
      aware of one additional study where subjects with bilateral cochlear implants have been
      compared to normal hearing controls.

      In addition investigators did not observe any recruitment of the visual cortices in our
      bilaterally implanted subjects. This finding was also present in Strelnikov's study. However
      previous work has suggested subjects with cochlear implants rely on visual clues to process
      speech as a result of the degraded signal provided by the implant. It is possible that
      because the subjects in this study and Strelnikov's study were experienced implant users and
      benefited from binaural auditory stimulation, they were not dependant on audio-visual
      integration to process speech.

      There has been an increasing trend towards hearing preservation surgery for patients
      undergoing cochlear implantation. Literature supports improved speech and pitch perception in
      quiet and noise for subjects who combine the use of their implant with any residual preserved
      natural hearing compared with using the implant alone. Once again the the underlying
      mechanisms for this are unknown. It would be of scientific interest to investigate the
      interaction between natural residual hearing and hearing via a cochlear implant. It is likely
      that this cohort of subjects process speech similarly to those with normal hearing.

      Finally, studies have monitored the speech progression of implantees from before surgery to
      several years post implant switch on. It has been suggested that the predominant improvement
      in speech perception occurs in the first year of implant use. This would suggest that the
      neuronal networks responsible for speech processing are established very early on however,
      investigators are not aware of any studies which have attempted to track the evolution of the
      temporal cortices in new recipients of cochlear implants.
    
  