
    
      Hyperglycaemia in hospitalized patients is becoming a common clinical problem due to the
      increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus. Hyperglycaemia in this cohort can also occur in
      patients with previously undiagnosed diabetes, or during acute illness in those with
      previously normal glucose tolerance. A growing body of evidence currently suggest that the
      degree of hyperglycaemia upon admission and the duration of hyperglycaemia during their
      illness are associated with adverse outcomes. In-patient hyperglycaemia is now widely
      recognised as a poor prognostic marker in terms of morbidity and mortality, increased length
      of stay and cost to the healthcare system. Analysis of data from nine randomised controlled
      trials and ten observational studies reported that treatment of hyperglycaemia in
      non-critically ill patients was associated with reduction in the risk of infection (relative
      risk, 0.41;95% confidence interval, 0.21-0.77).

      The current management of inpatient hyperglycaemia in non-critical care is still far from
      ideal, and vary widely between different centres . The discordance between clinical evidence
      and practice is due to a number of factors which could potentially undermine patient care and
      safety. Of these, hypoglycaemia remains one the biggest barriers to managing in-patient
      hyperglycaemia. Hypoglycaemia is associated with increased length of stay (up to 2.3 times
      higher) and inpatient mortality. A recent meta-analyses reported that intensive glycaemic
      control on non-critical care patients is associated with a trend of increased risk of
      hypoglycaemia. Optimal glycaemic inpatient glucose targets still remain an intensely debated
      subject. Consensus from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) and
      American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommended specified targets for hospitalised patients,
      of fasting or pre-meal blood glucose <7.8mmol/l and random blood glucose <10mmol/l.

      Outpatient use of real-time continuous glucose monitoring (RT-CGM) is gradually increasing.
      Its implementation in the outpatient setting has been supported by robust scientific and
      clinical studies, showing benefits in glycaemic control, minimising hypoglycaemia and
      improving patient experience. Extending use of RT-CGM systems to inpatient settings
      especially during the COVID-19 pandemic may allow hospital staff to remotely monitor glucose
      while reducing viral exposure through frequent patient contact and preserving personal
      protective equipment (PPE). RT-CGM may be of benefit to inpatients with unstable glycemia
      (i.e. COVID-19 patients receiving dexamethasone therapy) and at risk of severe hypoglycemia,
      as it can automatically alert the treating clinical team of hypo- and hyperglycemia. Use of
      RT-CGM in hospital could therefore potentially benefits patients by improving their glycaemic
      control, and healthcare professionals working in busy general ward settings by providing
      remote real-time glucose monitoring from the patient every 10 minutes.

      The main objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of RT-CGM in maintaining glucose
      levels within the target range (5.6 to 10.0 mmol/l) compared to conventional glucose
      monitoring in hospitalised insulin-treated T2D. Other objectives include evaluating safety of
      RT-CGM in terms of reducing the incidence of hypoglycaemia, severe hyperglycaemia, and
      collecting feedback of participants and healthcare professionals using RT-CGM in the general
      ward settings.
    
  