
    
      This study centers on people with mild symptoms of stress or worry. Participants are
      recruited by advertisement and the web. Potential participants are contacted by phone and
      informed about the study. Written informed consent is collected through mail from those who
      are interested in participating. They are asked to answer all the instruments of the study
      via a secure internet portal used for delivering the intervention. If they do not fulfill the
      exclusion criteria they are randomized to one of four conditions. When the intervention has
      ended participants are asked to fill out all the instruments and again at four week follow
      up. To find significant (p<.05) results on the primary outcome variables with estimated
      medium effect sizes, pair-wise comparisons, a power of .80 and allowing for 10% attrition,
      forty participants are needed in each condition.

      The intervention used in this project will be a standard program of applied relaxation that
      has been used and empirically tested in previous clinical studies. Since the aim of the
      present project is to investigate factors that affect adherence rather than the intervention
      effect, the investigators will use a well tested intervention with known effects on symptoms
      of stress and anxiety. Previous studies have shown that self help with applied relaxation can
      have a positive effect on for example stress, anxiety and sleep. By providing an intervention
      that is beneficial, credible and relevant for people with mild symptoms of stress and anxiety
      it would be possible to investigate how manipulating different factors of the intervention
      affects the adherence. Applied relaxation will in this intervention consist of a four-week
      program provided via the Internet. The exact composition of the intervention will be slightly
      different in each condition depending on the research question, see below. The program
      includes four steps; tension sensitivity training, long relaxation, short relaxation and
      applied relaxation. Each week includes information, assignments and support via the secure
      internet portal.
    
  