
    
      This study uses a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, parallel-controlled research model.
      In addition to the standard anticoagulant drugs for antiphospholipid syndrome, patients with
      recurrent miscarriage and APS who meet the enrollment criteria will be randomly divided into
      hydroxychloroquine sulfate( HCQ) group or placebo group, and randomly assigned according to a
      1:1 ratio. Observe the efficacy and safety.

      The Hydroxychloroquine sulfate(HCQ) group is the test group. Hydroxychloroquine sulfate
      0.2g/d (sig: 0.1g bid po) will be applied 3 months before pregnancy, pregnancy will be
      started at the 4th month, and aspirin 50mg/d will be added after menstruation( sig: 25mg bid
      po), low molecular weight heparin 4000-6000 U/d after ovulation or 1 week before embryo
      transplantation; the placebo group is the control group, and placebo 0.2g/d (sig: 0.1 g bid
      po) from the fourth month of pregnancy, add aspirin 50mg/d (sig: 25mg bid po) after
      menstruation, and add low molecular heparin 4000-6000 U/d after ovulation or 1 week before
      embryo transplantation Both groups were followed up by telephone every 1 month to obtain
      medication compliance, whether there were adverse reactions, etc., and both oth groups were
      followed up every 3 months for non-pregnant women by outpatient service , until pregnancy. If
      the patient is not pregnant within one year, The clinical study of this patient will be
      terminated, and the patients will be followed up for adverse reactions by telephone one month
      and three months after withdrawal. If you are pregnant, follow up in the first trimester
      immediately, and arrange a follow-up every three months thereafter (defined as follow-up in
      the first trimester, follow-up in the second trimester and follow-up in the third trimester).
      The drug was discontinued on the day of delivery and the postpartum follow-up was completed 6
      weeks after delivery. So, therefore, the entire study time is approximately 27 months.

      The researcher mainly records the subjects' vital signs, laboratory indicators, adverse
      events and combined medications, as well as related indicators of pregnancy check-ups (such
      as uterine artery blood flow, presence or absence of pregnancy complications, fetal
      complications, etc.)
    
  