
    
      In Denmark approximately 9000 knee replacements were performed in 2015. Almost 7000 of the
      procedures performed were total knee arthroplasties.

      A total knee arthroplasty is a common procedure performed as treatment for knee arthritis.

      In 2015, 39,9% of the patients in Denmark who had knee replacement surgery were severely
      obese with a BMI ≥30 kg/m2.

      The percentage of severely obese patients who has knee replacement surgery is rising and
      studies have shown that obesity increases the risk of postoperative complications.

      A danish cross-sectional study found that swelling with a prevalence of 90,7% was the most
      frequent patient-reported complication after knee arthroplasty. A common postoperative
      complication after total knee arthroplasty and severe obesity increases the risk of
      postoperative swelling.

      Postoperative swelling may impair movement of the knee, cause pain and discomfort as well as
      complicate and prolong rehabilitation.

      Despite that a BMI 30 kg/m2 causes more postoperative complications, obese patients
      experience the same quality of life and improvement of function after total knee arthroplasty
      as patients with a BMI ≤30 kg/m2. The higher complication rate among the obese patients has
      socioeconomic consequences due to readmission and unscheduled outpatient visits.

      A study found that in the first 30 days postoperative after total knee arthroplasty 2,9
      percent of the patients were readmitted. In 2015 7,3% of the patients who had primary knee
      replacement surgery in Denmark were readmitted within 30 days after the operation.
      Unscheduled outpatient visits 30 days post-surgery, is related to swelling in the operated
      leg. There is a need for further research on interventions that may prevent postoperative
      swelling after knee replacement surgery. A compression stocking is a feasible intervention
      and an effective treatment in the prevention of swelling. The stocking provides measured
      pressure against the leg which helps the blood to move up toward the heart. By improving the
      blood flow, swelling is prevented and reduced.

      A Danish randomized controlled study (RCT), that investigated the effect of a compression
      stocking when used for four weeks postoperatively found that the stocking did not have a
      clinical effect on postoperative swelling.

      However the stocking was the day after the surgery, where seventy percent of the
      postoperative swelling already had occurred.

      Therefore it is relevant to investigate whether a compression stocking has an effect on
      postoperative swelling, when applied immediately after the operation has ended.

      The aim of the present pilot study is to examine the effect of a compression stocking on
      postoperative swelling and pain among patients with a BMI ≥30 kg/m2, after total knee
      arthroplasty. The aim of the pilot study is furthermore to provide useful information for
      feasibility which will be used to decide whether or not a larger RCT should be initiated.

      All patients will be recruited at Department for planned Orthopaedic Surgery, Naestved
      Hospital, Denmark.

      Inclusion criteria: planned for total knee arthroplasty, BMI ≥30 kg/m2, aged 18 or older,
      speaks, reads and understands danish and written informed consent.

      Collaborating researchers and departments :

      Department for Planned Orthopaedic Surgery, Ringstedgade 61, Naestved Hospital, Denmark.

      Odense Patient data Explorative Network, J.B. Winsloew Vej 9a, 3. Sal, 5000 Odense C, Denmark

      44 patients will be included in the pilot study.
    
  