
    
      Heart disease, or cardiovascular disease, refers to a range of diseases including coronary
      artery disease, heart attack, heart failure, high blood pressure, and stroke. These diseases
      are all related to problems with the heart and blood vessels, and collectively are the
      leading cause of death in the United States. Heart attacks or coronary artery disease
      sometimes have warning signs, but both can occur without warning. Approximately half of all
      heart attacks are fatal. Forty percent of all deaths in the United States are the result of
      heart disease.

      Certain factors can predict whether people get heart disease. Some of these factors, like
      biological sex or genes inherited from a person's family, cannot be changed, but many others
      can. Not smoking, eating well, exercising regularly, and maintaining a healthy weight are
      some of the things people can do to lower their risk of heart disease. This study will
      develop and then test an Internet-based program that teaches people about heart health and
      supports them in changing behaviors that put them at risk for heart disease.

      This study will be divided into two phases. In the first phase, researchers will create the
      Heart Healthy program, show it to focus groups, and try to improve it based on their
      comments. The goals of the program are to educate users in the fundamentals of heart health
      and risk factors for heart disease and to provide a system for starting and sustaining
      lifestyle changes that reduce risk of heart disease. The program will be designed for
      employee use in a workplace, and a tool kit will be developed for managers to supplement the
      employee program. The prototype will include modified segments from existing Web-based
      programs created by a non-profit organization, the ISA Group. The design of the program will
      be guided by feedback from employees and managers who use it and from experts in cardiology
      and epidemiology.

      In the second phase, the program will be tested in a work site. Employees at risk for heart
      disease will be recruited and randomly assigned to receive either the Healthy Heart program
      or treatment as usual. Before and after the intervention, participants will be assessed on
      knowledge gained, attitudes changed, alterations in health behavior, and reductions in
      cardiovascular risk. Managers who receive the supplementary program will be tested in
      knowledge gained and plans for policy or procedural changes. The ultimate goal of this phase
      is to fully develop the Healthy Heart program for use in industry and health care settings.
    
  