
    
      A multicenter non-inferiority randomized clinical trial is proposed to compare two types of
      treatment for early rectal neoplastic lesions. Study arms:

        1. Endoscopic treatment: Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection (ESD)

        2. Minimally invasive laparoscopic local surgical treatment: Transanal Minimally Invasive
           Surgery (TAMIS) or Transanal Endoscopic Operation (TEO).

      Aims:

      Primary aim: To compare the long-term local recurrence rate (12 months after the procedure)
      of rectal lesions after ESD vs Surgical treatment (TAMIS/TEO).

      Secondary aims: Both arms of the study are compared according to other efficacy-related
      variables (en-bloq resection rate, R0 resection, time per procedure, short-term recurrence
      rate [6 months]), safety (rate of complications), morbidity (comparing different specific
      indexes: Wexner index, EQ-5L-5D, etc) and cost-effectiveness analyses (QALY).

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients older than 18 y/o

        -  Non-pedunculated rectal lesions (sessile 0-Is or flat 0-II) greater than 20 mm in
           diameter.

        -  The edges of the lesion should be more than 3 cm from the external anal margin and up to
           14 cm from it.

        -  Circumferential involvement <50%

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who refuse to participate.

        -  Diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease with rectal involvement.

        -  Pregnant.

        -  Anorectal fibrosis due to previous anorectal surgery.

        -  Lateral Spreading Lesions (LST classification) Granular Homogeneous type

        -  Lesions greater than 50 mm when there is suspicion of advanced histology (Kudo Vi
           superficial pattern).

        -  Rectal lesions of any size with high suspicion of deep submucosal invasion or
           locoregional lymph node involvement, either in the diagnostic colonoscopy (Kudo Vn crypt
           pattern, NICE 3 pattern, Sano IIIB pattern) or by complementary imaging tests (rectal
           EUS/Pelvic MRI)

        -  Existence of synchronous colorectal lesions that require other surgical treatment in any
           case.

      N-size estimation:

      Assuming a global rate of long-term local recurrence in rectal lesions treated by TAMIS/TEO
      or ESD of 2.5% (using the data available in the medical literature), considering a
      non-inferiority limit of 10%, power of 80% (Beta error 0.2, alpha error 0.05) and assuming a
      loss of patients during the follow-up around 10%, 34 patients per group are required.

      Follow-up and Information collect:

      The follow-up will be of 1 year from the date of the intervention and the visits in which the
      information to be analyzed will be collected are adjusted to the usual clinical practice.

      The data would be registered using the on-line database system for medical research RedCap.

      Other information:

      The entire protocol of this study has been approved by de Ethical Committee on Clinical
      Research of the Puerta de Hierro University Hospital.

      The study counts with a Civil Responsibility Insurance policy.
    
  