
    
      An obesity epidemic is gaining momentum in the U.S. and the VA in particular. Among Veterans
      receiving care at VA outpatient centers in the year 2000, the prevalence of overweight was
      73% and obesity was 33%. Obesity is an expensive condition partly because it contributes to
      the development of other chronic diseases. In addition to its adverse medical consequences,
      obesity takes a toll on quality of life. In general and among veterans specifically, obesity
      is associated with chronic pain conditions. Pain and obesity in combination adversely affect
      health-related quality of life and increase care utilization. To treat obesity, VA patient
      services has implemented MOVE! (Managing Obesity for Veterans Everywhere), a nationwide,
      pre-inpatient, pre-surgical standard of care. MOVE! Level 2 (MOVE2!), the platform for this
      study, enrolls in group treatment patients who are ready to make behavioral changes in diet
      and physical activity. The current study interfaces with and adds to MOVE2! treatment in
      order to maximize utility and sustainability in VA. The intervention in the current study
      involves provision of a personal digital assistant (PDA), a hand-held computer decision
      support tool to self-regulate diet and activity along with staff support (via telephone or
      e-mail per patient's preference).

      Experimental Design. The current study is a 2-group prospective randomized controlled trial
      comparing the effects of (1) Standard Care: MOVE2! group weight loss counseling alone and (2)
      MOVE2! + PDA + Support. Specific aims are to enroll from VA primary care a sample of 150
      obese patients who meet study criteria for chronic pain and are ready to make behavioral
      changes, including enrolling in MOVE2!. Primary outcomes (weight and pain) and secondary
      outcomes (quality of life, treatment adherence, healthcare utilization) will be measured
      every 3 months (baseline, treatment months 3 and 6, and follow-up months 9 and 12). Before
      beginning the current study, we will conduct two types of formative research. Part 1A: We
      will recruit 15 Veterans who are obese and have chronic pain for the purpose of pilot testing
      the PDA. Veterans will participate in one focus group before and one after they use the PDA
      for one week. Part 1B: We will also conduct focus groups with 10 MOVE! personnel and 10 staff
      who work in Hines Primary Care Clinic to identify perceived needs and barriers regarding
      implementing our PDA intervention.

      Objective & Hypotheses. To determine whether the provision of a PDA decision support tool
      plus distance support enhance the outcomes attainable by the MOVE2! standard care alone.
      Primary hypotheses are that obese patients with chronic pain who are randomized to MOVE2! +
      PDA + Support will a) lose more weight by 6 months, b) show greater maintenance of weight
      loss at 12 months, and c) display greater reduction in pain intensity and pain-related
      disability than those randomized to Standard Care. Secondary hypotheses are that MOVE2! + PDA
      + Support, compared to Standard Care will result in: a) improved quality of life, b) greater
      treatment adherence, and c) reduced care utilization.

      Data Analysis. Outcomes will be analyzed longitudinally on an intent to treat basis. The
      general analytic approach will be to use longitudinal mixed-effects regression models
      implemented via SAS PROC MIXED. Stratification variables (age, BMI, gender) will be included
      in all analyses.
    
  