
    
      Single dose intraoperative issued by electrontherapy or low energy photons (50 Kv) is 21 Gy
      (5.11). However, these doses reported in the irradiated volume are not equivalent. Indeed,
      with electrontherapy, it is a complete volume of mammary parenchyma that is irradiated,
      whereas with low energy photon therapy (X 50 KV) is a "shell" of 5 mm thick which is treated
      knowing that to 10 mm from the surface of the sphere of treatment, the gland received only
      50% of the dose initially prescribed. On interstitial brachytherapy with high dose rate, it
      has a dose escalation due to intrinsic volumes located within the irradiated area that will
      receive a higher dose than prescribed (12). It is this variation in dose within the target
      volume which can be efficiency, but also which can induce the toxicity of interstitial
      brachytherapy. The linear quadratic model to calculate the biological equivalence of 2 Gy
      irradiation scheme most often hypofractionned, is theoretically applicable for doses per
      fraction less than 8 Gy. Nevertheless, the authors using the IPAS intra-operative (electrons,
      photons) apply this method of calculation for doses of 21 Gy in one fraction.

      In our study, we propose to treat these patients with a total dose of 16 Gy in one fraction.
      This dose is calculated taking into account a report alpha/beta for the breast, on the order
      of 3.4 Gy for late toxicity and 4.6 Gy for local control (13). Applying the linear-quadratic
      model with alpha/beta for the breast of 4, 16 Gy in one fraction is calculated as
      radio-biologically equivalent to 53 Gy in conventional fractionation (14,15). Biological
      Equivalence of this dose is between the dose in the protocols IPAS intraoperative electron or
      X-ray photons of 50 kV (21 Gy in one fraction, 87 Gy EQD2 alpha/beta 4.6) (5.8) and the
      post-operative irradiation of 34-38 Gy in 10 fractions, 5 days (42 Gy EQD2 alpha/beta 4.6.
    
  