
    
      Hepatitis B virus is a global public health problem. More than 250 million people are
      infected worldwide. These infections lead to chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and liver cancer.
      According to past statistics, infection with hepatitis B virus is an important factor of
      death in 880,000 patients per year.

      Patients who receiving natural immunity or receiving antiretroviral therapy that loss of
      hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg loss) reduce the risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma (HCC). HBsAg loss is now considered the target of treatment.

      Nucleot(s)ide is an antiviral drug that can reduce the number of viruses, reduce the risk of
      HCC and death from Hepatitis B viral infection. The most widely used drugs are Lamivudine
      (LMV), Entecavir (ETV), Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate (TDF) and Tenofovir alafenamide (TAF).
      However, Nucleotide is unable to eliminate the Hepatitis B virus from the liver cells of the
      infected person due to covalently closed. circular DNA (cccDNA), which is a template for
      viral replication. Therefore, long-term Nucleotide therapy is necessary. As a result,
      patients may have side effects from the treatment when taking medication for a long time,
      such as viral resistance in Lamivudine, deterioration of kidney function and osteoporosis in
      Tenofovir.

      Tenofovir is a nucleotide analog drug that works against both Human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV) and HBV. TDF and TAF are prodrug of Tenofovir. TAF has a higher plasma stability than
      TDF, which makes TDF require a higher dose to get the concentration of drugs in the liver
      equal to the amount of TAF.

      The side effects of Tenofovir treatment found on the kidneys and bones which are problems for
      long-term treatment. It is recommended to reduce the dose of TDF in patients with renal
      function reduced to less than 50 ml / min as shown in Table but do not have to adjust the
      dose of TAF except when the GFR value is less than 15 ml / min. it is recommended to stop
      taking TAF if severe renal impairment.

      Previous studies have shown the effects of TAF once daily and TDF once daily on kidney
      function and bone mass. The efficacy of TAF in virus suppression is comparable to TDF, but
      the effect on the kidneys and bone mass from TAF has less side effects than TDF. In addition,
      changing the medication from TDF to TAF shows that kidney function tends to improve.
      Therefore, there is a recommendation in the practice guideline to change from TDF to TAF or
      ETV in patients who use TDF and there is a risk of kidney problems or thin bone mass based on
      history for LMV resistance (if LMV resistance, ETV should not be used because HBV is more
      resistant to ETV).

      Hepatitis B patients taking TDF have adjusted their dosage due to impair renal function, for
      example, from 1 time per day to every 48 hours or every 72 hours. This group of patients does
      not have a clear evidence-based recommendation for choosing a reduced dose of TDF or change
      to TAF. Therefore, the main objective of this study is to study patients with hepatitis B who
      have taken TDF and have renal function impairment that have been adjusted. Taking the same
      medicine with dose adjustment or changing the drug to TAF which treatment will more improve
      the kidney function.
    
  