
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of hypofractionated radiation therapy concurrently with
      zoledronic acid (Zometa) and fluorouracil (5Fu) or capecitabine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the toxicity of Zometa while it is used concurrently with hypofractionated
      radiation therapy.

      II. To evaluate local failure-free survival and overall survival, surgical resection rate and
      tumor response rate.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantify the amplitude of the expression of genes that are involved in cholesterol
      biosynthesis (ACAT2, DHCR7, ELFN2, FASN, SC4MOL, and SQLE) in pancreatic tumor tissue prior
      to and following the Zometa and radiation therapy if the pancreatic cancer tissue is
      available.

      II. To measure Zometa pharmacokinetics at steady-state. III. To evaluate tumor and organ
      motion with 4 dimension(D) computed tomography (CT) and respiratory gating system and to
      evaluate the effect of tumor/organ motion on the dosimetry, local control and survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo hypofractionated stereotactic body radiation therapy in 5 fractions
      on days 1-5. Patients receive fluorouracil intravenously (IV) over 24 hours on day 1 weekly
      for 4 weeks or capecitabine orally (PO) every 12 hours starting the evening before day 1 of
      radiation therapy for 4 weeks as per standard of care. Patients then undergo surgery 6-8
      weeks after completion of radiation therapy.

      ARM B: Patients receive zoledronic acid IV over no less than 15 minutes 1 week prior to
      radiation therapy. Patients undergo hypofractionated stereotactic body radiation therapy and
      receive treatment with fluorouracil IV or capecitabine PO as in Arm A. Patients then undergo
      surgery 6-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months for
      the first year, every 4 months for the second year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  