
    
      AIM 1: The first aim will be a two-part cross-sectional study comparing US imaging of active
      joints in 55 subjects with JIA to standardized clinical and functional measures, assuming
      that each subject will have at least 1 active joint. Subjects less than 21 years diagnosed
      with JIA per classification described by the International League Against Rheumatism (ILAR)
      with large and medium joint synovitis will be eligible.

        -  Phase 1. A pediatric rheumatologist will examine 25 subjects with a spectrum of
           arthritis severity after informed consent is obtained. Large and medium joints, such as
           knees, ankles, wrists, and elbows, will be assessed for active arthritis, as defined by
           swelling or limitation of motion with pain or warmth. Grading of clinical severity is
           derived from the ACR Pediatric 30 and will assess for swelling on a scale of 0-3 and
           limitation of motion with warmth or pain on motion on a scale of 0-3. Based on this
           grading, a Clinical Severity Score for inactive, mild, moderate, or severe arthritis
           will be obtained for each joint. Following the clinical evaluation, a pediatric
           rheumatologist who has received training in musculoskeletal US (PI) will image the
           joint. A portable US machine with a high frequency probe (6-18 MHz) and power Doppler
           capability will be used to image the target joints and to identify anatomical signs
           suggestive of arthritis. At least 2 views, coronal and transverse, of each joint will be
           obtained and recorded per musculoskeletal US specifications as described by the European
           League Against Rheumatism (EULAR). US images will be saved under a subject code on the
           US machine hard drive. These images will be reviewed with a consulting rheumatologist
           with expertise in musculoskeletal US (J. Nishio, MD). US determination of synovitis
           (synovial thickness with Doppler enhancement), effusion, erosions, and tenosynovitis
           will be based on definitions established by the Outcome Measures in Rheumatoid Arthritis
           Clinical Trials (OMERACT) 7 consensus group for adults with rheumatologic disease. An US
           score for arthritis will then be developed based on the gold standard of clinical exam.
           The US score will assess for active arthritis as defined by synovitis on a scale of 0-3
           and/or effusion on a scale of 0-3. In addition, other significant abnormalities in the
           joints will be evaluated, including absence or presence of erosions and tenosynovitis.
           The result of this phase of Aim 1 will be the creation of an US Severity Score for
           inactive, mild, moderate, or severe arthritis in a single large or medium joint that is
           consistent with the Clinical Severity Score.

        -  Phase II. The US Severity Score developed as described above will be tested for
           correlation with the Clinical Severity Score. An additional 30 subjects meeting
           inclusion criteria will be enrolled and assessed for arthritis by physical exam
           performed by a pediatric rheumatologist followed by an US exam performed by the PI. If
           the subject has more than 1 large or medium joint with arthritis, a single joint will be
           chosen by random selection. Based on the findings, the clinician will assign a clinical
           score, and the PI and the consulting rheumatologist will assign an US score based on the
           standardized US Severity Score obtained from Phase I. The PI and consulting
           rheumatologist will be masked to physical exam findings and the Clinical Severity Score.
           The US score will then be compared to the clinical score to assess how the US scoring
           relates with the standardized clinical measures.

      AIM 2: The second aim will study the use of US in imaging the placement of IAS and response
      to this therapy in 20 subjects receiving IAS for treatment of active arthritis in large and
      medium joints. Patients less than 21 years old with a diagnosis of JIA per ILAR
      classification receiving IAS injections of the knee, wrist, elbow, or ankle as part of their
      standard medical care will be eligible. Non-eligible patients include subjects with a
      non-inflammatory diagnosis, such as mechanical joint disease, or a large joint effusion
      requiring additional therapeutic procedures, such as arthrocentesis. Informed consent and
      assent for children over 7 will be obtained. The targeted joint will be scored by a
      rheumatologist other than the PI using the Clinical Severity Score described above. Sedation
      may be provided per routine for joint injection. Routine process for joint injection will be
      followed. The pediatric rheumatologist performing the injection will use standard external
      clinical landmarks and palpation to identify the appropriate injection site. Triamcinolone
      hexacetonide with 1% unbuffered lidocaine will then be shaken to allow the introduction of
      air per GAS-graphy technique as described by Koski et al. and injected into the targeted
      joint. The PI, who will not perform any injections in this study, will obtain US imaging just
      prior and immediately following the joint injection. The rheumatologist performing the
      injection will be masked to US images. Each image will be obtained and recorded using EULAR
      specifications, saved under a subject code on the US machine hard drive, and scored by the PI
      and the consulting rheumatologist using the US Severity Score described above. For the second
      aim, I will also determine the presence or absence of steroid within the target joint
      capsule. The physician performing the physical exam, the subject, and the subject's
      guardian(s) will be masked regarding US results, including location of steroid within or
      around the joint space and sonographic recordings of joint pathology. Patient outcomes will
      be determined at 1 week, 4-6 weeks and 3-6 months by the Clinical Severity Score and by US
      using the US Severity Score described and developed in Aim 1. The clinician performing the
      physical exam and the sonographer will be masked to each other's scores.

      Other variables will also be collected as part of both aims, including pain as assessed by a
      standardized pain scale, physician assessment of global disease activity, and functional
      status as determined by the childhood health assessment questionnaire (CHAQ), a validated,
      reliable measure of functional status in JIA. These last assessments are 3 of the 6 measures
      of the ACR Pediatric 30, a validated measure used in clinical trials in JIA (Giannini et al.,
      1997). Other patient data that will be collected include JIA subtype, duration of disease,
      age of onset, age at procedure, race/ethnicity, concurrent medications, and whether the
      procedure required the use of general anesthesia.
    
  