
    
      1. Subject recruitment and screening procedures. Subjects will be recruited from community
           dwelling persons from Northern Manhattan, men and women, aged 55 to 69 years, who have
           already undergone or agreed to undergo, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
           Florbetaben positron emission tomography (PET) as part of Columbia IRB protocol AAAQ2950
           (PI: Luchsinger). Recruitment of participants for these studies and all study
           procedures, including brain MRI, Florbetaben PET, and tau PET, are funded by existing
           grant from the National Institutes of Health awarded to PI Luchsinger (R01AG050440,
           RF1AG051556-01S2, R01AG055299)

        2. Imaging procedures related to 18F-MK-6240 PET. One brain MRI will be performed on each
           subject using a 3 T Philips scanner. Sequences performed will include 3D T1 (MPRAGE, 180
           slice 1 mm resolution, 256 x 256 voxel count) for volumetric analysis and clinical
           sequences to exclude subjects with significant intracranial pathology unrelated to AD,
           such as malignant brain tumor of subdural hematoma. PET scans will take place on a
           Biograph mCT PET scanner (Siemens Healthcare) at the CUMC Kreitchman PET Center.
           Subjects will have one PET scan with 18F-MK-6240 (injected activity up to 5 mCi = 185
           MBq). PET imaging will be performed without arterial sampling. Vital signs (blood
           pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature) will be checked prior to
           injection of 18F-MK-6240, then at the completion of the PET scan. 18F-MK-6240 will be
           purchased from Cerveau Technologies, Inc. via a licensed production facility. Subjects
           will not be informed of 18F-MK-6240 PET scan results, as this scan is used only in
           research and have not yet been validated for clinical use. Subjects will be informed if
           a clinically important abnormality is detected on MRI or PET imaging (e.g., brain
           tumor).

        3. Image processing FreeSurfer (http://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/), the MRI software
           package comprising a suite of automated tools for segmentation, reconstruction, and
           derivation of regional volumes and surface-based rendering, will be used for derivation
           of regions-of-interest (ROIs). Eleven ROIs will be extracted from the structural T1
           image: entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, inferior temporal cortex, combined superior and
           middle temporal cortex, superior parietal lobule, inferior parietal lobule, precuneus,
           occipital cortex, prefrontal cortex, striatum, and thalamus. 18F-MK-6240 PET images will
           be analyzed as follows: Freesurfer based ROIs will be applied to coregistered PET
           images. Correction for partial volume effects using a region-based voxel-wise method92
           will be applied to compare to partial volume uncorrected data. Regional time-activity
           curves will be extracted from the PET scans, including cerebellum which will be used as
           a reference region. Standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) values will be calculated by
           dividing SUV values for each target region by that of the cerebellum. Alternative
           analytic methods such as Logan DVR and Simplified Reference Tissue Method may also be
           applied to compare to SUVR data.
    
  