
    
      The main goal of this clinical trial is to compare the effect of two different treatments
      during 24 months:

        1. Lifestyle modification program + metformin 850mg twice daily

        2. Lifestyle modification program + linagliptin (2.5mg) and metformin (850mg) twice daily

      on the following parameters, after 24 months of treatment:

        1. Glucose metabolism, evaluated by the oral glucose tolerance

        2. Insulin resistance, evaluated by the oral glucose tolerance in 100% of the patients and
           by hyperglycemic clamp in 10 % of the patients

        3. Insulin secretion, evaluated by the oral glucose tolerance in 100% of the patients and
           by hyperglycemic clamp in 10 % of the patients

        4. Pancreatic beta cell function, evaluated by the oral glucose tolerance in 100% of the
           patients and by hyperglycemic clamp in 10 % of the patients

        5. Systemic inflammation and cardiovascular risk factors, evaluated by cytokines
           interlelukin-6 (IL6), C-reactive protein (PCR), and measurement of the intima media
           thickness by ultrasound.

      All the patients will have a basal evaluation with an oral glucose tolerance test, lipid
      profile, body composition, and IMT measurement by ultrasonography; and 10 % will be invited
      for the hyperglycemic clamp. After the basal evaluation, if the patients result with IMPAIRED
      GLUCOSE TOLERANCE and have at least 2 risk factors, they will be invited to the intervention
      phase where they will be randomized to one of the two treatment groups.

      Patients will have a follow-up visit every month to review the adherence to the lifestyle
      modification program and to the medication. Every 6 months OGTT will be performed on all the
      patients, and in a subset of patients hyperglycemic clamp will be performed at 0, 6 and 12
      months. After 18 and 24 months, patients will repeat the same evaluation performed as the
      basal evaluation.
    
  