
    
      Most suicide attempts are a sign of great distress, often originating from depression;
      physical and sexual abuse; substance abuse; or family history of suicide, violence, or mental
      disorder. Risk factors for suicidal behavior are diverse, differing with gender, age, and
      ethnicity. Since the mid-1980s, the number of reported suicides and suicidal thoughts among
      young black individuals has increased alarmingly. The higher rates may be caused by high
      stress living situations attributed to poverty, abuse, discrimination, racism, and difficult
      family life. Therefore, cultural environments, social situations, and intrapersonal
      influences are important considerations in developing an effective therapy to prevent
      suicide. This study will evaluate the effect of culturally competent psychoeducational
      empowerment sessions in treating suicidal African-American women who are in abusive
      relationships.

      The participants in this single-blind study will be randomly placed in one of two treatment
      groups. One group will receive psychoeducational intervention (PEI) and the other will
      receive enhanced treatment as usual (ETAU). After screening, eligible participants will
      complete a 2-hour survey about life events, concerns, and feelings with a research team
      member. One week later, participants will complete a second 1-hour survey. Participants will
      then be randomly placed in the treatment groups. Participants in both groups will receive
      treatment at Grady Health System, but those in the PEI group will also attend 10 weekly,
      90-minute group sessions. The PEI empowerment group sessions will incorporate cultural,
      social, and intrapersonal elements. The ETAU group will be given mental health treatment as
      usual plus an adherence enhancement protocol. Follow-up surveys will occur at Week 10 (after
      treatment completion) and at Months 6 and 12 post-treatment.
    
  