
    
      PURPOSE Primary To determine the efficacy of nalbuphine (50 - 100 mcg/kg intravenously) in
      the treatment of opioid induced pruritus in a multi-center tertiary care pediatric patient
      population.

      Secondary Determine the effect of treatment with nalbuphine on a subjects analgesia and level
      of sedation.

      HYPOTHESIS

      Primary Outcome:

      Nalbuphine will be effective in the treatment of opioid induced pruritus; a 50% reduction in
      pruritus intensity will be considered clinically significant.

      Secondary Outcome:

      Treatment with nalbuphine will not result in attenuation of analgesia or an increase in
      sedation

      JUSTIFICATION Itch is a frequent and disturbing side effect of opioid use. A recent internal
      review of the pediatric pain service at the University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta
      found a 40% incidence of pruritus in patients receiving opioids. A similar review at British
      Columbia Children's Hospital demonstrated a 22% of patients incidence of pruritus.

      OBJECTIVES The compare the efficacy of nalbuphine to placebo for the treatment of
      opioid-induced pruritus. It is anticipated that nalbuphine will result in a greater than 50%
      reduction in pruritus intensity.

      RESEARCH METHOD This study will be a randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled trial of
      nalbuphine for the treatment of opioid-induced pruritus. Pruritus intensity will be measured
      using a standardized assessment tool / Color Analog Scale (CAS). This is a metric scale which
      will be used to quantify pruritus on a scale of zero to ten. Using this scale a score of zero
      is represented by white, increasing pruritus severity being represented by darker shades of
      the color red, along a ruler.

      Data analysis will be based on intenton to treat. It will be a multi-center study involving
      tertiary care centers with acute pediatric pain services.

      Subjects will be divided into two groups by computer generated block randomization; one group
      will receive treatment with nalbuphine while the other will receive placebo. The patient and
      investigator will be blinded to the treatment administered.

      REASON FOR PLACEBO CONTROLLED STUDY DESIGN Current first line therapy for opioid induced
      pruritus, with diphenhydramine is associated with a low efficacy (33%) (1). Recognizing that
      there can be up to 30% self report response to placebo, it is felt that conducting this study
      as a placebo-controlled trial will be necessary for the demonstration of significant
      improvement in pruritus intensity.
    
  