
    
      INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN AND PROCEDURES Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical
      trial. One hundred (100) subjects, aged 18-65 years recruited from patients with symptoms
      referred for consultation about H. pylori infection naive to treatment. HP infected patients
      will then be randomly allocated to two groups, one to receive L. reuteri and the other to
      receive an identical placebo preparation.

      Baseline tests:

        1. 13C-UBT

        2. Gastrointestinal symptom rating score (GSRS)

        3. Serological assessment of H. pylori

        4. Measurement of marker serum peptides related to gastric inflammation.

      The subjects will be asked to take the study product each day for 28 days. On Day 29, the
      subjects will return to the clinic for repeated analysis of:

        1. 13C-UBT

        2. Gastrointestinal symptom rating score (GSRS)

        3. Measurement of marker serum peptides related to gastric inflammation.

        4. Endoscopy with the collection of 5 gastric biopsy samples (4 from the antrum and 1 from
           the corpus).

      After this analysis (Day 29), eradication treatment will be initiated. Patients will receive
      lansoprazole (30 mg b.d.) plus amoxycillin (1 gr b.d.) for 5 days followed by lansoprazole
      (30 mg b.d.) plus clarithromycin (250 b.d.) and tinidazole (500 b.d.) for the next 5 days, as
      recommended in the Maastricht III criteria (Malfertheiner et al. (2007).

      The study products will be administered throughout the eradication treatment period of 10
      days. At the end of eradication therapy all subjects will return to the clinic for repeated
      analysis of:

        1. Gastrointestinal symptom rating score (GSRS)

        2. Measurement of marker serum peptides related to gastric inflammation. At this visit
           patients will be given a GSRS questionnaire to complete at home 30 days after this
           visit. The completed GSRS shall be given to the investigators at the final visit by the
           patient.

      The subjects will continue to take the study product for a further 60 days after the
      completion of eradication. After this further 60 days (to allow discrimination between
      recrudescence and re-infection), the level of eradication of H. pylori and the symptom score
      will again be analysed

        1. 13C-UBT

        2. Gastrointestinal symptom rating score (GSRS)

        3. Measurement of marker serum peptides related to gastric inflammation.

      Concomitant treatment During the period of the study (other than during the eradication
      therapy), the subjects will refrain from ingestion of any kind of probiotic or bacterial
      preparation, antibiotics, H2-antagonists, PPIs and NSAIDs.

      Study Product and Dosage L. reuteri Progastria consists of a mixture of two human strains of
      L. reuteri, L. reuteri DSM 17938 and L. reuteri ATCC PTA 6475. L. reuteri DSM 17938 is
      essentially the same strain as L. reuteri ATCC 55730, except that it lacks plasmids that
      carried antibiotic resistance traits for tetracycline and lincomycin. This strain has been
      extensively studied in humans of all ages. L. reuteri ATCC PTA 6475 is a new strain that was
      isolated from the breast milk of a nursing mother (as was L. reuteri DSM 17938).

      L. reuteri will be delivered at a dose of 1x108 CFU of each strain of L. reuteri giving a
      final dose of L. reuteri of 2x108 CFU. One dose is to be taken once per day giving a dose of
      L. reuteri of 2x108 CFU/day. This dose of L. reuteri has been shown to be effective in a
      series of conditions earlier, including inhibition of H. pylori in humans, and is considered
      the optimal dose.
    
  