
    
      Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) reduces both morbidity and mortality in selected
      patients with left ventricular dysfunction and intraventricular conduction delay who remain
      symptomatic despite optimal medical therapy.

      It is known that up to 30% of patients of patients undergoing CRT implantation do not attain
      symptomatic benefit . Given the inherent risks and costs of device implantation and
      maintenance, a reduction in the rate of CRT "non-responders" is an important goal.

      Factors associated with a poor outcome include presence of myocardial scar, and suboptimal
      Left Ventricular (LV) lead placement.

      Pacing the LV at the most delayed LV region promotes contractile synchrony resulting in more
      effective and energetically efficient ejection, geometric remodelling with reduced LV
      end-systolic volume and improved cardiac function.

      Studies using transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) parameters to target the LV lead
      positioning have shown that an optimal LV lead position at the site of latest mechanical
      activation, avoiding low strain amplitude (scar), was associated with superior response to
      CRT and improved survival that persisted during follow-up.

      It remains unclear whether the site of latest mechanical activation is related to the site of
      latest electrical activation, nor whether sensed electrical signals correspond to sites of
      scar. The site of latest electrical activation is assessed during CRT implant by measuring
      electrical activation (LV electrical delay) of the LV at different sites in relation to the
      first deflection of the QRS complex of the surface electrocardiogram (ECG).

      A recent study evaluated the relationship between LV electrical delay and CRT outcomes/
      response to CRT and concluded that electrical dyssynchrony was strongly and independently
      associated with reverse remodelling and led to improvement in the Quality of Life with CRT.

      Despite TTE being an effective way of assessing optimal LV lead positioning for identifying
      mechanical activation, it is expensive, images can be suboptimal and usually requires an
      extra visit prior to implantation, therefore an intraprocedural way of identifying the
      optimal areas could be beneficial.

      It is not known whether lead position as targeted by imaging methods of mechanical activation
      corresponds to the site of latest electrical activation, nor whether sensed electrical
      signals correspond to sites of scar. Investigators are planning to investigate the
      relationship between the site of latest mechanical activation using TTE and the site of
      latest electrical activation of the LV; and between scar and sensed electrical signals.

      If the area of latest mechanical activation is related to the area of latest electrical
      activation then this can be an alternative, more convenient and cost effective way of
      assessing optimal LV lead positioning.
    
  