
    
      Plate osteosynthesis is the basic philosophy in maintaining skeletal stabilization in jaw
      surgery. Numerous branded osteosynthesis systems are available and most of them are made from
      pure titanium or titanium alloys with standard construction specifications. Usually these
      titanium plates should be bended and arched to better match the three-dimensional contour of
      anchored jaw bones. However the optimal bending of the titanium plate sometimes is difficult
      and time-consuming especially for the inexperienced surgeons and in complicated cases.
      Excessive bending could also initiate residual stress and potentially worsen the mechanical
      properties of titanium plates(1).

      The three-dimensional (3D) printing, or additive manufacturing, has been well developed in
      fabricating customized materials from the computer-generated digital files. In recent years,
      3D printing of patient-specific medical implants has been evolving with the newly-emerged
      technology of powder bed fusion, which enabled the melting of metals and further shaping of
      devices(2). In September 2015, China's innovative 3D printed hip joint prosthesis was
      commercially certified by China's State Food and Drug Administration. In February 2016, the
      world's first 3D printed patient-specific titanium cranial/craniofacial plate implant got the
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration's approval. Beyond that, a number of other printed implants
      have showed excellent performance in clinical research. These printed medical implants are
      majorly from pure titanium or Ti6Al4V alloy, which exhibit good resistance to fatigue and
      corrosion and are considered the most biocompatible metal(3). Relying on individualized
      imaging data, the printed implants are patient-specific and adapt to the anatomical
      structures precisely. Since the additive manufacturing is ultimately different from the
      conventional multi-step production operations, it could reduce costs and lead times,
      especially in printing complex devices for individualized cases. While in clinical
      applications, 3D printing of customized implants are expected to facilitate surgical
      operation, reduce application duration and improve precise restoration(4). It is predicted
      the application of 3D printing technique in medical area may bring forward another major
      advance toward personalized medicine(5). Many more customized medical implants will be
      approved in the future across the world.

      With the advent of metal additive manufacturing, the 3D-printed patient-specific titanium
      plates have been successfully fabricated. In 2012, Per Derand et al. reported the first
      application of 3D-printed titanium plates with the established workflow from imaging, via
      virtual design, to manufacturing of cutting guide and customized titanium reconstruction
      plates, and its utility in the fibula-based mandibular reconstruction surgery. The
      pre-printed plates did facilitate the operation and reduced the operation duration about half
      an hour though the postoperative accuracy of the grafted bone was modest compared with the
      virtual planning(6). Simultaneously, Leonardo Ciocca et al. reported the computer-aided
      designing and manufacturing in guiding secondary mandibular reconstruction of a discontinuity
      defect involving the employment of the surgical guide and printed titanium reconstruction
      plate in surgical transferring of virtual planning(7). In 2013, Simona Mazzoni and Leonardo
      Ciocca et al. applied the same surgical protocol in a study group of seven mandibular
      reconstruction patients and compared its advantages with the standard pre-plating technique
      on stereolithographic models in a control group. The results revealed the computer-aided
      surgical protocol was viable in reproducing the patients' anatomical contour, giving the
      surgeon better procedural control and reducing procedure time(8). In 2015, Simona Mazzoni et
      al. further developed the computer-aided designing and manufacturing technique in fabricating
      surgical cutting guides and titanium fixation plates in upper maxilla repositioning surgery
      without an occlusal wafer. The study result confirmed the high accuracy in transferring the
      virtual planning by using the surgical guides and fixation plates(9).

      In reviewing the literature, the application of 3D printing of titanium fixation plates in
      jaw surgery are available only at two centers currently: the Maxillofacial Surgery Department
      of S Orsola Malpighi Hospital in Italy and the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Department of
      Lund University in Sweden(6,7). The published preliminary work have proved the prospect of
      3D-printed titanium plates in promoting mandibular reconstruction surgery and upper maxilla
      orthognathic surgery though their printed titanium plates looked rather bulky and the sample
      sizes were small and there is still lack of qualified randomized controlled trials between
      the printed and the conventional titanium plates. To better benefit from the burgeoning use
      of 3D printing in health care, we will develop a new designing and manufacturing protocol in
      printing customized fixation plates, which will be designed in specific loading circumstances
      and will perfectly adapt to the anatomical structures of the jaw. It is imperative to conduct
      a feasibility study in exploring the application of 3D printing of titanium fixation plates
      in jaw surgery based on our patients.
    
  