
    
      Background Malaria continues to pose a serious burden to the local populations in sub-Sahara
      Africa. Several efforts have been made to scale up interventions that work such as preventing
      man-vector contact, intermittent preventive therapy, seasonal malaria chemoprophylaxis as
      well as TTT for febrile patients. However, much still has to be done to target the mass
      testing, treatment and tracking of whole populations in order to reduce the parasite load
      before implementing the above mentioned interventions. Though SMC is adopted for selected
      localities in Ghana, MTTT could be used to drastically bring down the parasite load in a
      given population before the implementation of interventions such as SMC. Elsewhere, it has
      been demonstrated that incorporating the antimalarials in vaccination programmes could delay
      the first malaria episode in children under five. Furthermore, IPT of children in a community
      in Ghana has been reported to reduce the parasite load in a given community from 25% to 1%.
      The questions that remain are - could this be scaled up? What proportion of the community
      could be covered over a given time? What is needed to accomplish MTTT in large scale? In an
      ongoing pilot study in Ghana, a coverage of more than 75% was achieved in the target
      communities and a reduction of 24% in asymptomatic parasitaemia prevalence from July 2017 to
      July 2018. This proposal is intended to validate the findings of the pilot study.

      In designing interventions that aim at reducing the burden of malaria in children under five,
      e.g, MTTT could be used to clear parasites from the general population before the
      interventions are implemented. This is because the adults who are not often included in the
      interventions that target children under 5 years old tend to act as reservoirs that fuel the
      transmission. To solve the problem of personnel who are limited at the level of the health
      service and coverage, this study will be making use of the existing network of community
      health workers (CHWs) that are used during vaccination programmes. The CHWs who reside in the
      communities, will carry out interventions in their communities and conduct the home-based
      management of malaria to reduce cost. To solve the problem of stock-outs of RDTs and ACTs,
      mobile phones SMS will be used. Monthly monitoring and of the volunteers. The volunteers will
      be trained based on the 2014 Ghana National Malaria Treatment Guidelines for managing
      uncomplicated malaria.

      The study hypotheses that in the Pakro sub district, there are more asymptomatic malaria
      cases than the symptomatic cases reported by hospital records and that if MTTT is carried out
      in combination with home-based management of malaria in specific communities over two years,
      a large proportion of the parasite reservoir will be cleared and consequently open up
      possibilities for pre-elimination of malaria in the area. It is also intended that the
      bottlenecks involved in scaling up mass testing, treatment and tracking will be documented in
      order to facilitate the process.

      Over the last decade, the number of recorded malaria cases has steadily dropped from 247
      million cases with 881,000 deaths reported in 2006 to 216 million with 445,000 deaths in 2016
      (WHO, 2009, 2010, 2016). This has largely been due to the introduction of ACTs following the
      resistance witnessed against chloroquine as well as an increase in the number of control
      measures such as the use of long lasting insecticidal nets (LLIN) and intermittent preventive
      treatment in pregnancy and children. Despite the reported decrease, sub Saharan Africa still
      bears the greatest burden of the disease where 90% of the deaths are reported with more than
      75% of the mortalities in children under five.

      Following the recommendation of the WHO, Ghana changed its malaria treatment guidelines
      adopting artesunate and amodiaquine as first line for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria
      to replace chloroquine. By 2012, hospital statistics across the country revealed that malaria
      was responsible for 38.93% of the outpatient consultations and 38.80% of admissions. Studies
      in Ghana have demonstrated that artesunate and amodiaquine combinations are not only
      efficacious in clearing the malaria parasites from patients but if used for intermittent
      preventive treatment for children under five could effectively clear more than 90% of the
      parasite in this age group.

      Different studies have demonstrated very high level of asymptomatic malaria parasitaemia in
      both less than 5 years old and school age children who have a higher risk of coming down with
      clinical malaria. The high incidence of asymptomatic parasitaemia serves as a reservoir that
      fuels the malaria transmission cycle. If the parasite is cleared from the blood of
      asymptomatic individuals as well as the sick patients with the very efficacious
      Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy (ACT), then, even the most effective mosquito vector
      would have nothing to transmit following a blood meal.

      As children grow beyond age 5 years, the prevalence of malaria or parasitaemia in this group
      begins to decrease following the development of immunity to the parasite. A study of trends
      in malaria admission in Cameroon has demonstrated that the variation in the prevalence of
      malaria effectively reflected a variation in children age 1 to15 years. While enormous effort
      is being made to prevent man-vector contact through the use of treated nets, the benefits
      from using these nets could be amplified if such programmes integrate mass parasite clearance
      as part of their agenda.

      There has been concerted effort in the past decade to evaluate the possible effects of
      malaria mass treatment using intermittent preventive treatment in under 5 children in
      different part of Africa. A longitudinal study in Ghana demonstrated that associating IPTc
      with home based management of malaria by community workers could clear more than 90% of the
      parasite pool in children using artesunate and amodiaquine. This low level of parasitaemia in
      the study population was found to persist over a period of two years. Though, this
      intervention had targeted only under 5 years children, it revealed the potential role
      intermittent preventive treatment of the population could play in reducing malaria prevalence
      and consequently paving the way for malaria elimination. Given that old members of the
      household are likely to have some immunity to the malaria parasite, they however, represent
      the reservoir that refuels the parasite pool whenever it is reduced by IPTc. Therefore, for
      intermittent preventive treatment to be sustainable all members of each household should be
      targeted for mass testing, treatment and tracking and consequent prompt home-based treatment
      for confirmed cases. Bearing in mind that huge resources are required for IPT of whole
      communities, it has been suggested that mass screening of whole communities be carried out
      once a year while IPTc be conducted regularly in combination with the home based management.
      This could further enhance the efforts.

      Implementation of rapid scale-up preventive interventions in the past decade has led to a
      reasonable decrease in the burden of malaria. The challenges involved with translating
      research scenarios into implementation are enormous. In an era with a decreased funding for
      the health system, it is important to understand the bottlenecks that can hinder the scale-up
      of mass testing and treatment.

      This study is aimed at reducing the asymptomatic parasitaemia in the Pakro sub district of
      Ghana by conducting MTTT for malaria among household members of age 2 months and older and
      carrying out targeted treatment of all cases with confirmed asymptomatic parasitaemia or
      clinical malaria. The interventions intend to follow-up an entire population in 24 months.

      Main objective:

      To determine the impact of scaling up mass testing, treatment and tracking on malaria
      prevalence among children under fifteen years of age in the Pakro sub district of Ghana.

      Specific Objectives:

      To assess the effect of scaling-up targeted MTTT/home-based treatment on malaria parasitaemia
      prevalence.

      To determine the prevalence of asymptomatic parasitaemia among afebrile participants <15
      years.

      To document challenges which hinder the scale up of mass testing, treatment and tracking of
      malaria in Ghana.

      To determine the cost benefit analysis of MTTT to the community

      Study Design:

      This is a clinical intervention study to be undertaken within a 36 month frame work in 9
      communities in the Pakro sub district. The interventions are designed to compare the baseline
      to evaluation findings following the pilot study. Interventions are determined at the
      community level. An intervention in this study involves testing the participants with RDTs,
      the treatment of those who test positive with ACTs and follow up. The study team will
      undertake 6 household interventions and household surveys over a two-year surveillance period
      (one intervention/survey every four months). The study will be conducted in two arms - Arm 1
      will constitute the intervention communities while Arm 2 will constitute Control Arm
      communities (standard of care) (Fig 1).

      Arm 1 (Intervention arm) will involve seven communities: 4-monthly mass screening, and
      treatment of those who test positive by CHWs. Febrile cases will be tested and treated by
      CHWs any time.

      Arm 2 (Control arm) will involve 2 communities: mass screening and treatment only done at
      baseline and at evaluation. Febrile cases will be tested and treated by CHWs any time.

      This will allow for the evaluation of the impact of the MTTT without bias in the control Arm.
      The results from Arm 1 will be compared to Arm 2. Participants in Arm 1 will be tested every
      four months and treated if positive, while for those in Arm 2, the MTTT exercise will be
      conducted only at baseline and at evaluation (Fig 1). To avoid the bias that could be
      introduced by frequent surveys in the control communities with the obligation to treat those
      that are positive, the number of surveys in Arm 2 are reduced to two - one at baseline and
      one at evaluation. Those confirmed positive in Arm 2 will be treated and it is believed that
      this will not affect the study since the baseline and evaluation prevalence data are
      collected 20 months apart (Fig 2). However, participants in both arms will be monitored by
      the CHWs - if they become febrile at any time, they will be tested and treated if confirmed
      positive for malaria. The first intervention is scheduled for month 6 of the grant.
      Subsequent interventions are scheduled for month 10, 14, 18, 22 and the final intervention is
      estimated to take place at month 26. CHWs will continue community management of malaria till
      the 30th month (total study period: 24 months) when the final hospital data will be
      collected.

      In this study a household survey consists of i) measuring the temperature and testing of all
      participants with RDTs, those who test positive will be treated with ACTs, ii) administration
      of questionnaires to caregivers to assess the frequency of febrile illnesses and use of
      mosquito nets in all households and iii) take Hb readings for children <15 years old selected
      into the study subgroup (see section on participants).

      There will be monthly CHW monitoring visits to ensure proper implementation. During each
      monthly monitoring visit, RDT and ACT stocks will be replenished, and the PI will have a
      meeting with the CHWs, review what was done and document challenges as well as ensure
      adherence to SOPs.

      Since the study will use RDT for testing, it is known that RDTs do not detect low density
      infections. This means that there is possibility for transmission to be re-ignited due to low
      density parasitaemia missed by RDTs (Vásquez, Medina et al. 2018). Despite this flaw, RDTs
      remain the method of choice to handle large population in a cost effective manner. The
      challenges faced during implementation will be documented during monitoring. Focus group
      discussions (FGDs) and in-depth interviews will be organised to obtain additional information
      from the community and stakeholders such as the NMCP, Regional and District units of the
      Ghana Health Service and the community. The FGDs and in-depth interviews will be audio taped
      and the tapes will be store for two years before discarding. Each FDG will last for one hour
      and involving between 7-15 participants (both men and women). A social scientist and the PI
      will conducted FDGs and IDI at chosen locations in the communities.

      Methodology:

      Study Area:

      Pakro is one of five sub-districts in the Akwapim south district health directorate (DHD) in
      the Eastern region of Ghana. The Akwapim south district lies within the semi-equatorial
      climatic region, and experiences two rainfall seasons in a year, with an average rainfall of
      125cm to 200cm. The first rainy season begins from May to June with the heaviest rainfall in
      June, whilst the second rainy season begins from September to October. According to the Ghana
      Statistical Service (GSS), the average household size in the Akwapim South district is
      estimated to be 4.0 whilst the average number of households per house or compound is
      estimated to be 1.6. The Pakro sub-district has an estimated population of 7,889, and is
      bounded to the east by Akwapim North district; to the north by Ayensuano district; and to the
      west by Nsawam Adoagyiri Municipality. The sub-district is made up of 22 communities, and has
      3 health care facilities (1 Health Centre and 2 Community-Based Health Planning Service
      (CHPS) compounds). Due to limited resources, only seven intervention communities will be
      selected for this study and include Abeasi Newsite, Fante Town, Zongo (Adjenase/Kweitey),
      Piem/odumsisi, Adesa Latebibio, Sacchi/Tabankro and Odum Tokuro. In consultation with the
      district health service, all 7 intervention communities which were located within a 5km
      radius from the health facility were selected. The two control communities (Obosono and
      Ankwenso) are located out of this zone but are served by two other nearby health facilities.
      Malaria parasite positivity rate was estimated to be 39.6% in 2014. In the 2014, anaemia
      among pregnant women at 36 weeks of gestation was 21%.

      Study participants:

      Community entry activities to sensitise the chiefs and the general population will be
      conducted at the beginning of the study through meetings. Households will be given unique
      identification codes. Each individual within the household will be assigned a code that links
      them to a particular household and community. The intervention will target all the household
      members. The primary outcome will be based on data from all enrolled under 15 children.The
      effect of the interventions on secondary outcome 1 will be observed in a subgroup of children
      aged 2 months to 14 years randomly selected from all the communities in each arm - 460
      children in Arm 1 and 395 children in Arm 2. The children in the subgroup will have in
      addition to the other data, their Hb readings taken to assess the level of Anaemia. The
      effect of the interventions on secondary outcome 2 will be observed in all under 15 children.
      Furthermore, the effect of the intervention on secondary outcomes 3 and 4 will be observed in
      all participants. It is hypothesized that within the study population, the prevalence of
      asymptomatic parasitaemia should drop by 20% by the end of the first year and by 10% by the
      end of the second year. In the same light it is expected that anaemia should drop by the same
      proportion.

      Sample size:

      This study aims to enrol an entire population estimated at 4500 participants from the 7
      selected communities (intervention arm) and the 1500 from two control communities in Pakro
      sub district. However, to measure the effect of the intervention on secondary outcome such as
      anaemia in children < 15 years, a sample of 368 children (without correction for loss to
      follow up) will be needed to determine the malaria prevalence projected at 50% in the study
      population. This has been determined using the formula of Yamane where n = N/(1+N(e^2))
      considering a 95% confident level (CI) and ±5% precision (e). Assuming a loss to follow up of
      10% and a non-response rate of 10%, the sample size is readjusted to 460 children calculated
      from (368/1-0.2) for the community survey. In the control arm, 395 children (316/1-0.2) will
      be recruited. Questionnaires will be administered to the caregivers of children in the
      subgroup study. Following a census of the households, children from 2 months to 14 years old
      will be divided into the various age groups 2 months to 11 months, 1-4 years, 5 -10 years and
      11-14 years. From each age group 115 and 99 children will randomly be selected in the
      intervention and control arms respectively.

      Intermittent preventive treatment for the household members. The research team will conduct
      mass testing (using RDTs) of all children (from 2 months old) and adults residing in the
      selected communities for the presence of malaria parasites. For this study, the Ag P.f RDT
      (SD Bioline) which detects histidinie-rich proteins II antigens (HRP-2 Ag) specific to
      P.falciparum in human blood will be used. The RDTs will be obtained from the Ghana Health
      service through the NMCP which uses the services of WHO-FIND Lot Testing Programme. To enable
      follow up studies in a case where treatment failure is reported, 200ul (two drops) of blood
      will be collected on filter paper. This will be used to determine immunological parameters
      such as antibody levels to specific antigens using PCR and ELISA. This is however, not part
      of this study. All participants confirmed for malaria will be treated using ACTs following
      Guidelines. If a participant vomits within 30 minutes following treatment, it will be
      repeated.

      Follow-Up:

      All treated cases will be followed-up by CHW on days 1, 2, 3 and 7 post-treatment to ensure
      the participants take the drugs on time, document and report adverse events. Since it is
      required that patients eat before taking the drug, and house hold members may not have food
      when they are tested, some will have to take the medicine later after eating. This means that
      some of the treatment will be unobserved. However, the research team will pass round to cross
      check whether participants are adhering to treatment as prescribed. They will ask to see the
      drug package as well.

      Questionnaire:

      The questionnaire will include questions about malaria treatment, prevention and control
      measures practiced by the household members as well as the cost of seeking for treatment. In
      order to determine the perceived benefit of MTTT, data will be collected on the cost of
      accessing treatment from community members through in-depth interviews and FGDs.

      Training of data collectors Two Community Health Workers (CHWs) will be selected from each
      community and trained. training will focus on national malaria treatment guidelines - testing
      using RDTs, treatment with ACTs and follow up as well as home-based management of malaria.

      Timely treatment of suspected febrile malaria cases in the community:

      Between one MTTT intervention and the next, the trained community members will provide prompt
      home-based treatment for children and adults reporting signs and symptoms of malaria and
      confirmed to be carrying the parasite using RDTs. There is a need to visit the health
      facilities that service the community to enable tracking and linking of medical records with
      study participants. Hypothesis: a reduction in parasite load in the community could lead to a
      reduction in the number of malaria related consultations.

      Data collection:

      Following consent, blood will be drawn from a finger prick by trained CHW. All participants
      will be tested for the presence of malaria parasites using RDTs and positive cases will be
      treated. All samples will be stored at NMIMR. To test for anaemia in children in the subgroup
      a portable automated Hemocue photometer will be used to determine the concentration of
      Haemoglobin. Anaemia in this study is defined as Hb levels less than 10g/dl. Children with
      severe anaemia (Hb less than 7g/dl) will be referred to the health facility. To determine the
      cost benefit of the project, data will be collected on the benefits of the project to the
      community at the level of the household over the project period. This will include the cost
      saved through averted cases of malaria at the level of the household plus the cost saved from
      time lost to providing care when a family member is sick of malaria. A household will be said
      to have benefited from MTTT if it perceives that by participating in the project, a number of
      malaria cases were adverted for that year. To place value on each malaria case a household
      perceives to have adverted, cost of accessing treatment will be determined. Data will be
      collected on cost the family would have incur in managing each malaria case - transportation
      (C1), consultation (C2), laboratory (C3) and treatment cost (C4) as well as total indirect
      cost estimated as lost in activity time as a result of caregiving to the malaria patients
      (C5). The time lost in caregiving will be estimated using the method of Hutton and Haller,
      2004. The benefit will be calculated with a 5% interest rate per year for 2 years after
      project is completes.

      Data Management and Analysis:

      A database will be created to manage the data. Data will be entered into Epi-info and
      analysed using SPSS. The unit of enrolment will be the household. The data will be collected
      first on paper based case report forms (CRF) before being entered into the database. As a
      quality control measure, every day, all data collected will be cross checked by the research
      assistant and validated. If data is not validated due to errors or poor recording, a data
      query sheet is completed and returned to the person involved to rectify the error before work
      continues the next day. Once the error is rectified the responsible team members signs and
      forwards the data to the research assistant who validates it. Once validated the data is
      moved to the statistic unit of NMIMR. The statistician receives the data and cross checks. In
      case of any queries the data is returned to the field coordinator for rectification. To
      assure quality, the process will be closely monitored following a monthly schedule. The data
      is owned by the NMIMR.

      Ethical Consideration:

      The ethical clearance for this study will be sought from the NMIMR IBR and GHS-ERC

      Privacy and confidentiality All information/samples obtained from participants will be kept
      confidential and will not be released to a third party. This information will be stored in a
      secure location at the Epidemiology Department of NMIMR.

      Safety Consideration:

      There are no health threatening risk involved in this study. The table below describes the
      potential risk and how it will be mitigated within the framework of this study.

      Dissemination of results and Publication The study results will be discussed at every stage
      with stakeholders (Communities, sub district, district and regional offices of GHS, NMCP, WHO
      country office) and published in open access peer reviewed journals. Data generated from this
      study will be stored in two secure databases. A database created for this project in the
      information technology (IT) unit of NMIMR whose password will be known only to the head of
      the IT unit and the PI. Data resulting from this work will be used in informing the NMCP
      decision to develop guidelines for implementing MTTT. The impact of this study will be
      communicated to the public through durbars with the local communities and chiefs, radio/TV
      talk shows and appropriate use of social media through blogs and twitter.

      Statistical Analysis Baseline Comparison of Patients: Summary statistics (proportions for
      categorical variables, and means or medians with variances or IQRs for continuous variables)
      and graphs will be used to detect presence of outliers or unusual observations, and to assess
      validity of assumptions for statistical tests. Participants will be compared between the two
      study arms (Intervention communities and control communities) with respect to baseline
      demographic, clinical and parasitological characteristics. Statistical analysis of the above
      comparisons for continuous variables will be based on graphs, t-test (or Wilcoxon test), and
      ANOVA (or Kruskal-Wallis test). Categorical variables will be compared using chi-square
      tests. All analyses will be performed for the whole population in each arm Primary objective:
      outcomes of primary objective asymptomatic parasitaemia will be compared over time and
      between intervention arms using chi-square tests (or fisher exact tests) and logistic
      regression (or conditional logistic regression). Adjustments for potential confounders
      including patient's age and use of ITN and baseline temperature will be considered. In
      addition, these outcomes will also be compared over time using Cochrane Armitage test of
      trends.

      Secondary objectives: symptomatic parasitaemia at the hospitals and symptomatic parasitaemia
      picked up at the community compared over time and between intervention arms using chi-square
      tests (or fisher exact tests) and logistic regression (or conditional logistic regression).
      Comparisons of anaemia in children <15 years across time and study arms will be assessed
      through Cochrane Armitage test of trends and using chi-square tests (or fisher exact tests)
      respectively. A binomial logistic regression will be used to test impact of intervention on
      febrile illnesses.

      Data from FGDs and IDI will be analysed using INVIVO ver 12.

      The cost benefit analysis will be calculated as follows:

      Net Present Value (NPV) = ∑PV of all the Expected Benefits - ∑PV of all the MTTT Associated
      Costs

      Anticipated impact of proposed work

      Besides an implementation research, this is also a capacity-development project. The
      overarching goal of this project is to develop the skills of a multidisciplinary team of
      researchers and community health workers to improve research through assessing the impact of
      scaling up MTTT to reduce malaria morbidity and mortality.

      It is intended that this project serve as a bench mark for the development of evidence based
      guidelines for the scale-up of mass testing, treatment and tracking of malaria in sub-Sahara
      Africa.

      Quality Assurance

      In order to ensure the quality of data collected, 20 community health workers will be trained
      and 14 will be selected for the project. The questionnaires will be pretested and corrections
      effected. All data collected will be cross checked by two persons in the fields. To avoid
      loss of data, all data from the field will be record in the data transfer sheet be transfer
      to the data management unit. All ACTs (AL) and RDTs will be procured from the NMCP through
      the Eastern Region medical store. The expiry dates for all procurements made will be
      verified.
    
  