
    
      Patients to be enrolled in the study will be those that present to outpatient internal
      medicine clinic and are identified by primary care physicians as having pain, redness, and
      swelling of the skin that the physician believes may represent cellulitis. Patient
      recruitment will occur at five Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) outpatient internal
      medicine clinical sites: Medical Walk-In, Internal Medicine Associates, Bulfinch Medical
      Group, Senior Health, and Women's health. Patients with abnormal vital signs will be
      excluded, specifically systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure <80 mmHg,
      heart rate greater than 90 beats per minute or less than 50 beats per minute, respiratory
      rate greater than 20, or temperature >100.5 F. In addition, any patients with a history of
      transplantation must be more than six months after initial transplant with no treated
      episodes of acute rejection in the last 90 days, no use of antithymocyte globulin or campath
      to treat rejection in the last 6 months, or more than 20 mg/day of prednisone for more than
      30 days.

      Once a patient is identified with potential cellulitis who is a candidate for outpatient
      treatment, the primary care physician will then approach them regarding their interest in
      entering our study. Patients will be randomized during this initial presentation to their
      primary care physician. The patients randomized to the treatment group will obtain a
      dermatology evaluation at the primary care physician"s office and will be sent to the
      Emergency Department or discharged home with outpatient dermatology follow-up in two to three
      days to assess for improvement in their condition versus no change or worsening that requires
      transfer to the Emergency Department. Patients who are evaluated by a dermatologist and who
      require hospitalization will have their transition to the Emergency Department managed by the
      dermatologist with notification of the patient"s PCP. These patients who have follow-up in
      dermatology clinic will not require a follow-up visit with their primary care physician. The
      skin and lymph node exam performed by the dermatologist on patients in the treatment group
      will be documented in the electronic medical record for the subjects" medical records.
      Patients who are admitted after the initial outpatient discharge or at the follow-up visit
      will be considered treatment failures. A medical record review will be performed for patients
      in the treatment group two weeks after initial evaluation at the internal medicine clinic. A
      medical record review will be performed for patients who are randomized to the treatment
      group two weeks after initial evaluation at the internal medicine clinic.

      Those in the control group who do not obtain a dermatology evaluation will follow primary
      care recommendations alone and will also have chart review two weeks later to assess for
      admission versus discharge home from clinic and outcome. In the control group, the need for
      additional clinical follow-up will be at the primary care physician"s discretion. These
      patients will receive a followup telephone call to confirm the final outcome of their
      condition two weeks after their visit to internal medicine clinic. The data sets generated
      from the treatment and control groups will then be compared to look for differences in
      hospital admission rates. For the treatment arm of the study, this data will be obtained
      during the follow-up visit and the medical record review. For the control arm, this will be
      obtained during both the medical record review and the follow-up phone call. The goal of this
      data collection is to determine what the final outcome is for patients in both groups in
      terms of need for hospital admission.
    
  