
    
      Health and well-being at all ages is one of the goal set in the Sustainable Development
      Goals. Starting as early as possible has been considered to be an effective strategy for
      better investation in achieving healthy population. Therefore, the prevention and promotion
      of health and well being is starting to target population at younger age, starting as early
      as possible. Accordingly, the early life period of individuals has been considered as a
      critical period, especially in terms of the brain and cognitive development. The phases of
      brain development starts very early, starting from the fetal development in the uterus. The
      development process extends from early in the beginning of fetal development and lasted to
      the end, finishing last. The brain undergoes a period of rapid growth during the last
      trimester of fetal life and the first 2 years of childhood. Therefore, quality of pregnancy
      as well as quality of early life is important to the fetal brain development as well as later
      child brain function and cognitive development. In line with that notion, there are many
      studies suggesting that gut microbiota could affect CNS development through several ways,
      i.e. alteration of microbial composition, activation of immune system, changes in signaling
      via neural pathways, affecting tryptophan metabolism, modulating gut hormonal response and
      affecting hormonal signaling pathway, and releasing metabolites that could stimulate
      sympathetic nervous system. In particular, these studies have found bi-directional
      communication between the brain and the gut microbiota, referred to as the
      microbiota-gut-brain axis. The animal study showed that the gut microbiota regulates the
      development and function of the brain. Unfortunately, the study on human was still lacking.

      This study is a randomized clinical trial (RCT) and placebo parallel controlled study. The
      research will be conducted in eight public hospitals / health care facilities in Indonesia,
      Jakarta.

      In light of COVID-19 outbreak, if face-to-face activities are permitted by (1) national
      government (Indonesian Ministry of Health), (2) local government (DKI Jakarta), (3) the
      university, (4) Data Safety Monitoring Board, and (5) by consent of the subject, then the
      activities need to be strictly adjusted with the COVID-19 prevention measures for both
      personnel and subjects. All personnel and subjects who will be involved in the activities are
      required to fill out the COVID-19 symptom screening form prior to the visit.

      Some adjustments for the project field implementation have been conducted during the
      outbreak, including:

        1. Following Good Clinical Practice, for the safety of the subjects and all the team
           members, we are now ensuring that the subjects gain benefits from their involvement in
           the BRAVE project by implementing routine COVID-19 screening, providing adequate PPE for
           the fieldworkers, and educating them about the prevention measures.

        2. Supplement delivery: Because we could not visit to the houses anymore due to staff
           restriction regulations, the bottles of the supplement are delivered using online
           motorcycle taxi services, and this includes the weighing scale for monthly monitoring.
           We have also developed a protocol to ensure the safety of supplement bottle transfer
           from the research personnel to the motorcycle taxi driver, and from the driver to the
           mothers, including safe distancing and disinfection procedures. We will also educate,
           provide a thermometer for self-temperature screening and provide the disinfectant to the
           mothers.

        3. Outcome assessment: As per March 19, MRI assessment and blood sample collection remained
           implemented at a non-COVID-19 referral hospital and laboratory, with strict safety
           procedures for the subjects and personnel. For mothers who do not feel comfortable
           visiting the hospital/laboratory, they are free to refuse these procedures.

        4. Compliance: Online system to promote and assess compliance. To maintain the quality, we
           cross-check mothers' activities by online assessment, interactive short message service
           (sms), and phone calls.

        5. New Subject Recruitment are less priority right now or potentially stop for the time
           being until the situation is getting better.
    
  