
    
      Chronic stress at work is a public health problem increasing morbidity and mortality.
      Emergency physicians is particularly an at risk population. Indeed, their work is a complex
      interaction between stress due to life-threatening emergencies, the lack of sleep and
      accumulated fatigue.

      A way of measuring stress at work is the use of self-reported psychological questionnaire.
      Among them, the Job control demand model from Karasek is widely used to evaluate psychosocial
      factors at work. The Karasek job strain model has been assessed in 25 000 workers in the
      Sumer study and allowed to classify the main types of occupations. However, no data regarding
      emergency physicians scores at the Karasek questionnaire were available, even though burnout
      exposure is a well-known problematic among health care workers. This absence is particularly
      unfortunate as emergency physicians often needs to deals with life threatening emergency in a
      short amount of time, following regularly long and craving shifts. A preliminary study with a
      low sample size reported in concrete terms the atypical "out of limit" situations of
      emergency physicians, with a decision latitude among the lowest and the highest psychological
      demand ever reported. Moreover, variation of stress at work has been linked with professional
      experiences. Karasek questionnaire is supposed to assess a long-term stable perception of
      work, despite the absence of study comparing Karasek scores within different conditions in
      the same participant. It is also important to explore protective factors that might help
      alleviate perceived stress and that are quite easy to integrate into medical organizations or
      in daily lifestyle.

      Finally, several biomarkers of stress have been proposed. Among them, our team previously
      highlighted the potential of DHEAS to assess stress, due to its stability (steroid) and its
      long half-life of 16 hours. To our knowledge, the relationships between biomarkers of stress
      and the Karasek job strain model have never been investigated. Comparisons between emergency
      health care workers are also lacking.

      Therefore, the general aim of this study is to enhance psychological well-being in emergency
      physicians. The primary objective is to verify our preliminary findings at Karasek scores on
      a large sample size of emergency physicians. The secondary objectives are to evaluate whether
      there is a change in perception of work both at short-term (on leave and after a 24-hour
      shift) and long-term (with professional experience). We will further explore its
      relationships with some biomarkers of stress and protective factors. Moreover, we aim to
      compare emergency health care workers specificity.

      Questionnaires and saliva collection will be performed twice: at the beginning of a day work
      and at the end of a night work. Both measures will be recorded at the same time within each
      participant, between 6.30 am and 8.30 am depending of the health care workers. The time
      required by participant is evaluated to about 15min each time.

      The same measures will be repeated every 5 year to assess long term changes in subjective and
      objective measures of stress.

      The population description will be achieved with descriptive statistics. Continuous variables
      will be presented as mean and standard deviation, under the normality of distribution
      condition (Shapiro-Wilk needed).

      The primary analysis will be mainly descriptive and will express (as a quantitative and
      categorical variables) the perception scores of emergency physicians work according to the
      Karasek questionnaire, for each dimensions composing the score (decision latitude,
      psychological demands and social support).

      The evolution of the Karasek questionnaire score, obtained for each dimension, will be tested
      with a paired two-sample emergency physician's test (or nonparametric Wilcoxon test if
      necessary). Linear regression models or aleatory effects models (as described by Klar and
      Darlington, 2004, in Statistics in Medicine) will eventualy complete these analyzes. This
      will permit, with multivariate analyzes and the introduction of covariates, to seek for
      possible explanatory factors of the Karasek score and its evolution. The same process will be
      used for quantitative parameters that will be collected.

      All statistical analyses will be performed as bilateral tests with a p <0.05 considered as
      significant. Statistical analyzes will be performed using STATA 16 software (Stata
      Corporation, College Station).
    
  