
    
      Although the safety and effectiveness of antipsychotic medications is well-established in
      adults with schizophrenia, these drugs have not been examined rigorously in adolescents with
      this disorder. Preliminary experience suggests that risperidone may hold promise for the
      treatment of these younger subjects. This is an open-label, multicenter trial of risperidone,
      formulated as an oral solution and tablets, in the treatment of adolescents with
      schizophrenia. It is an open-label, 6-month extension of two previous double-blind studies
      that assessed the safety and effectiveness of risperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia
      in an adolescent population. Patients may also enroll directly in this open-label trial.
      During the first week of the study, patients will receive increasing doses of risperidone to
      reach an optimal daily dose (2 to 6 mg/day), which will be maintained throughout the 6 months
      of the study. Assessments of effectiveness include the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale
      for Schizophrenia (PANSS), a scale measuring the symptoms of schizophrenia, the Clinical
      Global Impression-Severity of Illness subscale (CGI-Severity), a scale measuring the severity
      of illness, the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement subscale (CGI-Improvement), a scale
      measuring clinical improvement, and the Children's Global Assessment Scale. Safety
      evaluations include the incidence of adverse events throughout the study, clinical laboratory
      tests (hematology, biochemistry, and urinalysis), vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, and
      temperature), weight, and electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings at specified intervals. The
      study hypothesis is that risperidone with be effective in the treatment of adolescents with
      schizophrenia, and well tolerated. Risperidone, oral solution (1 mg/ml) once daily; dose
      increasing from 0.01 mg/kg body weight (Day 1) to a range from 2 to 6 mg/day for 6 months.
      Oral tablets (0.5, 1, 2, 3, and 4 mg) once daily; dose increasing from 0.5 mg (Day 1) to a
      range of 2 to 6 mg/day for 6 months.
    
  