
    
      Obesity is a major health issue worldwide. Despite global research efforts, effective
      treatments for obesity are limited. There are two kinds of fat in the body: white fat and
      brown fat. White fat functions mainly as an energy-storing organ and in excess results in
      obesity and complications such as diabetes and high blood pressure. Brown fat on the other
      hand releases the energy stored in fat as heat. It protects small animals and newborn human
      infants from cold temperatures.

      Recent advances in imaging techniques have revealed brown fat to be present in significant
      amount in adult humans. Using PET scanning, brown fat is shown to be more abundant in lean
      and younger individuals, suggesting that brown fat may regulate energy balance and
      metabolism. In a previous study we showed that following exposure to mild cold (19degree
      C/66degree F), the activity of brown fat was increased by nearly 10% and the energy
      expenditure by over 6%. Over time, these changes might result in substantial weight loss.
      However this has not been investigated and it is uncertain whether long-term cold exposure
      can sustain the increased activity of brown fat. In order to determine the therapeutic
      potential of brown fat activation, we designed a study investigating the effects of cold
      exposure over a long period.

      We hypothesize that adult humans can be cold-acclimatized through mild cold exposure over a
      month. Brown fat activity can be increased and sustained by cold stimulation, which could
      result in beneficial metabolic changes in the body.

      The aims of the current project are to:

        1. determine whether brown fat can be stimulated by exposure to mild cold

        2. investigate the metabolic consequences of long-term cold exposure

      Volunteers will be randomly assigned to sleep overnight in the Metabolic Clinical Research
      Unit at NIH, set at either mild cold (19degree C/66degree F) or mild warm (27degree
      C/81degree F), with a lead-in period and a wash-out period before crossing over, during which
      the temperature will be ambient (24degree C/75 degree F). Volunteers can conduct their
      regular activities during the day. Each period will be 1 month in duration. At the end of
      each month, volunteers will be evaluated for their metabolic response to a mild cold
      challenge for 24 hours (19degree C/66degree F) to determine whether brown fat function and
      activity have been altered by temperature acclimatization in the previous month.

      Significance: Based on its role in energy homeostasis and protection against obesity in
      animals, brown fat is likely to have a similar role in adult humans. Determining the
      contribution of brown fat-mediated cold acclimatization to long term energy balance may lead
      to novel treatment strategies of obesity.
    
  