
    
      The study focuses on collecting all mycobacterial data, clinical assessment and clinical
      outcomes of patients. Data collection includes demographic characteristics, medical history,
      clinical procedures relative to the treatment of NTM, respiratory symptoms and signs,
      pulmonary function tests if applicable, imaging parameters, diagnostic tests, mycobacterial
      smear, culture, or possible susceptibility, therapies and outcome. The study will be updated
      with clinical outcomes (e.g., hospitalization, surgery relative NTM, and death) during study
      period. The data will be collected from 1/1/2001 to 12/30/ 2011.

      The confirmed NTM patient will be defined with ATS guideline for NTM as:

      Clinical: Pulmonary symptoms, nodular or cavitary opacities on chest radiograph, or an HRCT
      scan that shows multifocal bronchiectasis with multiple small nodules and 2. appropriate
      exclusion of other diagnoses.

      Microbiologic: Positive culture results from at least two separate expectorated sputum
      samples. (If the results from the initial sputum samples are nondiagnostic, we will consider
      repeat sputum AFB smears and cultures.) Or positive culture results from at least one
      bronchial wash or lavage. Or transbronchial or other lung biopsy with mycobacterial
      histopathologic features (granulomatous inflammation or AFB) and positive culture for NTM or
      biopsy showing mycobacterial histopathologic features (granulomatous inflammation or AFB) and
      one or more sputum or bronchial washings that are culture positive for NTM.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. To determine prevalence of culture-confirmed NTM infection in the UIMC in a ten- year
           period

        2. To determine the prevalence of NTM disease based on ATS case definition the UIMC in a
           ten- year period

        3. To determine treatment outcome of NTM disease in the UIMC in a ten- year period

        4. To find the risk factors associated with treatment failure of patients with NTM diseases
    
  