
    
      End-stage kidney disease is a significant public health problem worldwide, and its treatment
      imposes a high healthcare burden and cost. Kidney transplantation is considered the best
      treatment for ESKD, offering improved survival and quality of life at significantly lower
      cost that dialysis. However, many kidney transplants fail prematurely due in part due to
      injury sustained at the time of transplantation. Delayed graft function (DGF), i.e. the
      requirement for dialysis early after transplantation, affects approximately 30% of deceased
      donor kidney transplants, and increases the risk of graft failure and mortality.

      Intravenous fluids are a critical, albeit inexpensive, aspect of care that impacts early
      transplant function with normal (0.9%) saline the current standard care at most centres.
      However, normal saline may in fact be harmful in the setting of kidney transplantation due to
      its high chloride content relative to plasma, causing metabolic acidosis, acute kidney injury
      and thus potentially increasing the risk of DGF. Utilising a balanced low-chloride
      crystalloid solution such as Plasma-Lyte 148® (Plasmalyte) as an alternative to 0.9% saline
      may therefore improve outcomes after kidney transplantation.

      The BEST-Fluids study is an investigator-initiated, pragmatic, registry-based, multi-centre,
      double -blind randomised, controlled trial. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate
      the effect in deceased donor kidney transplant recipients of intravenous therapy with
      Plasmalyte versus 0.9% saline, commencing pre-operatively and continuing until intravenous
      fluids are no longer required or 48 hours post-transplant (whichever is earliest), on DGF,
      defined as the requirement for dialysis in the first seven days post-transplant.

      Patients admitted for a deceased donor kidney transplant at participating centres will be
      invited to participate in the study prior to transplant surgery. Following informed consent,
      participants will be randomised to receive either blinded Plasmalyte or blinded 0.9% saline
      for all intravenous fluid therapy purposes until 48 hours post-transplant. The volume and
      rate of fluid therapy will be determined by treating clinicians; all other treatments will be
      as per local standard of care. Participants will be enrolled, randomised and followed up
      using ANZDATA, the Australia & New Zealand Dialysis & Transplant Registry.

      The trial was prospectively registered with Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
      (ANZCTR) on 08/03/2017 (ACTRN12617000358347).
    
  