
    
      Background. Mental health in Chilean children and families is an urgent public health
      problem. Several epidemiological studies have shown that a significant percentage of the
      adult population has psychiatric disorders. For example, one recent study showed that 31.5%
      of the population aged 15 and over has some type of psychiatric pathology in their lives and
      that 22.2% suffered from a mental disorder during the last year. Today we know that many of
      the present in the adult population begins in childhood and adolescence and that preventing
      their onset can have a significant impact on the future functioning of the individual. The
      few epidemiological studies on the Chilean child and adolescent populations show that the
      prevalence of psychiatric disorders among children between 4 and 11 years old is 27.8%, a
      higher percentage than was found in adolescents between 12 and 18 years old, which is 16.5%.
      The most frequent disorders in the population between 4 and 11 years old were disruptive
      disorders (20.6%), followed by anxiety disorders (9.2%). Mental health problems generate a
      high burden of disease on society in general; and there is an important gap in the treatment
      of these, especially in populations that are more economically vulnerable. Prevention
      strategies appear to be the more recommendable options, mainly if these interventions can be
      implemented early and at low cost. Few preventive interventions, or interventions that
      increase resilience in the face of adversity, have been rigorously evaluated in Chile. There
      is substantial evidence that shows that strengthening social and emotional learning skills
      can reduce the incidence of mental pathology and improve various academic indicators. These
      social-emotional skills include the ability to identify and express emotions, to be able to
      adapt to social context, to regulate emotions, the ability to inhibit behavior, and
      problem-solving skills. Deficits in these skills have been associated with the appearance of
      both internalization problems (emotional problems such as depression and anxiety) and
      externalization problems (such as disruptive behavioral problems), as well as peer rejection.

      The curriculum of the Interpersonal Cognitive Problem Solving Program, also known as I Can
      Problem Solve (ICPS), is focused on the development of the cognitive process and children's
      social problem-solving skills. That is, it is a program that explicitly promotes cognitive
      regulation (skills for listening and paying attention, sequencing and planning tasks) and
      solving social problems (thinking up alternative solutions, causal thinking, means-to-an-end
      thinking, and sequential planning). But it also includes the promotion and learning of
      emotional processes (particularly emotional expression/knowledge, perspective, and empathy).
      Several studies conducted among disadvantaged population have shown that students who
      received ICPS had better results regarding increasing pro-social behaviors and reducing
      aggressive behavior compared with students in the control group. ICPS is a universal
      intervention designed to promote interpersonal cognitive processes and problem-solving skills
      in children from preschool through 6th grade. This project will adapt the preschool program,
      which has a total of 59 sessions. Each session lasts around 20 minutes, and the trained
      facilitator follows a simple manual that guides their work with the students on ICPS
      vocabulary and concepts and the development of problem-solving skills such as practicing
      alternative solutions, consequences and the sequential thought (solutions-consequences). An
      interactive technique and guided discussion strategies are used to solve problems.
      Interactive methods include games, role-playing, and the use of stories, illustrations, and
      puppets. These contents may also be used in other curricular activities for children, whether
      they are working on Math, Reading or Science. Children learn how to think and not what to
      think.

      Aims. The general objective of this study is the evaluation of the effectiveness of an
      adapted version of ICPS, in the national context at educational institutions with a high
      socio-economic vulnerability, on increasing social-emotional competence and reducing
      emotional and behavioral problems in preschoolers.

      Methods. A cluster randomized controlled study will be conducted to asses the effectiveness
      of the culturally adapted version of ICPS on increasing social-emotional skills and reducing
      behavioral problems. There will be two arms: 1) Schools implementing the ICPS program
      delivered by an early teacher hired and trained by the research team, who will work
      collaboratively with the school early teacher; 2) A control group will consist of school
      implementing their usual teaching activities.
    
  