
    
      Neutropenia is a major risk factor for invasive fungal infections, particularly those caused
      by moulds, such as Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp. and the Zygomycetes. Among neutropenic
      patients, these invasive mould infections (IMI) occur almost exclusively in patients with
      profound neutropenia (<100 neutrophils/mm3) lasting more than 10-15 days [1-3]. Empiric
      antifungal therapy is considered standard of care in patients with persistent or recurrent
      fever and neutropenia. However using fever as the sole criterion for starting empiric
      therapy, a significant number of patients will receive antifungal therapy unnecessarily,
      particularly among recipients of fluconazole prophylaxis, because persistent fever in these
      patients is commonly due to various factors, such as uncontrolled occult bacterial infection,
      viral infection, drug fever and others [4].

      An alternative to empiric antifungal therapy is the preemptive treatment. In this strategy,
      other markers (such as serology, radiology and clinical data) are added to persistent fever
      [5,6]. One problem of such strategy is that the biomarkers currently in use (galactomannan
      [GM], 1,3-beta-D-glucan and PCR) have high sensitivity. If one of these markers is used to
      trigger the start of antifungal therapy, still a considerable number of patients will use
      antifungal agents unnecessarily. However, a positive biomarker early in the course of
      neutropenia most likely represents a false-positive result. By contrast, a positive biomarker
      test late in the course of neutropenia is more likely to be a true positive. A problem is
      that no cutoff value of duration of neutropenia is validated to help clinicians to identify
      these 2 possibilities.

      A clinical parameter that evaluated the dynamics of neutropenia, combining intensity and
      duration, could be a good tool to identify patients at high risk for IMI. This tool could be
      used to stratify patients, helping clinicians to select appropriate candidates for early
      antifungal therapy (empiric or preemptive) in persistently febrile neutropenic patients. We
      developed an index (called D-index) that uses data from white blood cell counts (WBC), and
      combines intensity and duration of neutropenia. This index was tested in patients with acute
      myeloid leukemia, and showed a good discriminatory performance in identifying patients with
      IMI and without IMI. A cutoff was derived, and showed good sensitivity, specificity and a
      very high negative predictive value (97 to 99%) [7]. The high negative predictive value of
      this index is very similar to that obtained with GM and 1,3-beta-D-glucan in febrile
      neutropenic patients [8,9]. With this regard, the D-index could be of help to assess the
      pre-test probability of IMI and help to interpret the results of positive serum GM and / or
      1,3-beta-D-glucan: patients with low values of D-index would be best interpreted as having
      false-positive results of these tests. Similarly, positive biomarkers in the presence of a
      high D-index would be more likely to be true positives, since the combination of different
      tests may increase their positive predictive value.

      This is a prospective cohort study. The study will be submitted to the IRB and written
      informed consent will be obtained from all participants.

      Patients aged ≥ 18 years are eligible if they have acute leukemia, myelodysplasia or other
      underlying hematologic malignancy receiving chemotherapy with an expected duration of
      neutropenia (<500/mm3) >10 days. This includes allogeneic (but not autologous) hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation. Patients with past history of IMI will be excluded, since for
      these patients secondary prophylaxis is advised.

      Patients will be enrolled at initiation of chemotherapy and no later than 48h from the first
      day of neutropenia. The same patient will be able to be enrolled more than once, but if he
      develops IMI, he will be no longer eligible for a subsequent inclusion. All patients will
      receive antimicrobial prophylaxis with fluconazole (400mg daily). Chest imaging (X-ray or CT
      scan) will be performed at the enrollment. During the period of neutropenia induced by
      chemotherapy/ conditioning regimen, patients will be surveyed for the development of fever
      and will have the D-index calculated day by day. At the time of febrile neutropenia, at least
      2 blood cultures will be collected. Other microbiologic exams will be obtained if clinically
      indicated. The patients will then receive a broad-spectrum β-lactam antibiotic (cefepime).
      Vancomycin will be added for patients who have clinically suspicion of catheter-related
      infection or a blood culture yielding Gram-positive bacteria not yet identified. Serum will
      be obtained 3 times a week for Aspergillus GM assay (Platelia Aspergillus; Bio-Rad) and
      Aspergillus sp. PCR (in-house real time qualitative and quantitative PCR). A positive GM will
      be defined as an index ≥ 0.5.

      In case of persistent fever or a new fever, blood cultures will be collected and CT scans of
      the chest and the sinuses will be performed. Results of GM will be checked and the patients
      will be stratified according to the D-index as high, moderate or low risk for IMI. Based on
      this analysis, antifungal therapy (caspofungin 70 mg day 1 and 50 mg/d thereafter) will be
      started. In high risk patients (D index ≥ 5,800), the trigger for anti mold treatment will be
      the presence of any image on CT scan or any positive GM. In the moderate risk (D-index
      between 3,000 and 5,800), the trigger will be the presence of persistence of a positive GM in
      consecutive tests. In this stratum, chest CT scan will be defined as indicative of antifungal
      initiation only in the presence of one of the following: nodules > 1 cm, with or without halo
      sign, wedge-shaped images, or cavitation. For low-risk patients (D-index <3,000), antifungal
      treatment will be started only in the persistence of positive GM result in consecutive tests.
      In situations in which antifungal treatment is not started, reassessment of these parameters
      will be made at least twice a week with the evaluation of the D-index and biomarkers, and
      once a week with CT scans. In patients with lung infiltrates, a bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)
      will be taken, provided the patient is not hypoxemic or severely thrombocytopenic and
      refractory to platelet transfusions. In the presence of findings in sinuses CT scans
      suggestive of sinusitis, nasal endoscopy will be performed. BAL and sinus aspiration samples
      will be processed for direct examination, culture, GM and Aspergillus PCR. Other diagnostic
      procedures will be performed when clinically indicated. Autopsy will be performed in all
      fatal cases after family authorization. Invasive fungal infection will be classified
      according to the Revised Definitions from the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group and the National Institute
      of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) Consensus Group [10].

      To assess the performance of risk stratification based on the D-index, the overall use of
      antifungal treatment (al well as stratified by D-index) will be recorded, and reported by
      descriptive statistics. The outcome of each risk stratus (low, moderate and high) will be
      compared regarding: incidence of suspected and documented mold infection, use of anti mold
      therapy, duration of hospitalization and death rate. In addition, the proportion of patients
      receiving early antifungal treatment will be compared with empiric antifungal use in a
      historical matched-control cohort. Patients from the 2 cohorts will be compared using
      propensity score procedure. Propensity score analysis attempts to identify patients who are
      similar except for their treatment. The analysis will be performed as follows: first, the
      probability of any patient in the database to receive empiric antifungal therapy will be
      estimated using a multivariate logistic regression model that incorporates baseline
      characteristics, underlying diseases and co-morbidities. Next, we will match from the 2
      cohorts patients with the nearest propensity score (the score generated by the multivariate
      equation)[10].

      Based on our database of ~2,000 episodes of febrile neutropenia, 36% of patients had
      persistent fever between days 4 and 7 of antibiotics and would receive empiric antifungal
      therapy. A total of 105 patients would be needed to demonstrate a 50% reduction in antifungal
      use if we compared this cohort with a matched control historical cohort (alpha = 5%, beta =
      20%).
    
  