
    
      The deposition of calcium salts in the arterial wall and the heart valves is a commonly
      occurring phenomenon associated with increasing age and various pathological factors. A
      particular case is the calcification of the aortic valve, which is accompanied by gradual
      stenosis leading to heart failure. As a result, causes significant morbidity and a dramatic
      increase in mortality if not treated surgically or via transcatheter intervention. It affects
      approximately 2% of the population over the age of 65, being the third cause of death in this
      population. It numbers about 100 surgeries per 100,000 person-years in the decade and 180000
      patients each year are candidates for percutaneous aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in the
      US, Canada, and European Union.

      Characteristic of the disease is that it remains even today without a diagnosis at the
      critical early stages and all existing therapies have failed to slow or reverse the damage
      when applied in the final stages. Previous experimental studies suggested that existing drugs
      may be more effective if given early in the disease course. At the time when the aortic
      stenosis becomes evident on echocardiography or Computerized Tomography (CT), underlying
      biochemical and molecular lesions have already developed. Moreover, among the aortic valve
      stenosis patients, it is unknown who will rapidly evolve to a dynamic narrowing of the valve
      and previous research studies report significantly diverse progression rates among patients,
      with approximately 20-25% demonstrating more than double rates. Thus, the Achilles heel of
      the therapeutic management of patients is the lack of early diagnosis and disease progression
      prognosis.

      Under a combination of pathological effects by factors such as hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus and dyslipidemia in patients with a possible genetic predisposition, impairment of
      the normal structure and function of endothelium occurs, which progressively leads to the
      disease of the underlying valve tissue. Local acidosis and accumulation of oxidative oxygen
      radicals cause damage to membrane phospholipids, oxidation of cholesterol and proteins, which
      lose their normal quaternary structure and degrade. The gradual deposition of phosphate and
      calcium carbonate salts over the pathological proteins leads to calcification of the valve
      tissue. Intense inflammatory reaction with activation of bone marrow and infiltration of
      tissue with immunocompetent cells accompanies the damage: macrophages, B and T lymphocytes,
      mast cells infiltrate and actively contribute to the disease. Within this environment,
      inflammatory cytokines secreted from the inflammatory cells lead to activation of embryonic
      cell pathways that help to further enhance the calcification through the conversion of
      resident fibroblasts to active osteoblasts, which actively deposit calcium salts through
      extracellular vesicles.

      In the disease, multiple cell types and distant organs are involved (liver - cholesterol
      metabolism, spleen and bone marrow - immune response activation) and the damage is expected
      to release fragments of biological and biochemical substances in the blood circulation.
      Hence, the disease is expected to be reflected in changes in serum protein and. It is
      possible to detect proteins and metabolites in the blood serum in appropriately selected
      patients, prospectively enrolled and monitored through the course of aortic valve stenosis.
      An optimal subgroup description of patients with rapid or slow disease progression can reveal
      important information for future clinical diagnostic and prognostic use.

      The purposes of Athena Valve are:

      (A) Collection of data on the progression of calcification and aortic valve stenosis,
      description of subpopulations with rapid and slow progression and record of clinical events.

      (B) The bioinformatics analysis of data from combined transcriptomics-metabolomics-proteomics
      of diseased animal model aortic valve tissue in the early, intermediate and final stages, in
      comparison with existing patient multi-omics databases, in order to investigate candidate
      molecules - "drivers" of the damage with a causal relationship.

      (C) The differential proteomic analysis of patient sera samples with severe aortic valve
      stenosis, retrospectively defined as rapid versus slow disease progressors and control group
      of individuals without aortic valve stenosis and severe calcification.

      (D) The differential metabolomic analysis of patient sera samples with severe aortic valve
      stenosis, retrospectively defined as rapid versus slow disease progressors and control group
      of individuals without aortic valve stenosis and severe calcification.

      (E) The integrated bioinformatics data analysis of differential patient serum proteome and
      metabolome enriched with the results of the animal model and existing databases from other
      patients, to determine the most probable - causally related molecules with disease
      progression in a molecular network.

      (F) Utilization of the more important protein targets for the development of a novel
      detection assay for multiple protein targets in blood serum by multiplex ELISA based on the
      results of the bioinformatics analysis.

      (G) Application of the new assay multiplex ELISA in paired serum samples of patients with
      moderate to severe aortic stenosis and control group of individuals without aortic valve
      stenosis and severe calcification, prospectively enrolled and monitored, initial validation
      of the assay and review of its diagnostic performance.

      Brief Methodology:

      Two independent clinical cohorts will provide necessary data and serum samples. The first, a
      retrospective cohort of patients with severe aortic valve stenosis will define serum,
      echocardiographic and clinical differences among subgroups with different progression rates.
      The second cohort, prospectively developed, will confirm the retrospectively obtained
      clinical and echocardiographic data and provide baseline and follow-up measurements of aortic
      valve calcification (CT calcium score). Paired baseline and follow-up serum samples will
      validate serum targets from the retrospective cohort. Patients will be assessed with
      echocardiography annually and with follow-up CT at 2 and 5 years from enrollment.

      Retrospective proteomics will be done with untargeted Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
      (LC/MS) and metabolomics with untargeted Liquid Chromatography-tandem Mass Spectrometry
      (LC-MS/MS) in Serial Reaction Monitoring (SRM) mode. Prospective proteomics and metabolomics
      will be quantitative and targeted. Blood samples will be immediately frozen and stored to -80
      C.

      For pathophysiological enrichment, a modified New Zealand rabbit model for aortic stenosis
      will be used in a longitudinal protocol of tissue harvesting in the early, intermediate and
      late-stage disease (corresponding to inflammation - calcification and subsequent valve
      stenosis).
    
  