
    
      Continuous fetal heart rate tracing is part of the standard practice during intrapartum
      obstetric management. The goal of fetal heart rate monitoring is to identify early signs of
      fetal distress during labor, initiate effective interventions to improve fetal outcomes and
      reduce the risk of cesarean and operative vaginal delivery, and when interventions fail to
      improve the fetal status, to help guide the decision to proceed with operative delivery in
      order to minimize fetal/neonatal morbidity as a result of fetal intolerance to labor.

      There are four major components to fetal heart tracing that guide obstetric management:
      baseline, variability, acceleration, and deceleration (uterine contraction pattern is also
      assessed to guide management). When one or more of these components are outside of normal
      values, it may be associated with fetal hypoxemia/acidemia. The typical management of these
      abnormal findings include maternal reposition, IV fluid bolus, increase maternal blood
      pressure, stopping uterine contractions, amnioinfusion, and maternal oxygen. The goal of
      therapy is to increase maternal blood flow to the uterus and therefore improve
      maternal-placental perfusion, increase oxygen delivery to and carbon dioxide removal from the
      fetus.

      Maternal oxygenation is part of the standard management of fetal tracing abnormalities
      nationwide, and is part of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)
      guideline for this specific indication. Its use intuitively make sense, as one of the major
      concerns with fetal tracing abnormalities is the development of fetal hypoxemia leading to
      anaerobic metabolism and the ensuing development of metabolic acidosis. However, clinical
      evidence to support its use is lacking. This is partly due to the long-ingrained culture of
      routine oxygen delivery on Labor and Delivery across the country, therefore no clinical
      trails were considered until recently. More importantly, from a physiologic standpoint, the
      fetal hemoglobin has significantly higher oxygen affinity compared to adult hemoglobin.
      Therefore, increasing maternal oxygen saturation does not lead to significant change in fetal
      oxygen saturation in general. In addition, some of the reasons for the development of fetal
      hypoxemia and acidemia are due to placental insufficiency or umbilical cord compression. In
      these circumstances, there is limited oxygen delivery in the fetal circulation at the
      maternal-fetal interface and therefore maternal oxygen therapy will have limited effects on
      fetal oxygenation.

      Furthermore, there is growing concern regarding the potential risks associated with
      supraphysiologic oxygen levels. At a cellular level, hyperoxygenation increased the
      production of oxygen free radicals, which results in cell damage. This is reflected in the
      neonatal literature regarding hyperoxygenation during neonatal resuscitation, including
      higher risk for respiratory and neurologic complications, the American Academy of Pediatrics
      (AAP) no longer recommend initial neonatal hyperoxygenation during resuscitation. There are
      similar concerns in oxygen use during obstetric management in recent literature. A number of
      studies have demonstrated higher risk of neonatal complications associated with maternal
      intrapartum hyperoxygenation (3-6). However, the evidences have not been adequate to change
      the clinical practice because the majority of these studies either focused on biological
      differences rather than clinical outcomes data or were retrospective rather than randomized
      trials.

      Given the ingrained nature of maternal oxygen therapy, the lack of clinical evidence in favor
      of its use, and concerns regarding potential harm, large scale clinical trials are needed to
      assess the risks and benefits of the current standard practice. Therefore, the investigators
      propose a large single center randomized clinical trial to determine the effects of maternal
      hyperoxygenation therapy for the treatment of fetal heart rate tracing abnormalities.

      Trial interventions include the following:

      Fetal heart rate abnormalities include one or more of the following:

      Recurrent decelerations: more than 2 in a 20 minute period Minimal or absent variability
      Fetal bradycardia Fetal tachycardia

      Routine fetal resuscitation measures will be taken for fetal heart rate abnormalities at the
      discretion of the obstetric team. These may include:

      Maternal repositioning IV fluid bolus Anesthesiology management of hypotension Stopping
      oxytocin infusion Administering Terbutalin Amnioinfusion Operative vaginal delivery Cesarean
      delivery In addition to above management options, patient will be assigned to one of two
      treatment arms through computerized randomization Treatment arm 1 Routine labor management at
      the discretion of the obstetric team Maternal oxygenation with 10L non-rebreather mask will
      be given with any above fetal heart rate abnormalities.

      Maternal oxygenation is discontinued at the resolution of fetal tracing abnormality or after
      delivery.

      Treatment arm 2 Routine labor management at the discretion of the obstetric team Maternal
      oxygenation is withheld unless indicated for maternal pulse oximetry is less than 92%
    
  