
    
      INTRODUCTION Intraoperative neuro-monitoring (IONM) is a 'SAT NAV' used by neurosurgeons to
      prevent injury to normal structures during brain and spinal surgery under anaesthesia. It
      involves the use of surface and implanted electrodes to observe spontaneous electrical
      activity of the brain or evoked responses to an electrical stimulus (motor, visual or
      auditory). This requires major modifications to the anaesthetic that provides lighter planes
      of anaesthesia with no muscle relaxation inviting added risks and complications such as
      awareness, seizures and cardiac events.

      This cohort study over a period of one year will include a qualitative enquiry of patient
      experience and a quantitative evaluation of the immediate postoperative course and
      complications at 28 days and 1 year. It will explore the relatively unknown area of emotional
      experiences of participants under anaesthesia who undergo various types of neuro stimulation
      and related post-operative sequelae. The results are expected to assist improve patient
      experiences and outcomes.

      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Resections of brain tumours constitute a significant proportion of
      work in neurosurgery. One important aspect is minimizing injury to normal neural structures
      during this process to improve outcomes of such operations and reduce complications. This
      involves intraoperative neuro-monitoring (IONM).

      IONM uses surface and implanted electrodes to observe spontaneous electrical activity of the
      brain or evoked response to a motor, visual or auditory stimulus. It is now becoming common
      practice for neurosurgeons to use this tool during brain and spinal surgery to provide a
      real-time feedback under anaesthesia to help them minimise injury to critical and normal
      neural structures by 'mapping' normal from abnormal areas of the brain.

      IONM interpretation needs fulfilment of multiple preconditions and major modifications to the
      anaesthetic to reduce its inaccuracies. This invites added risks and complications such as
      awareness, seizures and cardiac events. A team approach is also crucial to obtain meaningful
      results. Therefore, the utility of this technique is still evolving based on personal
      experiences and perceptions and the understanding between the surgeons, anaesthetists and
      neurophysiologists.

      Although, benefits of IONM are obvious, data on associated post-operative morbidity and
      patient experience and complications are scarce. The data is also scarce on tumour recurrence
      or tumour behaviour following IONM guided neurosurgery. More precise excision may reduce
      tumour recurrence. On the other hand IONM related electrical stimulation may impose humoral
      effects on tumour behaviour. These aspects have little scientific exploration.

      There are anecdotal reports of recurrent seizures during IONM leading to cardiac events such
      as asystole, teeth grinding and damage and tongue injury in the absence of a 'bite block' and
      postoperative calf muscle necrosis necessitating fasciotomies. Neither of these is in the
      literature including the unorthodox effective treatments used such as pouring 'cold' saline
      on the surface of the brain to control seizures.

      The study will take place in a major neurosurgical centre in the UK that uses IONM.
      Therefore, the study population is vast for appropriate sampling and recruitment.

      STUDY DESIGN This is an observational cohort study based on data retrieved from clinical
      notes and direct patient interview in hospital. The qualitative enquiry will address
      emotional aspects and the process experience. The quantitative survey will investigate
      morbidity (post-operative recovery, complications) and outcomes including mortality at 28
      days and 1-year follow-up.

      The eligible patients will be identified by the published elective neurosurgery lists and
      approached for informed consent before surgery at the time of preoperative assessment.

      The anaesthetist or the surgeon directly involved with his/her clinical care will first
      approach the patient and subsequently introduced to the medical student for post-operative
      data collection. Their demographic data, disease data, and neurological assessment scores
      will be obtained from medical records. Direct patient interviews will be carried out by the
      investigators postoperatively, using a structured open questionnaire format. This activity
      will merge with the postoperative clinical rounds where possible.

      All patients undergoing elective neurosurgery guided by IONM will be eligible for the study
      and recruited with informed consent. The exclusion criteria shall be aged less than 10 years,
      lack of informed consent and who are unable to communicate verbally.

      A convenient sample of 50 is a realistic number of patients who can be recruited within a
      3-month period at this centre. However, the qualitative enquiry may be stopped at an earlier
      time if the data collected is felt to be at the saturation point by the investigators. The
      participants shall be followed up at 28 days and 1-year post surgery.

      Continuous data will be described and analysed based on their distribution, be it parametric
      or non-parametric. Dichotomous data will be described as number of patients/episodes and
      percentage.The patient experiences reported will be subjected to a thematic analysis
      following the principles of qualitative research grounded theory.
    
  