
    
      Noninvasive brain stimulation (NBS) represents a promising set of tools for neurotherapeutics
      and rehabilitation. In a literature search, NBS has been tested for over seventy neurologic
      and psychiatric conditions. NBS may complement existing medical treatments, especially for
      neurologic indications without suitable pharmacotherapies (e.g. tinnitus, dyskinesias) or for
      patients with pharmaco-resistant illness (e.g. intractable epilepsy, severe depression).

      In particular, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) modulates brain activity by
      delivering low intensity unidirectional current through the scalp. Rather than induce action
      potentials, tDCS modulates resting neuronal transmembrane potential to influence brain
      plasticity. Moreover, from a pragmatic perspective, tDCS' benefits include its low cost,
      portability, and ease of use. Furthermore, tDCS can easily be combined with other
      interventions such as mental imagery, computerized cognitive interventions, or robot-assisted
      motor activity.

      Current physiological understanding of how TDCS affects brain plasticity at a synaptic,
      cellular, and a network level is limited. Experimentally, spontaneous neuronal firing
      activity under the anode generally increases, while firing activity under the cathode
      decreases, although the precise effects probably depend on the orientation of the axons to
      the electric field (Nitsche and Paulus, 2000, Bindman et al., 1964, Creutzfeldt et al., 1962,
      Purpura and McMurtry, 1965). The neuromodulatory effects of tDCS have also been broadly
      attributed to LTP- and LTD-like mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, involving modulation of
      NMDA-receptor activity, and sodium and calcium channel activity (Hattori et al., 1990, Islam
      et al., 1995, Liebetanz et al., 2002). Furthermore, functional neuroimaging studies have
      revealed both local and distant network effects induced by tDCS, probably mediated by
      interneuronal circuits (Lefaucheur, 2008).

      Advancing the investigators mechanistic understanding of how tDCS affects cortical
      excitability on a local and distributed level is necessary to (1) customize stimulation
      parameters (e.g. electrode size, positioning, current intensity and duration) to precisely
      target brain regions and maximize therapeutic outcomes, (2) confirm safety outcomes for
      vulnerable patient populations (e.g. children, patients with skull defects and implanted
      hardware). Previously, patients with a scalp or skull defect have been excluded from
      stimulation (Bikson, 2012) protocols because of a theoretical risk of current shunting
      through highly conductive CSF collections. However patients with penetrating brain injury,
      stroke, or previous brain surgery are precisely those who may most benefit from these
      technologies.

      Computational models using finite element methods (FEM) aim to determine the pattern and
      intensity of current flow through the brain by incorporating both (1) stimulation parameters
      and (2) patient characteristics such as underlying anatomy and tissue properties (e.g. size
      and position of skull defect relative to electrode configuration) (Bikson 2012). For example,
      one computational model incorporating electrode configuration and skull defect size and
      properties (Datta et al., 2010) predicts that the majority of electrode configurations
      surrounding the skull defect (with the exception of stimulating directly on top of a small
      skull defect) will not significantly increase the peak cortical electrical field intensity.
      Rather, current is directed to the edges of the bony defect, which may be counterproductive
      to therapeutic goals. Another computational case study on a stroke patient demonstrated that
      a relatively conductive stroke lesion concentrated current in the perilesional areas, and
      that placement of the reference electrode (e.g. right should, right mastoid, right
      orbitofrontal, and contralateral hemisphere) significantly altered the path of greatest
      current flow (Datta et al., 2011).

      Yet, these modeling predictions are limited in their clinical application, as experimental
      validation is necessary. Quantitative determination of the electrical field at the neural
      tissue level is required to establish efficacy and safety for a given individual (Bikson
      2012). To the investigators knowledge, there are no published studies that have empirically
      confirmed the predicted patterns and current flow intensities predicted by these models. This
      proposed experimental study represents the first-in-kind to quantify voltage intensities, as
      measured at the brain surface, in response to various stimulation parameters, and will
      represent a significant advance in the field of noninvasive neurostimulation
    
  