
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess safety of timed sequential busulfan and fludarabine conditioning regimen and
      post transplant cyclophosphamide as determined by day 100 non-relapse mortality in patients
      undergoing allogeneic transplantation: from matched donors; from mismatched (haploidentical)
      donors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate efficacy of this therapy and to compare outcomes between recipients of matched
      and mismatched donors by studying the following endpoints: graft versus host disease
      (GVHD)-free/relapse free survival; relapse-free survival; overall survival; non-relapse
      mortality; relapse rate; time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment; incidence of acute and
      chronic GVHD; grade 3 and 4 adverse events.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To study impact of timed sequential busulfan therapy and post-transplant cyclophosphamide
      on immune reconstitution and cytokines levels post-transplant.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 groups.

      GROUP I (FROM HAPLOIDENTICAL DONOR): Patients receive busulfan intravenously (IV) over 3
      hours on days -13, -12, and -6 to -3, thiotepa IV over 4 hours on day -7, fludarabine
      phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3. Patients undergo stem cell transplantation IV on
      day 0. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours on days 3 and 4. Beginning on
      day 5, patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to
      3 months and mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID).

      GROUP II (FROM MATCHED DONOR): Patients receive busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -13, -12,
      and -6 to -3, fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3. Patients undergo stem
      cell transplantation IV on day 0. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours on
      days 3 and 4. Beginning on day 5, patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or PO BID for
      up to 3 months.

      GROUP III and GROUP IV: Patients receiving haploidentical related donor transplant, diagnosis
      of myelofibrosis, > 60 years old, or patients with comorbidity scores > 3 will go in Group 3
      or 4. If patients with comorbidity score > 3, then the principal investigator is the final
      arbiter of eligibility for comorbidity score > 3. Busulfan is administered at the dose
      calculated to achieve a total (including first two doses delivered on day -20 and day -13)
      system exposure of 20,000 +/- 12% uMol-min based on the pharmacokinetic studies.

      GROUP V and GROUP VI: Patients receive busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -20, -13, and -6 to
      -3, a lower dose of thiotepa IV over 4 hours on day -7, fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour
      on days -6 to -3. Patients undergo stem cell transplantation IV on day 0. Patients then
      receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours on days 3 and 4. Beginning on day 5, patients
      receive tacrolimus IV continuously or PO BID for up to 3 months and mycophenolate mofetil PO
      TID.
    
  