
    
      This study aims to make widely available an inexpensive, easy to use point-of-care finger
      stick test to triage patients presenting with signs and symptoms consistent with active TB.
      From previous experience in EDCTP-funded studies, approximately 30% of such patients test
      positive for TB, with the vast majority having respiratory illnesses other than active TB,
      including acute upper or lower respiratory tract infections or exacerbations of chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease. The proposed finger stick test is designed, with the aim of
      use, as a TB rule out test such that resources required for further testing can be used with
      more efficiency.

      The majority (60%) of suspected TB cases are seen at public health facilities, however many
      facilities in high TB prevalence areas still do not have access to efficient TB diagnostic
      services due to logistical and financial constraints that plague these settings. Currently
      available diagnostics include radiological and microbiological testing, though each has
      drawbacks for use in primary care facilities.

      The TriageTB consortium will be evaluating combinations of biomarkers in samples from African
      and Non-African individuals suspected of having TB in order to identify the optimal biomarker
      signature for global identification of patients with high likelihood of TB. A device has been
      developed, which measures a combination of biomarkers in finger stick capillary blood and has
      been validated in the laboratory setting. Previous EDCTP-funded projects identified a
      promising 6-marker biosignature which has been shown to have potential for being reduced to a
      3- or 4- marker signature. The 3-marker signature has the added benefit of potential for
      treatment monitoring applications. A triage test as proposed here would significantly speed
      up and streamline diagnostic approaches in resource-limited settings.
    
  