
    
      Chronic renal disease is now the tenth leading cause of mortality Taiwan. It is worth to
      study the effect of low protein formula on the retardation of failing renal function,
      decrease plasma homocysteine and oxidative stress and further increase antioxidant capacities
      in patients with chronic kidney disease. The purpose of this study is going to investigate
      the effects of protein formula on renal function, homocysteine , oxidative stress and
      antioxidant capacities in patients with chronic kidney disease. This protocol is designed as
      a hospital-based blinded randomized placebo-controlled intervention trial. One hundred and
      twenty patients with end stage renal disease who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      recruited from Taichung General Veterans Hospital, Taichung. Participant patients will be
      blinded and randomly assigned to either the placebo (n = 60) or low protein formula (n = 60)
      for 12 weeks. Data on demography, anthropometry and medical history will be collected, and
      fasting blood samples and 24 h urine samples will be obtained at week 0, 12 and 24 during
      intervention period. The levels of hematological (red blood cell, hemoglobin, albumin,
      creatinine, urea nitrogen, total cholesterol, triglyceride, high and low density
      lipoprotein), plasma and erythrocyte PLP, plasma pyridoxal and 4-pyridoxic acid, serum and
      erythrocyte folate, serum vitamin B-12, homocysteine, lipid peroxidation indicators (serum
      malondialdehyde and oxidized low density lipoprotein), glutathione, total antioxidant
      capacity and antioxidant enzymatic activities (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase,
      glutathione S-transferase, glutathione reductase) will be measured. Twenty-four hour urine
      volume will be recorded and urine creatinine and urea nitrogen will be analyzed. Creatinine
      clearance rate will be measured. Hopefully, the results of this study could provide more
      pictures on beneficial effects of low protein formula on renal function, plasma homocysteine,
      oxidative stress and antioxidant capacities in patients with chronic kidney disease.
    
  