
    
      Scientific justification :

      As mechanical ventilation developed since the 1950s, researchers started to recognize
      characteristic lung disease associated with it, Nash et al giving an anatomopathological
      description of "Respiratory Lung" on post-mortem examination of lungs after mechanical
      ventilation in 1967 [2]. It progressively led to the concept of VILI and of the protective
      ventilation to minimize it, enhancing lower tidal volume and plateau pressure [3], controlled
      Driving Pressure < 15cmH2O[4], neuromuscular blockade[5] and prone positioning[6]. However,
      these parameters can only be controlled for sedated patients in Controlled Ventilation. As
      the respiratory conditions improve, the onset of spontaneous breathing uses PSV [7] but
      because pressure support is added to the inspiratory effort of the patient, tidal volume and
      driving pressure stop being tightly controlled. It is therefore possible for the driving
      pressure to be higher than 15 cmH2O in case of a major inspiratory effort. One ought to
      wonder whether a high driving pressure is associated with a prolonged weaning phase following
      a moderate to severe ARDS.

      Strategy description:

      Patients that enter the weaning phase following a moderate to severe ARDS equipped with a
      nasogastric allowing measures of EAdi will be included. Driving Pressure will be measured
      following the method used by Bellani et al [1]. A weaning test will be conducted daily.

      Follow up description:

        -  Daily measures of End Inspiratory Pressure with respiratory synchronisation optimised by
           use of EAdi

        -  Daily spontaneous breathing trial using low levels of pressure support

        -  Pplat, Respiratory System Compliance, Driving Pressure, PEEP, Tidal Volume will be
           monitored daily as well as clinical and other routine ventilatory data. Data concerning
           initial severity of ARDS, and duration of ARDS, controlled mechanical ventilation,
           sedation and neuromuscular blockade and date of first spontaneous breathing trial will
           be collected. A weaning test will be conducted daily.
    
  