
    
      In SSc, RP is present in 95% of the patients. Despite cold avoidance, RP attacks are severe,
      painful, affecting the quality of life, with frequent severe ischemic symptoms such as
      digital ulcers. Treating patients with RP secondary to SSc is extremely challenging. Oral
      calcium channel blockers, the most commonly prescribed drugs, were shown to be minimally
      effective in reducing frequency and severity of RP attacks. There is limited evidence for the
      efficacy of alpha-1-adrenergic receptor antagonists, angiotensin receptor blockers,
      phosphodiesterase inhibitors and endothelin-1 receptor antagonists to treat RP. The
      intravenously administered prostacyclin analogue iloprost is considered a second-line
      therapy, after oral calcium channel blockers, but its administration requires a 5-days
      hospitalisation for progressive increase in dosage and close blood pressure monitoring. Side
      effects are almost constant: headache, flushing, malaise and hypotension. Between 2004 and
      2015, a total of 145 patients underwent botulinum toxin-A (BTX-A) injections to treat RP in
      case reports, retrospective or open studies. Since 2016, only 1 randomized, controlled study
      was performed, including 40 patients but was underpowered, not designed for clinical
      outcomes, and treated the patient only in one hand. Symptomatic patients treated by BTX-A
      experienced, in the 3 to 6 following months, pain relief in 75-100% of the cases, as well as
      reduction in severity and frequency of attacks and increased ulcer healing rate, with minimal
      adverse effects. The most common complication was temporary hand weakness, related to the
      injected dose. When the total dose/hand was 50 UI or lower, the rate of hand weakness was 0
      to 9%. The proposed study is the first randomized double blinded multicenter clinical trial
      designed to assess whether or not a single injection schedule of BTX-A in both hands improves
      RP secondary to SSc better than a placebo at 4, 12 and 24 weeks after the treatment.
    
  