
    
      This study is a randomized, controlled trial of a cardiopulmonary exercise and
      self-management intervention to improve functional capacity, health related-related quality
      of life, and to reduce health care costs in medically fragile, elderly patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or heart failure (HF). Specific aims include: (1) To
      determine the benefits of a combined outpatient/home-based exercise, self-management program
      on function al capability (daily activity, six-minute walk distance, symptoms), (2) to
      determine the effects of exercise/self-management on quality of life, health status,
      cardiopulmonary function, and gait and balance, (3) to test the theoretical self-regulation
      model for mediating effects on major outcome variables, and (4) to compare health care
      resource utilization and expenditures between the intervention and usual care groups in order
      to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the program. The primary outcome upon which the
      study is powered is functional capability measured by daily physical activity. Outcomes will
      be measured at three time points: at entry and following the intervention at 6 and 12 months.
      Two-hundred (100/group) will be recruited from the VA Puget Sound Health Care System
      outpatient clinics. The study will be carried out over four years. Inclusion criteria include
      standard criteria for severe COPD or HF, optimal medical management, willingness to
      participate in an outpatient exercise/self-management program, working phone, hospitalization
      for HF, COPD, or related illness in the past two years or at least two outpatient visits for
      same over the past year. Exclusion criteria include unstable disease or recent surgery,
      supplemental oxygen requirement at rest more than 4 LPM, already participating in regular
      exercise three times a week, inability to ambulate, uncontrolled mental illness, alcohol or
      drug abuse and life expectancy less than one year. The intervention consists of a month long
      program of two 2-hour visits a week incorporating equal time for endurance and strength
      training as well as individually-tailored instruction in self-management of their heart/lung
      disease. Usual care control is an 8-week standard cardiopulmonary exercise program, two days
      a week for an hour with some self-management content.
    
  