
    
      This study will be a prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled trial. After written
      and informed consent are obtained, the study participants are randomly assigned using a
      computer generated table to 1 of 4 treatment groups prior to cesarean delivery.

      Group A: 9 mg of ephedrine Group B: 100 mcg of phenylephrine Group C: 8 mg of ondansetron
      Group D: 0,25 mcg/kg of norepinephrine Baseline arterial blood pressure and heart rate will
      be measured in the left lateral tilt position, before anesthesia and then every minute.The
      cardiac output is calculated on the apical cut 5 cavities, before anesthesia and then every 5
      miutes. No fluid preloading will be administered till delivery.

      The primary endpoint is cardiac output changes in each groups. The secondary endpoint is the
      number of provider interventions needed to maintain the SBP within 80-120% of baseline for
      each groups.

      Bradycardia (HR less than 50 BPM) will be treated with 1 mg of Atropine. Hypotension (
      decrease of more than 20% of the baseline value or a PAS <90 mm Hg) will be treated with 6 mg
      of ephedrine, without any fluid loading.

      The spinal anesthesia will be carried out in a seated position, level L3-L4 or L4-L5 with a
      slow injection over 30 seconds of a mixture of 10 mg of 0.5% Bupivacaine with 5 mcg of
      Sufentanil. The hot / cold test to determine the block level is required. A spinal anesthesia
      is validated if the cold test reaches the T4 level. The 10 ml syringe will be administered
      immediately after spinal anesthesia. The patient will be placed in the left lateral tilt
      position of 15¤, then put back into strict DD immediately after the delivery. Cardiovascular
      parameters (PAS, PAM, PAD, HR) will be recorded every minute until delivery.
      Echocardiographic measurement of cardiac output will be recorded every five minutes until
      delivery.

      Measured variables will include systolic, diastolic and mean non-invasive blood pressure, the
      number and type of interventions for control of blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output,
      incidence of nausea and vomiting (NV), incidence of arrhythmia and fetal cord blood analysis
      (pH) at delivery.
    
  