
    
      This prospective study aims at determining the efficacy and safety of different dressings
      available for treating diabetic foot ulcers. Study has been approved by the Institutional
      Ethics Committee before starting. Informed consent will be obtained from all the study
      subjects. A total of 50 subjects will be recruited. Study subjects will be divided in five
      groups of 10 subjects in each group.All the subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the
      study groups namely; Group 1 will the subjects randomized on Normal Saline (Control) and
      group 2 will be the subjects randomized on Biatin Ag (Foam) dressing; Group 3 will be
      Hydrocolloid, group 4 will be Hydrogel and Group 5 will be Ceredak. Lab investigations
      involving glycemic status (HbA1c), lipid profile, renal function test, liver function test
      will be done using standard enzymatic procedures. Wound size, colony count and microflora of
      the wound will be captured for all the study subjects. Photographs of the wound will be taken
      at every follow up visit until the wound is healed. Serum and tissue sample will be collected
      for the estimation of pronounced markers like MMP 2 and MMP 9. MMP 2 will be estimated using
      ELISA procedure (using standard enzymatic assay kit) and MMP 9 will be estimated using
      western blot technique. Histopathology of collagen will be seen using Van Gieson's stain.
      Immunohistochemistry will be done for determining collagen IV (marker for basement membrane
      thickening) to prove the evident wound healing at a defined point of time. H&E sections will
      be taken for determining the inflammation histochemically. All the study subjects will be
      followed till the wound healing process is complete. Tissue and serum samples will be
      collected for the above mentioned parameters on pre application day, after 1st and 4th week
      of the dressing application. A total of 3 visits will be performed for all the study
      subjects.
    
  