
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the signal-to-noise ratio of 13C pyruvate metabolism (peak 13C
      lactate/pyruvate ratio, 13C lactate/pyruvate area-under-the-curve (AUC) ratio, and apparent
      rate constant for pyruvate-to-lactate conversion, kPL) in the target tumor (primary tumor
      and/or abdominal metastases) in Cohort A.

      II. To determine the percent changes in the target tumor (primary tumor and/or abdominal
      metastases) 13C pyruvate metabolism (peak 13C lactate/pyruvate ratio, 13C lactate/pyruvate
      AUC ratio, and kPL) between pre-treatment scan and scan obtained at 4-week (+/-2 weeks)
      following treatment initiation in Cohort B.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the repeatability of 13C pyruvate metabolism measures in the target tumor
      (primary tumor and/or abdominal metastasis) in patients with same-day repeated dose in Cohort
      A and B.

      II. To determine whether the baseline or the changes in the target tumor (primary tumor
      and/or abdominal metastases) 13C pyruvate metabolism at 4 weeks following treatment
      initiation are associated with the best objective response as defined by Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria on subsequent clinical computed tomography (CT)
      scans in Cohort B.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore 13C pyruvate metabolism between the primary tumor and abdominal metastases
      (when present) both at baseline and following treatment in both Cohort A and B.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate intravenously (IV) over less
      than one minute then undergo MRI over 5 minutes at baseline in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV over less than one minute
      then undergo MRI over 5 minutes at baseline and 4 weeks after beginning treatment in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      In both cohorts, patients may receive an optional second hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate
      dose and undergo MRI within 15 to 60 minutes following the completion of the first scan.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-3 months
    
  