
    
      Elastography is a method of imaging tissue stiffness. It is based on shear wave velocity
      information that can be mapped to create an image of the stiffness in the region of interest.

      Sonoelastography is used to differentiate benign from malignant lesions since malignant
      lesions alter tissue elasticity.

      Adding Shear Wave elastographic features to BI-RADS® feature analysis- especially in lesions
      scored BI-RADS® 3 and 4a- improved specificity of breast US mass assessment without loss of
      sensitivity.

      The BI-RADS® categories are defined by the risk for a malignant lesion varying from benign
      BI-RADS® 2 lesions, up to a 2% malignancy rate in BI-RADS® 3 and 2- 95% in BI-RADS® 4 (4a
      2-10%; 4b 10-50%; 4c 50-95%). Based on these probabilities, biopsies are recommended for
      BI-RADS® 4 and 5 lesions and short-term follow-up examinations for BI-RADS® 3. Consequently,
      up to 2% of the in Ultrasound visible breast cancers are not directly detected as such and
      put into the BI-RADS® 3 category. In contrast, in the BI-RADS® 4a category more than 90% of
      the biopsies are unnecessary.

      The main aim of the confirmatory study is to use Virtual Touch Tissue Imaging Quantification
      in order to reduce unnecessary benign biopsies without a reduction of the number of detected
      cancers.

      This multi-center study is planned to involve 12 sites in 7 countries. Recruitment started at
      the first sites in February 2016. Recruitment takes place in the course of the patient's
      routine visit at a certified breast unit. All study participants will receive VTIQ in
      addition to standard ultrasound.

      Enrollment goal is a total of 1000 cases, split into groups of a minimum of n= 300 BI-RADS®
      3, n= 400 BI-RADS® 4a, n= 100 BI-RADS® 4b, n= 100 BI-RADS® 4c. All patients will be
      documented in a screening list. Monitoring will be performed by the Coordination Center for
      Clinical Trials (KKS Heidelberg). Completeness, validity and plausibility of data will be
      checked in time of data entry (edit-checks) and using validating programs, which will
      generate queries. The investigator or the designated representatives are obliged to clarify
      or explain the queries. If no further corrections are to be made in the database it will be
      closed and used for statistical analysis. All data management procedures will be carried out
      on validated systems and according to the current Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of the
      Institute of Medical Biometry and Informatics.

      The standard BI-RADS® Ultrasound (US) category (BI-RADS® 3-4c) and VTIQ values will be
      correlated with the histological result. Additionally, local (BI-RADS® given at each site)
      and central expert BI-RADS® assessment will be compared (BI-RADS® assessment and assessment
      of the variables leading to the BI-RADS® value separately) to assess the inter-rater
      reliability. In addition, the BI-RADS® assessments will be compared with the histological
      results.

      The variable "measurement lesion (in m/s)" is derived from three VTIQ measurements as
      follows:

      I. For confirmatory analysis of primary objectives an algorithm was established,

        1. using the first measurement for analysis if the value is smaller than 2.5 m/s or if the
           value is larger than 4.5 m/s. If the first measurement is smaller than 2.5 m/s, the
           lesion can be considered benign and no further diagnostics is needed. If the lesion is
           larger than 4.5 m/s the lesion should be considered suspicious and further diagnostics
           is required.

        2. requiring two additional measurements (in total three measurements) if the first
           measurement is in the range of ≥ 2.5 m/s to ≤ 4.5 m/s. In this case the average of all
           three measurements is used for analysis.

      II. For descriptive analysis other options for derivation of this variable from the three
      VTIQ measurements will be calculated for discussion:

        1. First measurement only

        2. Average of all three measurements

        3. Median of all three measurements

        4. Maximum of all three measurements

      In conjunction with the maximum VTIQ shear wave velocity the quality display will be used to
      aid in the classification of lesions as malignant or benign as follows:

        1. If the shear wave velocity ≥ the cut-off value (3.5 m/s), the lesion is considered
           potentially malignant, regardless of the outcome of the quality factor

        2. If a lesion or lesion rim has a completely high quality factor (all green) and a shear
           wave velocity < the cut-off value (3.5 m/s), the lesion is considered benign.

        3. If a lesion or lesion rim has mixed high and low quality factors (there are areas with
           low quality within the mass) and the only area of high quality (green) has a shear wave
           velocity < the cut-off value (3.5 m/s), then the lesion is indeterminate and malignancy
           cannot be excluded.
    
  