
    
      In the Phase lb portion of the trial: Participants must have a histologically confirmed
      malignancy that is metastatic or unresectable for which standard curative or palliative
      measures do not exist or are no longer effective. Melanoma trial participants must have
      either nivolumab or ipilimumab available and have progressed on anti-PD1 or
      anti-PD1/anti-CTLA4 combination therapy. Other advanced solid tumor trial participants must
      have nivolumab or therapy available and must be appropriate for this therapy. In the Phase ll
      portion of the trial: Participants with melanoma who previously experienced disease
      progression on anti-PD1 may enter the ARRY-614 plus nivolumab cohort or the ARRY-614 plus
      ipilimumab cohort. Participants with melanoma entering the ARRY-614 plus ipilimumab cohort
      must be naïve to ipilimumab therapy. Participants with RCC who previously experienced disease
      progression on anti-PD1 may enter the ARRY-614 plus nivolumab cohort. Potential participants
      will undergo Screening Procedures to determine eligibility within 28 days prior to the start
      of study treatment on Cycle 1, Day 1 (C1D1). Results of standard of care tests or
      examinations performed prior to obtaining informed consent and within 21 days prior to Cycle
      1 Day 1 may be used for screening assessments rather than repeating such tests. The first 5
      patients in each Phase II arm will undergo pre and on-treatment biopsies. The second biopsy
      will occur at C2D1 ± 7 days.Participants who meet all study eligibility criteria will be
      eligible to start study treatment. Patients will receive ARRY-614 on a QD continuous
      schedule. One cycle is defined as 4 weeks (28 days) ± 3 days. Prescribed QD doses should be
      taken at consistent times each day, as close to 24 ± 2 hours apart as possible. Daily study
      treatment will begin on C1D1 with planned concurrent dosing of ARRY-614 and either nivolumab
      or ipilimumab. Upon determination of the Recommend Phase ll Doseof ARRY-614, a similar dosing
      schedule will be pursued. Three simultaneous phase II, tumor-specific trials will be
      conducted: melanoma with nivolumab, melanoma with ipilimumab, and RCC with nivolumab.
      ARRY-614 will be given on a daily PO schedule in 4-week cycles (± 3 days). Nivolumab and
      ipilimumab will be given according to the corresponding FDA label dosing schedule for each
      individual agent.
    
  