
    
      An Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator (ICD) is a device implanted in a patient's chest to
      monitor the heart rhythm and deliver shocks to terminate potentially lethal arrhythmias when
      necessary. While ICDs reduce sudden cardiac death, patients with these devices do eventually
      die, either of heart failure or other chronic diseases. As a patient's disease worsens,
      physiologic changes (intrinsic and extrinsic to the heart) may affect the cardiac conduction
      system, leading to more arrhythmias and increasing the frequency of shocks. Because ICD
      shocks can cause pain and anxiety and may not prolong a life of acceptable quality, it is
      appropriate to consider ICD deactivation as a patient's clinical status worsens and death is
      near. However, these conversations rarely occur. The investigators propose to conduct a
      randomized clinical trial of a physician-centered patient counseling and support intervention
      to improve communication between cardiologists and patients with ICDs. The goals of the study
      are to determine the effectiveness of the intervention to: 1) increase conversations about
      ICD deactivation, 2) increase the number of patients who have their devices deactivated, and
      3) improve mental health outcomes for bereaved caregivers of deceased patients. The unit of
      randomization is the hospital, the intervention is aimed at cardiologists, and the unit of
      analysis is the patient. The investigators have created a network of six academic medical
      centers across the country. The intervention to be delivered consists of three parts. First,
      the PI will conduct a workshop on communication specific to ICD-deactivation with
      cardiologists at the intervention centers. Second, when enrolled patients are admitted to the
      hospital or seen in the outpatient setting, the cardiologist will receive two reminders (one
      via email, one in the patient chart) that the patient is appropriate for a conversation about
      ICD deactivation. Finally, cardiologists will receive aggregated feedback about the number of
      conversations they have conducted and data on patients' satisfaction with conversations every
      six months. Physicians at usual care hospitals receive a didactic lecture on advance care
      planning. All patients and surrogates will be interviewed at baseline and then assessed at
      regular intervals to determine the outcomes of: 1) the prevalence of conversations about ICD
      deactivation as reported by the patient/surrogate; and 2) the frequency with which patients
      have their devices deactivated. Caregivers will continue to be interviewed at regular
      intervals up to 6 months after the patient dies to determine the relationship of the
      intervention to caregiver mental health outcomes. Given the exponential increase in the
      number of patients with ICDs, this intervention has the potential to improve the quality of
      care for thousands of patients near the end of life and their families.
    
  