
    
      Hematologic cancer patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT)
      frequently experience physical and psychological sequelae that impair their quality of life
      and undermine recovery. Findings from the investigators' laboratory and others indicate that
      insomnia, fatigue, and depression are among the most persistent, distressing, and
      debilitating quality-of-life concerns after HSCT. These symptoms co-occur as a "cluster"
      among cancer patients. Modifying sleep and circadian rest-activity patterns has been
      suggested to be a particularly promising intervention strategy for alleviating this symptom
      cluster. The proposed project will therefore evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a
      biobehavioral intervention to alleviate insomnia, fatigue, and depression by optimizing sleep
      and rest-activity patterns during the first 4 months following HSCT. Evidence-based
      behavioral strategies to enhance the quality of nighttime sleep and increase engagement in
      non-sedentary daytime activity will be combined to optimize 24-hour rest-activity patterns.
      These non-pharmacologic approaches can be taught in a few brief sessions and will be
      delivered in an individual format tailored to each patient.

      The investigators have already refined the intervention based on preliminary feasibility
      testing in a small sample of HSCT recipients and are now conducting a pilot RCT to compare
      the refined intervention with usual care among adults recovering from HSCT. Semi-structured
      interviews will determine participant satisfaction with and acceptability of the
      intervention. Proposed outcome assessments will also be piloted, including patient-reported
      fatigue, depression, and insomnia measures and actigraphy assessments. The primary goal is to
      evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention. The exploratory goal is to
      conduct a preliminary test of the efficacy of the intervention to determine estimates of
      variance and effect sizes for determination of power and sample size for a larger trial.
    
  