
    
      After obtaining informed consent, pediatric patients presenting to our institution with a
      SCFE will have a single radiograph of the elbow, in addition to those radiographs currently
      obtained as part of routine evaluation and treatment (e.g. AP pelvis, bilateral hip laterals,
      scanogram, and hand bone age). This additional radiograph, a single one-time lateral elbow
      radiograph taken on initial presentation with a SCFE, will be used to assess bone age and
      compared with other radiographic methods, i.e. hand bone age, currently used to assess
      skeletal maturity. Scanogram of the lower extremities, at initial presentation and at the
      completion of skeletal growth, will be used to accurately assess the length of the lower
      extremities and evaluate limb length discrepancy at maturity. Treatment of the patient's SCFE
      and post-operative management will be as per routine care at our institution. Patients will
      be followed until skeletal maturity.

      The medical records and radiographs of patients with SCFE will be collected. Patient data
      will include:

        -  Patient demographics- chronologic age, gender, race/ethnicity, standing height, weight,
           BMI, clinical follow-up duration

        -  SCFE type- chronicity of symptoms prior to presentation, Loder classification of slip
           stability, laterality, time between sequential SCFEs

        -  Skeletal maturity data- bone age, triradiate closure, Risser sign, modified Oxford bone
           age, olecanon method and the Simplified skeletal maturity scoring system

        -  Radiographic data- slip severity, physeal slope angle, and leg length discrepancy

        -  Complications

        -  Additional procedures

      In order to compare the various radiographic methods of skeletal age assessment, the elbow
      hand and AP pelvis radiographs will be reviewed once by three independent and experienced
      observers, two pediatric orthopaedic surgeons and one musculoskeletal radiology attending.
      The radiographic skeletal age assessment will be discussed by these three observers in order
      to minimize intraobserver and interobserver errors.
    
  