
    
      INTRODUCTION: The usual recommendations for a peroperative bladder catheter vary from
      surgical reasons to the control of hemodynamics or personal preferences, so since it is not a
      procedure free of complications, it requires an evidence-based approach.

      For hospitalized patients, the optimal duration of bladder catheterization remains
      controversial. For colorectal surgery, most authors traditionally suggested with limited
      evidence, based mainly on open surgery data, 5 days with a range of 3 to 10 days, which meant
      a significant increase in hospital stays associated with an increase of the risk of
      complications (42-60% of urinary infections).

      With the introduction of the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) or Fast-Track programs of
      minimally invasive surgery it has been shown that old concepts adopted by the inertia of the
      custom were wrong and therefore the recommended duration of bladder catheterization has been
      shortened with the aim of reducing the incidence of urinary tract infections without
      significantly increasing acute urinary retention.

      Currently, European international guidelines recommend that bladder catheterization may be
      limited to a period of 24-48 hours after scheduled colon and rectal interventions, except for
      resections of the middle and lower rectum (with extensive perineal and rectal dissection)
      that require the permanence of the bladder catheter for a longer period according to the
      clinical indications.

      The clinical guidelines of the ASCRS (American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons) and the
      SAGES (Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons) are even more
      restrictive in the use of bladder catheterization in elective colon or upper rectum surgery,
      recommending its withdrawal within 24 hours after it as they consider that at 48 hours the
      risk of postoperative urinary tract infection has doubled.

      HYPOTHESES AND OBJECTIVES Hypothesis: Although the ERAS guidelines recommend the removal of
      the bladder catheter at 24 hours or 2-3 days, we believe that it can be removed earlier at
      the end of surgery without detriment to the increase in acute retention of urine and with the
      benefit of earlier mobilization and decreased morbidity related to the bladder catheter
      (urine infection).

      The main objective of the study is the assessment of the degree of acute retention of urine
      after removal of the bladder catheter in colon surgery in the two study groups, control (24
      h) and in the experimental group (once the surgical intervention ends ).

      As secondary objectives we will consider the decrease in the incidence of urinary tract
      infections within the first 30 days as well as the reduction in hospital stay and morbidity
      related to the bladder catheter. Urine culture samples will be collected if the patient
      presents a clinic suggestive of urinary tract infection: dysuria, urinary frequency, urgency,
      suprapubic pain, hematuria or testicular pain.

      METHODS / DESIGN Study design This protocol has been designed following the standards of the
      SPIRIT statement and is a prospective, multicentre, controlled, randomized, non-inferiority
      study on the management of the bladder catheter in scheduled laparoscopic colon surgery

      Inclusion criteria Any patient who understands, agrees to participate and signs the informed
      consent, that is over 18 years old, operated electively and programmed by laparoscopic colon
      and upper rectum in which the peritoneal reflection has not been opened, will be included in
      the study. with a duration of the surgical act less than 180 minutes. The previous anesthetic
      assessment will be of an ASA I-III and should have an international prostate symptom score
      (IPSS) of less than 19 with / without treatment for BPH (alpha-blocker).

      Exclusion criteria Open surgery or conversion to open surgery; performing periodic anesthesia
      or being ASA IV; preoperative diagnosis of urinary tract infections (more than 3 episodes /
      year documented by urinoculture or two urinary tract infections in the last 6 months);
      moderate-severe prostate clinic (IPSS> 19); in men, the presence of positive urine culture in
      preoperative tests; in women, the urinary infection clinic and the positive urine culture.
      The previous history of acute urine retention will also be grounds for exclusion from the
      study; be a carrier of a permanent bladder catheter or ureteral catheter and intermittent
      self-catheterization. Men who have undergone prostatic deobstructive surgery (Holep, RTUp,
      Millin or prostatic vaporization) will not be included; patients with a history of treatment
      for urological tumor (prostate cancer, bladder tumor, ureteral or renal tumor); or have a
      history of urethral stricture, enterovesical fistula or previous pelvic surgery. Other
      reasons for exclusion will be urinary incontinence or neurogenic bladder; chronic renal
      failure (CRF) with creatinine levels greater than 2 (including terminal CRI stage or
      dialysis); emergency surgery, pregnant women, having received pelvic radiotherapy or the
      administration of suerotherapy during the operative time> 2,000ml.

      Study withdrawal criteria The difficulty / impossibility of intraoperative catheterization,
      urethral bleeding / hematuria after traumatic catheterization or the need for suprapubic
      cystostomy placement; the patient who is under active antibiotic treatment due to urinary
      tract infection at the time of surgery; the need for intraoperative ureteral catheter
      placement; the need for 24-hour diuresis monitoring by bladder catheterization, the
      combination with other surgeries (hysterectomy, prostatectomy, etc.), Clavien post-surgical
      complications> 2 (need to take a probe longer than expected); intraoperative urinary tract
      injury or the need for peridural anesthesia in the immediate postoperative period.

      The preoperative evaluation in men will include an IPSS questionnaire and a urine culture as
      its positivity will mean exclusion from the study. It will also be evaluated if you take
      medication for BPH. In women, a urine culture will be performed in case of presenting a
      urinary infection clinic

      Recruitment and scope of the study Patients will be recruited from colorectal surgery units
      of hospitals participating in the study following the same criteria.
    
  