
    
      Total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is a very common and successful procedure, and is expected to
      become more prevalent in the upcoming years. However, despite its success, TJA is associated
      with some complications, including periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). PJI is a devastating
      complication that is associated with marked patient morbidity and mortality and is an immense
      economic burden. Although the rate of PJI following a TJA is low, the burden is rising
      exponentially due to health complications and treatment costs. There are two common types of
      surgical treatments that can be used to treat chronic PJI, a two-stage exchange arthroplasty
      and a one-stage exchange arthroplasty. During a two-stage exchange arthroplasty, the implants
      are removed, infected tissues are debrided and a temporary antibiotic impregnated spacer
      fashioned from polymethylmethacrylate is placed (stage one). Afterwards the patient undergoes
      many weeks of intravenous antibiotics, followed by reimplantation at a later date (stage
      two). During the time between the first and second stage of the revision patients are often
      immobile, experience severe pain due to a lack of functioning joint, and may experience
      systemic toxicity associated with the administration of antibiotics. In a one stage exchange
      arthroplasty, the infected prosthesis is removed, infected tissues are debrided, and a new
      prosthesis is reimplanted during the same procedure.

      While the two-stage exchange arthroplasty is the preferred method of treatment for chronic
      PJI in North America, the one-stage exchange arthroplasty is the method of choice in Europe
      and some centers have reported comparable results in terms of success for one-stage exchange
      to two-stage exchange arthroplasty. However, there has been no randomized, prospective,
      controlled study to date that compares one-stage exchange to two-stage exchange arthroplasty.
      Because of the lack of comparative outcome reports, and the perceived higher rate of failure
      of one-stage exchange arthroplasty, surgeons in North America prefer to perform the
      traditional two-stage exchange arthroplasty for management of chronic PJI. Several teams have
      succeeded in performing a one-stage exchange arthroplasty in selected patients, but this
      procedure has not gained much popularity in the US.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the outcome of one-stage and two-stage exchange
      arthroplasty for the management of patients with chronic PJI. The hypothesis of this study is
      that one-stage exchange arthroplasty, if performed in the appropriate patient population,
      carries a similar success rate for the treatment of chronic PJI as two-stage exchange
      arthroplasty and avoids many of the problems associated with two-stage exchange arthroplasty.
    
  