
    
      People living with severe mental illness (SMI) have a lower life expectancy (by around 20
      years) than the general population, often dying of preventable or manageable illnesses
      (Woodhead et al., 2014). Diabetes contributes significantly to this health inequality, being
      2-3 times more likely in people with SMI (Stubbs et al., 2015). This study aims to understand
      the determinants of type 2 diabetes and variation in diabetes outcomes for people with SMI in
      order to identify potential healthcare interventions that can be tested further.

      Research questions:

        1. What are the socio-demographic and illness-related risk factors associated with

             1. developing type 2 diabetes in people with SMI?

             2. variation in diabetes and mental health outcomes in people with SMI and type 2
                diabetes?

        2. How do physical and mental health outcomes differ between people with SMI and type 2
           diabetes,

             1. compared to people with SMI without diabetes?

             2. compared to people with type 2 diabetes but no SMI?

        3. What factors influence access to, and receipt of, diabetes care for people with SMI, and
           how are diabetes healthcare interventions experienced by people with SMI?

        4. How and at what cost is type 2 diabetes monitored and managed in people with SMI
           compared to those without SMI?

        5. What healthcare interventions (e.g. medication, referrals and care pathways) are
           associated with better diabetes outcomes for people with SMI and type 2 diabetes?

      The study has the following objectives:

        1. In people with SMI, to identify which socio-demographic, illness, family history and
           lifestyle factors are associated with the development of type 2 diabetes.

        2. In people with SMI and type 2 diabetes, to identify which socio-demographic, illness,
           family history and lifestyle factors are associated with variation in diabetes and
           mental health outcomes.

        3. In people with SMI, to compare healthcare interventions, physical and mental health
           outcomes in those with type 2 diabetes with those without diabetes.

        4. In people with type 2 diabetes, to compare healthcare interventions, physical and mental
           health outcomes in those with SMI and those without SMI.

        5. To understand the factors that influence access to, and receipt of, diabetes care for
           people with SMI, and explore the experience of diabetes healthcare by people with SMI.

        6. To compare diabetes care provision for people with and without SMI, and estimate costs
           for these.

        7. To identify which healthcare interventions (e.g. medication, referrals and care
           pathways) may be associated with better diabetes outcomes for people with SMI and type 2
           diabetes.

      Study design:

      The study will utilise a convergent triangulation mixed methods design comprising a
      quantitative longitudinal observational study of individual patient records of adults with
      diagnosed SMI and diabetes held in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD, a
      computerised database of anonymised primary care medical records drawn from a proportion of
      general practices in the UK) with qualitative interviews with patients, their family carers
      and healthcare professionals who commission or deliver services to this comorbid population.
      This entry on the Protocol Registration and Results System describes only the quantitative
      work stream of the study i.e. the interrogation of patient primary care records. The key
      healthcare outcomes to be examined are listed; however, a definitive list of outcomes will be
      agreed through a consensus process with project team members.

      The complete study is organised in three work packages:

        1. Work Package One, which involves ongoing consultation with experts (service users and
           family members belonging to a Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) panel, healthcare
           staff and researchers) to refine questions and analyses, a synthesis of evidence on SMI
           and diabetes risks and outcomes, integrating the qualitative and quantitative studies,
           conducting co-design workshops to translate study findings into recommendations, and
           optimising the dissemination of findings.

        2. Work Package Two, which investigates the role of risk factors thought to influence i)
           development of type 2 diabetes in people with SMI (objective 1), and ii) variation in
           health outcomes in people with comorbid SMI and type 2 diabetes (objective 2). Further
           analyses involve a comparison of diabetes healthcare and outcomes for people with SMI
           and type 2 diabetes with outcomes for people with either condition alone (objectives 3
           and 4), an examination of variations in type 2 diabetes screening, monitoring and
           management and estimation of the costs for these (objective 6); and an exploration of
           the role of these interventions in contributing to health outcomes (objective 7). These
           investigations will utilise the CPRD database, which is linked to other datasets,
           including Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) data, HES-Office of National Statistics
           mortality data, and Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) data.

           Three CPRD datasets will be analysed which will consist of linked records from the study
           period of 01 April 2000 to 31 March 2016. The first of these, Dataset A, will contain
           records of a cohort of adult patients with a diagnosis of SMI. Dataset B is constructed
           from Dataset A, and comprises those in Dataset A who also have a diagnosis of diabetes.
           Finally, Dataset C is a cohort of patients with diabetes but no record of SMI who are
           age and gender-matched to Dataset B on a ratio of 4:1.

        3. Work Package Three, which explores the experience of diabetes management and healthcare
           from three perspectives: patients, family members or friends who support them and
           healthcare professionals who commission or deliver services.

      Dissemination

      Findings will be translated into service recommendations through two multi-stakeholder
      co-design workshops. The first of these will identify further avenues of inquiry for the
      final stages of analysis and will develop draft recommendations to improve the organisation
      and delivery of healthcare for this comorbid population. The second workshop will further
      develop the recommendations based on the final analyses and will design interventions or care
      pathways, assessing their potential acceptability and feasibility for future evaluation and
      implementation.

      A dissemination event will be held, presenting materials in a range of formats to maximise
      opportunities for knowledge exchange. Study outputs will include a final report for the
      funding body, scientific papers submitted to international peer-reviewed journals, short
      articles in practitioner journals, executive summaries published on websites, conference
      presentations, and other materials disseminated through clinical, academic and voluntary
      sector networks.
    
  