
    
      Introduction Epilepsy is a brain chronic condition characterized by the recurrence of
      unprovoked motor and non-motor seizures. A seizure can be defined as the transient appearance
      of signs and/or symptoms due to excessive abnormal neuronal activity in the brain.

      The International League against Epilepsy (ILAE) proposes that epilepsy should be considered
      a brain disease based on at least one of the following conditions: (1) at least two
      unprovoked (or reflex) seizures occurring more than 24 hours apart; (2) one unprovoked (or
      reflex) seizure and a probability of further seizures similar to the general recurrence risk
      (at least 60%) after two unprovoked seizures, occurring over the next ten years; (3)
      diagnosis of an epilepsy syndrome.

      Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological diseases worldwide, affecting around 60
      million people of all ages around the world. The risk of premature death in people with
      epilepsy is up to three times that of the general population. The lives of people with
      epilepsy are often impacted by stigma, discrimination, and human rights violations.

      Nearly 80% of people with epilepsy live in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), where
      treatment gaps exceed 75% in most low-income countries and 50% in most middle-income
      countries. Unfortunately, the lack of epidemiological registries about this disease makes
      early diagnosis and effective treatment difficult, thus increasing its prevalence.

      Design and methods The National Registry of Epilepsy in Mexico aims to be an observational,
      multicenter, and nationwide study about Epilepsy in Mexico. This project is proposed as the
      first registry about the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy in Mexico. The participation of
      major health institutions, both public and private, of each state to ensure that the registry
      is representative of the country is planned. It seeks for wide geographical distribution to
      compare the quality of care between the different geographical areas of the country.

      Data will be registered in an electronic case report form (CRF) stored in a centralized
      database in which all the necessary data for the study will be included. The study variables
      will be (1) demographic, (2) from diagnosis and its clinical manifestations, (3) results of
      laboratory tests and cabinet examinations, (4) treatment, previous and current, (5) clinical
      variables of concomitant diseases and factors that trigger or precipitate seizures, (6)
      frequency and number of seizures, and (7) type of medical care. Data collection will be
      performed from the usual clinical practice through the participating researchers themselves,
      the patient's medical history at the time of inclusion in the study, and data from the
      patients through a mobile app during the follow-up period, developed following updated
      information from the Clinical Guidelines of the Epilepsy Priority Program published in 20194
      which are adhered to the current concepts of ILAE.

      Demographic and clinical data will be obtained (focal or generalized, motor or non-motor
      seizures) and the general medical condition of the patient will be evaluated as stated in the
      Clinical Guideline of the Epilepsy Priority Program4 from the usual clinical visits and
      during the 6-month follow-up. According to the incidence of epilepsy reported worldwide and
      considering the Mexican population treated in the participating hospitals, the inclusion of
      at least 15,000 patients is estimated.

      Objectives To know the current status of the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy in Mexico in
      order to identify the clinical characteristics, treatment trends, and evolution during the
      6-month follow-up, as well as the adherence to current clinical practice guidelines.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria Candidates for the registry are those patients of any
      gender, older and any age who present an Epilepsy diagnosis according to the current
      definition of the ILAE 2014.

      Sites The Epilepsy Comprehensive Care Centers (CAIE), members of the Epilepsy Priority
      Program (PPE) of the Healthcare Sector in Mexico will participate, all with knowledge and
      experience in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with epilepsy.

      Data analysis Descriptive and differential statistics will be used according to the
      observation obtained. For continuous variables, mean, standard deviation (SD), standard error
      of the mean (SEM), 95% confidence interval (CI 95%) minimum, percentile 25 (P25), median or
      percentile 50 (P50), percentile 75 (P75) and maximum, number of patients (n) and number of
      lost data will be obtained as descriptive statistics. For categorical variables, % will be
      obtained from the total and number of patients (n) in each category. Lost data will be
      treated as a new category.

      Differences between continuous variables with normal distribution will be examined by
      Student's t-test. The Wilcoxon Sum-Rank Test will be used when continuous variables have
      failed in normality tests. To analyze categorical variables, chi-square will be used by the
      Fisher exact test or Yates correction. A two-tailed test with a value of p <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  