
    
      This is a prospective, randomised study to be conducted in the Emergency Medicine Departments
      and Cardiology Departments of four major hospitals, viz. Singapore General Hospital, National
      University Hospital, Changi General Hospital and Tan Tock Seng Hospital. The four hospitals
      were selected as they generally handle the most patients experiencing ventricular
      fibrillation (VF) and pulseless ventricular tachycardia (VT) in the inhospital setting in
      this country. The study will include patients with cardiac arrest, who have a shockable
      rhythm (VF and pulseless VT) and aged 21 years and above. Patients who have received
      defibrillation pre-hospital will also be included if they are still in VF at time of arrival
      at the hospital.

      Patients will be administered one of the following:

        -  Defibrillation with progressive high-energy biphasic shocks using the Medtronic
           Physio-Control LifePak 12 at 200J, 300J and 360J. If still unsuccessful, further shocks
           at 360J plus anti-arrhythmics as per American Heart Association (AHA) and Singapore
           National Resuscitation Council (NRC) guidelines for mega VF will be applied.

        -  Defibrillation with low-energy biphasic shocks using the Medtronic Physio- Control
           LifePak 12 at 150J, 150J and 150J. If still unsuccessful, shocks will be continued at
           the higher energy range (as above) plus the use of anti- arrhythmics as per the AHA and
           NRC guidelines for mega VF.

      Results will be analysed to obtain first/subsequent shock defibrillation efficacy and
      post-shock myocardial function/dysfunction. This randomised study is the first of its kind to
      explore the efficacy of different biphasic energy levels and their impact on myocardial
      integrity/function in an inhospital clinical setting. After completion, the study will be
      expected to produce at least Level 2 results, which would be useful to international
      resuscitation committees in determining future guidelines and recommendations for
      defirillation in cardiac arrest victims.

      At the conclusion of the study, the results will be analysed and published as soon as
      possible. This will be the responsibility of the Principal Investigator.
    
  