
    
      Patients who consulted one of the study investigators (rheumatologist and algologist) for the
      management of a common chronic low back pain between January 1, 2020 and March 17, 2020
      (begining of the French confinement) and who meet inclusion criteria will be offered to
      participate to the study.

      Eligible subjets will be preselected by the study investigators (from the medical file). The
      initial solicitation of a potential subject will be made by a phone contact by the
      investigator who treat him/her for his chronic low back pain. Subjects who agree to
      participate in the study will be offered to respond to a questionnaire by phone.

      The questionnaire (no more than 10 minutes) will assess the sociodemographic status, the
      confinement conditions, the new coranavirus infection status, changes in low back pain
      intensity during the confinement, incapacity related to low back pain, physical activities
      practice before and during the confinement, anxiety and depression, continuation of
      occupational activity and teleworking practice during the confienment .

      The main objective of this study is to assess the impact of confinement on change in low back
      pain intensity. The main endpoint is the proportion of subjects with a significant change in
      their low back pain during confinement, defined by the items "much worse" and "moderately
      worse", or "much improved" and "moderately improved" respectively.

      The secondary objectives are to assess:

        1. the association between the conditions of confinement and low back pain intensity;

        2. the association between the confinement conditions and disability related to low back
           pain;

        3. the association between infection with the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and change in low
           back pain intensity;

        4. the association between the confinement conditions and the quality of life as well as
           the state of psychological health;

        5. the impact of confinement on the use of care and the consumption of medication and
           psychoactive substances for low back pain;

        6. the association between working conditions and / or teleworking and the low back pain
           intensity;

        7. the association between socio-economic factors and modalities as well as the experience
           of confinement.

      Given the exploratory nature of this study, the required number of subjects is empirically
      estimated at 350 subjects in total.

      Qualitative and quantitative data will be described (averages or percentages). A chi² test
      will be performed to compare the percentages between the different subgroups studied. A
      Student test will be carried out to compare the means between the different subgroups
      studied. An alpha risk of less than 5% will be considered significant.

      For each of the parameters of interest studied, the bivariate analysis may be supplemented by
      a multivariate analysis adapted to the criterion to be explained if the conditions of
      validity of this multivariate analysis are met.
    
  