
    
      Heart failure currently affects over 5 million Americans. Symptomatic patients have a median
      life expectancy of less than 5 years and those with late-stage disease have 1-year mortality
      rates approaching 90%. Despite recent therapeutic advances that reduce morbidity and
      mortality, heart failure continues to cause enormous suffering. Patients with advanced
      disease suffer not only from the physical effects of the illness, but also from psychosocial
      and spiritual distress. In addition, heart failure costs more than $34 billion annually to
      the healthcare system and a disproportionate amount is spent on patients in the last 6 months
      of life when some of the treatments may be either ineffective or undesired. Selected patients
      are candidates for aggressive treatments such as cardiac transplantation or mechanical
      circulatory support, but the application of these therapies to the broader heart failure
      population is limited by resource scarcity and their untested usefulness in older patients
      with significant co-morbidities.

      The progressive nature of heart failure coupled with high mortality rates and poor quality of
      life mandates greater attention to palliative care as a routine component of heart failure
      management. Patients with advanced heart failure, particularly the elderly and those with
      significant co-morbidities, ought to be ideal candidates for palliative care that aims to
      relieve suffering and improve quality of life. Yet, several challenges have limited the use
      of palliative care approaches in heart failure:

        1. Determination of Prognosis. Several validated multivariable models have been developed
           to predict survival, yet considerable uncertainty remains and physicians are frequently
           unsure whether they are caring for a patient near or far from the end of life. Patients
           have an even harder time and are typically overly optimistic about their survival
           relative to that observed or predicted by multivariable models.

        2. Timing of Implementation. This prognostic uncertainty and the highly variable disease
           trajectories of individual patients with heart failure pose a challenge as to when
           palliative care interventions ought to be implemented. The most appropriate time to
           introduce palliative care concepts, particularly with regard to end-of-life planning,
           remains undefined and is linked to patient prognosis and preferences.

        3. Untested Interventions. There is limited evidence from randomized controlled trials of
           palliative care interventions in heart failure and the majority focus on resuscitation
           preferences. Further, practice guidelines from major cardiovascular societies are
           limited on this subject.

        4. Lack of Palliative Care Training of Cardiovascular Specialists . The education of
           cardiovascular specialists typically excludes formalized training in the principles and
           practice of palliative care.

      Given these limitations, a properly designed and powered study is required to determine
      whether a multidimensional palliative care intervention in addition to usual care improves
      health-related outcomes relative to usual care alone in advanced heart failure patients with
      a highly probable short-term mortality.

      PAL-HF is prospective, controlled, unblinded, 2-arm, single-center clinical trial of
      approximately 200 advanced heart failure patients with >50% predicted 6-month mortality
      randomized to usual, state of the art heart failure care or usual care combined with the
      PAL-HF intervention.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either of 2 treatment regimens:

        -  Usual advanced HF care

        -  Usual advanced HF care + interdisciplinary palliative care focused on symptom relief;
           assessment and management of anxiety, depression, and spiritual concerns; as well as
           advance care planning that includes definition of care goals, resuscitation preferences,
           and participation in the Outlook intervention.

      The primary endpoint will be health-related quality of life as measured by the Kansas City
      Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy
      with Palliative Care Subscale (FACIT-Pal) score at 6 months

      The duration of the intervention in PAL-HF is 6 months, but patients in both groups will be
      followed until death, or the end of the study.

      The study will be completed in both arms of the trial with a post-death interview with the
      caregiver.
    
  