
    
      Several types of evidence suggest that androgens exert clinically significant effects on
      central nervous system (CNS) function. In animal studies, androgens modulate brain serotonin
      function, and regulate sexual behavior, aggression, and other non-reproductive behaviors.
      These actions reflect both organizational and activational effects of androgens. Several
      studies in humans also support the central modulatory capacity of androgens. Correlative
      studies have described relationships between plasma androgen levels and sexual
      interest/behavior and cognitive task performance. Androgens are believed to underlie gender
      related differences in the prevalence of certain neuropsychiatric disorders, resulting in
      trials of anti-androgens in at least one of these disorders (Tourette's syndrome). Finally,
      androgens are believed to possess psychotropic effects in humans, evidenced by purported
      antidepressant effects and reports of psychotic reactions following administration of
      androgens. In a recent study, we demonstrated that androgenic/anabolic steroids precipitated
      mood and behavioral state disturbances when administered in a double-blind,
      placebo-controlled fashion in normal volunteers. There are remarkably few studies that
      attempt to identify the CNS effects of androgens or the central systems that may mediate
      these effects. In this study we propose to examine directly the effects of testosterone on
      CNS activity by first suppressing and then, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled fashion,
      replacing physiological levels of testosterone. We will evaluate mood, behavior, cognitive
      function, physiologic response to serotonergic agonists and cerebral blood flow (separate
      protocols) during both pharmacologically controlled hormonal conditions: hypogonadism and
      hypogonadism with testosterone replacement. On the basis of prior findings from our group and
      from others, we will be asking the following questions: 1) Does cognitive function differ as
      a function of gender or of hormonal condition; 2) Is the decreased r-CBF that we observed in
      the prefrontal cortex during the hypogonadal state in women also demonstrable in men; 3) Do
      measures of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responsivity differ as a function of gender
      or of hormonal condition; and 4) Do CSF neurochemistry and neurosteroid levels differ as a
      consequence of changing hormonal state. This protocol will not only provide much needed
      information about the behavioral and physiological effects of androgens but will serve as a
      companion study for NIMH protocol #92-M-172, "The Central Nervous System Effects of
      Pharmacologically Induced Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism with and without Estrogen and
      Progressive Replacement."
    
  