
    
      This retrospective study was carried out from November 2010 to September 2015 for control
      children (already published PMID: 29170358) : and January 2015 to December 2019 for asthmatic
      children.

      CPET were realised in 2 paediatric CPET laboratories (centre 1: Montpellier University
      Hospital, France; centre 2: Paediatric Cardiology and Rehabilitation Centre,
      Institut-Saint-Pierre, Palavas-Les-Flots, France).

      Children aged 5 to 18 years old were recruited in one of the 2 CPET laboratories.

      Two groups were identified: children with asthma and the control children.

        1. The asthma group consisted of children followed for asthma by any pediatrician or
           pulmonologist and referred to one of the 2 CPET laboratories. The following clinical
           data were collected : gender, weight, height, treatments to deduce treatment level (GINA
           step), associated pathologies, activity level, symptoms during exercice

        2. The control group consisted of children referred for a non-severe functional symptom
           linked to exercise (murmur, palpitation, or dyspnoea) or for a medical sports
           certificate. These children were classified in the control group only after a completely
           normal check-up, including physical examination, electrocardiogram, echocardiography,
           and spirometry. Children with any chronic disease, medical condition (cardiac,
           neurologic, respiratory, muscular, or renal), or medical treatment and those requiring
           any further specialized medical consultation were not eligible. The clinical data
           collected concerned gender, weight, height.

      CPET procedures in both centres were harmonized before the study started. Spirometry was
      systematically performed before the exercise test with a flow volume curve and measurement of
      forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), and the FEV1/FVC
      ratio (FEV1/FVC), with normalization to GLI 2012 Z scores. The same investigator coordinator
      manually calculated the VO2max and the ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT) using Beaver's
      method. VO2max and VAT values were normalized in a percentage of the predicted VO2max using
      normal values from Wasserman and Cooper. The investigators considered VO2max below 80% of
      predicted value as pathologic value and a VAT value below 55 % of predicted VO2max was in
      favor of muscular deconditioning.

      All informations from CPET were recorded : heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), estimated
      VO2/HR, VAT, breathing reserves (BR), respiratory rate (RR), VE/VCO2 slope, Tidal Volume (VT)
    
  