
    
      By 2030 it estimated that 20% of individuals in the United States (U.S.) will be 65 years of
      age or older, indicating a shift in demographics over the past century. The aging process is
      strongly associated with reduced aerobic capacity and functional performance as well as
      increases in inflammation and oxidative stress. With differences in the demographic profile,
      eating patterns have also changed for Americans within the past 30 years, with a majority of
      Americans consuming at least one snack/day; with the types of snacks consumed being processed
      foods that are high in refined carbohydrates, saturated fats, and low in fiber. Additionally,
      the aging process contributes to decreases in RMR, which can promote alterations in body
      composition. Lifestyle modifications have been shown to contribute to beneficial outcomes
      associated with aging. Therefore, healthy, nutrient-dense foods are of primary importance for
      enhancing functional performance, aerobic capacity, and physical activity as well as
      improving vascular function, body composition, and markers of inflammation/oxidative stress
      within this growing population. Tree nuts are a nutrient- and energy dense food, which may
      contribute to increases in RMR due to their high amounts of poly- and monounsaturated fatty
      acids affecting diet-induced thermogenesis. Almonds (Prunus dulcis) are an excellent source
      of α-tocopherol and a good source of monounsaturated fat, magnesium, fiber, and protein. When
      compared to other nuts almonds have the greatest amount of fiber and protein. Almond
      supplementation has been shown to attenuate age-related decline in aerobic fitness and
      physical performance measures. Few studies have assessed how almonds alone affect fitness and
      physical function. However, Yi et al. found that in young healthy, endurance trained
      individuals, consumption of almonds elevated serum arginine, nitric oxide and TAC, all of
      which contributed to improved exercise performance. Constituents of almonds including
      L-arginine and magnesium have been shown to increase anaerobic threshold and physical
      performance in healthy active older adults respectively . Studies have found that the
      incorporation of almonds in a diet can decrease oxidative stress and improve vascular
      function. Improvements in both FMD and systolic blood pressure were shown after 4 weeks of
      almond consumption in healthy old and young men. L-arginine, an amino acid vital for
      synthesis of nitric oxide, which controls vascular tone, is also found in almonds. Almonds
      are often cited as a healthy, protein-boosting snack, beneficial for sustaining muscle mass
      and metabolism, without increasing fat mass or total energy intake. Additionally, studies
      have demonstrated that body weight and body mass index (BMI) remain unchanged during almond
      supplementation interventions. Almond consumption has also been shown to decrease visceral
      fat and body fat percentage. The extent to which daily almond consumption affects functional
      performance, aerobic capacity, energy expenditure, vascular function, body composition and
      inflammation/oxidative stress in active overweight and obese older adults needs to be
      investigated.

      For this study, fifty men and postmenopausal women will follow a randomized-controlled
      crossover design. If individuals qualify for participation after the screening visit, they
      will be asked to complete a 3-day food record and wear an ActiGraph to track physical
      activity and sleeping patterns for the next seven days, to be returned at their Baseline
      Study Visit #1. During the Baseline Study Visit #1 assessments of: RMR, body composition
      (DXA), vascular assessments (FMD, PWV, PWA, blood pressure), heart rate, anthropometrics
      (height, weight, and waist/hip circumference), venous blood draw, POMS, and sleep quality
      (PSQI) will be collected. The following day, participants will return for their Baseline
      Physical Performance Visit #1 to complete assessments of submaximal aerobic capacity and the
      CS-PFP. Following this visit, participants will be provided with 12 weeks of almonds or the
      isocaloric snack. Participants will be asked to come in after 6 weeks to receive the rest of
      their dietary regimen and to monitor compliance. During week 11, participants will be asked
      to come to the study site to be given a 3-day food record and the ActiGraph to be retuned at
      the Post-Test Study Visit #1. After 12 weeks, participants will return to FSU to complete
      their Post-Test Study Visit #1, which will involve all the same assessments from the baseline
      study visit, as well as their Post-Test Physical Performance Visit #1, the next day. After
      the 4-week washout period, participants will similarly be asked to complete a 3-day food
      record and wear an ActiGraph for the following 7 days, to be returned upon the participants'
      Baseline Study Visit #2, where participants will crossover into receiving the corresponding
      dietary regimen and will follow the same procedures for the following 12 weeks. Participants
      will be compensated a total of $200 if the entire study is completed.
    
  