
    
      Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) is a major complication of solid organ transplantation. The
      main reason for AMR is pre-formed, or de-novo, donor specific antibodies against the donor
      HLA antigens. Additional potential targets are antibodies against MIC-A antigens or
      antibodies against targets expressed on the donor endothelial cells.

      Until recently, no specific means were available to test for the presence of donor-specific
      endothelial cell antibodies. The newly introduced XM-One AbSorber® assay allows isolating
      precursor endothelial cells from donor peripheral blood, and thus assessing the presence of
      donor-specific endothelial cell antibodies.

      XM-One AbSorber® is an in-vitro assay that allows for the specific enrichment of precursor
      endothelial cells which in turn promotes endothelial cells specific cross match testing.

      This assay is currently being used in an on-going Northwestern University (NU) research study
      (STU#00029988). The preliminary results of this study indicate that indeed some of the
      patients test positive against their respective donors. One potential explanation for this
      observation, that was not previously entertained, is that the antibodies causing the positive
      cross match response are actually of autoimmune nature. In order to rule-out such a potential
      explanation we would like to further test these patients by performing an autologous XM-One
      AbSorber® assay in which the recipient sera will be incubated with the patients' own cells
      (as opposed to the respective donor cells in the parental study). This information is crucial
      for proper analysis of the data obtained in the NU STU#00029988 study.

      Initial data from our laboratory indicates that the antigens identified by the XM-One
      Absorber® assay differ from the HLA antigens usually identified by routine cross match
      assays. Moreover, we were able to document that this is a polymorphic system and therefore
      identifying a donor-specific source is critical.

      Of the 150 patients already studied under NU research protocol STU#00029988 we found that 19
      patients exhibited a positive response in a donor-specific XM-One AbSorber® assay. In this
      current research protocol study we want to follow-up on the specimens that exhibited a
      positive response in a donor-specific XM-One AbSorber® assay and perform an autologous XM-One
      AbSorber® assay to validate the clinical significance of our results.

      There has been one multicenter study reported indicating the "XM-One AbSorber® is a quick,
      easy to perform on whole blood samples and identifies patients at risk for rejection and
      reduced graft function not identified by conventional lymphocyte cross matches" The primary
      objective is to complete additional testing for accuracy to determine whether antibodies
      directed at donor-specific endothelial cell effect transplant outcome.

      The secondary objective is to assess the frequency of autologous antibodies that may be
      falsely reported as donor-specific anti-endothelial antibodies in our patient population. The
      single center research study we here at Northwestern University have been working on since
      May 19, 2010 thus far has resulted in 19 out of 150 specimens tested, have positive results
      based on the XM-One AbSorber® assay.

      In this prospective study we plan to include all XM-One AbSorber® positive test results from
      all recipients of living-donor kidney transplants performed at Northwestern Memorial Hospital
      (NMH) since May 19, 2010 initial Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval until 250
      transplants are performed. For this research protocol we will be targeting patients to
      consent only these individuals who have received a XM-One AbSorber® positive test result.

      Each donor / recipient pair are required to send peripheral blood samples to the HLA
      laboratory prior to the scheduled transplant in order to perform lymphocyte cross match (to
      detect donor specific HLA antibodies; this is (SOC) standard of care). Left over serum and
      cells from these tests are being used to isolate an enriched precursor endothelial cell
      population and perform the XM-One AbSorber® assay (NU research protocol #STU00029988).

      XM-One AbSorber® assay results - both autologous and allogeneic - will be captured and
      compared with graft outcome measurements at 3, 6, and 12 months post-transplant. Transplant
      outcome will be recorded as creatinine levels at the specific time points, protocol and
      for-cause biopsy results within the first year post transplant, diagnosis of acute cellular
      or humoral rejection, variation in immunosuppression levels, and any other complications.

      Patients that exhibit a positive XM-One AbSorber® allogeneic cross match result will be
      requested to donate 4 green top tubes of peripheral blood. Cells obtained from this blood
      will be used in an autologous XM-One AbSorber® cross match assay using the original serum
      sample used for the allogeneic XM-One AbSorber® cross match assay.
    
  