
    
      The purpose of the study:

      The purpose of the study is to describe intra- individual biological variation in
      reticulocyte parameters in established blood donors. The aim is also to compare iron status
      and reticulocyte parameters in a group of established donors who are offered iron supplement,
      to a comparable group who are not offered iron supplement, at the time of donation and one
      week after donation.

      Design:

      The design is a prospective longitudinal intervention-study, with randomised subjects to iron
      supplement/ not iron supplement groups.

      Materials and methods:

      Each subject will be tested with an extended test repertoire at the time of donation, day
      one, and the same test repertoire will be repeated one week after donation, day eight. Iron
      supplement is defined as100 mg of iron-sulphate (Ferro retard), taken once a day. Subjects
      are randomised into two groups; group a: "no iron supplement", n = 100, and group b: "iron
      supplement", n = 100. These groups will be stratified according to gender and age.
      Randomising will be done without knowledge of earlier blood tests. Subjects are asked to
      participate as they arrive for blood donation, by oral and written information. Questionnaire
      for established donors are used at day one. Day eight, follow-up of iron supplements will be
      controlled.

      Dropouts and withdrawal:

      Subjects who do not receive iron supplement are at risk of developing iron deficiency.
      Criteria for transfer to treatment group will be:

        -  Females: Hb < 12.5 g/dL

        -  Males: Hb < 13.5 g/dL These subjects may continue as participants in the study, but with
           a description of transfer to treatment group including date and treatment type (iron
           supplement type and dose, dose interval, treatment time, termination of treatment).

      Ethics:

      The study is approved by the regional ethics committee. All subjects must sign informed
      consent.

      Data analysis:

      Univariate and multivariate analysis are use for iron status variables, with separate
      analysis for each gender. Baseline data are taken at day one, at donation, and follow up
      testing at day eight. Dependent variables are haemoglobin, S-ferritin, total reticulocytes
      count, haemoglobin content in reticulocytes and percent hypochromated red cells. Independent
      variables are gender, age, ironsupplement/ no iron supplement.

      Biochemical tests:

      Test methods are specified, and instruments described. Biochemical test are performed at lab
      for clinical biochemistry, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen.
    
  