
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate reconstructive lipoplasty with micro-fragmented
      autologous adipose tissue (Lipogems速) in female patients with fecal incontinence. Our
      hypothesis is that placing approximately up to 90 cc of Lipogems速 will yield an effective
      increase in surviving material (over normal fat injection) due to the refinement of the
      process and result in decreased fecal incontinence over the long term.

      Human Adipose Tissue (Fat) possesses regenerative properties in its stromal vascular fraction
      (SVF). SVF contains nests of pericytes and human MSC mesenchymal stem cells). MSCs are
      multipotent cells (also called stromal multipotent cells), that possess the ability to
      differentiate into various tissues, such as bone, tendon, articular cartilage, ligaments,
      muscle, and fat. Upon fragmentation of adipose tissue using Lipogems速, viable elements are
      preserved with pericyte identity within an intact stromal vascular niche. It is hypothesized
      that upon trauma or disruption of this adipose tissue, the regenerative cells within the
      intact perivascular niche interact via micro vesicles with the microenvironment at the
      transplant site to promote angiogenesis, neuronal sprouting and fibroblast production thereby
      stimulating increased vasculature (circulation, nerve regeneration, muscle growth and tone in
      the urethral sphincter and in the urethral muscles). If these changes are observed, long
      lasting regenerative changes occur and should be long lasting versus the shorter live effects
      of the bulking effect by undisrupted fat tissue.

      This is a pilot study of 10 subjects will be treated with local injections of Lipogems速 and
      followed for up to two years. Subjects will receive a full history and examination by a
      single colorectal surgeon. A clear history of their incontinence frequency, Wexner
      Incontinence Score, Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life Scale, surgical history, and
      childbirth history will be collected for all registered patients in order to categorize the
      study participant according to incontinence-type.

      All patients will undergo anal physiology testing and endoanal ultrasound. Pre and post
      measurements will be recorded and compared for objective evaluation. Patients will be
      evaluated subjectively with the Wexner incontinence Score and Fecal Incontinence Quality of
      Life Scale.

      Patients will have the opportunity to undergo adipose tissue harvesting and targeted local
      Injection under ultrasound guidance in muscle defects in the intersphincteric space, all
      around the remaining portions of the external anal sphincter, and along the course of the
      pudendal nerves bilaterally. This will be done in the procedure room or operating room with
      IV sedation and local anesthesia. This will all occur in the same setting on the same day.
    
  