
    
      1. Purpose

           To test the efficacy, acute side effects and long term safety of Focal Therapy in
           Prostate Cancer, as compared to conventional radical lose dose radiation prostate
           brachytherapy (LDR-PB).

        2. Hypothesis

           We hypothesize that, in an appropriately selected group of early-stage, favourable risk
           prostate cancer patients, focal LDR-PB will lead to fewer acute side effects, long term
           complications resulting is a better quality of life than radical LDR-PB.

           We also hypothesize that multi-modal, multi-parametric imaging will enable monitoring of
           the results of focal therapy with an accuracy that is high enough to eventually replace
           repeated (and invasive) mapping biopsies.

        3. Justification

           The imaging study we propose is unique in terms of its multi-modality, multi-parametric
           approach. Local disease will be monitored by a very complete set of multi-parametric MR,
           ultrasound and PET-CT imaging. Potential spread of the disease may be captured by
           abdominal and whole-body PET-CT. Comparison with biopsies will be more accurate than in
           other studies because biopsy location will be accurately provided by the trans-perineal
           three-dimensional template-guided pathological mapping biopsy (TTMB), in contrast to
           Post-radical prostatectomy (RP) studies that use axial whole mount slices which suffer
           from a significant change in prostate physical shape and unpredictable deformation due
           to fixation, making an accurate registration of pathology and imaging difficult.

           The impact of our study on the field of medical imaging will also be significant.
           Advances in the topics of deformable multi-modal registration, dosimetry, and the
           characterization of cancer as image features in MR, ultrasound and PET-CT are expected.
           These findings will be widely disseminated in papers addressing both clinical and
           technical publications.

           We are not aware of any study in which TTMB-guided focal brachytherapy has been
           implemented and tested. A center of our size, with our record in outcomes, and with a
           complete set of imaging expertise and tools to help with patient selection and
           monitoring, may make a very significant impact in how focal therapy can be implemented
           and evaluated. Therefore, we have the potential to provide valuable input on how to
           translate focal therapy into standard care for appropriately selected patients.

        4. Objectives

           The specific objectives of this study are:

             1. To develop provisional criteria for what constitutes focal disease and treatment
                plans appropriate for focal LDR-PB.

             2. To show that patients undergoing focal therapy have a better quality of life than
                those undergoing radical therapy.

             3. To correlate multi-modal, multi-parametric imaging results with the results of
                mapping biopsies with the goal of developing image-based techniques for patient
                selection and monitoring.

        5. Research Method

           Participants in the study will undergo multi-modal, multi-parametric imaging as outlined
           in the study protocol (MRI, Ultrasound imaging, and PET/CT). Participants that are
           eligible to continue in the study and receive focal therapy will undergo 3D-
           Template-Guided Trans-Perineal Pathological Mapping Biopsy (TTMB). Participants will
           also be asked to complete study surveys and have repeat pathological mapping done at 2
           year post treatment..

        6. Statistical Analysis

      In our recruiting plan, we have assumed that approximately 50% of the participants who are
      initially eligible will continue to focal therapy. The planned sample size for this pilot
      study is 10.

      Imaging hypotheses: The hypothesis that focal treatment will change the imaged treated area
      tissue properties but will leave unchanged properties of tissue in the untreated area will be
      tested using paired data on each participant.
    
  