
    
      This study is concerned with exploring the perception of pregnant African migrant women
      living in the United Kingdom (UK) towards healthy eating messages and midwives perception of
      providing healthy eating advice to these women. The prevalence of obesity among women of
      reproductive age (15-49 years) including pregnant women is increasing nationally and
      internationally. Maternal obesity has adverse consequences for both mother and child
      including higher risks of perinatal mortality, Caesarean sections, preterm birth, postpartum
      weight retention, increased risk of macrosomia, stillbirth, congenital malformation,
      childhood overweight and obesity.

      Currently postpartum weight retention is a significant contributor to the general obesity
      epidemic and obesity is a significant contributor to chronic disease burden worldwide and a
      public health concern. Presently, the United Kingdom (UK) has the highest level of maternal
      obesity in Europe with approximately 46% of women classified as either obese (20%) or
      overweight (26%) at their booking appointment. Non-Hispanic black women make up a significant
      proportion (32%) of this population. With migration rates increasing, and black Africans
      being considered the fastest growing ethnic group in the UK (73% of the UK population
      growth), the rates of obesity in the population is expected to increase. Studies have shown
      pre-pregnancy weight to be a significant predictor of weight changes in pregnancy and
      postpartum weight retention certain studies have found that more African women are overweight
      before pregnancy and experience more weight retention after pregnancy than Caucasian women.

      However, pregnancy has been indicated as a time when public health nutrition messages can be
      communicated and an "opportunity for change", with women showing an inclination to modify
      behaviour. Therefore, globally and in the UK, there has been an increased interest in
      dietary/healthy eating interventions in pregnancy (sometimes in addition to physical
      activity) to improve folic acid intake, improve fruits and vegetables intake, limit
      gestational weight gain, and prevent postpartum weight retention. With systematic reviews of
      dietary clinical trials showing that dietary interventions in pregnancy resulted in reduction
      in maternal gestational weight gain and improved pregnancy outcomes. Furthermore, current
      clinical guidelines in the UK advocate a healthy weight before pregnancy, a healthy diet and
      being physically active, returning to a healthy weight post pregnancy with healthy eating
      guidelines provided. Midwives are also recommended and ideally placed to provide healthy
      eating, weight management and physical activity support to help women eat well and manage
      their weight during pregnancy and beyond.

      Studies evaluating healthy eating adherence in pregnancy show that although a majority of
      pregnant women in the studies believed that their diet was healthy, just a fraction of them
      met the recommended dietary intake for all the food groups in pregnancy. There is very little
      known about the uptake of healthy eating messages/interventions and adherence to healthy
      eating guidelines in pregnancy amongst pregnant African migrant women living in the UK.
      Considering also that the healthy eating guideline is made to suit the cultural preferences
      of the host nation, it is imperative that dietary interventions and/or healthy eating
      messages targeted at this group are conducted. Following a review of literature, and
      discussions with practitioners, there has been no known dietary intervention in pregnancy in
      the UK particularly targeting pregnant migrant African women.

      Evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analysis suggests that culturally adapted health
      interventions are effective in ethnic minority population, including those targeted at
      smoking cessation, physical activity and healthy diet. Health is also said to be influenced
      by culture-linked behaviours. Such behaviours are transmitted from elders to children and
      continue through generations which are evident in patterns of food selection, food
      preparation and mental constructions of body shape, size, functions and disease processes.
      Cultural adaptation involves a consideration of language, culture and context in an
      intervention such that it suits cultural patterns, meanings and values of the target
      population.The need for cultural adaptation of healthy eating messages for pregnant Africans
      is further buttressed by the fact that dietary behaviours of pregnant Africans post migration
      are not completely changed from traditional dietary practices.

      Despite the need for interventions to promote healthy eating in pregnancy amongst pregnant
      African migrant women in the UK, very little is known about the perceptions of these women
      around healthy eating, factors that influence healthy eating (barriers and facilitators) and
      the perception of midwives regarding the provision of healthy eating advice to this
      population. Qualitative evidence that has considered perceptions of pregnant African women
      living in high income countries exist mainly in the United States and is centred on
      sociocultural influences regarding body size, misunderstanding about what is considered as
      healthy, cravings and palatability, and the belief that gaining weight indicate healthy
      babies.

      Also qualitative studies evaluating the experiences of midwives and other healthcare
      providers in providing healthy eating advice to pregnant women show that although healthy
      eating advice was offered in pregnancy, it was not regarded as a priority. Barriers for the
      midwives existed in terms of topic sensitivity, inadequate training and cultural differences.
      Considering that qualitative evidence is context specific and might not be generalizable, it
      is important to explore the barriers and facilitators to healthy eating amongst pregnant
      African migrant women as peculiar to the United Kingdom. It is also important to explore
      midwives perspectives concerning the provision of healthy eating advice to this population.

      This study is a formative research. Formative researches are used to determine how well an
      intervention would fit the needs and preferences of a group. It follows the social
      constructivist relativist point of view and the Medical Research Council (MRC) framework for
      the development and evaluation of complex interventions. The social constructivist
      epistemology emphasises that our reality is socially constructed based on human perception,
      experience, opinions, beliefs and the context of their lives and knowledge is dependent on
      the environment in which we live. Culture and context is emphasized with regards to
      understanding what occurs in the society and constructing knowledge around it. This study
      will attempt to understand the perception towards healthy eating by pregnant African migrant
      women based on their socially constructed reality within their culture and the context of
      living in the United Kingdom.

      The MRC framework emphasizes the need to interview potential recipients of an intervention
      and the stakeholders with the view to identify and develop appropriate theory and increase
      acceptability of the intervention. Qualitative interviewing will be used to explore the
      concept of perceived barriers and facilitators to healthy eating during pregnancy among
      pregnant African migrant women living in the UK and the perception of midwives to providing
      healthy eating advice to pregnant African migrant women. It is hoped that evidence from this
      study will be used to develop a culturally adapted healthy eating intervention framework for
      migrant African women in the UK.

      Aim To explore perceived barriers and facilitators to healthy eating amongst pregnant African
      migrant women in the UK and midwives perception of providing healthy eating advice to this
      population.

      Objectives

        -  To determine how healthy eating is interpreted and understood by pregnant African
           migrant women living in the UK

        -  To identify the factors considered significant (barriers and facilitators) to healthy
           eating in this population

        -  To identify cultural factors considered significant to the uptake of healthy eating
           messages in this population

        -  To explore the current sources of nutrition information in pregnancy for African
           migrants living in the UK.

        -  To explore midwives perspectives on providing healthy eating advice to pregnant African
           migrants.
    
  