
    
      Numerous scientific findings point to the influence of stressful childhood experiences and
      traumatic experiences on the risk of mental and physical illnesses, their severity and their
      course. Traumatic experiences also increase the risk of demonstrating psychotic symptoms or
      even develop psychotic disorders. Furthermore, the number of different stress experiences
      also increases the probability of trauma-associated symptoms (symptoms of post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) and dissociative experiences).

      Neurobiological changes in the immune system, the defense of stress and also central nervous
      circuits and structures play a key role in the vulnerability of individuals with early
      traumas for mental and physical illnesses, e.g. for diseases of the schizophrenic spectrum
      disorder and the further course of the disease.

      The recording of stressful and traumatic life experiences has been largely neglected in
      everyday clinical practice, especially in patients with a schizophrenia spectrum disorder.
      The diagnosis of PTSD is rarely given in everyday clinical practice, so that trauma-specific
      treatment is often not offered.

      The targeted use of a scientifically proven intervention to reduce the symptoms of PTSD (NET:
      Narrative Exposure Therapy) involves a change in stress-associated biomolecular parameters
      and normalizes neuronal brain activity.

      The current project pursues a systematic recording of childhood experiences and traumatic
      experiences possibly experienced as stressful as well as a detailed recording of the course
      of symptoms in inpatients with psychosis. The researchers want to investigate whether symptom
      traits of existing psychotic disorders, biomolecular parameters and cognitive functions can
      be influenced by a trauma-specific treatment (NET).

      The current project thus is divided into two work programs:

        1. The first work program includes a weekly prospective assessment of psychotic symptoms on
           a sample of n=100 inpatients and links this data with results from a cross-sectional
           review of traumatic and distressing childhood experiences and biological data (cortisol
           awakening, tonic cortisol concentration in hair and determination of mitochondrial
           respiratory activity in mononuclear cells).

        2. The second work program includes the subgroup of psychotic patients with comorbid PTSD
           (n=20) and includes a randomized controlled pilot study to determine the impact of
           trauma therapy (NET) on the course of symptoms. In addition to the symptoms of PTSD,
           psychosis-specific parameters such as cognitive functions and biological characteristics
           will be repeatedly recorded pre and post (6 months and 12 months after completing trauma
           therapy).
    
  