
    
      Scientific background

      Essential Hypertension is characterized by endothelial dysfunction with impaired
      vasorelaxation.

      Reduced nitric oxide bioavailability, which is considered a hallmark of endothelial
      dysfunction, plays an important role in mediating blood pressure elevation. Accumulating
      evidence demonstrates a critical role of nitric oxide in blood pressure regulation. Released
      from the endothelial cells, nitric oxide increases 30,50-cyclic-guanosine monophosphate
      (cGMP) production and subsequent cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) activation in the
      underneath vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), resulting in vasodilatation. The
      investigators and others have shown that inhibition of NO synthesis increase blood pressure
      in normal pregnant rats and different animal models. In vivo studies confirmed an essential
      role of nitric oxide in vasorelaxation of large human arteries. Impairment in nitric
      oxide-mediated vasodilatation in brachial, coronary, and renal arteries has been demonstrated
      in patients with essential hypertension.

      Several mechanisms have been found responsible for nitric oxide deficiency in hypertension.
      One of them is deficit of the NO substrate, L-arginine. L-arginine transport is impaired in
      hypertensive and normotensive patients with a genetic background of essential hypertension,
      and the offspring of essential hypertensive patients are characterized by a reduced response
      to acetylcholine linked to a defect in the nitric oxide pathway. These data represent the
      link between L-arginine and the onset of essential hypertension. The Km of endothelial nitric
      oxide synthase for L-arginine is about 3mmol/l, but the concentration of plasma L-arginine
      rarely falls below 60mmol/l in pathological conditions. An elevation in asymmetric
      dimethylarginine (ADMA, an endogenous NO competitive inhibitor) levels may explain this
      'L-arginine paradox'. The administration of excess exogenous L-arginine displaces the
      competitive inhibitor, improves intracellular transport of this amino acid, and restores NO
      production to physiological levels. In fact L-arginine supplementation improved endothelial
      dysfunction in hypertension.

      Administration of L arginine in humans have not shown uniform blood pressure responses. A
      meta-analysis published in 2011 was able to find only 11 articles dealing with l-arginine
      administration and blood pressure. The population studies were heterogeneous. Compared with
      placebo, oral L-arginine intervention was associated with an average net change ranging from
      -23.0 to 2.8 mm Hg for SBP and from -11.0 to 1.0 mm Hg for diastolic BP. Most trials showed
      an intervention-related trend toward BP reductions, but only a few reached statistical
      significance.

      Endothelial dysfunction leads to an increase in arterial stiffness, a known marker that
      increases cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Arterial stiffness can be measured by non
      invasive methodology, e.g.; measuring carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity, augmentation
      index, aortic pulse pressure and aortic systolic blood pressure.

      Whether administration of l-arginine improved arterial stiffness in patients with mild
      hypertension it is not known.

      Arginoline is a dietary supplement that contains L-arginine at a concentration of 5 g/L. It
      is possible to dilute with water or take chilled. It is produced by Pharmayeda, an Israeli
      industry.

      Clinical observational studies [personal communication] have shown that at a dose of 60
      ml\day [10 gr of l-arginine] flow mediated vasodilation improves, suggesting an increase in
      nitric oxide function.

      Methods

      Office Blood Pressure (OBP) measurement:

      OBP will be measured with a Suntech 247 digital automated device. BP will be determined 3
      times at one min. interval each. The mean of the second and third measurements will be noted
      as the OBP of the visit.

      ABPM:

      24 hours ABPM will be performed with an Oscar 2 ABPM device of SunTech Medical. The Oscar 2
      ABPM device is clinically validated to all 3 internationally recognized protocols (British
      Heart Society, American Society of Hypertension and the Association for the Advancement of
      Medical Instrumentation).

      Blood pressure is measured in a 20 min. interval at day time and a 30 min. interval at night
      time. The patients are requested to fill a diary with their activities during the ABPM study,
      including their subjective evaluation of the sleeping quality.

      Measurement of arterial stiffness:

      The SphygmoCor X-CEL System (AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia) will be used.

      The system derives (non invasively) the ascending aortic pressure waveform from the brachial
      waveform using a validated generalised transfer function.

      The SphygmoCor X-CEL system measures the carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV), the speed
      of the arterial pressure waveform as it travels through the descending aorta to the femoral
      artery, which is detected from simultaneously measured carotid and femoral arterial pulses.

      Design

      The study is a matched double blind study with an experimental group and a placebo group. As
      the number of the groups is small (20 in each group) the patients will be matched according
      to age, sex and BMI during the recruitment phase, in order to get to comparable groups. The
      principal investigator is responsible of the matching.

      The experimental group will receive arginoline 30 ml twice a day and the placebo group will
      receive placebo at the same schedule

      Visits:

      Week -2:

      Sign of informed consent

      Office BP. Physical examination. BMI.

      Blood exams: Hemoglobin (g%), urea (mg%), creatinine (mg%), Natrium (mEq/l), Potassium
      (mEq/l), alanine transaminase (ALT),Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl
      transpeptidase (GGT), glucose, cholesterol and triglycerides. and lipid profile.

      Urine analysis: microalbuminuria (morning spot)

      All patients will receive a booklet with detailed information about healthy life style
      recommendation to lower blood pressure.

      Hypertensive patients on monotherapy will stop treatment.

      Week 0

      ABPM

      Measurement of Central aortic blood pressure and arterial stiffness

      Blind group allocation (experimental or placebo group).

      Week 2

      Office BP measurement.

      Week 4

      Office BP measurement

      Week 6

      Office BP measurement

      Week 8: ABPM, office BP,

      Repeat blood and urine exams as detailed at week -2.

      Measurement of Central aortic blood pressure and Arterial stiffness

      Statistical evaluation

      Will be done using the IBM SPSS statistical software. Pi<0.05 is considered significative
    
  