
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obesity is reaching epidemic proportions in the U.S. with over 50 percent of the adult
      population either overweight or obese. Obesity has been studied extensively as a risk factor
      for coronary heart disease and stroke, but has received less attention as a risk factor for
      congestive heart failure (CHF). Another area of limited investigation is the study of risk
      factors for multi morbidity, i.e. the occurrence of several morbid events at the same time,
      which is very common in older adults. Other areas of investigation in this study are possible
      associations between each of heart rate and dietary patterns with the development of
      diabetes. The Chicago Heart Association Detection Project and the Western Electric studies,
      both supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, are resources to study the
      above associations. Multiple measures of obesity are available at several different time
      points and follow-up data are available for 30-40 years which should increase the power of
      the study.

      Data to be used for this project include baseline data collected in 1967-73 from 39,522
      subjects from the Chicago Heart Association Study (CHA) and baseline and annual follow-up
      data from the Western Electric Study collected from 1957-1966 consisting of 2107 men, age
      40-55 years in the Chicago area. Mortality follow-up for those 2 cohorts is accomplished via
      the National Death Index. Morbidity follow-up is accomplished by record linkage with Medicare
      files and to some extent by followup questionnaires for disease outcomes although the
      follow-up rate for the latter approach is only about 60 percent.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study uses extensive existing data from the Chicago Heart Association (CHA) [20,854 men
      and 16,049 women aged 18-64 at baseline (1967-73)] and Western Electric (WE) [2,107 men aged
      40- 55 at baseline (1957-58)] that include four comprehensive sources of outcomes: 1)
      mortality data from long-term follow-up; 2) morbidity and other data from Medicare claims for
      19 years from 1984 to 2000; 3) multiple health questionnaires (CHA); and 4) repeated measures
      of adiposity from 8 annual re-examinations after baseline (WE). The study addresses the
      following specific aims: 1) to investigate in-depth the longitudinal associations of
      adiposity as assessed by several indices (body mass index, weight gain, subscapular and
      triceps skinfolds, and derived percent body fat) during young adulthood and middle age with
      mortality and morbidity from congestive heart failure later in life; 2) to delineate the
      relationships of adiposity assessed earlier in life with older-age multimorbidity, the
      coexistence of multiple pathological conditions of varying severity -- a very common but
      under-studied phenomenon among older adults; 3) to examine in-depth the associations of heart
      rate and changes in heart rate with incident diabetes, stratified by obesity status at
      baseline. As an exploratory aim, the study will assess whether a) higher fruit and vegetable
      and lower sugar intake; and b) higher dairy and calcium intake are associated with lower
      adiposity, smaller weight gain, and lower incidence of diabetes.
    
  