
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of methylphenidate hydrochloride and modafinil to placebo in
           pediatric patients with excessive daytime sleepiness following cancer therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the efficacy of half dose methylphenidate hydrochloride and modafinil to placebo
           in these patients.

        -  Assess the effects of these regimens on daytime sleepiness as measured by the Pediatric
           Daytime Sleepiness Scale or the Cleveland Adolescent Sleepiness Questionnaire.

        -  Assess the effects of somnolence symptoms on fatigue as measured by the PedsQL
           Multidimensional Fatigue Scale.

        -  Assess the effects of somnolence symptoms on the quality of life as measured by the
           PedsQL Quality of Life Inventory 4.0.

        -  Determine the incidence of side effects associated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the prevalence of sleep complaints as measured by the Pediatric Sleep
           Questionnaire. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (8-10 years vs
      11-12 years vs 13-17 years vs 18-25 years). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release once daily
           for 7-42 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral modafinil once daily for 7-42 days in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 7-42 days in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients or their parents complete age-specific sleep and quality-of-life questionnaires at
      baseline and after completion of treatment. Patients or their parents complete daily sleep
      diaries during the study to collect information about the date, type of day (school, weekend,
      or vacation), hours of sleep, anytime the actigraph was removed during the day, time the
      child went to bed, and time the child got out of bed in the morning. Patients are also
      instructed to wear an actigraph on their non-dominant wrist for 1 week before starting
      treatment and during the first and last week of treatment (3 weeks total) to assess
      sleep-wake patterns.
    
  