
    
      Mighty Men is a 6-month faith-based weight-loss intervention for obese African American men
      35-74 years old. The investigators will conduct this intervention in African American
      faith-based organizations because these organizations have the opportunity to consistently
      reach more African American men than any other institution in the African American community.
      African American faith-based organizations have historically served as a trusted institution
      for filling gaps in health and social services, including cancer prevention and control
      programs, within their natural role and function in the African American community.
      Additionally, African American faith-based organizations are important resources and sources
      of information for large numbers of middle-aged and older African American men, including
      those who are not members of a faith-based organization. Though African American men attend
      faith-based organization's at lower rates than African American women, men constitute 40% of
      the congregation membership among the largest denominations serving African Americans.

      Mighty Men includes: (a) tailored goals/ messages, (b) self-monitoring, (c) small group
      training and education and (d) educational and community-based information and resources.
      There are three specific aims for the proposed study:

      Specific Aim 1 is to compare the efficacy of Mighty Men to an attention control group in a
      cluster-randomized clinical trial of 448 African American men. The investigators hypothesize
      that men in faith-based organizations assigned to the intervention group will have lost more
      weight than men in faith-based organizations assigned to the comparison group at 6-months,
      and they will maintain greater weight loss than men in the control group 3-months post
      intervention.

      Specific Aim 2 is to compare changes in cancer risk behaviors (e.g., healthy eating and
      physical activity), adiposity measures (e.g., body fat), and psychosocial mediators (e.g.,
      perceived social support, autonomous motivation) at 6-months and 3-months post intervention
      between Mighty Men and comparison participants. The investigators hypothesize that men
      assigned to Mighty Men will demonstrate and maintain greater improvements in eating and
      physical activity and psychosocial mediators than those randomized to the attention control
      group.

      Specific Aim 3 is to examine the impact of Mighty Men on the faith-based organizations that
      participate in the intervention. The investigators will conduct a rigorous process and impact
      evaluation to determine the extent of program reach, efficacy, adoption, implementation and
      maintenance (RE-AIM) in African American faith-based organizations in the intervention
      condition. Also, investigators hypothesize that faith-based organizations assigned to the
      intervention will demonstrate greater perceived efficacy to conduct and sustain health
      ministries for African American men and improvements in all areas of the RE-AIM framework
      than faith-based organizations randomized to the comparison group.
    
  