
    
      Aim of the study:

      To assess the efficacy of subcutaneous swabbing of cesarean section wounds with povidone
      iodine to prevent postoperative wound infection.

      Study Design: Randomized controlled trial.

      Subjects: Women having a cesarean delivery.

      The women will have a full description of the study and Subjects will be randomized by
      selecting a sequentially numbered sealed envelope to one of each group which will be opened
      during closure of rectus sheath.

      Method :

        -  Patient will receive single dose of prophylactic antibiotic (2-grams first generation
           cephalosporin) intravenous at time of cesarean delivery during induction of anesthesia.
           -The same type of suturing material; vicryl No1 will be used for rectus Sheath repair in
           both groups.

        -  The same type of suturing material will be used to suture the subcutaneous tissue and
           the skin (vicryl NO 2/0).

      Follow up : Women in both groups will be followed up during hospital stay and outpatient
      clinic visits a week and a month after cesarean delivery for surgical site complications
      which will be evaluated by the researcher.

      Outcome :The study outcome is to detect and record the incidence of surgical wound infection
      in both groups.It is a composite outcome with presence of any of the following is considered
      infection:

        -  Induration

        -  Swelling of the wound edges

        -  Discharge of pus or wound dehiscence.

        -  Purulent drainage with or without laboratory confirmation, from the superficial incision

        -  Pain or tenderness with redness, or heat

        -  Superficial incision being deliberately opened by surgeon.

      Sample size estimation:

      It was calculated that 269 patients are required in each arm to detect a 5% reduction (from
      7% to 2%) in cesarean section wound infection rates between study and control groups.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data will be tabulated using Statistical Package for Social Scientists (SPSS) program and
      statistical analysis will be carried out with suitable statistical tests. Continuous
      variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation, and will be compared using
      Student-t-test. Dichotomous variables will be compared using Chi square and the cut off point
      for P-value will be less than 0.05.
    
  