
    
      Hepatitis C virus is a common cause of chronic liver disease worldwide and represent public
      health problem. The Egyptian Demographic Health Survey (EDHS), a cross sectional survey
      including hepatitis C virus (HCV) biomarkers, was conducted in 2008 on a large nationally
      representative sample. It estimated HCV prevalence among the 15-59 years age group to be
      14.7% . Accordingly, Egypt has the highest HCV prevalence in the world.

      Although HCV is a hepatotropic virus, in some patients the primary manifestations of
      infection occur outside the liver. There is a growing body of evidence to support the idea
      that HCV can replicate efficiently in extrahepatic tissues including the Peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC). Autoimmune manifestations are common in patients chronically
      infected by HCV . These manifestations can be dominant, whereas the hepatic disease can be
      quiescent or mild. More recently, there has been growing interest in the relationship between
      HCV and Sjogren's syndrome (SS), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and systemic lupus erythematosus
      (SLE).

      Of those , this article is interested in cutaneous and mucous membrane manifestations where
      many reports have shown that cutaneous manifestations are often the first signs of chronic
      HCV infection and these are indicated in 20-40% of the patients presenting to the dermatology
      clinics, therefore dermatologists must be aware of skin disorders associated with viral
      infection. The most commonly encountered dermatological manifestations of HCV infection
      includes mixed cryoglobulinemia (MC), porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), cutaneous and/or oral
      lichen planus (LP), urticaria, pruritus, thrombocytopenic purpura and cutaneous vasculitis.
      Although majority of skin manifestations of chronic HCV infection represent the clinical
      impression of autoimmune phenomena, however, precise pathogenesis of these extra-hepatic
      complications is not well understood.

      The aim of the study is to assess efficacy of Ribavirin in the management of mucocutaneous
      extrahepatic manifestations of HCV infection

      This study will be conducted on 30 patients with mucocutaneous complaints and documented HCV
      infection. The study will be done at Tropical medicine department , Tanta university. It will
      be conducted between June2014 and November 2014.
    
  