
    
      The virus-specific T cells (VSTs) given to the patient will be thawed and injected into their
      intravenous line. To prevent an allergic reaction if the patient had a prior reaction to
      blood products like blood transfusions or platelets, prior to receiving the VSTs he/she may
      be given diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and acetaminophen (Tylenol). The patient will remain in
      the clinic for at least one hour after the infusion.

      All participants on this study will be infused with the same number (dose) of cells. If the
      patient has persistent infection after the first dose, the investigators would discuss this
      with the patient and allow them to receive up to four more treatments if there were no
      complications with prior infusions. These additional treatments might be with cells from the
      same donor, or if the investigators feel that there is another donor whose cells might be
      better for the patient, the investigators would use cells from a different donor. This second
      product will be administered at the same dose level 14 days after the patient's initial
      infusion, and any additional infusions should be at least 14 days apart. After each VST
      infusion, the patient will be monitored as described above.

      After the patient receives the cells the patient's transplant doctor will monitor the levels
      of the virus the subject is infected with in their blood.

      The patient will continue to be followed by their doctor(s) after the injection. They will be
      seen in the clinic by research staff for follow up every week for 6 weeks. To learn more
      about the way the VSTs are working in the patient's body, up to an extra 30-40 ml (6-8
      teaspoons) of blood may be taken before the infusion and then at 2, 4, and 6 weeks. Blood
      should come from the central intravenous line, and should not require extra needle sticks.

      Any leftover samples of blood may be used to help future research. The specimens may be kept
      for a long time. These specimens and information about the patient's circumstances may be
      shared with other cancer researchers. Although there will be a record identifying under what
      circumstances these specimens were obtained, under all circumstances the patient's identity
      will be kept confidential.

      Study Duration : The patient will be on the study for approximately 42 days after the
      patient's infusion. If the patient receives additional doses of the T cells as described
      above, the patient will be followed for 42 days after their last dose of T-cells.
    
  