
    
      The original study goal was to recruit 210 subjects based on the assumption of a fall risk of
      70% in the Bicycle group and 40% in either Exergaming or Functional Training groups, with 80%
      power and alpha=0.05.

      GROUPS:

      G1-Functional Training

      The intensity was increased by progressive resistance with dumbbells, ankle weights, elastic
      bands and manual resistance.

        1. Gait with obstacles: To perform this exercise hula hoops, rubber cones, plastic sticks,
           wood steps and mattresses were used.

        2. Up and down stairs and ramp: The participant went up and down 3 steps and 1 ramp until
           completing 3 minutes.

        3. Sitting and standing exercises: To increase the difficulty level were used manual
           resistance, dumbbell and unstable bases (swiss ball).

        4. Side gear and shin guards: The participant performed side gait according to the physical
           therapist's commands.

        5. Balance exercise: The participant performed balance exercises in proprioceptive
           platforms: balance discs, jumping beds proprioceptive tables.

        6. Activities with ball: Kicking balls of different sizes and weights, alternating each
           foot.

        7. Step exercises: Going up and down steps with the right or left foot according to
           cognitive commands of the physical therapist.

        8. Foot tip exercises: The participant performed the exercise on flat and sloped surface
           with one or two feet maintaining sural triceps contraction for 5 seconds.

        9. Graded reaching exercises: The exercise was performed standing and sitting. Dual task
           activities were performed.

       10. Gait training: The participant walked around the gym following verbal commands to stop
           and change direction. Gait reeducation consisted of working scapular and pelvic girdle
           dissociation.

      G2-Bicycle

      Aerobic training on a stationary bicycle: The training intensity was 50% of maximum heart
      rate (adjusted for age - Karvonen formula) in the first week, increasing gradually to 75% in
      the eighth week.

      First week: 50% of maximum heart rate. Second and Third weeks: 55% of maximum heart rate.
      Fourth and Fifth weeks: 65% of maximum heart rate. Sixth and Seventh weeks: 70% of maximum
      heart rate. Eighth week: 75% of maximum heart rate. The intensity was increased progressively
      by bike endurance (resistance) and speed.

      G3-Exergaming

      Physical components involved in Exergames (Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy): strength and
      muscular endurance, cardiorespiratory fitness, postural balance, executive function and
      emotional demands.

      The participants did not use weights to perform the exercises in the Exergame Group. A
      physical therapist guided the participants to explore the correct posture and the articular
      range of motion using both tactile and assistive stimulus and/or verbal command during the
      games. Each mini-game lasts about 3-minutes, and to complete 30-minutes training, the same
      one or two mini-games were repeated in different levels of intensity and speed in each
      session. Mini-games of Kinect Advenctures! game:

        -  River Rush: One or two players must control the raft using their body, moving from side
           to side, and jumping in front of the Kinect sensor. Players must work as a team to earn
           as many points as possible.

        -  Reflex Ridge: One or two players can move freely on platforms (rollercoaster-like
           tracks), allowing them to dodge left and right, duck and jump over hazards as they
           spring forward. Jumping in place makes the platform move faster along its rail.

        -  20,000 Leaks: The characters are positioned in a rectangular glass tank underwater, and
           each of the tank's four walls can crack and begin to leak water at any time. One or two
           players stand in front of the Kinect sensor and use their arms and legs - or any other
           body parts - to stop leaking water.
    
  