
    
      SAMPLING PLAN

      Existing data registration before the creation of data:

      As of the date of submission of this research plan for preregistration, the data have not yet
      been collected, created, or realized.

      Data collection procedures. Individuals with a borderline personality disorder will be
      recruited from community mental health centers. All participants will be naive to the purpose
      of the study, give informed consent in accordance with institutional guidelines and the
      Declaration of Helsinki.

      Sample size Maximum of 50 individuals with a borderline personality disorder. Given that
      psychometric properties of intention attribution measures by the VLIS in borderline
      personality disorder aren't known and the impact of social exclusion lead by a virtual
      ball-tossing game in intention's attribution aren't know either, it is impossible to operate
      a calculation of the number of necessary subjects.

      However, a previous study has shown that is was possible to prove a significant diminution of
      theory of mind measure in a group of 17 subjects with a borderline personality disorder,
      after being socially excluded by the cyberball.

      Because the measures used in this study are different from ours, the investigators offer to
      proceed with an intermediate analysis of power after including 10 subjects in each condition
      (social exclusion and inclusion).

      This power analysis aims to calculate the number of subjects the investigators should recruit
      for the difference underlined by our two intermediate samples to become significant.

      If this number exceeds 25 subjects in each group, the research will be stopped.

      DESIGN PLAN

      First, the investigators will collect socio-demographic data then the participants will have
      various evaluations and tests like the MADRS depression scale, the WAIS-IV with matrix
      reasoning, vocabulary and letter-number sequencing, an executive functions test (Test des
      commissions).

      Before playing the cyberball game the participants will perform the first sequence of
      intentional cartoon task, a computer task in which the subject had to choose a logical end at
      a 3 boxes comic strip, involving or not a human intention.

      Then they will play the cyberball game, a virtual ball-tossing game in which they are lead to
      think they are playing online with two other people while it is actually a randomized pre
      register condition.

      Following the VLIS, a theory of mind test in which the subject as to infer intentionality
      likehood for characters in various movies extracts.

      Then the second sequence of intentional cartoon task.

      They will finish with the the height items reflexive questionnaire and the VSISR (Versailles
      Sensitivity for Social Rejection, measuring social rejection sensitivity).

      ANALYSIS PLAN

      Comparison between groups :

      The groups' socio-demographic (age, sex, education), cognitive ( current IQ, and executive
      performance with planning and working memory) and mood (depression) characteristics will be
      compared using the Student t test or Χ² tests when appropriate. Only variables that
      significantly differ between the two groups will be included as covariates in the following
      analyses.

      The first analysis of covariance with repeated measures will be run with VLIS score as the
      dependent variable, the condition (social exclusion or inclusion) as the independent factor,
      and depression scale, and cognitive performances (matrix reasoning, vocabulary, letter-number
      sequencing, and executive functions test) as covariates.

      A second analysis of covariance with repeated measures will be run with intentional cartoon
      task score as the dependent variable, the condition (social exclusion or inclusion) as the
      independent between-subject factor, the time of measurement (before or after the cyberball)
      and the cartoon condition (intentional or non intentional) as the independent within-subject
      factors, and depression scale and cognitive performances (matrix reasoning, vocabulary,
      letter-number sequencing and executive functions test) as covariates.

      The third analysis of covariance with repeated measures will be run with questionnaire of
      reflexive functions score as the dependent variable, the condition (social exclusion or
      inclusion) as the independent factor and depression scale, and cognitive performances (matrix
      reasoning, vocabulary, letter-number sequencing, and executive functions test) as covariables

      Correlation analyses

      Spearman's correlation will be computed between:

        -  change in intentional cartoon task score after social exclusion and VSISR

        -  intentional cartoon task score and questionnaire of reflexive functions score

        -  VLIS score and questionnaire of reflexive functions score

      Missing data management :

      The investigators predict an anecdotal quantity of missing data (<5%) in our study. If need
      be the investigators will exclude them.
    
  