
    
      Busulfan Test Dose:

      Participant will receive a test dose of busulfan by vein over about 60 minutes. This
      low-level test dose of busulfan is to check how the level of busulfan in participant's blood
      changes over time. This information will be used to decide the next dose needed to reach the
      target blood level that matches participant's body size. Participant will most likely receive
      this as an outpatient during the week before they are admitted to the hospital. If it cannot
      be given to participant as an outpatient, they will be admitted to the hospital on Day -11
      (11 days before participant's stem cells are returned to their body) and the test dose will
      be given on Day -10.

      About 11 samples of blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK)
      testing of busulfan. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different
      time points and will help the study doctor decide what participant's dose of busulfan in this
      study should be. These blood samples will be drawn at various timepoints before participant
      receives busulfan and over about the next 11 hours. The blood samples will be repeated again
      on the first day of high-dose busulfan treatment (Day -8). A temporary heparin lock line will
      be placed in participant's vein to lower the number of needle sticks needed for these draws.
      If it is not possible for the PK tests to be performed for technical or scheduling reasons,
      participant will receive the standard fixed dose of busulfan.

      If participant receives the busulfan test dose as an outpatient:

      On Days -12, -11, and -10, participant will receive palifermin by vein over about 30 seconds
      each day to help decrease the risk of side effects in the mouth and throat.

      Participant will be admitted to the hospital on Day -9.

      If participant receives the busulfan test dose as an inpatient:

      On Days -14, -13, and -12, participant will receive palifermin by vein over about 30 seconds
      each day to help decrease the risk of side effects in the mouth and throat.

      Participant will be admitted to the hospital on Day -11.

      Study Drug Administration (for all participants):

      With stem cell transplants, the days before participant receives their stem cells are called
      minus days. The day participant receives the stem cells is called Day 0. The days after
      participant receives their stem cells are called plus days.

      Beginning on Day -9, participant will swish the liquids caphosol and glutamine in their mouth
      4 times a day, for about 2 minutes each time. Participant will swish these liquids every day
      until they leave the hospital. These drugs are used to help decrease the risk of side effects
      in the mouth and throat.

      On Day -9 through Day -2, participant will receive dexamethasone 2 times a day by vein over
      about 10 minutes.

      On Day -8 through Day -2, participant will take vorinostat by mouth, with food.

      On Day -8, participant will receive gemcitabine by vein over about 4 hours.

      On Days -8, -7, -6, and -5, participant will receive busulfan by vein over about 3 hours.

      On Days -7 and -6, participant will receive carfilzomib by vein over about 2-10 minutes.

      On Day -3, participant will receive gemcitabine by vein over about 4 hours and melphalan by
      vein over 30 minutes.

      On Day -2, participant will receive carfilzomib by vein over about 2-10 minutes and melphalan
      by vein over about 30 minutes.

      On Day -1, participant will receive carfilzomib by vein over about 2-10 minutes.

      On Day 0, participant will receive their stem cells by vein over about 30-60 minutes.

      Participant will receive 3 more doses of palifermin by vein over about 15-30 seconds on Days
      0, +1 and +2.

      As part of standard care, participant will receive G-CSF (filgrastim) as an injection just
      under their skin 1 time a day starting on Day +5 until their blood cell levels return to
      normal.

      Study Tests:

      About 1 month, 100 days, 6 months, 1 year, and then about every 3-6 months for at least 2
      years after the transplant:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to learn how the transplant
           has taken, and to check the status of the disease.

      About 100 days after the transplant, participant will have a bone marrow biopsy and
      aspiration to check the status of the disease. To collect a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate,
      an area of the hip or other site is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone and
      bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. This will be repeated once a year or
      earlier, if participant's doctor thinks it is needed.

      Once a year, participant will have x-rays of all the bones in their body to check the status
      of the disease.

      The study staff will also stay in contact with participant's local doctor to find out if the
      disease comes back and to check how they are doing.

      Length of Treatment:

      As part of standard care, participant will remain in the hospital for about 3-4 weeks after
      the transplant. After participant is released from the hospital, they will continue as an
      outpatient in the Houston area to be monitored for infections and transplant-related
      complications.

      Participant will be taken off study about 2 years after the transplant. Participant may be
      taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if
      they are unable to follow study directions.

      If for any reason participant wants to leave the study early, they must talk to the study
      doctor. It may be life-threatening to leave the study after participant has started to
      receive the study drugs but before they receive the stem cell transplant because their blood
      cell counts will be dangerously low.

      This is an investigational study. Carfilzomib and melphalan are FDA approved for the
      treatment of MM. Vorinostat is FDA approved for the treatment of cutaneous lymphoma. Busulfan
      is FDA approved for the treatment of leukemia. Gemcitabine is FDA approved for the treatment
      of lymphoma, breast cancer, and lung cancer. The use of these study drugs in combination is
      investigational. The study doctor can explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 75 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  