
    
      The standard treatment for endometrial cancer is total hysterectomy and bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy, peritoneal cytology, and lymph node dissection. However, young
      patients who desire to preserve their potential for fertility may find this standard
      treatment difficult to accept. Therefore, the conservative treatment for these patients has
      remained a challenge. A number of studies have reported the effectiveness of hormonal therapy
      using systemic progestin in women clinically diagnosed with early endometrial adenocarcinoma
      at stage IA, grade 1, who want to maintain reproductive potential. However, there have been
      few prospective studies about hormonal therapy in young women with stage I endometrial
      adenocarcinoma with grade 2 differentiation or superficial myometrial invasion as a
      fertility-sparing management.

      [Primary endpoint]: To evaluate the complete response rate [Sencondary endpoint]: To evaluate
      of disease-free survival rate, fertility outcomes and side effects of high-dose oral
      progestin.

      To analyze predictive and prognostic biomarkers and clinicopathologic factors about response
      and recurrence after therapy, To analyze patient-reported outcomes.

      [TREATMENT METHODS] Patients with histologically confirmed grade 1 endometrioid
      adenocarcinoma with superficial myometrial invasion or patients with histologically confirmed
      grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma that is presumably confined to the endometrium or
      patients with histologically confirmed grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with superficial
      myometrial invasion are administered medroxyprogesterone Acetate(MPA) at a dosage of 500
      mg/day for 12 months.

      Follow-up and treatment response assessment were implemented at a 3-month interval with MRI
      and dilatation and curettage (D&C) procedure. The biopsy findings are compared.

      [INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT] General Name/Brand name:Farlutal tab. 500mg/ Pfizer
    
  