
    
      -Study Purpose: The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of IGFI normalization with
      Sandostatin LAR® therapy on metabolic abnormalities, cardiovascular risk profile and body
      composition in patients with active acromegaly.

      -Study Design: This is an open label,single center, prospective study. Patients with active
      acromegaly who have not received prior somatostatin analog therapy will receive sandostatin
      LAR® for 9 months. Assessments will include laboratory testing, intravenous glucose tolerance
      tests, signs and symptoms questions, cardiac echocardiography (ECHO) and Dual-emission X-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA) body composition before and at the end of the 9 months of therapy.

      The primary endpoints of the analysis are change in insulin sensitivity, change in
      cardiovascular risk marker, change in biochemical markers of the Growth Hormone (GH)/IGF1
      axis, change in ECHO determined cardiac parameters and change in body composition such as
      increase in total body fat or decrease in lean body mass.

        -  Study Subjects A total of 20 subjects total at this site will be enrolled. Subjects will
           be recruited based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria from the protocol out of the
           patients who are seen at our Neuroendocrine unit for evaluation of acromegaly.

        -  Recruitment Method Subjects will be recruited from those presenting to the
           Neuroendocrine Unit for evaluation of acromegaly. Subjects will be recruited by the PI
           after they have been approached by their physician and expressed an interest in study
           participation.

        -  Study Procedures Subjects will come to the Neuroendocrine Unit for visits monthly during
           the study period and administration of study drug. Patients will have their doses
           titrated based on IGF1 level as per the study protocol. Patients will undergo laboratory
           testing, physical examinations, ECHO, DEXA and other noninvasive questionnaires and
           monitoring as specified by the protocol over the course of the study.

        -  Issues Small risks include possible pain and bruising at the site of the needle
           insertion for blood drawing. Sandostatin LAR® is associated with gastrointestinal side
           effects such as bloating and diarrhea which usually subside. About 15% of patients
           treated with this medication develop gallstones. These usually remain asymptomatic.
           Pituitary tumors may also change in size during these medical therapies.
    
  