
    
      Although there is clearly a wide variation in breast size and parenchymal pattern, the
      breasts are generally symmetric structures with similar density and architecture. However,
      asymmetric breast tissue is encountered relatively frequently.

      Asymmetric breast tissue is usually benign and secondary to variations in normal breast
      tissue, postoperative change from a previous biopsy, hormone replacement therapy , or merely
      poor positioning. However, an asymmetric area may indicate a developing mass or an underlying
      cancer.

      The American College of Radiology (ACR), Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS)
      defined four different types of asymmetric breast findings:

        1. Asymmetric Breast tissue: refers to a greater volume or density of breast tissue in one
           breast than in the corresponding area in the contra lateral breast.

        2. Densities seen in one projection: reflect a density seen in only one mammographic
           projection.

        3. Architectural distortion: refers to a focal area of breast tissue that appears distorted
           with no definable central mass. Speculations radiate from a common point, and there is
           an area of focal retraction and tethering of normal parenchyma.

        4. Focal asymmetric densities: refer to focal asymmetric densities that are seen on two
           mammographic views but cannot be accurately identified as a true mass.

      These lesions are frequently encountered at screening and diagnostic mammography and are
      significant because they may indicate a neoplasm, especially if an associated palpable mass
      is present. Once these lesions are detected at standard mammography, supplementary breast
      imaging with additional mammographic views and ultrasonography (US) can be a key aspect of
      work-up.

      However, these techniques may be insufficient to make a final BI-RADS assessment and may have
      limited sensitivity and specificity for the detection and diagnosis of breast lesions,
      yielding equivocal results. Certainty of the presence or absence of a true lesion can be
      difficult, and the findings remain inconclusive. Moreover, Architectural distortion should
      always be regarded with suspicion but differentiation from summation artifact is problematic.
      Developing asymmetric densities need to be evaluated unless they can be explained in terms of
      benign causes.

      In these situations, MRI can be performed as an additional problem- solving procedure.
      Positive MRI examination will prompt biopsy and allow for the timely detection of
      malignancies that may otherwise would gone undiagnosed, while a negative MRI will allow
      increased confidence that the equivocal finding was likely caused by summation artifact or
      benign tissue , so follow-up surveillance mammography without biopsy will be undergone.

      Although conventional breast MRI has a high sensitivity (89-100%) in the characterization of
      breast lesions . However, an overlap between benign and malignant findings still persists,
      resulting in a variable specificity (50-90%).

      The DWI derives images from the difference of water molecules motion (Brownian motion) in
      tissues, resulting in quantitative and qualitative data reflecting changes at the cellular
      level and, consequently, unique information on the tumor cellularity and cell membranes
      integrity. This would allow the increase in breast MRI specificity and reduction of
      false-positive results and unnecessary biopsies.

      Cell density might play an important role in the different ADCs obtained from benign and
      malignant breast lesions and the measurement of extracellular water content may be an
      additional feature that can improve MRI specificity.

      The main objectives in using diffusion sequences are to optimize characterization of lesions
      differentiating benign from malignant tumors; and to improve detection of small lesions,
      which requires an optimal signal-to-noise ratio. several authors have shown that this
      technique is relevant for smaller masses (5 mm) and even for non-mass like enhancements.
    
  