
    
      The investigators propose to study the genetic changes in patients with familial glioma as
      the first step in identifying the gene(s) that cause these tumors. With informed consent,
      DNAs from tumor and non-tumor tissue, histologic sections, pedigrees and detailed clinical
      information will be acquired for patients with familial gliomas. A genomic screening
      methodology named 2D genomic scanning will be used. Differences detected between the tumor
      and normal tissues (blood, fibroblasts) will identify events occurring in the tumoral
      process. A comparison of the events in familial and sporadic gliomas will outline some of the
      pathways suspected to be involved both in tumor initiation and progression. Briefly, DNA
      fragments are amplified with the polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) from tumor and normal tissue
      using primers designed to identify 100 to 1000 random sites within the genome. The PCR
      primers will hybridize throughout the genome and generate a manageable number of short PCR
      products that are detected by gel electrophoresis and autoradiography. The PCR for both tumor
      and constitutional tissues are amplified through 20 to 25 cycles to ensure adequate signal
      but to avoid entering a non-exponential phase of the PCR amplification. The products are
      radiolabelled and then run on a standard sequencing gel. The single lane containing labelled
      PCR products is cut out and then overlaid onto a denaturing grading gel with a 10 to 75%
      grading of denaturant. The labelled DNA is then separated in the second dimension and the DNA
      is detected by Southern Transfer to nylon membrane or by gel-drying and direct exposure film.
      A direct comparison of PCR signals from the tumor and constitutional tissue identifies the
      loss or gain of signal which reflects the same phenomena within the genome. The isolation and
      characterization of fragment consistently altered in gliomas will provide the first step in
      the search for genes responsible in the initiation and progression of gliomas. Because of the
      collaboration among investigators of different centres in Canada, the current investigators
      have a unique opportunity to perform the study on the largest collection of familial gliomas
      in the world. They expect several genomic abnormalities in each tumor. Some of these may be
      seen in several patients. Data will be analyzed primarily using descriptive statistics, with
      frequency of genetic abnormalities at different chromosomal locations described.
    
  