
    
      Over the past several years the HIV epidemic has changed from a disease primarily of younger,
      gay/bisexual, Caucasian men to one increasingly affecting people of color, women, and, of
      specific relevance to this application, the older adult. Indeed, the number of AIDS cases in
      individuals over the age of 50 has more than tripled over the last several years, with the
      CDC now estimating that in the United States 15% of all patients with AIDS are over age 50.1
      There is reason to believe that the incidence, clinical manifestations and course of
      HIV-associated CNS dysfunction may differ as a function of age. Since the mid 1980's VA has
      been at the vanguard of institutions engaged in research and clinical care of HIV-infected
      adults. With specific regard to the issue of aging and HIV, HIV-infected veterans have tended
      to be significantly older than patients drawn from the general community. For example, at the
      West Los Angeles VA 303 of the 583 (52%) HIV-infected patients being followed by the
      Infectious Disease clinic are over the age of 50. Across the entire VA system, there are
      nearly twice as many HIV infected veterans over the age of 70 than under 30 years of age. 2
      Yet, the vast majority of research conducted to date has been on younger adults - the degree
      to which such data will generalize to the older veteran population is unclear. Also unclear
      is whether advancing age confers an independent risk for cognitive impairment in HIV-infected
      persons. Additionally, the functional impact (i.e., impact on daily functioning such as
      driving ability, financial management, or medication adherence) of cognitive impairment in
      this group remains unknown. Exploratory studies performed in the applicants' laboratory have
      provided preliminary support for the hypothesis that advancing age will potentiate the
      deleterious neurocognitive effects of HIV infection. Given the "graying" of the HIV epidemic,
      particularly among the veteran population, research examining neurocognition among older
      HIV-infected veterans as well as the functional "real world" impact of such deficits is of
      great relevance to the VA mission. The results from this study could provide important
      insights into interactions of age and HIV disease, and will identify targets for intervention
      in advance of the burgeoning population of older infected persons.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES AND HYPOTHESES

      Objective 1. To Determine the Effect of Age on Neuropsychological Performance in HIV+ Persons
      This objective seeks to determine the degree to which older age represents an independent
      risk factor for neuropsychological impairment in HIV infected persons, with a particular
      emphasis on those cognitive processes that are preferentially impacted by both the normal
      aging process as well as HIV infection.

      Hypothesis 1.1 Controlling for potential confounding factors such as substance use and length
      of infection, there will be an interaction between effects of age and HIV serostatus on
      neuropsychological performance, and this will be evident both cross-sectionally and
      longitudinally. Specifically, we expect to find that older HIV+ individuals will exhibit
      greater rates of neuropsychological impairment (using age-corrected test norms) than younger
      HIV+ persons. Neurocognitive functions subserved by frontal-subcortical systems that are
      sensitive to the effects of both aging and HIV infection (learning, motor and psychomotor
      speed, executive function) will be disproportionately affected among the older HIV+
      participants. While the synergistic effects of HIV and age will be evident on a cross
      sectional basis, they will be most pronounced when examined longitudinally over the course of
      the study.
    
  