
    
      Background: In renal allograft recipients, 10-year graft survival has not much improved over
      the past decades. There is thus a need for robust, non-invasive methods to predict and
      diagnose acute and chronic graft lesions, to improve patient treatment, quality of life and
      long-term graft survival. Also, there is an unmet need for better understanding of the immune
      and non-immune mechanisms of interstitial fibrosis /tubular atrophy and graft loss. Several
      teams have searched for biomarkers of renal graft lesions, but there has been no
      cross-fecundation of the different "omics" approaches, nor any consolidation of the different
      clusters of biomarkers discovered using different technologies. An analysis of these
      different omics levels based on the principles of systems biology is therefore necessary to
      gain insight into the disease mechanisms and will help to develop predictors at the
      individual level. Purpose: The European project BIOMARGIN aims to discover, select and
      validate blood and/or urine biomarkers of renal allograft lesions in adult and paediatric
      kidney transplant recipients by integrating several omics approaches (mRNA, miRNA, peptides,
      proteins, lipids and metabolites) in blood, graft tissue and urine. The European cohort study
      BECS aims to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic performance of the selected biomarkers
      over the first 3 and 5 years post-transplantation. Study design: This is a multicenter,
      international, ambispective, open and non-interventional cohort study, with collection of
      biological samples. Number of subjects: 450 adult and 50 paediatric renal transplant
      recipients. Outcomes: The primary endpoint is the graft outcome, assessed at three years as
      any lesion appeared on graft biopsies after patient enrolment, decline in graft function ≥
      30%, graft loss or patient death. Secondary endpoints include: histological findings in
      indication biopsies as well as in systematic biopsies (as per centre procedures) at 5 years;
      cumulated acute rejection episodes; 3-year and 5-year graft survival; and change of renal
      function assessed by the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) estimated using the MDRD formula.
      Statistical analysis: The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values
      of the different biomarkers or sets of biomarkers will be evaluated for each of the primary
      and secondary endpoints. In order to compare the performance of the biomarkers with those of
      the other known risk factors for the deterioration of renal graft function, longitudinal
      statistical modelling will be used.
    
  