
    
      Although the incidence and mortality of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) have been
      decreased with the improved management of high blood pressure, ICH may induce serious
      disability for the patients and continue to be a major socioeconomic problem. The evacuation
      of ICH using open craniotomy or computer tomography (CT)-guided stereotaxy may improve the
      survival rate of these patients but failed to prove efficacy in improving patients'
      functional outcome despite numerous efforts. Endoscopy-guided evacuation of ICH provides a
      less invasive and quicker surgical decompression, which may potentially improve the
      functional outcome for patients. In previous studies, endoscope-guided evacuation of ICH is
      often referred to as that an endoscope only provides an illuminating system while the
      operating channel is independent from the endoscope (endoscopy-controlled microneurosurgery
      or endoscopy-assisted microneurosurgery). In recent years, authors have been committed to
      explore the procedure of intra-endoscopy-guided evacuation of ICH, which means that the
      illuminating channel, the irrigation-aspiration channel and the working channel are all
      located in the endoscope. This kind of procedure can be called as real endoscopic
      neurosurgery (EN), which may potentially decrease the operative concomitant injuries at the
      most extent. However, the inherent drawbacks of intra-endoscopic procedures, including the
      limited visualization of the surgical field and the difficult maintenance of patency of the
      aspiration wand, can offset the advantages in some instances. The authors exclusively
      invented a special endoscopic transparent sheath for guiding hematoma puncture and an
      agitation-aspiration system (AAS) for keeping patency of the aspiration wand. Detailed
      procedures of their application will be implemented and verified in a series of patients with
      intracerebral hemorrhage. Meanwhile, the mortality rate, complications and other outcome
      parameters between this procedure and CT-guided procedures will be compared.
    
  