
    
      Platelet-rich Plasma (PRP) therapy has recently been indicated in the treatment of joint
      pain, arthritis, tendonitis, and to augment surgical treatment has become increasingly common
      (Hsu) PRP is obtained from obtaining an autologous blood sample, which is then condensed in a
      small commercial centrifuge to isolate a concentrated sample of platelets and growth factors.
      This sample contains high concentrations of Platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF),
      transforming growth factors β (TGFβ), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1), and vascular
      endothelial growth factor-1 (VEGF) all of which aid in healing of soft tissues. (Padilla) The
      blood sample is autologous, the concentration is prepared in the clinic, and the
      complications of the injection are no greater than any other injection given in the clinic.
      (Hsu) In addition to being safe, PRP is efficacious. PRP has been well-studied including 10
      prospective randomized controlled trials proving the effectiveness of PRP for knee
      osteoarthritis alone. (Dai) Strong evidence has also been reported in support of PRP use for
      bone healing (Bibbo, Tsai) tendinopathy (Mishra, Peerbooms) cartilage healing (Mei-Dan), and
      for augmentation of both ligament reconstruction (Fallouh) and repair (Mazzocca).
      Furthermore, the use of PRP has been shown to be a more cost effective treatment as compared
      to traditional methods in both chronic wound management and tendonitis (Gosens, Dougherty)
      PRP has not been studied in the wrist. Ulnar-sided wrist pain, most commonly involving the
      Triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) is both difficult to diagnosis and treat,(Kleinmann,
      Fulcher, Graham) The TFCC is a meniscal homologue which acts to stabilize the wrist and to
      dissipate compressive forces. Tears within this soft tissue structure are painful and heal
      slowly. (Palmer, Palmer). Immobilization, steroid injections, or surgical treatment are the
      mainstays of treatment. However, PRP has not been studied as a treatment modality.

      The purpose of this analysis is to study the efficacy of PRP injection in the treatment of a
      TFCC tear.

      The null hypothesis is that there is no difference between injection into the wrist of PRP
      and saline (placebo).

      The investigators hypothesize that PRP will reduce pain as compared to placebo.
    
  