
    
      Nearly all Boxer's fractures are treated without surgery using a splint to keep part or all
      of the hand from moving (immobilization). There are several acceptable methods of
      immobilization used by hand surgeons, using splints of different sizes and materials for
      variable periods of time(1-6).

      A recent systematic review from The Cochrane Collaboration found the current data to be
      inconclusive with regards to the optimal immobilization technique and highlighted the need
      for further studies(2). Specifically, it was recommended that future studies include
      functional outcome measures, timing of return to work, complications, pain scores, and an
      economic analysis.

      The current practice at the investigators' institution is for patients to be splinted in a
      plaster ulnar gutter splint, in the Emergency Department and referred to the next available
      plastic surgery clinic. If needed, a closed reduction would be performed in clinic, if there
      was a significant angulation (greater than 45 degrees) or any clinical rotation deformity.
      The most common method of immobilization involves placing the wrist, ring finger and little
      finger all the way from the fingertips to the mid-forearm in molded plaster called an ulnar
      gutter splint. The splint is left on 24 hours a day for 3 to 4 weeks and then removed in the
      clinic.

      Many patients find it difficult to keep the splint on for the full 3 to 4 weeks for a number
      of reasons. The plaster needs to stay dry, making it awkward to bathe. The splint can also
      get loose and rub as the swelling around the fracture gets better. The splint can also start
      to smell because sweat builds up under it. Some patients find the plaster material heavy,
      making it difficult to wear. Finally, many patients are self-conscious about the appearance
      of the splint and remove it for this reason alone. In the investigators' experience, up to 1
      out of 5 patients will remove the splint on their own against doctor's orders for one reason
      or another. When patients do follow instructions and keep the splint on 24 hours a day for 3
      to 4 weeks, this can lead to joint stiffness when the splint is removed. Some patients may
      even require physiotherapy to regain their normal finger movement and grip strength.

      It is unknown if the ulnar gutter splint is really the best way to immobilize the hand after
      a Boxer's fracture. It is unknown what material is best for making the splint, whether it is
      truly necessary to keep the entirety of the wrist and ring and little fingers still, and for
      how long the hand and fingers should be kept still. Most surgeons recommend patients wear a
      splint for 3 to 4 weeks.

      The investigators would like to determine if a smaller splint made of more durable, lighter
      moldable plastic that allows earlier movement of the hand and fingers while still keeping the
      fracture from moving gives the same result as the commonly used ulnar gutter splint.

      Functional Hand Based Splint (Thermoplastic Splint) The functional hand-based splint is made
      of custom molded hard plastic and is fitted over the hand only. A thermoplastic splint is
      made from plastic that is heated and custom-fitted to the subject's hand, which hardens when
      it cools. This thermoplastic splint is custom fitted by an occupational therapist such that
      all joints are free to move. The splint does not limit the patient from moving their wrist or
      fingers while wearing it. It is custom molded such that it fits snuggly over the patient's
      hand and holds the fracture in a stable position.

      Several adult studies have found this type of custom molded splint superior to either
      surgical treatment and/or plaster splint immobilization because it resulted in less
      stiffness, better movement after splint removal, and no increased pain (4-7). The
      investigators are not aware of any comparative studies done in pediatric patients.

      Compliance Patient compliance for wearing their splint for the prescribed during can be a
      problem. At the investigators' institution, there is a non-compliance rate of approximately
      15 to 20 % for Boxer's fracture patients. The investigators hypothesize that the hand-based
      splint will be better tolerated by patients and therefore result in a higher rate of
      compliance for the prescribed duration that the plaster splint. Also, the thermoplastic
      splint will not be damaged if it gets wet, which may translate into fewer additional visits
      to the clinic or emergency department to have the splint replaced.

      This study will be a randomized, single-blinded controlled trial. The randomization of the
      two splint types will be determined by a computer-based number generator. The patients will
      know what type of splint they have, but the plastic surgeons and physiotherapist who examine
      and test the subjects ROM and grip strength will not know the type of splint for each
      subject.

      Patients will be randomized to one of the two groups at their first clinic visit, within 7
      days of their injury. They will have their splint placed at this visit and are to wear the
      splint at all times for 3 weeks. Subjects will return to clinic at 1, 3, 6, and 12 weeks to
      be reassessed. Specified outcome measures (primary and secondary) will be tested at each
      visit.
    
  