
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the impact of a 12-week intervention of intermittent and continuous
      acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on a smoking-related gene expression signature in the nasal
      epithelium of current smokers and to analyze any difference between the intermittent and
      continuous ASA interventions.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the change in the smoking-related gene expression signature of nasal
      epithelium persists one week off agent intervention.

      II. To compare the change in urinary prostaglandin E metabolite (PGE-M) and leukotriene E (4)
      (LTE [4]) between the continuous and intermittent dosing arms and to determine whether the
      change persists one week off agent intervention.

      III. To analyze the impact of intermittent and continuous ASA on a three lung cancer-related
      gene signatures (an 80-gene signature, a phosphoinositide 3-kinase [PI3K] gene signature, and
      a nasal epithelium cancer signature) in the nasal epithelium and to analyze any difference
      between the intermittent and continuous ASA interventions.

      IV. To determine whether the change, if any, in the lung cancer-related gene expression
      signatures of nasal epithelium persists one week off agent intervention.

      V. To compare the safety in current smokers of 12 week exposure to continuous versus
      intermittent ASA.

      VI. To evaluate a gender effect in the modulatory effects of intermittent and continuous ASA
      on smoking-related gene expression signature.

      VII. To explore in a discovery-driven fashion the effect of ASA intervention on whole-genome
      gene expression.

      VIII. To analyze the impact of intermittent and continuous ASA on karyometric analysis of
      buccal cells and to analyze any difference between intermittent and continuous ASA
      interventions.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CONTINUOUS): Participants receive aspirin orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 12 weeks.

      ARM II (INTERMITTENT): Participants receive placebo PO QD during weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11
      and aspirin PO QD during weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 2 weeks.
    
  