
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) is now identified as a marker of
      alveolar type I cell injury. RAGE is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily that acts as
      a multiligand receptor and is involved in propagating inflammatory responses. While the
      precise function of RAGE remains unclear, the elevated levels of RAGE, and its soluble
      isoform sRAGE, correlate with severity of ALI/ARDS in human and animal studies, and higher
      sRAGE levels could reflect impaired alveolar fluid clearance. Lung morphology, as assessed by
      loss of aeration distribution patterns on computed tomography (CT) scan, predicts the
      response to recruitment maneuvers in patients with ARDS: patients presenting with nonfocal
      (diffuse) lung morphology are more likely to respond to a RM, resulting in an increase in
      arterial oxygenation, net alveolar fluid clearance, and significant alveolar recruitment as
      revealed by pressure-volume curve analysis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The purpose of this prospective, randomized and controlled, cross-over study is to compare
      the effects of a RM on plasma sRAGE levels (measured 5 minutes before, 5 minutes, 30 minutes,
      1 hour, 4 hours and 6 hours after the RM) and plasma sRAGE levels measured during a "sham" or
      "control" sequence, in patients with diffuse ARDS.

      Mechanically ventilated ICU patients with ARDS criteria (based on the 1994 American-European
      Consensus Conference definition for ARDS) and nonfocal CT scan lung morphology will be
      included within 24 hours of disease onset. Then, patients will be randomized into 2 groups: a
      "RM-SHAM" group when RM sequence precedes a sham evaluation period, and a "SHAM-RM" group, in
      which patients receive a sham sequence before the RM sequence. Patients will receive
      protective ventilation, as recommended, before, during and after evaluation periods. RM
      consists of the application of 40 cmH20 airway pressure for 40 seconds.

      Blood will be sampled from an indwelling arterial catheter, in order to analyze arterial
      blood gases and sRAGE levels, 5 minutes before the RM (or a 40 second-long sham period), 5
      minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 4 hours and 6 hours after the RM (or a 40 second-long sham
      period). Electric impedance tomography will be evaluated 5 minutes before and 1 hour after
      the RM.
    
  