
    
      The main objective was to compare the effect of the administration of Metformin/agave inulin
      vs. Agave inulin on adiponectin in patients with MetS. The investigators conducted a
      double-blinded randomized trial, on 4 groups, each group with 10 male patients of 40-80 years
      of age with METS diagnosed by International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria. Randomization
      determined the group assignation during the 12-week trial, each group consisted of:

      Group (A) Metformin plus agave inulin: 10 individuals received metformin in a dosis of 500 mg
      per day (1 tablet of 500 mg) plus inulin in a dosis of 10 mg per day (5 mg every 12 hours)
      during 12 weeks.

      Group (B) Metformin plus Placebo of agave inulin: 10 individuals received Metformin in a
      dosis of 500mg per day (with the first bite of the second meal) plus homologue placebo of
      inulin (calcinated magnesia) in a dosis of 10 mg every 24 hrs (5 mg of calcinated magnesia
      powder every 12 hours) during 12 weeks.

      Group (C) Agave inulin plus Placebo of Metformin: 10 individuals received inulin in a dosis
      of 10 mg every 24 hrs (5 mg every 12 hours) plus homologate placebo of metformin (calcinated
      magnesia) in a dosis of 500 mg per day (with the first bite of the second meal) during 12
      weeks.

      Group (D) Placebo of Agave inulin plus Placebo of Metformin: homologate placebo of Inulin
      (calcinated magnesia powder) in a dosis of 10 mg every 24 hrs (5 mg every 12 hours) plus
      homologate placebo of metformin (calcinated magnesia capsules) in a dosis of 500 mg per day
      (with the first bite of the second meal) during 12 weeks.

      The clinical findings and laboratory test included a metabolic profile and biosafety, which
      was determined at baseline and at 12 weeks.

      Waist, body weight, body fat, body mass index (BMI) and blood pressure were determined at
      baseline, follow up and final visit, likewise, a blood sample was obtained, centrifuged and
      stored at -80° degrees Celsius to be analyzed after within 30 days. The investigators
      assessed glucose, total cholesterol, c-HDL, c-LDL, triglycerides by enzymatic techniques, and
      adiponectin and insulin by ELISA. Insulin resistance (IR) was estimated by the homeostasis
      model assessment (HOMA) with the formula for the HOMA (fasting insulin mcg/L x (fasting
      glucose (mmol/L)/22.5) Adverse events and adherence to treatment were documented every 4
      weeks.

      Statistical analysis: Values were expressed as mean and standard deviation. Mann-Whitney U
      Test, Wilcoxon exact test and Kruskal-Wallis. A statistical significance was set at p<0.05.
    
  