
    
      According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 2.8 million older adults were treated in
      the emergency department for fall related injuries. Most falls are caused by a combination of
      risk factors, with more risk factors leading to an increased risk for falling.

      People undergoing a total hip replacement can be seen as having an increased risk of falling.
      Once an individual discharges home from the hospital, it is during this continued
      post-operative period where pain and weakness continues to effect their walking ability.
      Additionally, if the patient has a history of falling, has a fear of falling, has visual
      deficits, and/or neuropathy, risk of falling increases.

      Evaluating a patient's fear of falling and educating patient's regarding home safety may lead
      to a patient feeling increased confidence when completing daily activities with increased
      safety awareness.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of the Home for Life mobile application to
      examine home safety and fall risk for patients who have undergone hip replacement surgery and
      are being discharged to their home.

      Study Aims:

        1. The first aim of this study is to assess whether completion of a home safety assessment
           within an acute care setting will facilitate carryover and reduce a person's actual and
           perceived risk of falling. The Home Safety Assessment tool will be used to make
           adaptation recommendations to a person's home setting based on their real and perceived
           risk of falling in different rooms within the home (entrance, bedroom, bathroom at a
           minimum). A home safety assessment is a standard in the clinical care provided by
           occupational therapist (OT). The use of the home safety application being an alternative
           method of gathering the information is for research purposes in this study and is not
           currently used in daily operations. During the initial evaluation, the occupational
           therapist will bring a tablet into the room. The tablet will have the downloaded
           user-friendly application. The therapist will guide the client through the components of
           the application, identifying different rooms in their home and asking questions
           pertaining to their real and perceived risk of falling within these rooms. Information
           obtained during this process will then be stored on RedCap.

        2. The second aim of this study will be to determine if recommended adaptations in home
           safety impacted perceived risk of falling.

        3. The third aim of this study will be to determine if the patient had a fall within two
           weeks post discharge.
    
  