
    
      The goal is to develop in three stages a new affordable robot with the participation of
      Living Independently for Elders (LIFE) members and clinicians. The robot will be developed by
      a multidisciplinary team headed by Dr. Yim at UPENN (PI), Dr. Lau at Savioke, and Drs.
      Johnson and Cacchionne at UPENN PM&R and UPENN Nursing, respectively. The aim is to build a
      low-cost robot platform that will focus on the simple, but key, repetitive, data-driven tasks
      that robots do well. Rather than attempt to create a robot helper that mimics humans, the aim
      is to free human caregivers from the time-consuming tasks that robots can accomplish with
      facility, thereby allowing humans to focus on tasks that humans do best (i.e. human contact).
      Participatory reviews of the developed prototypes will be completed at each stage (each year)
      with the LIFE members and clinicians. There are three research questions the investigators
      hope to answer all while building an effective system to synergistically satisfy the business
      needs:

      R1) Although activities of daily living (ADLs) for elder health have previously been
      documented and categorized, no research has been done to characterize them from the
      perspective of their feasibility of automation using an affordable mobile manipulation robot.
      How can known ADLS be characterized according to how much they would benefit from robotic
      assistance given varying levels of robot capabilities (mobility, limited manipulation, full
      manipulation)?

      R2) A manipulator arm must be safe, affordable, and performant enough to assist in ADLs for
      elder heath. What new breakthroughs are required to develop new manipulation technology that
      satisfies these constraints? ?

      R3) A data-driven service robotics What are the concomitant key usability and acceptance of
      service features required system has the potential to affect elder health in a positive way.
      How can predictive service robotics best be used to maintain and improve elder health? Which
      specific robot behaviors have the most impact on elders' well-being?
    
  