
    
      Study Plan

      HEALING TOUCH Healing Touch (HT) is an energy based approach to health and healing. It uses
      light touch to influence the energy field that surrounds the body, and energy centers which
      control the flow of energy to the physical body. HT can restore harmony and balance, which
      can affect all physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health, as well as self-healing. HT
      complements traditional health care and is used together with other approaches to health and
      healing.

      Healing touch has been studied for use in pain, cancer, endocrine-immune-HIV, mental health,
      and cardiovascular factors in patients ranging from pediatric to the elderly.

      POST-CARDIAC EVENT STRESS AND ANXIETY SYMPTOMS Having a major cardiac event can be a
      stressful, life changing occurrence. Often, the psychological impacts of having a heart
      attack (myocardial infarction) are underestimated and can be long lasting. In fact, there is
      evidence to suggest that the emotional stressors that occur post-MI are consistent with
      symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which has been shown to be associated with
      higher rates of recurrent coronary events and overall increased mortality in diagnosed
      patients.

      Studies have shown that mental stress has a negative effect on a person's heart health. In
      particular:

        -  Unmanaged stress can lead to high blood pressure, arterial damage, irregular heart
           rhythms and a weakened immune system.

        -  Patients with depression have been shown to have increased platelet reactivity,
           decreased heart variability and increased pro-inflammatory markers (such as C-reactive
           protein or CRP), which are all risk factors for cardiovascular disease.

        -  For people with heart disease, depression can increase the risk of an adverse cardiac
           event such as a heart attack or blood clots. For people who do not have heart disease,
           depression can also increase the risk of a heart attack and development of coronary
           artery disease.

        -  In one landmark study, the continued presence of depression after recovery increased the
           risk of death (mortality) to 17 percent within 6 months after a heart attack (versus 3
           percent mortality in heart attack patients who didn't have depression). Frasure-Smith N,
           et al. Depression following myocardial infarction: Impact on 6-month survival. JAMA,
           October 20, 1993. 270(15):1819-1825.

      RELATED STUDIES

      HEALING TOUCH has been in use at Scripps hospitals since 1993. The Cardiac Healing Touch
      Program at the Scripps Center for Integrative Medicine at Scripps Clinic and Scripps Green
      Hospital collected data on 305 cardiac surgery patients. Unpublished outcomes revealed that
      post-surgical cardiac patients experienced a 74% reduction in pain and a 71% reduction in
      anxiety after receiving HT.

      In another study performed by the Scripps Center for Integrative Medicine at a Marine Base
      near San Diego, called Complementary Medicine for PTSD and Related Symptoms in Returning
      Active Duty Military, revealed statistically and clinically significant reduction in PTSD (p
      <.0005, Cohen's d = .85), as well as depression (p <.0005, Cohen's d = .70) for the healing
      touch and guided imagery intervention versus the control group.

      Post-cardiac event patients who have been referred to a Cardiac Rehab program often find that
      they are being asked to wait before a position becomes available in the CR program. In some
      programs this may involve a waiting period of several weeks. At the Scripps Center for
      Integrative Medicine Cardia Rehab program the waiting period is typically 3 weeks, or slighly
      more. During this period, many patients find that their stress and anxiety levels in reaction
      to their recent cardiac event remain untreated. It is this group of patients the
      investigators aim to enroll into the research study to determine whether 6 healing touch
      treatments during a waiting period of 3 weeks will decrease their stress and anxiety before
      entering the cardiac rehab program. Moreover, the investigators will follow the patients
      through CR and determine whether the pre-program HT treatments improve the patient's overall
      physical outcomes measures.

      Research Methods

      Baseline Assessment Upon enrollment in the study, including signing the consent, participants
      will answer questionnaires to assess their baseline status including demographics, brief
      medical history, and the following two questionnaires: Dartmouth Quality of Life and SF-36
      Health Survey.

      Randomization Following initial assessment, participants will be randomly assigned to the
      Intervention Group who will receive Healing Touch therapy, or to the Control Group, which
      will not receive HT. All study participants will enter the CR program after either 3 weeks of
      HT intervention or a 3 week waiting period. If there is no opening available immediately
      following the 3 week period, study subjects will be entered into the program as soon as a
      space is available.

      Intervention Group

      The HT group will receive two one hour sessions per week for a total of 6 sessions, over 3
      weeks. Healing Touch practitioners who have completed the healing touch program and are
      certified healing touch practitioners will perform the healing touch sessions. Whenever
      possible each patient will be given the treatment by the same practitioner for all 6
      sessions. The healing touch practitioner will center his/her-self by bringing mind, body, and
      emotions into a quiet and focused state of mind. They will then assess the patient's energy
      field and implement healing touch techniques in the following order:

      Chakra Connection Chakra Connection is a full body technique to open, connect, and balance
      the major and minor chakras and help clear the energy field. It promotes relaxation, reduces
      pain and anxiety and promotes general well-being and prevention.

      Mind Clearing This HT technique is helpful in promoting mental clarity, peace, and calm. It
      facilitates deep relaxation, clear thinking, and promotes healthy sleep.

      Chakra Spread. Chakra Spread is a gentle energy technique designed to open the chakras and
      produce a deep healing. It is helpful during life transitions to promote a deep sense of calm
      and peace - physically, emotionally, mentally, and spiritually.

      No other forms of healing will be administered by the HT practitioner. The HT practitioner
      will use light touch to implement the healing touch techniques. Healing touch sessions will
      last approximately one hour and will occur two times per week for three weeks for a total of
      6 sessions.

      To complete the study, patients must receive all 6 sessions. For potential scheduling
      conflicts, exceptions will be made to accommodate patients for a maximum of 4 weeks.

      Post-Intervention Assessment After 3 weeks, all participants in both groups will complete the
      following questionnaires: Dartmouth Quality of Life Index and SF-36 Health Survey.

      All patients will enter the CR program as soon as the CR staff can schedule each patient.

      Control Group When subjects in this group have completed their CR program they are offered a
      complementary one-time, one hour, healing touch treatment.
    
  