
    
      The prevalence of obesity has increased rapidly in recent years. Epidemiological studies
      since the 1970's have strongly suggested that excess body weight gain may be a major risk
      factor for many cancers including breast cancer. In addition, once diagnosed with breast
      cancer, women who are overweight or obese experience worse outcomes despite standard local
      and adjuvant therapy. Furthermore, most women gain weight following a diagnosis of breast
      cancer, and this weight gain may increase risk of recurrence by 40-50% and breast
      cancer-related mortality by 53-60%.

      A great deal of effort has been made for many years to explain the relationship between
      obesity and breast cancer. Molecularly, the relationship involves dynamic and complex
      interactions between a milieu of hormones, cytokines, adipokines, affecting cell signaling
      and potentially epigenetic pathways. Recently, studies in postmenopausal women have shown
      that weight loss modulates these cytokines and adipokines favorably. Inflammation associated
      with obesity can also be characterized pathologically when macrophages surround necrotic
      adipocytes in what are called crown-like structures (CLS). Furthermore, increased central
      obesity as measured by waist-to-hip ratios, may be associated with hypermethylation of
      certain breast cancer genes, and physical activity can reduce methylation of certain breast
      cancer-associated genes.

      The Women's Intervention Nutrition Study (WINS) demonstrated that women with early-stage
      breast cancer receiving conventional cancer management randomized to a dietary intervention
      group had lower risk of relapse compared to those in a control group in those who lost
      weight. While women with a diagnosis of breast cancer are therefore recommended to maintain
      ideal body weight, limited progress has been made in developing feasible weight loss
      programs. However, collaborators from the Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology, and
      Clinical Research at the Johns Hopkins University have recently reported impressive and
      sustained weight loss in randomized controlled trials designated Practice-based Opportunities
      for Weight Reduction (POWER) in obese women with at least one cardiovascular risk factor
      using a remote-support weight loss intervention.

      The overall goal of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the remote-support weight
      loss intervention of the POWER study, designated POWER-remote, in women with early breast
      cancer who are overweight or obese, and to assess the effects of weight loss of ≥5% body
      weight at 6 months and on biomarkers associated with obesity, inflammation, and breast
      cancer. The data will be used to implement a clinical intervention available to all
      overweight and obese women with breast cancer, and to design definitive studies assessing the
      impact of weight loss and biomarker modulation on risk of recurrent disease or development of
      new primary breast cancers.
    
  