
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) affects 5-8% of pregnant women, many of whom will require
      treatment beyond diet and exercise. Despite this high prevalence, there is no consensus
      regarding the glycemic threshold for conversion from diet to medical treatment for GDM. No
      randomized studies have been performed on how to define failure with diet and exercise and
      currently, the need to start insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents is at the provider's
      discretion. It is important to establish criterion of pharmacotherapy initiation for GDM in
      pregnancy as GDM under-treatment leads to increased rates of adverse obstetric outcomes
      associated with poor glycemic control including macrosomia, pre-eclampsia, cesarean delivery,
      shoulder dystocia, birth trauma, neonatal hypoglycemia and hyperbilirubinemia, childhood
      obesity and metabolic syndrome in the offspring. In contrast, overtreatment for women comes
      at increased cost due to overutilization of resources, increased expense, and adverse effects
      of the medications themselves.

      The goal of this study is to compare two different thresholds for initiation of medical
      treatment for GDM. Pregnant women diagnosed with GDM (N=284) will be randomized to either
      start pharmacotherapy when they have reached at least 20% or at least 40% of capillary blood
      glucose (CBG) values above the target goal. The investigators hypothesize that a lower
      threshold of 20% elevated CBG levels, compared to 40%, will lead to lower rates of obstetric
      and medical complications.

      Aim 1: To compare the rate of a composite outcome between two thresholds for medical
      treatment initiation for GDM. Women who receive the diagnosis of GDM and meet eligibility
      criteria will be randomized to start insulin or an oral hypoglycemic agent when the number of
      CBG values above target reaches 20% or 40%. The primary outcome will be a composite of
      neonatal macrosomia, shoulder dystocia, neonatal hypoglycemia, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia,
      preterm delivery, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) admission, and stillbirth or neonatal
      death. The investigators hypothesize that women who receive treatment with stricter limits of
      abnormal blood glucose levels will have lower rates of these poor outcomes.

      Aim 2: To compare the rates of cesarean delivery between two thresholds for medical treatment
      initiation for GDM. The investigators hypothesize that women who receive treatment with
      stricter limits of abnormal blood glucose levels will have lower rates of cesarean delivery.
    
  