
    
      The clinical assessments included in both stages of the study will identify the presence and
      severity of swelling in each of the affected areas. Each assessment will consist of a
      clinical examination of the patient's legs and abdomen to look for swelling and changes in
      the skin associated with this.

      Assessments carried out in Stage 1 will include bioimpedance and tissue dielectric constant
      (TDC) techniques.

        -  Bioimpedance measures the total fluid within a limb. This test passes an extremely small
           electrical current through the participant's body and measures the resistance to the
           flow of this current. The participant will not feel anything when the measurement is
           carried out as the current is very small, similar to the strength of a watch battery. If
           the participant is able to, the test will be undertaken with the participant lying down
           on an examination couch or sitting in a chair. Small stickers will be placed on the
           participant's hands and feet, and clips attached to these.

        -  The TDC measures fluid levels at different points. In order to record these fluid
           levels, a probe will be placed against the participants' skin on their feet, lower legs,
           and thighs.

      Assessments carried out in Stage 2 will include bioimpedance, TDC, and also perometry (or
      measuring using a tape measure).

      - This test measures the size and shape of the participants' legs, and can be undertaken by
      one of two methods depending on their mobility. If they need to stay in a chair or
      examination couch during the assessment, the size of their legs will be measured at different
      points using a tape measure. However, if possible, a device called a perometer will be used.
      Participants will be asked to stand with one leg in the frame of the perometer while it is
      moved up and down the leg. The frame contains lights which are used to measure the size and
      shape of the limb.

      None of the assessments included in either stage should cause any pain or discomfort.

      The questionnaires, which will be completed in both stages, concern the participants' quality
      of life and mobility.

        -  The EQ-5D questionnaire compares quality of life over time well and can assess the
           health utility of the participants. The EQ-5D scores can be used to calculate
           quality-adjusted life years.

        -  The GAD-7 (Generalised Anxiety Disorder 7-item Scale) and PHQ-9 (Patient Health
           Questionnaire - 9) questionnaires will be used to assess the anxiety/depression of the
           participants. Stage 1 participants will have completed these before their study
           assessments so the study team will obtain these results from their clinical records.
           Stage 2 participants will complete the questionnaires as part of the study assessments.

        -  The SF-36 questionnaire will assess the mobility of the participants and give general
           health-related quality of life scores.

        -  The LYMQOL questionnaire, which will only be given to participants who have oedema, is a
           validated, condition-specific, quality of life instrument. It can be used both: to
           assess lymphoedema of the limbs and as an outcome measure.
    
  