
    
      About 34% of the community-dwelling older population experience a detrimental fall each year.
      Moreover, 40% of the individuals who suffer from pathological conditions such as stroke
      experience falls. Age-related changes and post-stroke impairments often lead to impaired
      balance and gait that are highly associated with falls. Most of these falls have been
      reported to occur during dynamic and complex activities such as walking, reaching out for
      objects that are a part of daily living.

      There are various clinical balance tests used to evaluate the balance in individuals
      suffering from a stroke. However, most of the tests measure only the static balance ability
      while performing voluntary/ self-generated activities. Hence, these measures fail to
      determine the reactive balance control or compensatory strategies used to recover from
      unexpected perturbations. Perturbation induced by various perturbation based devices such as
      Activestep treadmill, a motorized, custom-designed free-sliding over-ground walkway that aims
      to cause a loss of balance by presenting a threat to stability, thereby, challenging the
      reactive balance response of an individual. This interventional paradigm has now been widely
      used to quality and trains reactive balance control in older adults and neurologically
      affected populations. Previously studied along with emerging researches and numerous ongoing
      clinical trials focusing on perturbation training using a treadmill and overground walking,
      have already indicated its effectiveness in reducing fall risk. Literature states that more
      than half of the elderly population did not experience any fall after the first exposure of a
      novel slip during over-ground walking. However, the efficacy of a newly introduced equipment,
      Surefooted Trainer, which is a customized, moveable slippery platform where an individual
      walks safely along protected by a harness, has not yet been explored. Surefooted Trainer
      consists of the platform which causes slip-like perturbations and obstacles which cause
      trip-perturbation. Further, both the Activestep and Surefooted Trainer are more compact and
      can be easily installed in clinical settings. While the Activestep is a treadmill based
      system the Surefooted Trainer is an overground walkway perturbation system. The study aims to
      establish feasibility and tolerability for 30 minutes of the Surefooted Trainer first and
      then gather pilot data for assessing the efficacy of these three perturbation training
      systems.

      The perturbation training paradigm is based on the principle that the central nervous system
      adapts and learns from previous experience of perturbation and employs motor learning to
      prospective perturbation induced loss of balance. This helps to reduce the number of falls
      and improves dynamic stability in the laboratory setting which is later translated to
      real-life situations. The dose and intensity necessary to induce motor learning are not
      clearly known and therefore, the purpose of this study is to compare the results of
      perturbation training on three devices and identify the most effective training protocol with
      immediate and long term effects on the fall reduction. If the results from this study seem to
      be promising, it could help in translating the most beneficial protocol for clinical
      treatment for older adults and stroke population. To determine the long term effects in the
      community-dwelling, the study will monitor the physical activity of the elderly and stroke
      population during community ambulation.

      The aim of the study is to compare the effect of perturbation training between ActiveStep
      treadmill, a custom-designed over-ground walkway and the Sure-footed Trainer among healthy
      young adults, older adults, and neurologically impaired stroke survivors both immediately
      post-training and in long term on reduction in fall rate. Furthermore, to establish
      feasibility and tolerability of 30-minute training using Surefooted Trainer and then assess
      the efficacy of these three perturbation training systems.
    
  