
    
      This is an open-label pilot study of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related and
      unrelated donor hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplant (also referred to as peripheral
      blood stem cell [PBSC] transplant or bone marrow transplant [BMT]) for up to 20 patients with
      severe combined immune deficiency (SCID). SCID is most commonly caused by mutations in the
      IL2RG gene encoding the interleukin (IL) receptor signaling gamma chain (gamma c); however,
      patients with JAK-3 mutations have the same phenotypes and are similarly affected. The study
      population is older children (greater than or equal to 3 years of age) and adults (less than
      or equal to 40 years of age) who are experiencing deteriorating and/or dysfunctional immunity
      and/or any of a constellation of severe or chronic medical problems warranting
      transplantation. The study is designed to evaluate whether the use of uniquely designed
      transplant conditioning either containing total body irradiation (TBI) or not, along with a
      graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) prevention regimen achieves sufficient engraftment of donor
      HSCs to facilitate robust restoration of cellular immunity (T cell/natural killer [NK] cell
      number and function) including thymic function, and humoral immunity (B cell number and
      function), while at the same time enhancing tolerance of the donor graft in a fashion that
      reduces the occurrence of GvHD but not significantly enhancing the risk of post-transplant
      viral infection. One target population is SCID patients who received matched sibling or
      haploidentical lymphocyte-depleted transplants as infants with little or no myeloid
      conditioning, resulting in variable restoration of T cell immunity, but little or no
      restoration of NK or B cell immunity. Another target population is SCID patients with partial
      production or function of gamma c or JAK3 or SCID patients with clonal somatic reversion of
      the mutation in the IL2RG or JAK-3 gene, who have less severe immune deficiency in childhood.
      A subset of patients from all of these target SCID populations may experience progressive
      deterioration of immune function leading to acute and chronic medical problems that warrant
      consideration of allogeneic transplant to restore immunity.

      The conditioning and GvHD prevention regimens for this HSC transplant protocol are designed
      to use mobilized PBSCs or bone marrow (if mobilization is not possible) from either an
      HLA-matched related donor (MRD) as first choice or from an HLA-matched unrelated donor (MUD)
      for those without an appropriate HLA-MRD. If there is no appropriate MRD nor MUD adult donor
      available, then an appropriate cord blood from the cord blood registries may be used for
      small children SCID recipients. We propose using a busulfan-based, nonmyeloablative
      conditioning regimen plus or minus TBI combined with horse anti-thymocyte globulin (h-ATG)
      immune suppression conditioning plus post-transplant sirolimus as a tolerance-inducing
      immunosuppressant to prevent GvHD.
    
  