
    
      The standard treatment strategy of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) nowadays
      is concurrent chemoradiation (CRT), which is based on intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT) and achieves a satisfactory local-regional control and a 5-year overall survival (OS)
      of 83.0%. However, distant metastasis remains the major cause of treatment failure,
      especially in patients with T1-4N2-3M0 diseases (N2-3 NPC). The distant metastasis reaches
      35-48% after CRT alone.

      To decrease distant metastasis of locally advanced NPC so as to improve survival, approaches
      on modifying timing of chemotherapy have been made to mainly 2 types: one was CRT plus
      adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT), the other was neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) plus CRT. It was
      proved that CRT plus ACT could not improve survival of locally advanced NPC further. Some
      clinical trials indicated that locally advanced NPC patients with 2-3 cycles of NACT plus CRT
      had a better survival than those with CRT alone though the roles of NACT remain
      controversial.

      It is known that N stage is by far the most significant predicting factor of metastasis risk
      for NPC. N2-3 NPC was also proved to have a quite great risk of distant failure. 51.4% of
      distant metastases happened within 1 year after CRT. The investigators inferred that
      subclinical micrometastases were already present before treatment starting. Hence, it was
      more appropriate to consider N2-3 NPC as a systemic disease instead of a local disease. NACT
      of sufficient intensity such as 4 cycles might be effective enough for control of the
      pre-existing micrometastases.

      Therefore, this phase 3 multicenter randomized controlled trial is conducted to enroll 144
      patients with N2-3 NPC. After stratification by N stage, the patients will be allocated into
      2 treatment groups randomly at a ratio of 1:1 and applied with different treatment strategies
      to make a comparison between NACT of 4 cycles plus CRT based on IMRT and CRT alone in N2-3
      NPC on distant metastasis, survival and adverse reaction.
    
  