
    
      RTT is a brain disorder that causes problems with childhood development. It is usually caused
      by an abnormality (mutation) in the gene MECP2. RTT can cause severe impairments in movement
      and communication skills, including speech and social interaction. The first signs of RTT
      include loss of acquired speech and loss of purposeful hand use for activities such as eating
      or playing. Individuals may also develop abnormal walking, repetitive hand movements, such as
      clapping or wringing, and abnormal breathing while awake.

      Effective treatments for RTT are currently lacking. There is also inadequate information
      about the link between RTT clinical features and its genetic basis. In order to prepare for
      future clinical trials that may lead to effective therapies, it is important to collect
      accurate information about the characteristics of RTT and the pattern of disease progression.
      This study will gather historical and physical examination data to establish
      phenotype-genotype correlations. Data on survival and quality of life in females with RTT and
      males with MECP2 gene mutations will also be evaluated.

      MECP2 Duplication disorder affects principally males who have one and rarely more than one
      additional copy of MECP2 as well as a variable number of other duplicated genes. These males
      have absent spoken language, shuffling gait, epilepsy, and, in some, frequent upper
      respiratory infections or sinusitis. Mother of these males are generally normal due to
      favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation, but in some instances may have
      neurodevelop-mental delays. Effective treatments are lacking. It is critical to develop
      phenotype-genotype correlations and longitudinal natural history data to assist the conduct
      of clinical trials.

      RTT-related disorders feature a variety of involvements either due to MECP2, CDKL5, and FOXG1
      as well as other potential causes of atypical RTT. Phenotype-genotype studies and
      longitudinal natural history data are essential to the conduct of future clinical trials.

      Participants in this observational study will be recruited from the four sites at which the
      study is being conducted, as well as through the Rare Disease Clinical Research Network and
      the International Rett Syndrome Association (IRSA). Prior to study entry, potential
      participants are expected to be tested for a mutation in the MECP2 gene. No treatment will be
      administered at any time during this study. Study visits will occur every 6 months until the
      child is 6 years old and once a year thereafter. At each study visit, participants will be
      examined to assess physical characteristics of the disorder, such as motor behavior and
      disease severity. Additionally, participants will complete questionnaires about medical
      history, contact information, and quality of life. The first visit will last approximately
      1.5 hours, and every subsequent visit will last approximately 1 hour.
    
  