
    
      Background / rationale Despite overwhelming need for effective HIV palliative care in
      sub-Saharan Africa (as evidenced by the epidemiology of primarily HIV and cancer), a
      systematic appraisal of the literature found almost no outcome or evaluative evidence.
      Further systematic reviews of palliative care and HIV palliative care effectiveness have
      found the evidence to have been generated mainly in high income countries, before the advent
      of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and the evidence from Africa to be of generally lower quality
      (i.e. non-trial data) with limited potential for inclusion in evidence-based health care
      planning and delivery. In order to influence clinical practice, policy and guidelines, it is
      essential to provide high quality trial evidence of the effectiveness of palliative care for
      people on ART. In order to achieve the goal of maximum coverage, the capacity building of
      existing HIV care services to provide palliative care to their patients seems the most
      feasible. Further, the evidence demonstrates that the pain and symptom burden of those on ART
      is not different to those not on ART, therefore a key role for palliative care may be in the
      support of those accessing treatment. Our proposed study will develop a model of care that
      extends palliative care delivery into existing HIV/ART delivery sites, offering a mechanism
      of greater coverage and feasibility than alternative approaches such as referral of all
      palliative care-related problems out to specialist external providers.

        -  Aim We aim to evaluate the efficacy of HIV palliative care training and a simple
           palliative care assessment tool provided to nurses of patients on ART, and to evaluate
           this in terms of patient outcomes under clinical experimental conditions in 2 African
           countries using randomised controlled trial (RCT) designs.

        -  Intervention being tested Within each well-established HIV ART clinic, patients will be
           randomly allocated to either continue receiving standard care (control group) or to
           receive standard care plus appointments with a clinic nurse trained in basic palliative
           care (intervention group). The intervention nurse will receive weekly supervision from a
           local palliative care service and will use a simple assessment form at each patient
           appointment.

        -  Methods Design: Each Phase III clinical trial (i.e. one trial in each of 2 countries)
           will be powered and conducted in parallel to a common research design protocol, thus
           permitting evidence of outcomes that reflects 2 different ART providers, providing
           evidence of palliative care efficacy relevant to different HIV care settings. Each of
           the 2 HIV care facilities (one in each of Kenya and South Africa) is a highly
           experienced HIV and ART care provider, with proven longevity. The providers of the
           palliative care training are longstanding experts in the delivery of both palliative
           care training and palliative care.

      Primary outcome: Each trial has been powered to a primary endpoint of pain control.

      Secondary outcomes: The secondary outcomes are the core domains of palliative care as defined
      by the WHO (i.e. physical, including symptoms, psychological, social and spiritual) and
      measured by the APCA African POS. Further secondary outcomes measured will be: adherence to
      treatment; risk behaviours; health-related quality of life; and an additional measure of
      psychological morbidity.

      The primary and secondary outcomes are the same for each country's trial.

      This study aims to reject the null hypothesis that receipt of palliative care in addition to
      standard care does not affect pain compared to those receiving standard care alone.

      Inclusion: Patients will be screened and invited into the trial if they are on ART, score 3-5
      on the 0-5 APCA African POS pain or symptom items, are 18 years or older, and can give
      informed consent to trial entry and data collection.

      Analysis: An intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted to determine treatment response
      differences between the two conditions. In order to maximise the efficiency of longitudinal
      data, multi-level modelling will be applied as appropriate.

      - Outputs We have selected an RCT design, with multiple country partners, in order that
      outputs have maximum potential influence.

      The revised CONSORT trial statement for non-drug trials has been applied to ensure potential
      publication in the leading 400 medical journals.

      In terms of a clinical and policy audience for the findings, the inclusion of 2 partner
      countries enables us to demonstrate the efficacy of 2 providers of ART care (as there is much
      heterogeneity between HIV care providers in Africa), and to maximise the ability to replicate
      findings, while dissemination will describe and compare the two providers of care delivered.

      In addition to journal publications, we intend to present summary outputs to relevant Country
      Teams / policy / advocacy stakeholders, to present to international HIV / palliative care
      conference audiences, and to provide a podcast of findings to be freely downloaded on the
      web.

      Co-applicants and Collaborators This application represents a highly effective and proven
      group who have, over the past 5 years, delivered clinical audit, POS tool development and
      validation, longitudinal studies, and various patient outcome studies in HIV palliative care
      in Africa. The University departments are those most closely aligned to the palliative care
      field in each country, and offer an active clinical / teaching / research interface. The
      collaboration has a strong track record of successfully conducting clinical and public health
      research and in clinical care. Each collaborating training palliative care centre is a long
      standing recognised provider of quality palliative care, operating in line with the WHO
      definition of palliative care.
    
  