
    
      Sympathetically maintained pain (SMP) is defined as an aspect of pain which is maintained or
      mediated by sympathetic efferent activity including the action of circulating catecholamine
      and is often linked to the complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). SMP has been categorized as
      a subset of neuropathic pain mediated by the underlying mechanism of peripheral sensitization
      referring to noradrenergic sensitization of peripheral afferent nociceptive fibers and a
      pathologically sympathetic-sensory coupling interaction between the efferent sympathetic and
      the afferent system. Besides, SMP is associated with vasomotor and sudomotor dysfunction
      through either peripheral integerized by an adrenoreceptor stimulated or central organized by
      sensitization. Therefore, modulation of sympathetic activity either by means of
      pharmacological analgesics or local sympathetic ganglion blockade may influence the pain
      course in patients with chronic pain and hyperalgesia that were suspected to be
      sympathetically maintained.

      The pain associated with sympathetic activity can be relieved by blockage of efferent
      sympathetic nerves to the affected area. Stellate ganglion block (SGB), a local anesthetic
      blockade of sympathetic ganglia, has been advocated as an early intervention to achieve
      sympatholysis and its strong evidence had been identified. However, a success of SGB depends
      on the skilled invasive technique in application and several potential complications may be
      elucidated. Alternatively, the light irradiation near the stellate ganglion region (SGI)
      using either low-reactive level laser or linear-polarized near-infrared light irradiation had
      been used as a noninvasive method for local anesthetic sympathetic blockade. Furthermore, SGI
      can be safely and conveniently performed in clinical practice even when an anesthetic
      physician is not available, had been well tolerated by patients, and no thermal injury or
      side effects were reported by literatures.

      SGI had been identified to offer similar effects of SGB for patients with neuropathic pain,
      including improving blood flow by dilating vessels and reducing pain by directly blocking
      afferent nociceptive signal traveling via sympathetic pathways. The irradiation effect on
      heart rate variability (HRV), which is an objectively non-invasive marker of the autonomic
      nervous system, had not yet been well established. If the pathogenesis of SMP is closely
      referred to some abnormality in the function of autonomic nerve system (ANS), it is more
      necessary to measure autonomic activity for validation rather than pain status, local
      temperature or peripheral blood flow. Whether the relieved pain level after SGI is associated
      to HRV changes remains unclear. Identifying the relationship between HRV and pain status
      following SGI allows the clinicians to set a prompt protocol of phototherapy using SGI, and
      to accurately follow the outcome of autonomic dysfunction in patients with SMP.

      The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the sympatholytic and clinical effects of linear
      polarized near-infrared irradiation applied on stellate ganglion in patients with SMP.

      An experimental design with two groups will be used and a double blind, prospective
      randomized control trial will be conducted at the chronic pain medicine center in the
      physical medicine and rehabilitation department. Potential patients will be recruited. The
      enrolled patients will be randomly assigned to the experimental group or the control group
      (CG) using a table of random numbers. Patients in the experimental group will receive a
      6-week standard SGI treatment protocol (12 irradiation sessions), while those in the control
      group being undergo a sham irradiation during the same period. Both the investigators and the
      patients will be blinded to the group assignments. All outcome measures will be collected by
      a trained research assistant at the baseline admission prior to SGI therapy, before and after
      SGI at each irradiation session, and at the follow up admission immediately after the end of
      6-week treatment period.
    
  