
    
      Bipolar Disorder is a chronic disabling psychiatric disorder characterized by recurrent
      episodes of mania or hypomania and depression. Bipolar Disorder can be separated into bipolar
      I and bipolar II disorders with bipolar I disorder characterizing individuals who have
      episodes of mania and depression, and bipolar II disorder characterizing individuals who have
      episodes of depression with periods of hypomania, but not mania. Bipolar Disorder has an
      estimated prevalence of approximately 1% and a roughly equal gender ratio. Treatment of
      bipolar disorder is predominantly by pharmacological means with probably the most evidence
      still supporting the role of lithium both for the treatment of bipolar disorder and
      prophylaxis of further episodes (particularly (hypo)manic episodes.

      A number of other standard mood stabiliser agents are often utilised including sodium
      valproate, carbamazepine and lamotrigine. Over the last 10 years, a number of antipsychotic
      agents have attained a licence for the treatment of bipolar disorder including olanzapine,
      quetiapine, asenapine and aripiprazole. All of these treatments are associated with
      significant adverse effects. For example, lithium has been associated with hypothyroidism and
      diabetes insipidus, interacts with a variety of other agents including non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, diuretics and requires careful blood monitoring to ensure that the
      individuals blood level is within a therapeutic range (to avoid toxicity or subclinical
      treatment). Sodium Valproate is associated with several adverse effects; principal amongst
      these is teratogenesis in pregnancy, but also alopecia and a hand tremor. Carbamazepine is
      associated with blood dyscrasias and hyponatraemia and interacts with many medications.
      Lamotrigine has been utilised for the treatment of bipolar depression, however it can take
      several months of treatment before one reaches therapeutic doses, and severe skin rashes
      occasionally occur. In relation to the antipsychotic agents, olanzapine is associated with
      significant weight gain, somnolence and metabolic syndrome, quetiapine is associated with
      hypotension and somnolence, aripiprazole is associated with akathisia and asenapine is
      associated with dizziness and somnolence. Whilst psychotherapy has demonstrated some benefit
      for the treatment of bipolar depression, to date, the role of psychotherapy for the
      management of (hypo)mania remains limited.

      The putative role of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 PUFAs) principally
      eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the treatment of mood disorders
      has been supported by a wide variety of epidemiological observations, tissue compositional
      comparisons, clinical and treatment studies. For example, cross-national studies have found a
      substantially higher incidence of depression, suicide, and bipolar disorder in cultures with
      low omega-3 PUFA intake (due to low levels of fish consumption) with low levels of fish
      consumption also independently associated with symptoms of depression. Lower concentrations
      of both EPA and DHA have been found in red blood cells of depressed individuals compared to
      healthy controls, and the ratio of EPA to the omega-6 PUFA arachidonic acid (AA) has been
      demonstrated both in depression and in mania. The most specific evidence for central tissue
      compositional deficits is the finding of lower DHA in the post-mortem orbitofrontal cortex of
      patients with both major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder.

      Several randomised controlled trials have also demonstrated a benefit for omega-3 PUFAs in
      depression, although these findings are not universal and meta-analyses have noted
      substantial heterogeneity in these findings. Although there have been multiple treatment
      trials examining the putative antidepressant effect of omega-3 PUFAs in recurrent depressive
      disorder, we are aware of only six randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trials to date
      that have investigated if omega-3 PUFAs have a therapeutic role in bipolar disorder. In these
      trials, results have been contradictory with two studies demonstrating a benefit for omega-3
      PUFAs compared to placebo, with both of these trials demonstrating a reduction in depressive
      but not manic symptoms. with one study using high dose EPA (6.2g) and DHA (3.4g) for a period
      of 16 weeks, and another using lower formulations of EPA alone at doses of 1g or 2g for a
      period of 12 weeks. In relation to the five negative trials to date; DHA alone (2g) was
      administered to a small cohort of euthymic bipolar individuals (n=10; 6 = DHA, 4 = placebo)
      over a 52 week period in one study. Another study administered high dose EPA (6g) however,
      the drop-out rate was high at 54%. Two trials administered alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) (the
      parent omega-3 PUFA) or a mixture of PUFAs (3g EPA and 2g DHA) and pyrimidine cytidine
      (n=15), with no benefit noted. One final study was presented in the form of a letter to the
      editor and conducted in a small cohort of 15 individuals with minimal data provided.

      Therefore, it is unclear if omega-3 PUFAs have a therapeutic role in bipolar disorder.
      Studies to date have utilised a variety of PUFA formulations, for short time periods and have
      included either modest numbers or have had high drop-out rates.

      Humans have limited capacity to synthesize EPA or DHA de novo and make only limited amounts
      of DHA from the dietary precursor omega-3, ALA. Fish and shellfish are the primary dietary
      sources of preformed EPA and DHA. Both of these omega-3 PUFAs play an important role in many
      physiological processes including inflammation, and DHA is selectively concentrated in
      synaptic neuronal membranes. EPA has significant immunological neurotrophic and hormone like
      activities which may explain to date, the greater evidence for its antidepressant efficacy.
      EPA is more rapidly incorporated into membrane phospholipids, increasing inflammation
      resolution of circulating mononuclear cells, resulting in attenuated production of the
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF). Both
      major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder are associated with increased
      circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-α and perhaps the
      demonstrated antidepressant effects of EPA may be related in some part to its
      anti-inflammatory role. Other postulated mechanisms for a putative role of omega-3 PUFAs in
      bipolar disorder include suppression of neuronal signalling, second messenger generation,
      calcium channel and protein kinase C activity and kindling. Western diets are deficient in
      omega-3 PUFAs, largely due to relatively low seafood consumption and the food industry
      preference for corn and soy oils high in the short-chain omega-6 PUFA acid linoleic acid.
      However, omega-3 PUFAs are becoming an increasingly popular over-the-counter dietary
      supplement and are an appealing option for treatment of both physical and psychiatric
      illness, given the perception that they are a "natural" substance and that they possess a
      very benign adverse effect profile.

      To date, despite moderate evidence for the efficacy of omega-3 PUFAs in recurrent depressive
      disorder (major depressive illness), little is known in relation to the possible efficacy of
      omega-3 PUFAs in bipolar disorder. As stated, studies to date in bipolar disorder have
      occurred in individuals with euthymia or mild depression and the maximum trial duration as
      mentioned above except for one study with only 10 participants has been 16 weeks.
      Participants in this study will be adults (aged 18 or older) recruited from the local mental
      health service, which include a specialised bipolar disorder clinic (n=40) and 12 other
      out-patient clinics per week, where approximately another 160 individuals with bipolar
      disorder attend. Approximately 130 individuals attending the service would satisfy criteria
      for study inclusion and it is envisaged based on previous research by Hallahan and colleagues
      in the same population, that 70% (n=91) would be willing to engage in this treatment trial.
      If insufficient numbers are available to participate from the local mental health service,
      significant links with adjoining HSE West services (within 1 hour of Galway) have been
      developed for research purposes over the last seven years and additional participants could
      be attained.

      After a complete description of the study, written informed consent will be obtained from all
      participants and signed agreement will be obtained from their treating psychiatrist. Previous
      studies demonstrating a treatment effect in depression and both positive bipolar disorder
      studies have had EPA as the sole or principal omega-3 PUFA, and thus the investigators felt
      that it was important that EPA was a significant component of the PUFA formulation. Based on
      a recent hierarchical meta-analysis conducted at NUI Galway, it is clear that EPA has some
      clinical benefit for depression and DHA as the predominant component in a PUFA formulation
      has no significant clinical benefit, however when both compounds were present, the beneficial
      effect was at least as efficacious (marginally more efficacious but not to a statistical
      significant level) than where EPA was the sole PUFA agent. Furthermore, as DHA enrichment and
      turnover in the brain is slow (unlike EPA), with a half-life of approximately 2.5 years, it
      is not surprising that relatively short RCTs would not demonstrate a benefit with DHA.

      Consequently individuals who consent to participate in this study will take either the active
      agent which is Omega-3 PUFA: Dose = 1g Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA) and 1g Docosahexaenoic
      Acid (DHA) taken po as a juice (200ml; Smartfish Nutrifriend 2000). Placebo will look and
      taste identical to the active compound.

      Omega-3 PUFAs are freely available to attain in a variety of health shops, pharmacies and in
      some general retail shops also. Consequently they are not in any phase of development,
      however their benefit, long established for physical conditions such as arthritis has also
      been postulated for mood disorders and evidence for benefit has been attained in a number of
      randomised controlled trials and meta-analyses with no associated adverse consequences.

      After a 1-3 month placebo run in time, participants will take the active or placebo agent for
      12 months.

      No medical regulatory board approval was required (HPRA in Ireland) as this is a nutrient
      rather than a medication.

      Aims Primary: Undertake a 52 week single-centre, double-blind, placebo controlled study of
      omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in bipolar disorder (who have a history of 3 or
      more episodes) to ascertain if omega-3 PUFAs reduce the risk of further relapse for both /
      either depressive or (hypo)manic episodes.

      Secondary: Ascertain if there is any difference from baseline mood scores for both elation
      and depression for omega-3 PUFAs compared to placebo. The investigators wish to ascertain
      what proportion of individuals drop out of the study from both groups.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out utilising the Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences 24 (SPSS 24) or other statistical programmes as deemed necessary. Significance will
      be set at 0.05 and all tests will be two-tailed. Parametric data will be analysed using
      student t-tests or analysis of co-variance where appropriate and non-parametric data will be
      analysed using chi-squared test. A repeated analysis of variance (ANOVA) with baseline rating
      scores entered as co-variates will be used to compare changes in psychopathology over time in
      the two groups. Survivor analysis (Kaplan-Meier) will also be utilised in this study.

      No analysis has been conducted to date and the code for placebo or active groups has not been
      broken.

      Psychometric Instruments utilised include the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I
      Disorders (SCID), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
      (HDRS), the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale
      and Clinical Global Impression (CGI).
    
  