
    
      Rehabilitation in heart failure medicine is limited due to many comorbidities and reduced
      exercise capacity in this patient group. In patients after cardiac surgery rehabilitation is
      sometimes difficult especially due to ICU- acquired weakness following a prolonged intensive
      care course. To tackle these problems and enable recovery and rehabilitation many of the
      conventional methods are lacking feasibility. During the next decades increasing numbers of
      older and more frail patients in the field of advanced heart failure are expected. To
      establish a new method for rehabilitation we use technology well established in other
      divisions of medicine. Robotic assisted gait therapy is well established in neurology in
      paraplegic and tetraplegic patients, patients after stroke and traumatic injured patients.
      Gait therapy is used to re-establish the normal course of motion. The Lokomat ® (Hocoma AG)
      is therefore used in over 25 countries worldwide. The combination of different training modes
      (interval training, endurance training and resistance training) is one of the advantages. The
      most important benefit is the possibility to extend or relieve the robotic assistance up to a
      point without support on the one hand and full support from the Lokomat ® on the other hand
      and relieve the patient partly or complete from his bodyweight. This enables the therapist to
      plan the most possible individual training almost independent from his exercise capacity for
      each patient. Up to now heart failure is a contraindication for training with the Lokomat ®
      and no trial was performed after cardiac surgery. Therefore a clinical trial is necessary to
      establish this method in the field of heart failure medicine and after cardiac surgery. In
      our prospective trial we investigate two points after a feasibility trial first, were healthy
      persons and patients with NYHA 1 or less are trained for safety reasons, to establish
      possible protocols and get familiar with the robotic assisted gait therapy. In the
      prospective trial we train patients with stable heart failure (NYHA 2 or NYHA 3) and a left
      ventricular ejection fraction less than 45% for 4 weeks with 3 trainings per week.

      Timeframe for heart failure Patients: Screening day0; Baseline/Start of the training day0
      +(0-5days); training period day0+ (0-5days) up to 4 Weeks, 28 days of training with the
      Lokomat®. Each week three training periods; End of Study Visit after 4 to 5 Weeks from
      baseline.

      Timeframe for patients after cardiac surgery: Screening day0; baseline/start of the training
      day0 +(0-2days); training period one week with the Lokomat® with three training sessions; end
      of study visit after one week, telephone follow up twelve weeks after hospital discharge to
      evaluate possible deep sterna wound infection. Due to the character as a pilot trial, there
      are no statistical end points, but stress test (spiroergometry), blood sample (interleukin 6,
      CRP, BNP) , strength measurement of the Musc. quadriceps and a quality of life questionnaire
      (SF 36) are taken at baseline (day0) and after the 4 week training period at end of study
      visit. Patients after cardiac surgery are trained with another strategy. There the safety
      aspect is the most important in this pilot trial. Patients after cardiac surgery are trained
      with the Lokomat® during initial hospitalization for one week with three sessions. A six
      minute walk test and measurement of quadriceps peak force is done at at baseline/start of the
      training day0, expected at day 3 to 14 after surgery, and after one week of training at end
      of study visit day seven. A telephone follow up of this patients three months after hospital
      discharge is done for possible deep sternal wound infection.

      Each training in the heart failure group should lasts 30-45minutes. The heart failure group
      should contain 5-6 patients. The training in the postcardiotomy group should last
      10-40minutes depending on patients postoperative status. The postcardiotomy group should
      contain 10 patients. 20 patients receiving normal postoperative physiotherapy serve as a
      control group.
    
  