
    
      Enteral nutrition of preterm and intrauterine growth-restricted (IUGR) infants remains a
      major challenge for neonatologists. Early introduction of minimal enteral feeding (MEF)
      enhances gut hormones release, reduces the intestinal permeability and improves the motility
      of the intestinal tract, thus promoting gut functional maturation. Due to gastrointestinal
      immaturity, however, preterm infants are likely to develop clinical symptoms of feeding
      intolerance (FI), such as abdominal distention, vomiting, abundant and/or bilious gastric
      residuals, occult or gross bloody stools. FI could represent an early sign of necrotizing
      enterocolitis (NEC), the most feared gastrointestinal complication of prematurity. The
      occurrence of FI often prompts neonatologists to withhold, decrease or discontinue enteral
      feeds, thus hampering the establishment of an adequate early enteral nutrition.

      Early identification of preterm infants at high risk of gastrointestinal complications could
      help clinical decisions on the introduction and the advancement of enteral feeding. The
      administration of the first feed in healthy preterm infants leads to a post-prandial increase
      of superior mesenteric artery (SMA) blood flow, detected by Doppler ultrasound. A significant
      correlation between early feeding tolerance and increased SMA blood flow velocity has been
      further observed one hour after the first feed.

      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) provides a non-invasive monitoring of regional oxygen
      saturation (rSO2) and has been previously used to evaluate mesenteric perfusion in preterm
      infants at increased risk for intestinal complications. Abdominal rSO2 detected by NIRS has
      been shown to effectively reflect mesenteric blood flow changes. A significant correlation
      between lower abdominal rSO2 values in the first week of life and subsequent NEC development
      has been recently observed in a cohort of preterm infants, confirming previous data from
      animal models.

      Current evidences on the role of NIRS monitoring in predicting FI development are still
      limited. To date, indeed, splanchnic oxygenation patterns in response to the first bolus feed
      and possible correlations with subsequent FI development have not been established yet.

      The aim of this study is to assess abdominal rSO2 patterns in response to the first bolus
      feed and to evaluate possible correlations with the development of gastrointestinal
      complications.

      Infants admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) are consecutively enrolled in the
      study if fulfilling the following criteria: gestational age ≤34 weeks, stable clinical
      conditions, availability of antenatal Doppler data.

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  Enteral feeding prior to the enrollment

        -  Major congenital abnormalities

        -  Central nervous system diseases

        -  Hypoxic injury

        -  Hemodynamic instability, hypotension, patent ductus arterioles, anemia, sepsis or other
           infections at time of the first feed.

        -  Antenatal Doppler impairment.

      Written, informed consent to participate in the study is obtained from the parents/legal
      guardians of each infant before enrollment.

      During the first feed administration, the enrolled infants undergo a continuous monitoring of
      cerebral and splanchnic rSO2 by means of an INVOS 5100 oximeter. NIRS recording is performed
      from 30 minutes before to 3 hours after feeding administration. Cerebral and splanchnic rSO2
      are recorded every 5 seconds. Baseline values are defined by the mean of the 15 minutes
      before the meal; values recorded after feeding administration are clustered into 5-minute
      intervals.

      Feeding intolerance is defined as enteral feeding withholding for at least 1 day due to the
      onset of gastrointestinal symptoms.

      Patients' characteristics (including gestational age, birth weight, tolerance to enteral
      feeds during hospitalization) are recorded in a specific case report form at the time of
      enteral feeding introduction and before discharge.

      In relation to their clinical characteristics, the enrolled infants are retrospectively
      allocated into 2 groups:

        -  Group 1: infants developing FI during the hospitalization;

        -  Group 2: infants not developing FI during the hospitalization;

      Data are analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistic version 20.0.0 (IBM Corporation, IBM Corporation
      Armonk, New York, United States). Clinical characteristics in the study groups are compared
      by t-test for continuous variables and chi-square test for categorical variables.
      Mann-Whitney U test is used to compare abdominal rSO2 patterns in response to the first feed
      between groups 1 and 2. A multivariate analysis is also performed to assess the effect of
      possible confounding factors.
    
  