
    
      Through a cluster-randomised trial, this study will address the research question: Do
      community-based peer-led interventions increase knowledge of HIV status and coverage of
      sexual and reproductive health services among adolescents and young people in Lusaka, Zambia,
      compared to current standard of care? To address this question, the study aims to build a
      rigorous evidence-base of the effectiveness of community-based, peer-led HIV services
      designed with and for adolescents and young people living in Lusaka, Zambia, and evidence of
      the process of delivering such an intervention to support replication and scale-up if the
      intervention is effective.

      The intervention, called Yathu Yathu (For us, by us), was designed with adolescents and young
      people in a formative research study. The Yathu Yathu intervention includes: 1) delivery of
      comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services by peer support workers, lay
      counsellors and a nurse at community-based hubs, and 2) an innovative "prevention points
      card" system. The prevention points cards are intended to incentivise service use by allowing
      adolescents and young people to accrue points for accessing services and redeem rewards using
      these points. At the start of the intervention period, trained enumerators will
      systematically visit and enumerate all households in the 20 study clusters. For household
      members aged 15 to 24, the enumerators will offer the individual a prevention points card. A
      third component is mobile phone-based support groups. These groups will initially be set-up
      among HIV-positive pregnant women, as a means to offer psychosocial support, with expansion
      of this portion of the intervention to other groups planned.

      To evaluate the impact of the Yathu Yathu intervention, a cross-sectional survey among a
      random sample of approximately 2000 adolescents and young people will be conducted 18-months
      after implementation of the intervention. An embedded mixed-method process evaluation will
      provide evidence of service acceptability, feasibility, and of adolescents and young people's
      experiences with services. An economic evaluation will provide evidence of the costs and
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention package. Through these methods, this study will
      provide a rigorous and comprehensive evidence-base of whether Yathu Yathu can increase
      adolescents and young people access to sexual and reproductive health services, thereby
      contributing to their health and well-being.
    
  