
    
      The research to date indicates that olfactory sensitivity and cognition are reduced in
      depressed patients. The data also suggest that higher order cognitive odour evaluation,
      measured via identification testing, is not altered in depression. Furthermore, research into
      the effect (if any) of treatment on olfactory performance (sensitivity and identification)
      has been sparse. Researchers have called for studies that examine olfactory sensitivity prior
      to psychiatric treatment and post-remission. To the best of our knowledge there has yet to be
      a study on the effect of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or intermittent theta burst
      stimulation (iTBS) treatments on the olfactory performance of patients with treatment
      refractory Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and bipolar depression. ECT has been identified as
      today's most effective treatment for severe depression due to the remission rates, speed of
      response, and the completeness of remission. iTBS is a new remittent transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) protocol that has gained more notoriety within the field for the speed of
      administration, effectiveness of the treatment, and speed of response. Unlike rTMS, TBS
      mimics the endogenous theta rhythms of the brain, which results in greater potency in
      inducing long-term potentiation of synaptic connections in the targeted brain regions. iTBS
      has been shown to be effective in treating mood disturbances, and increasing plasticity and
      inducing neurogenesis in patients. People with MDD often struggle with cognitive impairments
      such as decreased executive functioning, attention, concentration, speed of processing, and
      working memory. The brain areas associated with cognition, such as the prefrontal cortex and
      hippocampus are negatively affected by depression; studies have shown decreased volume,
      activity, and disturbed brain connectivity in those two areas. Currently, there is a lack of
      treatment options for improving cognition in depressed patients. The investigators are
      focussing on exploring the therapeutic potential of iTBS on cognition.The preliminary
      evidence from our study will add to scientists' understanding of the short and long term
      effects of iTBS treatment on the cognitive related areas in the brain through the use of
      fMRI. The investigators also hope our research will allow psychiatrists to deliver better
      care to patients with debilitating cognitive impairments associated with depression. Overall,
      a study examining the olfactory and cognitive performance of patients with treatment
      resistant MDD and bipolar depression, pre-ECT/iTBS, post-ECT/iTBS, and post-remission would
      yield valuable insight into the link between olfaction and mood disorders as well as
      cognition and mood disorders.
    
  