
    
      All data collected by the equipment placed at the patient's home will be directly and
      securely transferred to the Heart polyclinic of the University Hospital of North Norway
      (UNN). All data is anonymous as explained below, only the weight and the codes with the
      answers to the questionnaire are send.

      Each day a nurse is assigned as responsible for the heart remote monitoring system. The nurse
      in charge must read the heart remote monitoring email in the morning every day, seven days a
      week. If an alert email has been received, then the nurse logs into the system's dashboard
      and reads the data displayed there for that patient. Then the nurse will try to phone the
      patient to clarify the situation. Until this moment the procedure protocol differs from the
      ordinary routines as the notification of a case is usually raised by a phone call from the
      patient or a hospitalisation. But from this moment on, the procedure protocol is the same as
      for all patients treated by the Heart polyclinic, i.e. if the nurse evaluates the situation
      to need a further follow-up, then the nurse contacts the patient's general practitioner (GP)
      by phone (as said this is procedure as usual). The hospital's Heart polyclinic has the same
      responsibility for the treatment of the patients, both in the intervention arm and the
      control arm.

      Each one of the patients assigned to the intervention arm will be following this procedure
      during 6 months. For the patients assigned to the control arm they will receive treatment as
      usual also during a period of 6 months. Data stored in the system is anonymised. All patients
      are uniquely identified by a number, the Unique Identifier (UID), in the system, the
      connection between the UID and the real identity being only stored in a file in a secured
      personal computer unconnected from any network, staying in an office at the heart polyclinic.
      Once a week, the UIDs' file stored in the study personal computer at the Heart polyclinic is
      transferred to a hardware protected pen drive. The pen drive in then placed in another
      building at the UNN. This procedure is of the responsibility of the UNN's department for
      "E-health and information and communications technology (ICT)". In this way only two copies
      of the file are stored in separate buildings. No reference to the study name is mentioned in
      this file.

      As a pilot study, a prototype of the platform was built. It consisted of a wireless weight
      scale and also a blood pressure meter prepared to send the values through the home Wi-Fi
      network to a connected portable computer. The portable computer could then send the encrypted
      measurements to a server at UNN.

      After the first two months of pilot testing, the patient was satisfied with the usability of
      the solution and the reliability of the service was proven.

      The platform deployed and tested in the pilot study has been extended to include
      functionalities for multiple patients. A dashboard showing all the measurements received
      (unidentified) has been developed for the polyclinic and used by the responsible clinician
      (the nurse on daily duty). This data is unidentified and consists of a registration of blood
      pressure and weight, the encoded answers to the questionnaire attached (example: Q3A2 means
      that question 3 got the answer 2 in the questionnaire). The responsible nurse at the Heart
      Polyclinic has access to the dashboard. When a situation requiring the nurse intervention
      arises, the system sends an alerting email to a pre-defined address (usually the nurse's
      email account as it will be done in this study).

      The design of the randomized controlled trial (RCT) Power analysis The inclusion of 40
      patients is based upon the total number of new patients served by the polyclinic per year
      during the 2 last years. For this study a sample size was calculated based on a readmission
      rate of 70% of the patients per year on average with a standard deviation of 20pp (percentage
      points). The values are adequate, based on patients who have received treatment within the
      Heart Polyclinic and also replicating the study by Antonicelli, published in the Journal of
      telemedicine and Telecare "Impact of telemonitoring at home on the management of elderly
      patients with congestive heart failure" in 2008.

      It was assumed by the clinical team that a 1/3 reduction on the rate of readmissions (down to
      47%) would be clinically relevant as the margin of superiority for the intervention. To have
      95% certainty (power) that a test at 0.05 level of significance would find a statistically
      significant difference between the means, the study would include a minimum of 20 patients in
      each group.

      The planned RCT The telemonitoring service will be offered to all patients admitted at UNN's
      Heart Polyclinic, satisfying the inclusion criteria. The study comprises an intervention arm
      testing the proposed telemonitoring service and a control arm with the current treatment.

      Patients assigned to the intervention arm receive a home telemonitoring kit consisting of a
      tablet, a wireless weight scale and a portable blood pressure meter. The patient is asked to
      weigh him- or herself every day and the monitoring procedure happens as previously described.
      In addition a measurement of the blood pressure is also made.

      Patients assigned to the control arm receive treatment as usual, consisting of a
      recommendation to weigh themselves at home, using their own weight scale, and to report by
      phone to the polyclinic if there is a significant change in weight.

      The study calendar is shown below. Recruiting period: 14 months Follow-up period: 6 months
      Number of patients: 40

      Randomization: will be performed using sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes

      Blinding: independent outcome assessors and data analysts are blinded to which group the
      patient has been assigned to (patients are not blinded due to the nature of the
      intervention).

      Challenges and opportunities Qualitative research with semi structured interviews. Patients
      in the intervention group and health care professionals will be asked to state their opinion
      of the service. The research team will also observe patients' interactions with the system
      after the 6 months of the study. A qualitative summary and thematic analysis of significant
      features of opinions and actions will be connected to best practices. The purpose is to be
      able to understand how best practices can be developed in the Northern Norwegian context, and
      describe their mechanisms. The innovation intention is to adjust the services as they
      develop, by considering the identified additional conditions for future development.

      Ethics and privacy With recent events and advances in information technology and the
      Internet, confidentiality regarding handling of patient private data has become a critical
      aspect of a study design as privacy is a fundamental right in the public healthcare domain.
      In this project confidentiality of private health information will be ensured according to
      the Health Personnel Act ยง 21, helsepersonelloven ยง 21, and described in LOV2001-05-18 nr.24
      (Helse- og omsorgsdepartementet, 2001). All private personal data will be de-identified:
      every unique identifying number, characteristic, or code identifiers of the individual or of
      relatives, employers, or household members of the individual will be removed so that the
      information can be used alone or in combination with other information. The resulting data
      will be analysed by a statistician to ensure that no individually identifiable health
      information remains. The consent of participants will be required by means of providing a
      letter of informed consent to be signed.
    
  