
    
      Rationale: The chemotherapy combination of doxorubicin, vincristine and dexamethasone (DVd)
      has been used with some efficacy in patients with multiple myeloma. However, DVd's efficacy
      is primarily considered palliative for patients with this condition. The current study adds
      arsenic trioxide to the DVd combo to assess if all of the treatments together improve patient
      outcomes. Previous studies suggest that arsenic trioxide may enhance the efficacy of specific
      chemotherapy agents including those in DVd; however, research in people has not yet
      demonstrated this improved effectiveness. Because the safety of arsenic trioxide has been
      tested in this patient population, this phase II study will gather more information about
      safety and also measure efficacy through various measures.

      Purpose: This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of doxorubicin, vincristine and
      dexamethasone plus arsenic trioxide in untreated patients with symptomatic multiple myeloma.
      The biology of the tumor and other molecular changes will also be assessed in patients
      through collections of blood and marrow samples.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive arsenic trioxide, doxorubicin, vincristine and
      dexamethasone. During the first five days of the study, patients will be given arsenic
      trioxide each day through an intravenous infusion. No treatments will be provided on days six
      and seven. After this first week, patients will then receive study drugs on the following
      schedule every four weeks: doxorubicin and vincristine on day one, dexamethasone on days one
      through four, and arsenic trioxide twice each week. This schedule can be repeated up to four
      times for a total of approximately four months. Several tests and exams will be given
      throughout the study to closely monitor patients. Supportive care will be provided to help
      regulate side effects from study drugs and maintain quality of life in patients. Treatments
      will be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable side effects.
    
  