
    
      Ischemic placental disease (IPD) is an entity encompassing pre-eclampsia, fetal growth
      restriction (FGR) and placental abruption and has a combined incidence in pregnancy of
      10-15%. Pre-eclampsia is a serious systemic condition affecting 3-5% of pregnancies and is
      responsible for > 50,000 of maternal deaths annually worldwide. The International Society for
      the Study of Hypertension in Pregnancy defines pre-eclampsia as gestational hypertension with
      proteinuria of 300 mg or more in 24 h.

      The use of low dose aspirin (LDA) prior to 16-weeks' gestation can prevent the pathological
      process causing placental disease by altering the balance of prostacyclin and thromboxane;
      hence preventing spiral artery thrombosis and widespread endothelial dysfunction.

      There is extensive evidence, demonstrating the efficacy and safety of LDA for prevention of
      placental disease in high-risk pregnancies where there are clearly identifiable risk factors.
      However, there is a paucity of research into its efficacy in low-risk women. Administration
      of aspirin in pregnancy is associated with absolute risk reductions of 2% to 5% for
      pre-eclampsia, 1% to 5% for FGR 2% to 4% for preterm delivery with no associated increase in
      perinatal or maternal morbidity.

      Several screening tests have been devised to detect the risk of pre-eclampsia and FGR from
      the first trimester. One of the most notable is that of The Fetal Medicine Foundation (FMF),
      UK that have devised an algorithm encompassing uterine artery Doppler pulsatility indices,
      mean arterial pressure (MAP), the placental biomarkers PAPP-A and PLGF in addition to
      maternal characteristics, which can detect 96% of cases of pre-eclampsia requiring delivery
      before 34 weeks and 54% of all cases of pre-eclampsia at a fixed false-positive rate of 10%.
      The FMF screening test is reserved as a research tool, pending validation within a low-risk
      population. Thus far it has been externally validated in other studies of unselected women
      with conflicting results as to sensitivity and specificity for placental disease prediction.
      Following validation of the FMF screening test in low-risk nulliparous women, which is
      currently the topic of on-going research, the FMF pre-eclampsia screening test may
      potentially come into clinical practice in the future. Current guidelines followed within the
      UK, set by The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence advocate screening
      through history taking and provision of LDA in the presence of one major risk factor or two
      moderate risk-factors. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have a similar
      stance and do not recommend screening to predict pre-eclampsia beyond obtaining an
      appropriate medical history to evaluate for risk factors. They recommend that any further
      screening tests beyond this should undergo a cost-effectiveness analysis before being used in
      routine practice.

      It has been postulated that it is more cost-effective to use prophylactic medication, notably
      aspirin for the prevention of placental disease rather than screening and treating an entire
      low-risk population. The reason for this is because aspirin is felt to be an effective,
      affordable and safe treatment in pregnancy.

      In light of such evidence, with an emerging novel screening test for pre-eclampsia and the
      efficacy of LDA for placental disease prevention it may be more clinically effective and
      affordable to prescribe LDA routinely to all women in their first pregnancy as opposed to
      being upon the basis of a screening test. To assess this hypothesis a preliminary pilot study
      is required to determine feasibility, acceptability and statistical power required for such a
      study. The study proposed is a three-armed parallel, multi-center, open-label randomized
      control trial (RCT) in low-risk women to determine; (i) the efficacy and (ii) the
      acceptability of women to take routine LDA, versus no LDA versus LDA on the basis of a
      pre-eclampsia screening test in their first pregnancy. It can be anticipated that the use of
      such a three-armed study will aid in determining if it is more acceptable to women and
      feasible to prescribe LDA routinely compared to not at all, or based on results of a
      screening test.
    
  