
    
      This study will use a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) design to
      examine key scientific questions for assembling an optimal adaptive intervention for
      preschoolers with ASD .

      Children will first be recruited through local school districts and early intervention
      service providers, approximately 35 children per year across all three sites (UCLA will have
      15 per year, University of Oregon will have 10 per year, and University of Rochester will
      have 10 per year) for a total of 140 children.

      Based on early intervention research conducted by this research team over the past 15 years,
      we are proposing a first stage treatment decision comparing the commonly applied ABA method
      of Discrete Trial Teaching or an NDBI approach of JASPER focused on social communication and
      play targets specifically. The dose of each intervention is delivered at a research dose of 2
      hours per week (consistent with previous JASPER studies. All children are expected to receive
      federally subsidized early intervention services which we will track for dose and type (to be
      considered in analyses). The interventions are described below: Stage 1 DTT Intervention
      (2x60 minute sessions per week in community setting): Discrete Trial Training (DTT), an
      adult-led, highly structured, behavioral teaching approach, is considered to have the
      strongest evidence as a "standard of care" for young children with autism. DTT emphasizes
      didactic, adult-led instruction. This approach relies on teaching discriminations between
      stimuli, responses to stimuli, and providing systematic reinforcement for correct responses.
      The goals of DTT are to teach specific skills, to accelerate overall development and increase
      school readiness. In order to meet these goals the interventionist works to create an
      engaging environment to support the child's ability to attend to the instruction and
      demonstrate the skills correctly. Recently, DTT interventions have begun to teach skills to
      address early core social communication deficits such as joint attention in order to promote
      better language and communication outcomes. While many children will have been exposed to DTT
      prior to entering this trial as part of business as usual community treatment, community
      intervention quality and dosage can vary widely. It is important to insure that children (a)
      receive quality DTT, and (b) have exposure to elements related to language learning,
      specifically engagement in instruction, and joint attention and requesting gestures, in order
      to make the comparison with JASPER in stage 1. Thus, in addition to the expected ABA approach
      used in their early intervention preschool program (which in the sites we are located also
      includes DTT during the day), we will insure high quality DTT carried out by research staff
      in order to adequately make the comparison between models for children with ASD in this
      project.

      Stage 1 JASPER Intervention (2x60 minute sessions per week in community setting): is a
      developmentally anchored behavioral intervention that assumes that communication develops
      from social interactions in which specific social engagement strategies, symbolic
      representations, and early communication forms are modeled and naturally reinforced by the
      adult's responses to the child. JASPER uses the child's current play level to choose
      appropriate toys and materials to create a context for learning. Developmental principles of
      following the child's attentional focus, balancing imitation and modeling to create and
      expand play routines, supporting children's regulation and engagement, as well as responding
      to and expanding children's communication/language targets are used. The goal of JASPER is to
      increase (a) joint engagement, (b) initiations of joint attention and requesting skills, (c)
      diversity in social play involving objects and persons, and (d) verbal and nonverbal
      communication by facilitating meaningful social interactions. The social interaction
      foundation of JASPER is critical. Modeling and expansions of communicative behaviors and play
      are used strategically within the interactions with an adult. For children at risk of
      minimally verbal status, meaningful social interaction is essential for establishing the
      platform on which language input and development will be built. Unlike DTT, JASPER is likely
      to be a novel intervention to which few children will have had previous exposure through
      business as usual treatment.

      Stage 2: Responders (2x60 minute sessions per week): Responders in stage 1 stay the course in
      the same intervention at the same dose.

      Stage 2: Intensify (3x60 minute sessions per week): Slower responders in stage 1 may be
      rerandomized to continue the stage 1 intervention. In this Stage 2 choice, we will follow the
      same procedures outlined in the stage 1 interventions to provide the child with more time to
      make gains with consistent high quality intervention, but add an additional session, as
      increased dose is usual practice in the community.

      Stage 2 intervention Combined & Enhanced Treatment (CET: 2x60 minute sessions per week): CET
      is 2 sessions per week. Using the dashboard approach pioneered by Chorpita, child needs are
      matched to potentially effective intervention modules (e.g., behavior challenges that may
      indicate more time spent in DTT type intervention). We have used this approach with older
      minimally verbal children with ASD, and are proposing to use this model here with preschool
      aged children who respond slowly to first stage intervention.

      Our prior trials exploring supports for slowly responding school age children have shown us
      that children are typically showing some response rather than no response. Therefore, CET
      will combine a balance of initial treatment augmented with additional treatment type. Our
      options for enhancing intervention include a) primarily direct instruction (75% DTT with
      JASPER strategies embedded within play based breaks), b)primarily JASPER (75% JASPER, with
      DTT priming on specific language or play targets at the beginning of the session and trials
      embedded briefly within JASPER routines), c) add SGD, child will receive access to a tablet
      with a speech generating application to teach the child to communicate using both augmented
      and spoken language using either JASPER or direct instruction strategies. When the SGD is
      added, this will provide another mode for children to communicate as well to model and teach
      expressive communication. The SGD will be added to DTT to provide instruction (e.g.,
      discriminative stimulus) and for the child to use to respond and spontaneously communicate
      across programs. In JASPER, the adult will model both augmented words using the SGD and
      spoken words as well as respond and expand child communication with both spoken and augmented
      words.

      The tablet will be programmed to meet the developmental level of the child (e.g., number of
      symbols, type of symbol- real image, symbol). Children randomized to CET will be reviewed by
      the study team (site leads, coordinators, and interventionist) to plan the CET program
      components to cross site consensus. Plans and components will be tracked using the CET
      Dashboard tracking form.

      Intervention Dose and Duration: In stage 1, all children receive 2 hours per week of JASPER
      or DTT.

      The total duration of treatment is 20 weeks This dose is based on (i) ongoing and previous
      research conducted by our team concerning feasible doses of stage 1 DTT or JASPER in actual
      practice settings (RO1 # R01HD073975); and (ii) our previous efficacy studies of JASPER.
      Concomitant Intervention: Children can receive concomitant intervention, which will be
      measured for dose and type (and considered in analyses). For example, many (or all) children
      are expected to receive federally subsidized early intervention services.

      Fidelity and Quality Assurance. Interventionists at all 3 recruitment sites will be trained
      together to high fidelity levels (>90% on all elements of intervention components) with 2-3
      children prior to carrying out the intervention for this study. The PI and Coordinator at
      each site will supervise interventionists weekly in individual and group meetings.
      Coordinators will rate fidelity for each site for 20% of all sessions, selected randomly. If
      low levels of fidelity are observed, the poor-performing interventionist will receive
      additional training until fidelity exceeds 90%. Weekly conference calls will be conducted to
      monitor cross-site fidelity for each intervention.

      Video-recorded sessions of each interventionist will be reviewed on a rotating basis by the
      interventionists and supervisors during these calls. In prior studies we have successfully
      used this approach in which videos are uploaded to our password-protected, HIPAA-compliant
      Data Coordinating site to calibrate reliability ratings and intervention fidelity and to
      initiate discussion of difficult or problematic cases in prior studies. Quality assurance
      checks at each site will occur monthly on 10% of randomly selected sessions by Coordinators
      and/or PIs.

      Randomization. Authorized personnel at each site will randomize participants via the
      centralized database using a customized system tailored for the SMART design. The project
      statistician will generate the randomization sequence, with allocation sequence concealed
      from all other study personnel. The first randomization at baseline is to stage 1 treatment
      (JASPER or DTT) with equal assignment probability to each group. For the first randomization,
      the system will make a treatment assignment only if the participant meets study criteria and
      only after the screening and stratification data are entered. For the second randomization,
      once the variables necessary for determining early response status (as well as the
      stratification variables) are entered, slower responders will be automatically re-randomized
      to Stage 2 treatment.

      All randomizations will occur within sites and will be further stratified using a
      minimization allocation method. This procedure will ensure that treatment groups are balanced
      for variables that may correlate highly with outcomes. The first randomization will be
      stratified on 1 baseline measure, initiating joint attention (JA gestures and/or JA language
      >0 vs ≤0) based on the Early Social Communication Scales (ESCS). The second randomization
      among slow responders will be stratified on whether or not the child has made 0.2 gains (2
      minutes) in joint engagement from baseline to week 10 based on the Adult-Child Interaction
      Play Interaction.

      SMART Design:

      Early Assessments, Randomize to Stage 1 Treatment

      Stage 1: JASPER

      Decision Point: Early Response Assessments

      Early Responders/Re-Randomize JASPER (slow responders)

      Stage 2: Stay the course (Early Responders only)- (A; look at 6.0) Stage 2:CET - (B; look at
      6.0) or Stage 2: JASPER -intensify (Randomized for slow responders)- (C; look at 6.0)

      Exit assessments and Follow up assessments at 10 weeks post treatment and 6 years of age

      Early Assessments, Randomize to Stage 1 Treatment

      Stage 1: DTT Decision Point: Early Response Assessments

      Early Responders/Re-Randomize DTT (slow responders)

      Stage 2: Stay the course (Early Responders only) -(D; look at 6.0) Stage 2:CET -(E; look at
      6.0) or Stage 2: DTT -intensify (Randomized for slow responders) - (F; look at 6.0)

      Exit assessments and Follow up assessments at 10 weeks post treatment and 6 years of age
    
  