
    
      BACKGROUND

      Hospital inpatient care accounts for the largest share of total health care expenses in the
      US. In 2012, the average cost per inpatient stay was $10,400 with total aggregated hospital
      costs of $377.5 billion. (Moore, 2012; and Weiss, 2012) In addition to this expense,
      transitions from the hospital represent a particularly vulnerable time when patients are
      susceptible to experiencing adverse events, which is especially true for patients with
      complex chronic comorbidities. For example, twenty percent of Medicare patients are
      readmitted to the hospital within 30 days, and 20% of all discharged patients suffer from a
      preventable adverse event within three weeks of discharge.(Rennke, 2013) Despite national
      efforts to improve transitions, the hospital discharge process largely remains chaotic,
      fragmented, and associated with poor outcomes. (Rennke, 2013; Hansen, 2011; Jack, 2009;
      Kansagara, 2015; Kansagara, 2011; & Kripalani, 2014). Currently, even the highest risk
      patients leave a complex, acute hospital stay to then arrive in primary care offices that are
      often neither equipped nor resourced to manage the challenges inherent to such transitions.
      Indeed, transitioning the highest risk, complex patients will require a paradigm shift in
      care delivery that is intensive, multidisciplinary, coordinated, and encompasses wrap-around
      services.(http://www.isc.hbs.edu/health-care/vbhcd/Pages/integrated-practice-units.aspx.)

      RATIONALE

      To better enhance transitions of care for the highest risk, complex patients, Carolinas
      HealthCare System (CHS) has designed an Integrated Practice Unit, called Transition Services
      (CHS-TS). The IPU model is based on the concept that significant improvements in outcomes
      will come from physician-led, team based, integrated services that are focused on a specific
      condition or segment of the
      population.(http://www.isc.hbs.edu/health-care/vbhcd/Pages/integrated-practice-units.aspx)
      Also integral to the IPU model is having an advanced informatics platform to continuously
      measure costs, processes, and patient outcomes. CHS-TS aims to improve patient outcomes
      through innovative approaches that leverage analytics and technology, while bridging care
      coordination and communication gaps. During their hospitalization, CHS-TS patients enter into
      a transition pathway that includes the following key services: integrated access to medical,
      pharmacist, and specialty providers; access to CHS disease specific management programs;
      dedicated care management services delivered in home and at the clinic; lab and infusion
      services; palliative care consultations when appropriate; and paramedicine for 24 hour
      support. Because this population faces many barriers to accessing traditional care, CHS-TS
      leverages virtual technology to provide visits with patients in their home setting when
      necessary and appropriate. Whether virtual or in person, each patient will receive the
      following seven core components (the first four of which will be used as markers for the
      implementation (RE-AIM) evaluation:

      (i) Introduction to CHS-TS process prior to discharge (ii) Hospital follow-up evaluation
      within 72 hours either in home with paramedicine or CHS-TS clinic (iii) Medication
      reconciliation by a pharmacist within 72 hours (iv) Weekly contact with care management team
      (v) Entry into the Heart Success Program if appropriate (vi) Access to 24/7 phone support,
      24/7 paramedicine visits, and same day clinic scheduling (vii) Coordinated transition to the
      next appropriate care location after 30 days from time of discharge

      CHS strives to provide extraordinary care to patients and the communities it serves. This
      proposed evaluation is designed to guide CHS strategy and quality improvement by applying
      research methodology and data analytics to support the environment of a Learning Health
      System. Ultimately, as CHS deploys resource intensive interventions like the CHS-TS, it is
      important for the system and its patients to know answers to questions such as: What type of
      patient does the CHS-TS help?; How much benefit might be expected?; and At what cost?

      AIRTIGHT (Aiming to Improve Readmissions Through InteGrated Hospital Transitions) is a
      pragmatic, randomized quality improvement evaluation, which seeks to evaluate the effects of
      the role-out of CHS-TS services for patients at high risk for a 30-day readmission. This
      outcomes evaluation of a quality improvement intervention is designed to be a seamless part
      of the routine care in a real-world setting.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

      Overall Study Design

      AIRTIGHT is a pragmatic, randomized quality improvement evaluation. Patients who are
      identified by risk modeling as having a high risk (>20%) for a 30-day readmission will be
      eligible for CHS-TS referral (referral eligible). Each weekday, referral eligible patients
      will be randomly assigned to CHS-TS referrals with a total number targeted to the CHS-TS's
      capacity. The CHS TS capacity will be revaluated on a daily. Because variables that affect
      eligibility may change throughout the course of a hospital stay, exclusion criteria are
      applied again at the time of discharge for the purposes of analysis. For example, patients
      not discharged to home are excluded. A diagnosis of heart failure is also added as an
      additional exclusion criterion at the time of discharge because CHS Heart Success recruits
      patients from a similar population and there is significant overlap in the services offered
      between CHS TS and CHS Heart Success. All patients who remain eligible at the time of
      discharge (discharge eligible) will be included in the analysis. Planned enrollment is 1520
      patients (n=760 per arm) with the engagement in CHS-TS services ending at the 30th day after
      discharge. Outcomes data will be tracked for 90 days. To mitigate the risk of selection bias,
      all eligibility criteria are objective and determined using data analytics within the
      software package, SAS. Additionally, analysis will be by intention to treat. With the use of
      this pragmatic design, crossovers from the CHS-TS arm to usual care are expected and may
      attenuate the measured effect of the CHS-TS. Since this evaluation protocol is part of a
      quality improvement intervention, the investigators requested that the CHS institutional
      review board designate the study as expedited research and grant a waiver of informed
      consent.

      Primary Outcome Variable

      30-day all cause readmission with index visit as defined by the Centers for Medicaid and
      Medicare Services (CMS) and with inclusion of observation patients at any CHS facility

      Secondary Outcome Variable(s)

        1. 30-day all cause CHS readmission (as defined by CMS)

        2. Length of stay upon the index visit

        3. Length of stay upon the readmission visit

        4. All cause, 60 and 90-day readmission rate as defined by CMS with inclusion of
           observation patients at any CHS facility

        5. 30-day readmission rate among patients with a primary diagnosis of congestive heart
           failure

        6. 30-day readmission rate among patients with a primary diagnosis of pneumonia

        7. 30-day readmission rate among patients with a primary diagnosis of sepsis

        8. Number of Emergency Department visits within 30 days of discharge

        9. Intensive Care Unit visits

      Independent and Dependent Variable(s)

      The dependent variable under assessment is 30-day all cause readmission (yes/no). The primary
      independent variable of interest is the program assignment (usual care vs. CHS-TS).

      Subject Selection

      Selection will be through an automated process that generates a referral list at 03:00 of
      patients admitted during the preceding 24 hour period, called the CHS-TS Referral Eligible
      List (REL). At the CMC Main campus, where patient enrollment occurs Monday through Friday,
      the Monday REL contains admissions that meet criteria from Friday-Sunday. At the CMC Mercy
      campus, where patient enrollment occurs Tuesday through Friday, the Tuesday REL contains
      admissions that meet criteria from Friday-Monday. The REL is generated based on the study's
      inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Randomization

      Patients that meet the eligibility criteria at the time of admission will be randomized into
      one of two groups on the CHS-TS Referral Eligible List (REL). A constrained randomization
      scheme will be utilized allocating referrals into permuted blocks each day for up to 30 total
      referrals (total includes CHS-TS and usual care). The total referrals are based on daily
      estimates of clinic capacity. The allocation will be 1:1 CHS-TS: usual care.
    
  