
    
      Health care workers (HCW) at the endoscopy unit are at constant occupational risk for many
      infectious diseases as they perform daily procedures that are believed to generate aerosol
      and droplets, which may harvest respiratory pathogens. These daily procedures include for
      example High Resolution Impedance Manometry (HRiM), 24h multichannel intraluminal
      impedance-pH monitoring (MII-pH) and endoscopic investigations. It is well-known that these
      procedures may induce cough, and can generate aerosol and droplets (1). Previous research
      showed that respiratory pathogens can remain dispersed in aerosol for up to 3 hours and
      droplets with a viral load remain stable on plastic and stainless steel surfaces (2).
      Furthermore, it is known that high viral loads may be present in the nasal cavity,
      nasopharynx and the oropharynx (3). The impact of the occupational risk for HCW at the
      endoscopy unit was confirmed during the peak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      -coronavirus (SARS-CoV) outbreak, as confirmed in an online survey from 39 motility centers
      in Europe. This survey showed that 35 out of 39 centers reduced their capacity during the
      SARS-CoV outbreak in the month of March 2020 with a median of 100% (range 50-100%) for
      esophageal HRiM and with a median of 100% (range 80-100%) for MII-pH (4).

      Therefore, with resumption of clinical activities during the recovery phase of the SARS-CoV
      outbreak, a number of guidelines and measures are taken to protect patients and personnel
      from viral spread. Patients are screened for SARS-CoV infection by reverse transcription
      polymerase chain reaction ((RT-)PCR) testing on a nasopharyngeal swab specimen prior to
      invasive investigations and they are required to wear a chirurgical facemask in the hospital
      at all times. Staff of the endoscopy and function testing units are wearing a chirurgical
      facemask, standard gloves, goggles, hairnet and a water-resistant gown. Moreover, patients
      are required to keep a surgical mask over their mouth during the naso-gastric probe
      positioning, and the bed is lowered so that the head of the patient is below the neck level
      of the technician. Throughout the procedure, the technician positions him- or herself to the
      side and back of the patient. However, there is a lack of scientific evidence on the amount
      of aerosol and droplet spread when these procedures are being performed, with the safety
      measures that are outlined (1, 4).
    
  