
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the transmission of the arterial pressure wave form
      through Proxima 3 disposable attached to a configurable parts of the patient's arterial line.
      The Proxima device has been tested by Intertek as part of the Proxima 2 project and found to
      comply to BS EN 60601-1 2nd edition "Medical electrical equipment - Part 1: General
      requirements for basic safety and essential performance". Additional internal tests have also
      been carried out for clause 51.103, frequency response, from BS EN 60601-2-34(2001).

      This study part of the on-going development of the Proxima system which monitors metabolic
      parameters in critically ill patients using a disposable sensor array. This study builds upon
      the four clinical trials carried out in the past two years by Sphere Medical in partnership
      with the NHS (REC references: 10/H1308/53, 10/H0308/113, 11/SW/0166, 12/SW/0175).

      This study forms part of the development process for the Proxima family of devices.

      The Proxima 3:

        -  Is a disposable multi-parameter microanalyser

        -  Is connected into the patient's arterial line.

        -  Will measure all or some of blood gases, haematocrit and electrolytes and is connected
           to a small bedside monitor, which displays the results.

        -  Microanalyser can perform an unlimited number of analyses over a period of up to seventy
           two hours.

        -  Will be used as part of a closed system, reducing infection risk and preventing blood
           loss.

      Proxima 3 will enable clinicians to measure blood parameters without leaving the patient's
      bedside. This will support the ability to respond rapidly to changing conditions in their
      critically ill patients. The measurements made by the Proxima 3 system have the potential to
      inform clinical decision support systems and to change, at a fundamental level, the ability
      of clinicians to improve patient care.

      In this study the Proxima 3 is a passive component. It will NOT be connected to the Proxima 3
      monitor. NO blood will be taken and NO analysis of the blood analyte concentrations will
      occur in this study.
    
  