
    
      The study will be a two arm randomised, blind placebo controlled trial of vertebroplasty for
      acute (< 6 weeks) osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures. Patients with substantial
      pain or immobility despite medical therapy will be recruited to the study, randomised to
      study treatments and followed for 6 months. The primary effectiveness variable is back-pain
      as recorded on a numerical verbal rating scale at two weeks post-procedure. Secondary
      effectiveness variable will be the Roland Morris back pain specific disability score.

      In parallel with the trial an economic analysis will be conducted.

      Study participants will be recruited from patients who are referred for vertebroplasty
      evaluations from five clinical sites of the Sydney metropolitan area. The sites will be St
      George Private Hospital, Kareena Private Hospital, St George Public Hospital, Sutherland
      Hospital and Liverpool Hospital. These sites have the advantage of having robust, established
      vertebroplasty programs and high levels of technical operator experience with vertebroplasty
      in acute fractures. Potential patients are patients identified with a recent vertebral
      fracture that requires assessment for a vertebroplasty. The referring physician will request
      an MRI and spinal radiograph as part of routine assessment and standard clinical care.
      Potential involvement in the study will be discussed at this point between patient and
      referring physician. Patients will be given a consent form to read and consider. The research
      team will then contact potential subjects and ask them a series of questions to determine
      eligibility. The investigator and the research coordinator will then describe the study to
      eligible patients and informed consent will be obtained prior to conducting baseline
      evaluations and randomization.

      Treatment Intervention (Vertebroplasty Procedure):

      5.1.1 The procedure is performed under strict aseptic conditions. All personnel wear surgical
      masks and caps in addition to gowns and gloves for operators, to minimize the risk of
      infection. 1G ceftriaxone will be administered at the commencement of the procedure unless
      the patient is allergic. In case of allergy then antibiotics are not mandatory.

      5.1.2 The patient is placed prone on the angiographic table and oxygen mask applied.
      Conscious sedation will be induced by IV administration of fentanyl and midazolam.

      5.1.3 Continuously monitor heart rate and pulse oximetry throughout the procedure.

      5.1.4 Standard fluoroscopy with a dedicated DSA interventional fluoroscope will be used for
      localization of the vertebral body to be treated (Levels T4-L5) and needle placement within
      the vertebral body.

      5.1.5 A 25g needle will be used to raise a wheal of 1% lignocaine subcutaneously. A small
      skin nick will be made with a scalpel blade. A 25g needle will be placed into the skin at the
      site of the wheal and advanced under fluoroscopic guidance to the periosteum over the
      pedicle. This periosteum will be infiltrated with 6-7 cc of 1% lignocaine. (Injections will
      be made at each fracture level, i.e., 2 separate injections will be performed for patients
      with 2 fracture levels.) 5.1.6 A small incision is made on the skin in the vicinity of the
      pedicle, and the access needle is positioned for a transpedicular approach.

      5.1.7 13G or 11G vertebroplasty needles will be placed using trans-pedicular or
      para-pedicular approach into the anterior one third of the vertebral body. Whether a
      unilateral or bilateral approach is used is up to the discretion of the radiologist doing the
      procedure, but a bi-pedicular approach is recommended for the T12 vertebral body and all of
      the lumbar vertebral bodies (due to their increased size). An effort should be made to fill
      both the fractured fragment of the vertebral body and the more normal trabecular component in
      order to stop ongoing fracture and volume loss.

      5.1.8 Prepare the AVAMAX™ injecting system in the approved manner as per system instruction.
      Wait for 5 minutes after mixing cement before cement injection to allow for optimal viscosity
      prior to commencing injection. Product accountability forms will be completed which include
      batch numbers.

      5.1.9 Cement injection should be performed using continuous fluoroscopic screening in the
      lateral projection. Cement injection should continue until adequate vertebral body filling is
      obtained. This ideally means cement filling from the superior to inferior vertebral body
      end-plate in at least the anterior three quarters of the vertebral body in lateral
      projection. In frontal projection, the cement should reach at least from middle of the
      pedicle to middle of the contra-lateral pedicle in a distribution considered adequate (by the
      radiologist) to stabilize the acute fracture. Upon completion of injection, the cannula is
      removed and haemostasis at the puncture site is achieved by gentle pressure. If adequate fill
      was not obtained, place another needle in the contra lateral pedicle and treat in the same
      fashion.

      5.1.10 Patient should be left in prone position for 3 minutes following cement injection to
      allow for cement to harden.

      5.1.11 Contingency plans should an outpatient have a sudden life threatening event occur in
      the radiology suite and require immediate medical or surgical attention: patient will be
      examined and appropriate life support measures instituted. In case of suspected spinal cord
      compromise, immediate CT scanning and surgical consultation will be made. In the case of
      hemodynamic compromise from idiosyncratic reaction, life support will be instituted.

      5.2 Control Intervention: 5.2.1 The procedure is performed under strict aseptic conditions.
      All personnel wear surgical masks and caps in addition to gowns and gloves for operators, to
      minimize the risk of infection and to simulate a true vertebroplasty. Prophylactic
      antibiotics may be administered by the treating physician according to their usual practice,
      but are not mandated by the study protocol.

      5.22 The patient is placed prone on the angiographic table and oxygen mask applied. Conscious
      sedation will be induced by IV administration of fentanyl, morphine or pethidine and
      midazolam.

      5.2.3 Continuously monitor heart rate and pulse oximetry throughout the procedure.

      5.2.4 Standard fluoroscopy will be used for localization of the vertebral body to be treated
      (Levels T4-L5) and needle placement within the vertebral body.

      5.2.5 A 25g needle will be used to raise a wheal of 1% lignocaine subcutaneously. A skin
      incision measuring approximately 5mm will be made. The 25G needle will then be reintroduced
      and 2 cc of 1% lignocaine injected into the subcutaneous tissues.. (These sham injections
      will be made at each fracture level, i.e., 2 separate injections will be performed for
      patients with 2 fracture levels.) 5.2.6 Verbal clues will be given, including but not limited
      to comments that needle placement and/or cement injection is progressing appropriately.
      Manual palpation of the area over the fracture will be done to simulate needle placement.

      5.2.8 The procedure will be terminated.(Note: The patient will be unaware as to whether the
      control procedure or vertebroplasty had been performed since full sterile preparation,
      sedation and simulated injection procedure will be used.

      5.2.9 Contingency plans should an outpatient have a sudden life threatening or limb
      threatening event occur in the radiology suite and require immediate medical or surgical
      attention: patient will be examined and appropriate life support measures instituted. In case
      of suspected spinal cord compromise, immediate CT scanning and surgical consultation will be
      made. In the case of hemodynamic compromise from idiosyncratic reaction life support will be
      instituted.

      5.3 Post Operative Care: 5.3.1 Following the procedure, all patients should be observed in
      the supine position for at least one hour.

      5.3.2 Patients may gradually sit up and/or stand over the next hour, as tolerated, under
      direct nursing or physician supervision.

      5.3.3 Outpatients may be discharged to the care of an adult after 2 hours. 5.3.4 Non-narcotic
      pain medication may be taken as needed, but patients are encouraged to limit use of narcotics
      so efficacy can be determined.

      5.3.5 One hour after the procedure, patients are evaluated for pain, or complications of the
      procedure. Vital signs will also be recorded.

      5.3.6 If determined to be necessary by the physician, an outpatient may be admitted and
      monitored overnight in the hospital. The reason for keeping the patient overnight will be
      documented on the post treatment assessment form and the serious adverse event form.

      5.3.7 Evaluation of any potential complication will be conducted immediately so that
      appropriate treatment can be instituted.

      5.3.8 Dressings applied to the injection/incision site may be removed the following day.

      5.3.9 Skin incisions should be kept clean and dry. Patients are to notify physician of any
      redness or discharge.

      5.3.10 Inpatients will continue to be managed by attending physician in usual fashion.

      5.4 Patient Evaluations & Follow Up Examinations We will administer the following measures of
      pain and pain-related disability questionnaires: numeric and visual pain-rating scale, the
      Roland-Morris Low Back Pain and Disability Questionnaire, Osteoporosis Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (QUALEFFO), SF-36 and EQ-5D to all subjects in this trial. We will also ask
      patients about their use of medications, other health care resources, medical history,
      co-morbidities and demographics. A timed up and go test, which is a reliable measure of
      function in older people, will be completed during patient clinic visits at baseline, day 14
      and month 6 .

      After obtaining informed consent during the baseline consultation, patients will be asked
      about demographic information and the patient questionnaires will be administered in a
      face-to-face interview. The two week and six month interviews will also be asked in person by
      research staff during patient visits. The other interviews (Days 3, day 7, weeks 4 and month
      3) will be conducted by telephone for all participants at all sites. An exception to this
      will be inpatients that remain in hospital at day 3 who may be interviewed at bedside*.
    
  