
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Telomerase is an enzyme that plays a critical role in maintaining telomeres, the
           specialized structures at the end of chromosomes involved in the replication and
           stability of the chromosome. Inhibition of telomeres causes the length of the telomere
           to shorten, and the cell becomes either senescent or undergoes apoptosis.

        -  In vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that imetelstat, a telomerase inhibitor,
           inhibits primary tumor growth and prevents metastases; while six Phase 1 studies in
           adults have demonstrated reasonable toxicity profiles with hematologic toxicity the
           primary cause of dose limiting toxicity.

        -  Objective responses have been observed with repeated dosing when imetelstat was
           administered in combination with bortezomib to patients with multiple myeloma, with
           paclitaxel and bevacizumab to patients with advanced breast cancer, and with paclitaxel
           plus carboplatin in patients with advanced NSCLC.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended Phase 2 dose of
           imetelstat administered as a 2-hour intravenous infusion, weekly X 2, every 21 days, to
           children with refractory or recurrent solid tumors.

        -  To define and describe the toxicities of imetelstat administered on this schedule.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics of imetelstat in children with recurrent or
           refractory solid tumors.

      Secondary Objectives:

      - To preliminarily define antitumor effects of imetelstat and to assess the biological
      activity by assessing telomerase activity, telomere length, hTERT protein, hTERT mRNA and hTR
      levels in patient PBMNC samples pretreatment and while on treatment, and assess telomerase
      activity, hTERT expression and hTERT protein, telomere length, hTERT mRNA and hTR levels in
      patient's pretreatment tumor samples.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      - Patients > 12 months and less than or equal to 21 years of age with recurrent or refractory
      solid tumors, including lymphomas, without CNS tumors or known CNS metastases, and with
      adequate hematologic, hepatic, renal and cardiac status. Must meet safety laboratory testing
      levels.

      DESIGN:

        -  In this phase I study, the maximum tolerated dose of imetelstat will be determined using
           a rolling 6 design where a minimum of 2 evaluable patients will be entered at each of 4
           dose levels, where imetelstat is administered intravenously over two hours on Day 1 and
           8 of a 21-day cycle in children with recurrent or refractory solid tumors, for up to 17
           cycles, up to a total duration of therapy of 18 cycles (approximately 12 months).

        -  Premedication with acetaminophen and diphenhydramine will be administered prior to each
           dose; anaphylactic precautions should be adhered to, and steroids may be used for
           symptom control or as premedication after the first dose. Doses subsequent to the first
           dose may be delayed or withheld for toxicity.

      This study will include a required pharmacokinetic component, and one optional PK draw at 48
      hours after the first dose (Day 1, Cycle 1). Patients will be asked to participate in
      optional blood and tissue correlative biology studies. Radiology studies will undergo central
      radiology review.

      - Once MTD has been defined, up to 12 additional patients with relapsed/refractory solid
      tumors, including

      CNS tumors and lymphomas, may be enrolled to acquire additional PK data at the recommended
      phase 2 dose, attempting to enroll at least 6 patients < 12 years of age. With a maximum
      number of patients of

      45, this study is anticipated to be completed within 22 to 25 months. Up to 5 patients will
      be enrolled at NCI.
    
  