
    
      Adequate brain blood flow is essential for brain survival and function. Brain blood flow is
      kept relatively constant by a process called cerebral autoregulation (CA). CA is impaired in
      various diseases including head injury, diabetes, Alzheimer's dementia, pre-eclampsia and
      stroke. In stroke, impaired CA is associated with early deterioration and the need for
      emergency surgery to relieve brain swelling. Impaired CA in stroke has also been shown to be
      related to stroke severity and functional outcomes.

      A transient ischaemic attack (TIA), also known as a mini-stroke, is the same as a stroke,
      except that the symptoms only last for a short amount of time and resolve spontaneously.
      Every year at least 46,000 people in the United Kingdom have a TIA for the first time. TIA is
      strongly predictive of future stroke, and the risk is heavily front loaded; one in 12 people
      will have a full stroke within a week of having a TIA. Prompt assessment following a TIA
      helps to reduce this risk. Indeed, urgently investigating and treating people who have a TIA
      in a specialist clinic reduces their risk of another stroke by 80%. However, some people will
      unfortunately go on to have a stroke despite this, and the reasons for this are not always
      clear. Furthermore, although TIAs fully resolve, around 70% of people report long term
      effects after a TIA including memory loss, tiredness and low mood.

      Brain blood flow and CA can be studied using ultrasound which is passed through the skull,
      known as Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (or TCD). Ultrasound has been tried and tested
      over many years and unlike CT or MRI scans, does not use any radiation. It is also
      inexpensive, and can be used in patients with pacemakers.

      In order to study CA, it is necessary to see what happens to brain blood flow when there are
      changes in blood pressure. Although some people have natural ups and downs in their blood
      pressure at rest, these are not always big enough to study brain blood flow effectively.
      Larger changes in blood pressure can be induced with challenges such as placing hands in ice
      cold water, or inflating large blood pressure cuffs on the tops of the legs before suddenly
      releasing them. These can be uncomfortable for participants. More recently, squat-stand
      manoeuvres (SSMs) have also been shown to produce large changes in blood pressure. They have
      been shown to be safe and well tolerated in various populations including heart transplant
      recipients, young and old healthy controls, and patients with Alzheimer's dementia. It has
      recently been shown that reliable CA data can be obtained from as few as three SSMs.

      There have been lots of studies of CA in stroke, but very few studies of CA in TIA. The small
      studies that are available are conflicting about whether brain blood flow and CA are altered
      in TIA. The aim of this study is therefore to investigate whether CA is impaired in patients
      with TIA. If CA is impaired in patients with TIA, then it may be possible to identify
      abnormalities in brain blood flow that can help predict who might go on to suffer a stroke,
      or suffer other complications.

      This is a single-centre, case-control study being undertaken at the University Hospitals of
      Leicester NHS Trust.

      Once ethical approvals, and all relevant sponsorship and regulatory approvals, are in place
      20 patients with acute TIA (within 7 days of event), and 20 healthy controls will be
      recruited from the specialist TIA clinic at University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust.
      Medical records will be reviewed by the direct care team to ensure participants meet the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Participants will be eligible if they are aged over 18 and
      can consent to participate. They won't be able to participate if they have severe heart
      failure, an irregular heartbeat, blocked neck blood vessels, severe breathing problems, or if
      they are pregnant. Eligibility screening will only be undertaken by the direct clinical care
      team for potential participants. Participants will be approached at their clinical
      consultation in the specialist TIA clinic by consultants, registrars or specialist nurses to
      determine study interest prior to referral to the researcher and provision of study specific
      information. A poster advertising the study will be displayed in the TIA clinic waiting room.
      Both participants with TIA, and healthy controls (those without a diagnosis of TIA) will be
      recruited from the clinic. Healthy spouses, friends or partners of patients with TIA will be
      asked if they would like to participate in the study as a healthy control subject.

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria will attend the Leicester Cerebral Haemodynamics
      in Ageing and Stroke Medicine (CHiASM) research laboratory. Formal, written consent will be
      obtained, followed by an ultrasound check of their brain blood flow. In approximately 5-37%
      of patients we are not able to perform the ultrasound procedure as the blood vessels cannot
      be seen through the skull, which would prevent them from enrolling into the study. Following
      this, background information on age, sex, medical conditions, and medication use will be
      collected. The Edinburgh handedness inventory will be completed to determine left or right
      hand dominance, and the office of National Statistics questionnaire to determine ethnicity.

      Participants will then undergo an assessment of brain blood flow using TCD, with two small
      ultrasound probes held in place on the temples with a customised headframe. During the
      assessment, heart rate, breathing and blood pressure will also be monitored. Heart rate will
      be monitored using a 3 lead ECG, blood pressure will be monitored using a cuff on the finger
      with the arm supported in a sling, and breathing will be monitored using nasal tubes. The
      assessment will consist of three recordings. Firstly, participants will sit quietly for 5
      minutes. Next, they will be asked to sit quietly for one minute before standing and remaining
      standing for 5 minutes. Lastly, they will be asked to stand and then complete a squat-stand
      manoeuvre in time with a computer sequence. A tilt sensor will be attached to the thigh to
      measure the efficiency and angle of the squatting motion. The squat-stand manoeuvre will
      consist of 15 squats and participants will be informed that they should try and complete all
      15 squats if possible. However, if they wish to stop before this, they should make the
      investigator aware during a standing period and remain standing for 90 seconds before the
      equipment is disconnected.

      The research visit will take approximately 90 minutes, the assessment itself will take
      approximately 1 hour and participants only need to attend once.
    
  